 Our future  
together
Saga plc
Annual report  
and accounts  
for the year ending  
31 January 2015 Welcome to Saga plc’s first  
annual report and accounts 
Saga is the leading provider of products and services 
tailored for UK customers aged 50 and over. We have 
become the business we are today by communicating 
closely with our customers, understanding their 
needs and putting them at the heart of everything 
we do. 
This report gives us the opportunity to demonstrate this 
approach in our communication with our shareholders. 
The following pages provide a detailed description 
of where the business stands today and our strategy 
for continuing to deliver growth and sustainable value 
for our shareholders in the long term.
Financial highlights, continuing operations
1
Group Trading EBITDA 
£227.4m
from continuing operations 
up 6.0% 
Like-for-like profit  
before tax
£195.5m
up 9.6%
Available operating  
cash flow 
£170.9m
72.3% of total Trading 
EBITDA from continuing and 
discontinuing operations
Debt ratio 
Net debt to EBITDA 
2.5x 
beating debt reduction target
Pro forma operating 
earnings per share 
(basic) 
12.6p
up 13.5%
Reported profit  
before tax
from continuing operations
£113.8m 
after IPO expenses and one-off 
cost of new debt facilities
Proposed final  
dividend 
per share
4.1p
top of the range detailed  
at the IPO
Top end of target
dividend range 
increased to
60% 
of net income
 
Operational highlights
Successful IPO 
with over
200,000 
retail investors becoming 
shareholders over 80%  
of whom are customers
Contactable people 
10.8m
on the database 
up from 10.4m
Active customers 
2.63m
Creation of 
Saga Investment 
Services
50/50 wealth management joint 
venture with Tilney Bestinvest
An average number 
of products held 
2.63 
Acquisition of
Destinology
1 On 15 January 2015, the Group announced its intention to divest the local authority section of its healthcare business, Allied Healthcare. Accordingly, 
this has been treated as a discontinued operation and is not included in the like-for-like analysis. After the associated non-cash write-down, and the 
result of the discontinued operation, totalling £220.2m, the Group reported a loss after tax of £133.8m for the year. Strategic Report
Overview
02 The Saga difference...
04 Our business at a glance
06 Executive Chairman’s Statement
08 Group Chief Executive Officer’s Strategic Review
Strategy
11 Our target market overview
13 Our business model
14 Our strategy
15 Our strategic priorities
18 Our key performance indicators
20 Our resources and relationships
24 Our principal risks and uncertainties
Performance
30 Divisional Review
38 Group Chief Financial Officer’s Review
Governance
Corporate Governance Statement
54 Executive Chairman’s Statement
56 Compliance Statement
58 Leadership
60 Board of Directors
62 Effectiveness
63 Nomination Committee Report
64 Accountability
67 Audit Committee Report
70 Risk Committee Report
72 Relations with shareholders
Directors’ Remuneration Report
73 Annual statement
75 At a glance
80 Directors’ Remuneration Policy
90 Annual Report on Remuneration
96 Directors’ Report
99 Directors’ statements
100 Independent auditor’s report
Financial statements 
106 Consolidated income statement
107 Consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income
108 Consolidated statement of financial position
109 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
110 Consolidated statement of cash flows
111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
169 Company financial statements
170 Notes to the Company financial statements
Additional information
174 Shareholder information
175 Glossary
How we’ll get  
where we’re going
01
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview 02
The Saga 
difference...
We understand our customers because we 
listen to them. This allows us to develop the 
products and services they want. We either 
produce these products and services ourselves 
or find the best partners to produce them 
on our behalf. We maintain responsibility for 
ensuring they are delivered with the very 
high standards of customer service our 
customers expect. 
02
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
02 Our key strengths 
Case studies
Call centres
For the staff in Saga’s UK call 
centres, nothing is too much 
trouble. 
The customer is at the heart 
of Saga’s approach. There is 
no automated call answering 
system so calls are answered 
by a real person. Call centre 
staff are judged on the quality 
of outcomes for customers rather 
than the speed of call handling.
Saga’s insurance call centres 
handled over 4.6 million calls in 
the past year, achieving customer 
satisfaction ratings of over 90% 
and reducing complaints by 
a fifth on the prior year. 
Tailored products  
and services 
developed through 
customer insight  
and delivered by 
a trusted brand
By gaining insight into our 
customers, we are better 
able to understand them and 
so identify products to meet 
their needs – from a new home 
insurance product to a South 
American cruise.
We then design and develop 
tailored products and services, 
either delivering them ourselves 
or through third party suppliers.
Customer service  
and satisfaction 
at the heart of the 
business
Our customers expect the 
best. We know what they 
consider is excellent service 
and we aim to deliver it in 
every case – whether that’s an 
insurance claim, a holiday or 
care in their home.
Legal services
This is a great example of 
innovation at work within Saga. 
We identified that the market 
for legal services was both 
fragmented and fitted well 
with our business model. We 
developed a bespoke service, 
tailored to the over 50s’ needs. 
We have identified the best 
providers in the market and 
we have received over 10,700 
instructions to date.
For more information 
go to page 33
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
03
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Customers Insights
Product
design
Third party
suppliers
In-house
– Motor underwriting
– Shipping
Our business at a glance
Saga has become one of the UK’s most trusted 
businesses by providing customers with excellent 
products and leading customer service for more than 
60 years. We have successfully used our reputation 
and the brand’s strength to broaden our product 
offering and expand into new areas where we know 
the Saga approach to quality and service will succeed. 
From a hotel in Folkestone we have evolved into the 
leading provider of high-quality insurance, financial 
services, travel, healthcare and media products. We 
are the only commercial organisation of scale in the 
UK that focuses on the fast-growing over 50s market. 
The Saga model
Our strategic priorities
1 2 3 4 5
Expanding our 
Insurance footprint
Grow Travel Expand Personal 
Finance
Make more of  
our database and 
digital marketing
Grow  
innovation
For more information on principal risks  
and uncertainties go to pages 24-29 For more information on KPIs go to pages 18-19 
EBITDA by operating segment (continuing operations)
 1. Financial services – £210.6m
 2. Travel – £26.0m
 3. Healthcare – £2.2m
1
2
3
Note: excluding Media and Central Costs
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
04 Generated at: Thu Sep 11 15:03:52 2014 Generated at: Fri Aug  1 17:57:28 2014
Financial Services Travel 
Media Healthcare Services
Our Financial Services division is the largest part 
of the Saga Group and, with a focus on customer 
needs and service, has become a leading provider  
of Insurance and Personal Finance solutions.
Operations: 
 – Insurance
 – Underwriting
 – Personal Finance
Our high-quality, award-winning Travel business is 
at the core of Saga and it is from these origins that 
the business has evolved.
Operations: 
 – Saga Cruises
 – Saga Holidays
 – Titan
 – Destinology
Saga Media produces the Saga Magazine, the 
UK’s best-selling paid-for monthly magazine 
(and manages Saga’s print and mailing house).
Operations: 
 – Saga Publishing
 – MetroMail
Saga is committed to the market for private home 
healthcare in the UK.
Operations: 
 – Patricia White’s 
 – Country Cousins 
 – Saga SOS
For more information go to page 31  
For more information go to page 35
For more information go to page 33  
For more information go to page 35
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
05
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Executive Chairman’s Statement
Dear Shareholders,
This is a strong first set of full year results for Saga as a listed 
company. We have achieved much while setting out our 
long-term strategy for the business. Importantly we have  
also delivered growth and performed ahead of market 
expectations for this year. 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our customers, 
who are at the heart of everything we do at Saga. We record 
exceptional customer satisfaction scores because we listen to 
our customers, take time to understand their unique needs 
and deliver products and high standards of service that meet 
their expectations. 
Saga standards of customer service are delivered on a day to 
day basis by our employees and I would like to thank them for 
all of their hard work. From the excellent people in our UK call 
centres to the popular teams on our cruise ships, it is our 
employees that work tirelessly to maintain and protect our 
trusted brand and deliver the Saga experience to our customers. 
Many customers have been with Saga for a long time and 
have multiple products from us. We do not underestimate our 
responsibility to ensure that every experience they have with 
Saga is exceptional. As we look to expand into new areas,  
we will continue to be led by customer insights.
I would also like to welcome those who have become 
shareholders in the Group during the year. Over 200,000 retail 
shareholders elected to become owners of the business 
during the IPO. I am pleased that the feedback I have been 
receiving from you is that you share my view of the significant 
long-term opportunity that Saga represents. We have also 
been delighted to welcome new institutional shareholders  
to Saga both through the IPO and through the subsequent 
placing, resulting in a high-quality and balanced shareholder 
base with which to take the business forward.
I would like to extend my personal thanks to Lance Batchelor, 
who took over as Group Chief Executive Officer in the early 
part of this financial year. Lance came to Saga with an 
exceptional track record in growing customer-centric 
businesses and we are already seeing the benefits of that 
experience. At the start of 2015, Lance outlined the Group’s 
strategy. The Board believes that this strategy provides a clear 
plan for growth through clarity about what Saga is and where 
it plays best, focusing on our core businesses and a 
commitment to innovation. 
I would also like to thank Stuart Howard, our Group Chief 
Financial Officer, who will retire later this year. Stuart and 
I have worked together for 15 years growing Saga into the 
business it is today, and his loyalty and insights have been 
invaluable to the Group. In wishing Stuart well I would also  
like to formally welcome his successor, Jonathan Hill, who 
started with us earlier this month and will now work with 
Stuart to ensure an orderly handover during 2015. 
The Board believes that Saga is well positioned to deliver 
long-term sustainable returns for our shareholders by 
delivering consistent profitable growth with a capital efficient 
model, leading to exceptional cash generation on an ongoing 
basis. As a result of this, I am delighted to be able to 
announce in our first year as a listed company that we are 
recommending a dividend of 4.1p per share. This dividend is 
pro rata for the proportion of the financial year post IPO and 
equates to 6.0p per share on an annualised basis. The final 
dividend will be paid on 30 June 2015, subject to shareholder 
approval at the AGM, to shareholders on the register on the 
Record Date of 5 June 2015. 
This dividend is at the top end of the forecast range we 
outlined at the time of the IPO and, in combination with  
the bonus share scheme, will mean an investment return of 
over 8%* this year for all eligible retail investors. Additionally, 
we have announced that the top end of the target dividend 
range has increased from 50% to 60% of net income.
Andrew Goodsell
Executive Chairman 
29 April 2015
Delighted to beat market 
expectations in our first year 
as a listed company.
*  Based on the IPO issue price of 
185p per share and the annualised 
dividend of 6.0p per share.
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
06 Why invest?
Strong repeatable business model 
We focus on understanding customer needs and  
developing the best products and services to meet them. 
This approach has meant we’ve consistently grown our 
business over the last 60 years. We aim to still be the best  
at what we do in another 60 years. 
Go to page 13 for more information
Consistent financial delivery and cash generation 
Trading EBITDA has increased year on year for the last  
four years. We turned more than 70% of our EBITDA into 
cash last year, giving us the flexibility to balance investment 
in value enhancing growth, repaying debt and returning 
cash to shareholders. 
 
Go to page 39 for more information
Growth potential in our target market and  
a great brand 
The over 50s demographic holds 68% of the UK’s wealth 
and accounts for about half of all household expenditure. 
Most importantly it is a growing group. In total there will  
be 30% more over 50s in 20 years than there are today.  
One of the most important sectors of this demographic  
for Saga – the over 75s – is due to grow by 73% in the  
next 20 years. Add to this Saga’s brand awareness of  
over 96% and the growth potential for the business 
becomes even more compelling.
Go to pages 11-12 for more information
Opportunities for growth in our core businesses  
and a commitment to innovation 
With only 8.5% market share in the over 50s UK motor  
and 6.8% in the over 50s UK home insurance markets –  
the largest parts of the Saga business – significant potential 
exists in our core businesses. We combine this commitment 
to expanding the core businesses with a relentless focus  
on new sectors where we can differentiate our offer, create  
a market or disrupt the current one. 
 
Go to pages 14-17 for more information
Andrew Goodsell Executive Chairman Governance highlights
 – It was important for an enhanced governance  
structure to be established in our first year  
as a listed Group, so that we had a framework  
of effective control. 
 – The Board continues to maintain a dialogue  
with key investors and will make itself available  
to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. 
The governance process will continue to  
evolve as the Group takes shape, and to take 
account of future changes in regulation and  
best practice.
Go to page 54 for more information  
on our governance
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
07
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Group Chief Executive Officer’s 
Strategic Review
The outcome was the refreshing of our corporate strategy,  
as outlined at our Capital Markets Day in January.
Put simply, the new strategy, which defines our direction for 
many years to come, is centred on releasing the growth 
potential in our core businesses of Motor and Home 
Insurance, Private Medical and Travel Insurance, as well as 
Saga’s respected Travel brands. The growth will come from 
truly understanding the needs of the UK’s over 50s better 
than anyone else, and designing unique and better services 
for them. This is something that Saga has done successfully 
for six decades, using our proprietary database of over 
10 million names. 
In addition we have some interesting growth opportunities  
in both wealth management and private home healthcare. 
These are new areas for Saga and will take a few years to 
reach scale, but they have great potential.
Our focus is now very much on bringing the strategy to life. 
That process is still work in progress, and we have set 
ourselves some challenging targets.
As always, our unrelenting focus remains on ensuring our 
customers receive a high-quality Saga product, developed by 
us to meet their specific needs and delivered with market-
leading standards of service.
Overview
I am pleased to report on what has been a momentous year 
for Saga, our first as a listed company and a year in which we 
were delighted to welcome many of our loyal customers as 
new shareholders in the Company. 
We have grown Group Trading EBITDA from continuing 
operations by 6.0% to £227.4m, like-for-like profit before tax 
by 9.6% to £195.5m and generated £170.9m of available 
operating cash flow. This has allowed us to reduce our level of 
net debt to 2.5x EBITDA ahead of schedule and make the 
recommendation that our first dividend be at the top end of 
the forecast range we announced on IPO.
When I joined the business last March, I was immediately 
involved in the IPO, which provided the opportunity to reassess 
the business and our plans for growth and I spent the following 
months really getting to know Saga, our customers, staff and 
products. The strategy review focused on four main areas, 
allowing us to reach absolute clarity on: 
 – the Saga business model: what we do well, what we should 
be doing better and how we ensure that customer insight 
and customer focus remain at the heart of the business
 – where our model works best: where we can operate most 
effectively, where our customers want us to operate and 
where we should be operating
 – where the businesses’ earnings come from
 – what we are going to do to drive consistent growth for  
our shareholders. 
A clear business model, exceptional 
product offering and the right strategy for 
growth at the centre of Saga’s business.
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
08 Lance Batchelor Group Chief Executive Officer
Strategic priorities
We will work to capitalise on the high-quality growth opportunity I have outlined by doing more of what we do best:
1. Expanding our insurance footprint: insurance is the 
most significant part of the Saga Group and an excellent 
operation. However, we still have a relatively small share 
of the over 50s market in the UK and we can expand 
our footprint by providing insurance products, sourced 
through a panel of suppliers. 
2. Doing more to grow our Travel business: Travel is a  
core part of Saga and central to the spirit of the brand. 
However, it is currently relatively small in profit terms  
and there is significant potential to grow this business. 
3. Continuing to expand our high-quality but small Personal 
Finance offering, for example through our new wealth 
management joint venture, Saga Investment Services. 
4. Continuing to optimise the use of our database: it is  
an exceptionally valuable tool and has been used  
very effectively to help build the business we have  
today. However, we can do more with it. Increased 
segmentation, digital marketing and distribution will be  
an ever more important part of our activities to ensure  
we are providing our customers with the right products  
at the right time.
5. Putting innovation at the centre of the business:  
allowing us to develop products and services based  
on customer insight in areas where our model can 
operate effectively, such as Legal Services and private 
home healthcare.
Go to pages 14-17 for more information on 
our strategy
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
09
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Group Chief Executive Officer’s 
Strategic Review
continued
The most important factor in ensuring all of this is delivered 
effectively is the quality of our people. Throughout the 
business our team is committed to making Saga the best 
business it can be by focusing on the customer experience. 
I would like to thank them for all their hard work. 
I would also like to highlight some changes that have been 
made within the senior team. 
As announced at our Interim Results, Stuart Howard has 
decided to retire after 15 years as Group Chief Financial 
Officer. Jonathan Hill joined on 7 April 2015 as Group CFO 
Designate. Jonathan was previously Group Finance Director 
and a member of the plc board of Bovis Homes Group plc. 
Prior to that, he held various senior roles within TUI Travel 
and Centrica. 
David Slater is moving from the role of CEO of AICL to that  
of Non-Executive Director on the AICL Board. Subject to 
regulatory approval, Andrew Button will be promoted to  
the role of CEO of AICL. Andrew has been with Saga for  
14 years, during which time he established and created the 
AICL actuarial function, which is market-leading and a key 
part of one of the strongest and most respected underwriting 
businesses in the UK. I would like to thank David for his 
tremendous contribution over seven years and I am delighted 
that the business will continue to benefit from his knowledge 
and expertise.
Karen Caddick will join Saga as Group HR Director at the  
end of May 2015. Karen was previously Group HR Director  
of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc. She has also held 
Group HR Director positions at Morrisons plc, Punch Taverns  
& Spirit Group plc and The Financial Times.
Conclusion
It has been an exciting and challenging first year as Group 
CEO during which we completed our long-held ambition to 
become a public company.
We have developed and started to implement a clear strategy, 
built on understanding our customers better than anyone else, 
delivering products and services with exceptional customer 
service, unlocking long-term sustainable growth through our 
core business and looking for opportunities to provide new 
products and services to our customers in areas where our 
model can operate effectively. 
This strategy maintains our focus on a capital efficient, cash 
generative model. Going forward, we will therefore continue  
to seek to maximise returns for investors by optimising the 
balance between investment in value enhancing growth, 
payment of dividends and debt reduction. 
Looking ahead, our refreshed strategy provides us with  
a clear plan for delivering on our Trading EBITDA growth 
target of 5% to 7%. The team throughout the business has 
risen to the challenges I have set them and there is a renewed 
sense of energy and opportunity to drive our business 
forward. I am excited by the growth that we are already 
starting to see in our core businesses and by some of the 
tangible results we are seeing from our product innovation.
Once again, I would like to thank our customers, shareholders 
and employees; Saga is a truly special and unique business 
and one it is a privilege to lead. I look forward to keeping you 
all updated on our progress.
Lance Batchelor
Group Chief Executive Officer 
29 April 2015
Wealth management case study
In January 2015 we announced the launch of Saga 
Investment Services, a joint venture with Tilney Bestinvest 
(‘TBI’). This joint venture draws upon TBI’s investment 
expertise and our insight about the needs of the nation’s 
over 50s, to deliver a compelling wealth and investment 
proposition for Saga’s customers. It will take the best 
resources from both companies and target the 10.8 million 
customers on our database, over 800,000 of whom applied 
for shares in the Saga IPO, and that we know have an 
increased need for financial services advice from a fair 
and trusted source. 
TBI has a proven track record and over £9bn of client funds 
under management. As we developed our partnership it 
became clear that they are as dedicated as we are to 
meeting customer needs, and like us they believe that the 
market is due some real innovation. The chemistry is good 
between us. TBI is an ideal partner for Saga as it offers the 
full spectrum of wealth management services from light 
touch, online, through guidance and through simple advice, 
and all the way through to tailored 1-1 advice for wealthier 
and more financially sophisticated customers. 
We believe there is real opportunity here and that the 
pension reforms, which we lobbied hard for on behalf of 
our customers, will mean that, from April 2015, very large 
sums of savings will be looking for a home, and many 
Saga customers will be looking for guidance. 
The part of the market we will be targeting is the ‘mass 
affluent’ – those with between £30,000 and £250,000 
to invest who generally do not have access to a financial 
adviser and who need a trusted provider to navigate 
a complicated field. 
We are working hard with TBI to deliver truly ‘Saga’ products 
for our customers. We both believe there is a real chance 
to shake up the market, to offer high-quality wealth 
management services at a fair and transparent price. 
The key KPIs for this new joint venture will be funds under 
management, and customer satisfaction. We are going  
to take our time, get the proposition right, and we plan  
to launch in late 2015.
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
10 0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
500
2020f 2019f 2018f 2017f 2016f 2015f 2014f 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2004 2003 
0
10
20
30
40
50
75 and over 65-74 50-64 Forecast
£ %
Share of total UK household expenditure Source: ONS Family expenditure survey, Cebr analysis  
Our target market overview
Our customer
Everything starts and ends here
Saga is the UK’s leading provider of products and services 
tailored to the needs of the over 50s. We provide insurance, 
travel, personal finance and healthcare services, with 
insurance and Travel at the core of the business.
Saga’s target market, the UK’s over 50s population, is  
one of the fastest growing, most affluent and influential 
demographics in the UK, with increasingly complex, changing 
needs due to longer periods in both employment and 
retirement and increased spending on leisure, culture, food, 
recreation and health. 
Saga’s target market is growing firm up at speed. It numbered 
22.8 million individuals in 2013 and is forecast to grow  
by 28%, to approximately 29 million by 2033. 
In 2013, this group was equivalent to approximately 36%  
of the UK’s total population, and is forecast to represent 
approximately 40% of the UK’s total population by 2033 
(source: ONS). Within the over 50s population, the 65 to 75 
and 75 and over segments are expected to increase even 
faster over the same time period at approximately 34% and 
70% respectively.
The UK over 50s hold 68% of the UK’s household wealth and 
account for 48% of all household expenditure in the UK. This 
is an increase from 41% in 2003, as household expenditure 
for the over 50s population experienced faster growth relative 
to the remainder of the total population, while remaining 
resilient throughout the recent UK economic downturn.
Macro conditions
While the over 50s are by no means immune to macro 
conditions, as many have large pools of accumulated assets 
and a higher proportion of fixed income, they are less 
susceptible to the vagaries of the economic cycle. This is 
especially likely to be the case for the ABC1 households, 
which make up the majority of the Saga database.
There are a number of factors which can add to this position:
 – Relatively secure incomes
 – Low or non-existent debt levels 
 – Fewer fixed costs
 – Younger members of the cohort benefit from wealth 
transfer as they inherit from the older ones
 – Post-retirement income reforms are providing more 
flexibility and are helping to counter the possibility of 
a drawn out period of high inflation eroding the value 
of fixed incomes, especially from annuities.
Over 22 million people aged 50 and over in the UK expected to grow a further 28% by 2033
Household expenditure of over 50s households (£bn) and as a share of total UK household expenditure
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
2033 2023 2013 2003 1993
6%
34%
70%
50-65
Age group
65-75
75+
Source: ONS  
2013-2033 Growth
15%
9%
7%
18.1m
17%
11%
12%
29.1m
19%
10%
10%
26.7m
18%
9%
8%
22.8m
18%
8%
8%
20.0m
36% of the
population
40% of the
population
c.7m increase
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
11
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview That being said, our customers, although mainly UK based, 
are not completely immune to changes in the global economy.
Our core businesses are correlated with the economic cycle 
and we can see our customers’ behaviour change as a result 
of these effects. In a downturn, the insurance sector tends to 
experience elevated incidences of claims, as well as changes 
in accident rates. If the downturn is prolonged, consumers can 
choose to reduce their insurance cover or purchases, defer 
buying or stop buying some insurance products altogether.  
As travel is discretionary in nature, consumers travel less, 
purchase lower priced holiday packages and cruises, or  
stop purchasing holiday packages and cruises completely.
On the other hand, during times of economic upturn, there  
will be more demand for discretionary insurance products 
such as home, private medical and travel insurances, and  
for enhanced levels of cover. A similar effect is seen in travel, 
with consumers more likely to travel more often and on  
higher priced holidays and cruises.
Regulatory and political change
The over 50s are an important segment of the population  
for politicians because they are a highly influential and 
politically engaged group. Approximately 66% of business 
owners are over 50 and more than 70% of over 55s voted 
in the last general election.
This is generally advantageous for Saga, as the recent 
reforms to the post-retirement savings market illustrate,  
in that politicians have recognised the importance of the  
over 50s in their thinking. Liberalisation can enhance the 
potential of the over 50s market in terms of consumption  
and investment demand. 
Saga as a regulated business
Saga operates in regulated sectors. This regulation can 
change, driven by a number of factors including responding to 
economic, environmental and world events, but also political 
requirements and thinking, both in Europe and the UK.
Within this context, we maintain good relationships with the 
regulators and government bodies, and maintain a regular 
dialogue to ensure we understand how regulatory and political 
changes will affect our customers and business.
The competition for customers
Market share is modest, but Saga is in pole position
Over its 60 year history, Saga has built up a trusted brand and 
superior customer knowledge of the over 50s market in the 
UK. This focus means that Saga is already the market leader 
in the over 50s segment; however, Saga’s relative market 
share is low. 
Given the prospective increase in our customer base and our 
strategy for growth, we believe Saga is in a strong position to 
grow its market share in our core businesses and continue to 
explore new areas in which customers will trust Saga to 
deliver and which are suited to the Saga business model. 
Note: Question asked: Which, if any, companies or organisations can  
you think of that specialise in providing products and services for people  
aged 50 and over?
Saga, selected market shares in the over 50s segment
Business area Market share of over 50s
Motor insurance 8.5%*
Home insurance 6.8%*
Private medical insurance 7.8%**
Travel insurance 5.5%***
Source: 
* GfK NOP at 31 August 2014. 
** TGI, Laing Buisson and company data at 31 December 2013. 
*** TGI and company data at 30 June 2014.
Which companies specialise in providing over 50s 
products and services?
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Source: Ipsos MORI survey (spontaneous brand recognition)
%
Age UK RIAS
Sun Life
Financial
Staysure Warner
Our target market overview continued
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
12 Our business model
At the heart of our business model is our ability to listen and 
gather insight about our customers to create products and 
services that fulfil their needs. This ability, in combination with 
the trusted Saga brand, our access to customers through our 
unique database and our relentless focus on customer 
service, sits at the heart of what we do. 
Once we have designed and tested these products and 
services, we decide how best to source them for our 
customers. In practice a majority will be provided by the 
leading providers in a chosen market. When we assess the 
best possible partners to supply products and services, we 
compare them for service and value. Over time we can move 
if more appropriate, or better, partners become available.  
Our partners work with us in this way because it is a mutually 
advantageous relationship – they benefit from our brand, 
customer knowledge and access to a very attractive market. 
Saga, and its customers, benefit from their expertise and 
resources. This also means that we maintain responsibility  
for delivery and continue to own the relationship with our 
customers, ensuring we can manage the customer experience 
at all times.
This approach also gives us flexibility and speed. When we 
identify a new and interesting category, we enter that market 
with an exceptionally high-quality product quickly and at low 
cost and low risk to Saga.
Our business model is most effective when: 
 – a trusted brand is important, permitting us to provide  
a premium product at a fair price
 – our superior customer knowledge gives us a competitive 
edge
 – we can differentiate our offer. We do not sell ‘me too’ 
products in any market that we operate
 – service levels play a key role. We want our customers to 
have outstanding service and to recognise it when they do 
 – cross-selling opportunities can flow from the initial 
relationship. 
Our model is robust and has demonstrated over time that it 
can grow, even in the face of the many economic challenges 
of the past ten years. It gives us protection against a number 
of risks: we have multiple earnings streams, allowing us to 
shift investment and returns; our target market is growing,  
our customer base is loyal and resilient and is largely spending 
money it has already earned; and we have a capital efficient 
structure which means that a vast majority of the EBITDA we 
generate turns into cash. 
We deploy this cash through re-investment in growth, enhancing 
our technology and services, rewarding our employees and 
providing a progressive return to our shareholders.
Go to pages 24-29 for more information on the key risks 
and uncertainties to our business model
Customers Insights
Product
design
Third party
suppliers
In-house
– Motor underwriting
– Shipping
The Saga model
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
13
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Our strategy
Our strategic priorities
Our focus and strategy
To operate where our model works best, providing 
products and services directly to our target 
market. We aim to deliver balanced and profitable 
growth, measured by EBITDA and Operating EPS, 
on a capital efficient and cash generative basis 
thereby supporting a progressive dividend policy 
and ensuring long-term value for shareholders.
To capitalise on the high-quality growth opportunity in our 
core businesses. We believe we can achieve growth 
through doing more of what we do best:
 
1. Expanding our insurance footprint: insurance is the 
most significant part of the Saga Group and an 
excellent operation. However, we still have a relatively 
small share of the over 50s market in the UK and we 
can expand our footprint by providing insurance 
products, sourced through a panel of suppliers. 
2. Doing more to grow our Travel business: Travel is a  
core part of Saga and central to the spirit of the brand. 
However, it is currently relatively small in profit terms  
and there is significant potential to grow this business.
3.  Continuing to expand our high-quality but small Personal 
Finance offering, for example through our new wealth 
management joint venture, Saga Investment Services. 
4.  Continuing to optimise the use of our database: it is 
an exceptionally valuable tool and has been used very 
effectively to help build the business we have today. 
However, we can do more with it. Increased segmentation, 
digital marketing and distribution will be an ever more 
important part of our activities to ensure we are providing 
our customers with the right products at the right time.
5. Putting innovation at the centre of the business: allowing 
us to develop products and services based on customer 
insight in areas where our model can operate effectively, 
such as Legal Services and private home healthcare.
Expanding our 
Insurance footprint
Grow Travel Expand Personal 
Finance
Make more of  
our database and 
digital marketing
Grow  
innovation
For more information on principal risks and 
uncertainties go to pages 24-29 For more information on KPIs go to pages 18-19 
1 2 3 4 5
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
14 Our strategic priorities
There is an opportunity for us to grow our market share by 
broadening our offer, particular in the motor market. This will 
be achieved through the creation of a motor insurance 
panel, allowing us to source other providers of underwriting.
Historically, our potential to grow our share in the UK motor 
market has been constrained by the fact that we have 
underwritten the majority of the policies we provide and 73% 
of those customers that receive a quote for motor insurance 
sit beyond the tight specific expertise of AICL, our in-house 
underwriting business, and do not convert to a policy. 
We are not moving out of underwriting. AICL is an excellent 
underwriter and an important part of the Group. However, 
introducing a motor insurance panel, in the same way we 
have done in our Home Insurance business, will allow us  
to increase our offer to customers by accessing different 
providers of underwriting – broadening the cross-section  
of our target market we can provide solutions to without 
increasing the Group’s risk appetite or use of capital.
Go to pages 31-32 for more information
Expanding our Insurance footprint 1
Travel is at the core of our business. It provides a unique 
opportunity for us to meet our customers and deliver a 
personal service in a way that few, if any, of our competitors 
in other sectors can even dream of.
We have an attractive proposition to a key market segment 
based on a tour operating model with high levels of 
customer satisfaction and repeat business. So we have set 
ourselves a tough goal of doubling EBITDA within the five 
years from January 2014; challenging, but possible. 
This growth will come from refreshing the existing offering 
by using our improved segmentation to help design 
products we can sell to specific target groups and 
increasing our opportunities to put these products in front 
of customers through new routes to market and digital 
marketing techniques. 
Go to pages 33-34 for more information
Grow Travel 2
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
15
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Our strategic priorities 
continued
Saga’s target market of the over 50s currently holds 68% of 
all household wealth in the UK. This fact, combined with the 
changes in annuity and pension policies brought into effect 
in April 2015, means consumers are looking for guidance, 
advice and clarity on financial matters. 
Following the turbulence of recent years in the financial 
services sector, many consumers do not trust the majority 
of the brands in the space, and some brands have chosen 
to withdraw altogether. 
With the largest dedicated database of names and perhaps 
the most trusted brand associated with great service, our 
customers tell us that they would welcome Saga doing 
more in this sector.
Expand Personal Finance 3
Make more of our database and digital marketing
We are continually enhancing our understanding of our 
customers to find ways to provide our customers with the 
products and services they want. In terms of how this is 
done, it includes an enhanced, and revised, segmentation 
project that is well under way and is helping us to 
understand what drives our customers. 
We are focused on digital marketing across the Group.  
We have a rich source of information with the database  
and a target demographic that is, and becoming more so, 
highly digitally active. 
We are looking at adjoining and cross-selling opportunities 
to understand where we can get the most out of what we 
already have. We interact directly with our customers to build 
strong relationships and understand their wants and needs. 
Our dedicated data analytics team model customer 
preferences, which helps drive the Group’s pricing and 
marketing strategies and helps ensure the most appropriate 
products and services are offered to our customers at the 
right time.
Altogether this adds up to an increased understanding of  
the large and growing database so it can be even more 
important to us than it is at present. 
Go to page 22
4
Go to page 32 for more information
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
16 We are committed to fostering an environment that allows 
innovation and creativity to flourish. 
We have set up a dedicated innovation team and a 
framework that allows them to take insights from the 
database to find new areas where our model may be 
effective. The team can pilot new ideas on a small scale,  
in a real world environment, quickly and at low cost as  
we have seen with our ongoing pilots in the private home 
healthcare market.
While some of these pilots will never progress beyond  
that stage, we are confident some will go on to make  
a meaningful contribution to the Group in the long term. 
Our way ahead
Our strategy is intended to deliver 
long-term shareholder value through 
short and medium-term benefits  
and goals. 
With this in mind, we want to share our 
view of where we believe we will be in  
five years’ time:
 – We have retained our capital efficient 
business model and our excellent 
cash flows to maximise returns for 
our shareholders.
 – Our excellent insurance offer  
will be bigger with an increased  
market footprint.
 – We will have grown our Travel  
business, which plays a central role  
in the Saga brand.
 – We will have expanded into new 
areas and some of these will be 
making material contributions  
to earnings, such as Saga 
Investment Services our wealth 
management joint venture.
 – We will continue to be committed  
to the private home healthcare market.
 – Our culture will continue to foster  
and reward innovation across  
the business.
Grow innovation 5
Go to pages 36-37 for more information
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
17
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Our key performance indicators
We use several key performance indicators (KPIs) to track  
and measure the financial and operating performance of our 
business against our strategy and to enable our shareholders 
to clearly see how we perform against our strategy.
The usage of key performance indicators varies by operation. 
These measures are derived from the Group’s internal 
operating and financial systems. Because some measures  
are not determined in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles, they may not be comparable with other 
similarly titled measures of performance of other companies. 
Group Trading EBITDA
£227 .4m
Performance
Group Trading EBITDA up by 6.0%.
Definition
Earnings before interest payable, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation, profit or loss on disposal of non-current 
assets, exceptional expenses and fair value gains or 
losses on derivative financial instruments.
Earnings per share from continuing operations 
(basic)
8.6p
Performance
Down 46.3% as a result of the exceptional expenses and 
new interest costs incurred in the period.
Definition
Profit after tax from continuing operations attributable to 
ordinary equity holders divided by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Pro forma operating earnings per share
12.6p
Performance
Up 13.5%.
Definition
Earnings per share presented to exclude non-recurring 
exceptional items and by measuring prior to net fair value 
gains and losses on derivatives, but including pro forma 
adjustments for interest charges and plc costs to allow 
comparison between the periods on a like-for-like basis.
 L i k e - f o r- l i k e p r o fi t 
£195.5m
Performance
Up 9.6%.
Definition
Profit from continuing operations, which is shown before 
tax, one-off IPO expenses, new debt costs and derivative 
fair value gains and losses.
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
18 Available operating cash flow
£170.9m
Performance
A strong cash flow performance, with 72.3% of 
Trading EBITDA becoming available operating cash 
flow. A reduction of 13.1% against last year as a greater 
proportion of the Group’s Trading EBITDA has been 
achieved within the restricted businesses within Financial 
Services and Travel, coupled with increased capital 
investment in IT systems in the Insurance business.
Definition
Net cash flow from operating activities after capital 
expenditure but before tax and interest paid and 
exceptional expenses during the period, which is 
available to be used by the Group as it chooses 
and is not subject to regulatory restriction.
Debt ratio
2.5x
Performance
Strong profit delivery and continued high levels of cash 
conversion meant the Group beat its target reduction  
of the net debt to Trading EBITDA ratio of 0.5% per year.
Definition
The ratio of bank debt net of available cash to  
Trading EBITDA.
Active customers 
2.63m
Performance
Broadly stable during the year.
Definition
Active customers in the twelve months to 31 January 2015.
Average number of products held
2.63
Performance
Down by 2.7% (2014: 2.71) as a result of a reduction  
in the number of ancillary products sold in the Motor 
Insurance division.
Definition
Average number of Saga products held by each active 
customer as at 31 January 2015.
Go to the financial review on pages  
38-53 for more information
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
19
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Our resources and relationships
Our values are 
who we are and 
how we work – 
they are brought 
to life every day 
by our people.
Go to pages 24-29 for more information on the key 
risks and uncertainties to our resources, relationships 
and responsibilities
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
20 Our resources and relationships
There are a number of key assets, beyond the financial, which 
are vital to the functioning of our business model and the 
delivery of our strategy.
Brand
Saga is the leading provider of products and services tailored 
for customers over the age of 50 in the UK. Our brand has 
been carefully developed over the past 60 years and is now 
one of the most recognised and trusted brands among UK 
consumers aged over 50. We are synonymous in the UK with 
the over 50s market and are recognised for our high-quality 
products and services, expertise in serving our target 
demographic and excellence in customer service. 
Saga’s brand recognition and excellence in customer service 
have enabled us to expand our product offering successfully, 
achieve high levels of repeat business and acquire new 
customers without needing to rely heavily on costly third  
party advertising. 
The unique model that we operate, with a business centred 
around the power of the Saga brand and multi-product 
provision, rather than on a single product segment, has 
allowed us to achieve sustainable growth, delivering robust 
performance in recent years. 
People
Saga continues to grow due to the talent and focus our 
people have for delivering great products and excellence  
in customer service. 
Our employee policies are designed to maximise employee 
retention and develop our people. This starts by recruiting the 
right people for the right roles and we have invested heavily in 
strengths-based recruitment and training in our contact 
centres. This activity was reflected in our turnover rates. 
To help our employees make the most of their existing skills, 
as well as to acquire new skills, we run the Saga Learning 
Academy. The Saga Learning Academy makes available a 
wide range of facilities and resources to all employees. 
Learning Academy sites provide a quiet space for learning, 
reading or studying. The scheme offers access to over 250 
e-learning courses covering a number of topics, including 
communication, leadership, human resources, management, 
customer service, sales, marketing, negotiation, project 
management, health and safety, team building, typing, 
languages, first aid and software courses. 
In order to further develop our people and recognise and 
reward talent we have a robust performance management 
system in place, which is designed to drive the right behaviours 
and bring our brand values to life in the way that we work. 
We also believe in communicating at all levels within the 
Company using multiple channels, including face-to-face 
meetings, videos, global emails and newsletters. We operate 
an open and safe environment where people are encouraged 
to talk to us, for example, through our open door policy and 
whistleblowing arrangements.
Male Female
Actual % Actual % Total
Board 9 90% 1 10% 10
Senior Managers 89 68% 42 32% 131
Employees 1,672 43% 2,217 57% 3,889
Board
Directors of the plc including Executive and Non-Executive
Senior Managers
All divisional board Directors (including divisional CEOs) 
and employees with some strategic input and influence 
(excluding Board)
Employees
All Saga employees (including those in points 1 & 2)
Gender diversity as at 31 January 2015
We are committed to ensuring we provide full and fair 
consideration to applications for employment from people 
with disabilities, as well as supporting employees who 
become disabled during their employment. We adapt the 
working environment and, where we can, offer flexible 
working practices to ensure the retention of our employees, 
no matter what their personal circumstances. At recruitment 
we make adjustments to facilitate applications and the 
selection process and provide guidance and, where 
necessary, additional training for interviewers.
Human rights
Saga has a responsibility to conduct business in an ethical 
and transparent way. Saga adheres to a set of business 
principles including a commitment to internationally 
proclaimed human rights standards.
The Group has in place internal policies to support recognised 
human rights principles. These include policies  
on non-discrimination, health and safety, anti-bribery and 
environmental issues. The Group also maintains a zero 
tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out the minimum 
standards we expect from our partners and suppliers and 
their employees, contractors, agents and subsidiaries when 
working on our behalf. The code covers human rights and 
labour laws, support for local communities and environmental 
impacts, as well as bribery and corruption.
Health and safety
Saga is committed to protecting the health, safety and welfare 
of employees, customers and anyone affected by our 
operations. As such, we aim to develop a positive health  
and safety culture and continuously improve health and  
safety performance.
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
21
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview We are aware of our obligations, and are fully dedicated to 
meeting those obligations through the development of 
suitable policies and procedures. 
Beyond this, everyone in Saga has a personal responsibility 
for health and safety and for performing the activities they 
undertake in a safe manner. 
Community and social 
Saga has a very strong presence in Kent and East Sussex 
being a major employer in Thanet, Folkestone and Hastings. 
We recognise our responsibilities to the communities from 
which we draw potential recruits and upon which the 
successful delivery of our brand rests. 
One aspect of this is the maintenance of strong links with 
local schools and colleges. For example, we invite schools  
to put forward students to join Saga’s annual work  
experience programme. 
We also aim to be a good neighbour to local residents and 
play our part in supporting community initiatives – for 
example, donating funds to secure the future of Hastings Pier 
and support for the Folkestone Airshow and Deal Sea Scouts.
The Saga brand transcends the commercial sphere and has 
a strong social and campaigning aspect – giving voice to the 
concerns of the nation’s over 50s. This is achieved through 
the research, public policy and news stories generated by  
our communications team. Being a trusted voice means that 
Saga is able to be heard in the media and is also welcomed 
by policy makers who seek our views when crafting and 
developing policy. Examples of how Saga has influenced 
public policy can be seen in the new pension freedoms, 
changes to the ISA regime and the cross-party support  
for pensioner benefits.
Our charity work includes two Saga charities. The Saga 
Respite for Carers Trust provides carers aged 50 and over 
with a much needed holiday away from their caring 
responsibilities whilst paying for the care for their loved one. 
The Saga Charitable Trust benefits under-privileged 
communities in developing countries visited by Saga 
customers. The charity invests in sustainable projects which 
empower and support local communities, as well as provide 
increased opportunities for those communities to benefit from 
tourism. The operating costs of both charities are met by 
Saga. In addition, funds are raised through activities 
supported by customers and by Saga employees. 
We were also one of the inaugural signatories of the Ministry 
of Defence’s Corporate Covenant, launched at 10 Downing 
Street, which outlines our commitment to members of the 
regular and reserve forces, their partners and families.
Supplier partnerships
These relationships are fundamental to our business model. 
We work very closely with our suppliers to deliver the products 
and services to the standard our customers expect of us.
Once we have designed and tested products and services, 
we decide how best to source them for our customers, 
in-house or from a third party. 
However, we are not a commission-based business. We design 
bespoke products ourselves then look for the best possible 
partners to supply them, comparing them for service and 
value. Over time we can move if more appropriate, or better, 
partners become available. Our partners work with us in this 
way because it is a mutually advantageous relationship – they 
benefit from our brand, customer knowledge and access to 
an attractive target market. Saga, and its customers, benefit 
from our partners’ expertise and resources. This also means 
that we maintain responsibility for delivery and continue to 
own the relationship with our customers, ensuring we can 
manage the customer experience at all times. 
Database and technology
Our multiple customer interactions across a broad range  
of products and services over many years have enabled  
us to develop a sophisticated proprietary Group  
Marketing Database.
This database now contains highly relevant data for 
10.8 million people, and 8.8 million households, covering over 
50% of over 50s households and over 60% of over 50s ABC1 
households in the UK. 
Saga has a consistent focus on data collection and we are 
constantly re-confirming the data we gather through over 
128 million interactions per year. By selling products and 
services directly to customers, we capture information about 
our customers at every point of contact and build a view of 
the customer, including their multi-level preferences and 
changes in behaviour over time.
Our data analysts are then able to perform sophisticated 
analysis such as customer segmentation and propensity 
modelling, resulting in targeted marketing, in order to 
introduce appropriate products and services to customers  
in a highly efficient manner with relatively low customer 
acquisition costs. Importantly, our database is exclusive  
to us: we do not share the information with third parties for 
marketing purposes.
Our main IT systems are developed, supported and 
maintained in-house, as many of the systems are a key  
source of our competitive advantage. 
Most of our operating systems are adapted to each business 
segment, so application support is administered by decentralised 
segment-specific support functions. In contrast, most of our IT 
infrastructure, such as telephony switches, data networks and 
server rooms, are maintained by centralised support functions. 
Data security and the threat of cybercrime are key issues and 
these are covered in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
chapter on pages 24-29.
Our resources and relationships
continued
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
22 Ships
Our ships are important assets in their own right, and are 
subject to an ongoing programme of refurbishment and  
refits to maintain a standard of performance in line with safety 
requirements and our customers’ expectations of them and us. 
Beyond this, though, they are also an embodiment of the 
Saga brand and an opportunity for us to interact with 
customers in a way that few, if any, of our financial services 
competitors can emulate. With this in mind they operate with 
one of the highest staff to passenger ratios of any cruise line, 
to ensure that service, health and safety are second to none.
Environment
The Group is sensitive to its environmental impact and aims to 
operate in a manner that minimises negative impact, such as 
waste sent to landfill, and invests in activities which have a 
positive impact on the environment, such as improved energy 
efficiency. We strive for continuous improvement of our 
operations to reduce any potential impact our business may 
have on the environment. Saga promotes green travel options 
and has a network of Saga minibuses that take people to and 
from its sites, and we also promote a cycle to work scheme.
Greenhouse gas emissions
This section has been prepared in accordance with our 
regulatory obligation to report greenhouse gas emissions 
pursuant to Section 7 of the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013. During the 
2014 financial year, Saga plc emitted a total of 111,773 tCO
2
e 
from fuel combustion (Scope 1 direct) and electricity 
purchased for our own use (Scope 2 energy indirect). We 
have also chosen to voluntarily report Scope 3 emissions 
arising from our business travel.
The table below shows our tCO
2
e emissions for the year 
ended 31 January 2015: 
(tCO
2
e) 2014/15
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities  
(Scope 1)
104,734
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased  
for our own use (Scope 2)
7,038
Total Scope 1 and 2 111,772
OPTION 1: tCO
2
e per employee FTE 20.9
OPTION 2: tCO
2
e per employee 5.5
OPTION 3: tCO
2
e per employee* 18.6
*  Based on headcount data. Excludes carers, representatives, ship crew  
and Destinology.
Methodology
We quantify and report our organisational greenhouse gas 
emissions according to the GHG Protocol and have utilised 
the UK Government 2014 Conversion Factors for Company 
Reporting in order to calculate CO
2
 equivalent emissions from 
corresponding activity data. We have also taken certain data 
used for compliance with the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
In order to improve monitoring and management of our 
carbon impact, we established a global carbon data 
programme during 2014 in collaboration with Carbon 
Credentials. This will improve oversight around our energy 
consumption and increased the quality and availability of 
performance information for decision making.
Reporting boundaries and limitations
We consolidate our organisational boundary according to the 
operational control approach and have adopted a materiality 
threshold of 5% for GHG reporting purposes. As a result, 
emissions from diesel combustion within building generators 
are reasonably estimated to contribute less than 5% of our 
total footprint and have been excluded from our disclosure.
The GHG sources that constitute our operational boundary for 
the 2014 reporting period are: 
Scope 1: natural gas combustion within boilers, marine fuel 
combustion within ships, road fuel combustion within 
vehicles, fuel combustion within non-road mobile machinery 
and fugitive refrigerants from air-conditioning equipment
Scope 2: purchased electricity consumption for our own use
Scope 3: business travel
Assumptions and estimations
Pro rata estimations are used where there is missing data, 
using a calculation that accounts for the amount of days 
missing from within the financial year (01/02/2014-31/01/2015) 
and applying an average volume from the data provided.
Where the fuel type and vehicle types are not known, an 
average business travel car size is applied and the emissions 
factor for unknown fuel is used to calculate emissions. 
0
10,000
20,000
30,000
40,000
50,000
60,000
70,000
80,000
90,000
100,000
Marine fuel 97,669
Road fuel 6,082
Fuel combustion
(non-road)
41
Gaseous fuel
(buildings)
816
Fugitive
emissions
126
Red diesel 0
Electricity
consumption
7,038
Business travel
(grey ﬂeet)
1,694
Emissions by GHG source (tC0
2
e)
Total emissions (tC0
2
e)
 1. Scope 1 – 92%
 2. Scope 2 – 2%
 3. Scope 3 – 6%
1
2
3
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
23
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Saga plc Board
Group CEO
Business board
Business Executive
Committee**
Business Risk Committee**
Business Audit,
Risk and 
Compliance 
 Committee*
Group Risk
Committee
Top down:
– Group risk policy 
and strategy
– Group risk appetite
– Principal risk oversight
– Group compliance 
oversight
Bottom up:
– Business risk appetite 
deﬁnition and policy
– Identiﬁcation, 
assessment and 
mitigation of business 
– speciﬁc risks
– Upward reporting 
of key residual risks
Our principal risks and uncertainties
Risk framework 
*  The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee (ARCC) operates for all Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulated entities. The Committee is led by the 
Non-Executive Directors of the relevant business and provides an additional forum for independent oversight of key business risks.
**  The majority of businesses in Saga have separate Risk and Executive Committees. For those that do not have these committees, risk is reviewed solely  
at board level.
Achieving the optimum balance  
between risk and reward.
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
24 Risk governance
The Board has ultimate responsibility for Saga’s approach  
to risk management. This responsibility specifically includes 
ensuring an effective risk assessment and management 
system is in place; agreeing the principal risks and 
uncertainties the business should accept in pursuit of  
its strategic objectives; ensuring a suitable risk culture is 
embedded throughout Saga; and regularly assessing the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management systems, 
including essential levels of internal and external risk 
communication. Our approach and these processes are  
set out in more detail in the Accountability section of our 
Corporate Governance Statement on pages 64-66 of this  
annual report.
The Board believes that enhanced sustainability and 
shareholder value will come through achieving the optimum 
balance between risk and reward. Saga’s four divisions face 
a range of risks and uncertainties that could impact their 
strategic objectives, some common to the Saga Group as 
a whole and others unique to the particular business or 
operation. It is therefore imperative to have a risk management 
policy and framework capable of assessing and monitoring 
these risks and uncertainties individually and in aggregate 
against an agreed risk appetite to ensure management within 
agreed tolerances.
Risk appetite
The Board defines risk appetite as the amount and sources  
of risk which it is seeking, willing to accept and looking to 
avoid in pursuit of its objectives over a set period of time. 
The following qualitative risk tolerances have been agreed:
Risk category Saga risk appetite
Credit Low
Liquidity Low
Insurance Medium to high*
Market Medium
Strategic Medium to high
Mergers and Acquisitions** Medium**
Operational Medium
* Saga’s strategy is to significantly expand its footprint in insurance via 
broked services. 
** Saga is keen to explore Merger and Acquisition (M&A) opportunities with 
significant growth potential and its tolerance to risk in this area is Medium. 
The Board will consider and agree the quantitative risk tolerance for each 
M&A opportunity as it arises. 
There are three specific operational risks which the Board has 
defined lower qualitative risk appetites and tolerances for:
Brand/Reputation: Saga recognises that its continued 
success depends on maintenance of its brand and reputation 
for quality service. Saga, therefore, has zero appetite and a 
very low tolerance for brand and reputation risks and will look 
wherever possible to eliminate them. 
Health and safety: Saga has zero appetite and a very low 
tolerance for health and safety risks and will do all that is 
reasonably practicable to prevent personal injury and danger 
to the health of our employees, customers and others who 
may be affected by our activities. 
Regulation: Saga recognises regulatory compliance as 
essential and therefore has zero appetite and a very low 
tolerance for risks that could prevent such compliance 
being achieved.
Separate risk appetite statements and risk tolerance 
thresholds have also been created for each business in Saga, 
customised to their business needs and complementary to 
the Group’s tolerances.
Risk appetite statements and risk tolerances are central to our 
decision making processes and are a point of reference for all 
significant investment decisions.
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
25
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Our principal risks and uncertainties
continued
Areas of key concern
The table below lists the areas of key concern faced by us, and how we perceive they have changed over the last year:
Areas of key 
concern Risk category
Saga risk 
appetite
Risk in 
operating 
environment Considerations
IT systems and 
processes 
Operational Medium High Sustaining our advantage across the digital arena is vital for our 
efficiency, customer relationships and growth. Without system 
resilience we cannot provide expected customer service.  
Without digital innovation we risk becoming obsolete in our 
product offerings
Cybercrime Operational Medium High Our battle to defeat cybercriminals is an ever escalating arms  
race. Failure to protect our systems and data could lead to  
an unacceptable fall in customer service standards and risk  
to the brand
Database Operational Medium Medium Our database is a key engine for growth and needs to be  
nurtured and protected. The risk of data theft is increasing as 
cybercriminals become ever more sophisticated and determined
People Operational Medium Medium Continual enhancement of our people resources and skills is 
essential for brand and business enhancement. The competition 
for personnel is increasing so there is a need to improve our 
attraction and retention skills to ensure we have the right people 
to meet customer expectations
Operational 
efficiency
Operational Medium High We are looking to enhance our customer service through 
operational efficiency and innovation. There is significant 
competition in our various markets so change must be  
handled quickly and effectively if we are to grow in line  
with profit expectations 
Business 
interruption
Operational Medium Medium We rely on our assets and infrastructure to deliver efficiently and 
profitably. We operate in potentially high-risks areas such as 
shipping where only the highest governance standards will suffice
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
26 Areas of key 
concern Risk category
Saga risk 
appetite
Risk in 
operating 
environment Considerations
External 
regulatory 
landscape/
political change
Regulation Very low Medium As a highly regulated group of businesses, with a complex, 
demanding customer base, changes in regulation have the  
power to affect our profitability both positively and negatively.  
The impending UK election and the ongoing Eurozone 
complications may well bring about unexpected regulatory 
change which we will need to anticipate and adapt to in order  
to meet customer expectations
Counterparty Operational Medium Medium We rely on a range of partners to deliver our products for us 
efficiently, safely and profitably. Our reliance on external parties 
will increase with our joint venture with TBI and development of 
our third party charter services in Travel
Insurance 
landscape
Insurance Medium  
to high
Medium We are affected by the general state of the insurance market in 
terms of pricing. We are reliant on the success of both our own 
products and those of our suppliers to provide the right products 
at the right price for our customers
Customer 
interaction/
service
Operational Medium Medium We operate in a clearly defined customer target sector and we are 
well placed to continue to grow in this area. We must, however, 
ensure we continue to exceed the expectations of a financially 
stable, but complex, demanding and potentially vulnerable 
population grouping 
Conduct Regulation Very low Low Customers are at the heart of everything we do. Our particular 
customer base has unique needs which must be incorporated into 
our entire range of products and services. Failure to achieve this 
may well result in fines, loss of reputation and ultimately significant  
brand damage
Macroeconomic 
climate
Operational Medium Medium Our target customer base is fast growing, largely affluent and 
stable. It is, therefore, more insulated than other demographic 
areas but still influenced by macroeconomic changes. The 
ongoing Eurozone complications may well impact our customers’ 
ability and desire to purchase our current product range
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
27
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Our principal risks and uncertainties
continued
Current principal risks and uncertainties faced by the business
The table below lists the areas of key concern faced by us: Our primary strategic objective is to operate where our 
model works best by focusing on our Strategic Priorities:
1. Expand our footprint in Insurance
2. Grow our Travel business
3. Expand our Personal Finance offering
4. Make more of our database
5. Continue to drive innovation
Principal risk or 
uncertainty
Strategic 
priorities 
linkage Specific concerns Response/Mitigation
IT systems and 
processes 
1
 
2
 
3
 
4
 
5
Failure of our core IT systems 
to deliver required performance 
stability and resilience
We have allocated specific investment for IT infrastructure 
refresh, and strengthened our core IT team and processes
Inability to develop digital 
offerings sufficient to drive 
innovation and growth
Significant investment in digital innovations at Group level
Cybercrime
1
 
2
 
3
 
4
 
5
Increased frequency of 
cyber attacks 
Cyber awareness training has been reinforced and is in 
the process of roll out across the Group
Cyber attack via 
unpatched/legacy systems
We have created a 24/7 patching regime to protect 
our systems
Database 
4
Breach/loss of sensitive 
data assets
Significant investment is budgeted for improving 
information security countermeasures in 2015. 
External review/benchmarking of information security 
plans will be undertaken in 2015
Breach of data  
protection legislation
We have dedicated data protection resources, processes 
and systems in place to ensure data is stored securely 
and handled correctly. We have contingency processes  
in place in the unlikely event of a data breach
People
1
 
2
 
3
 
4
 
5
Our culture does not deliver 
the Saga brand we aspire to
We are refining our leadership development programme 
to ensure we have the management team in place to 
deliver against our objectives
We do not attract and/or 
retain the right people to 
achieve our objectives
We conduct regular employee surveys in order to monitor 
and manage issues to ensure that we retain and motivate 
our people
Operational 
efficiency
1
 
2
 
3
 
Failure to accrue expected 
benefits from operational 
initiatives
Operational initiatives are reviewed at all governance and 
trading meetings and mitigating steps taken 
where appropriate
Business 
interruption
1
 
2
 
3
 
5
Loss arising from shipping 
technical failure or maritime 
incident 
We have developed a ‘beyond compliance’ maintenance 
programme covering all aspects of our ships  
overseen at Group level and reported weekly  
via our governance structure
Loss of key operational 
premises
Fully developed business continuity plans in force for  
key sites, regularly tested and audited
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
28 Current principal risks and uncertainties faced by the business
Principal risk or 
uncertainty
Strategic 
priorities 
linkage Specific concerns Response/Mitigation
External 
regulatory 
landscape/
political change
1
 
2
 
3
 
4
 
5
Breach of regulation 
governing our operations
Dedicated compliance teams are embedded in all 
regulated businesses responsible for auditing and 
monitoring compliance performance. Teams exist at 
Group level to ensure Group compliance with key 
legislation such as the Health and Safety at Work Act
Inability to respond  
to regulatory change 
affecting our business
Saga has a diversified business model to lessen the 
potential impact of changes affecting one product or 
service. Emerging and horizon compliance risks are 
tracked by the dedicated business compliance teams and 
raised at all governance forums
Political changes negatively 
impact our business models
Political policy is constantly monitored for impact and 
active lobbying is undertaken to influence proposed 
change wherever possible
Counterparty
1
 
2
 
3
 
Financial failure of  
key partner
We have agreed selection and monitoring processes in 
place for all key partners/suppliers
Inability of key partner  
to provide appropriate 
service leading to 
reputational damage
Saga controls its third party supply quality through internal 
and external audits, customer ‘moments of truth’ surveys 
and customer complaint review
Insurance 
landscape
1
 
3
 
4
 
5
Inability to compete with 
insurance competitors
Saga manages the broking and underwriting processes, 
thereby allowing competition on price where appropriate
Rates in the motor 
insurance market do not 
increase as expected
Introduction of a motor panel arrangement, increasing 
competitiveness and reducing risk; enhancing AICL ’s 
response to claims experience
Conduct/
customers
1
 
2
 
3
 
4
 
5
Our behaviour results  
in poor/unacceptable 
outcomes for customers
Saga’s governance structure is built on the premise of 
customer dedication with daily consideration of customer 
satisfaction throughout the organisation
Macroeconomic 
climate
1
 
2
 
3
 
4
 
5
Changes in the 
macroeconomic climate 
impact our customers’ 
inclination/capability to 
purchase our products  
and services
The impact of external economic factors on costs and 
customer demand are closely monitored throughout the 
Group and necessary changes are made in products and 
services regularly to compensate
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
29
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Divisional review
Strong performance 
in our first year as  
a public company.
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
30 As highlighted, the Group is committed to growth whilst 
maintaining a capital efficient and cash generative operating 
model. We are therefore in the process of building a panel 
within our Motor Insurance business that will allow us to 
provide insurance products to more customers by utilising 
other sources of underwriting, capitalising on the power of  
our brand and market position but without needing to commit 
more of our own capital. We also believe that this is an 
extremely attractive proposition for insurers joining the panel. 
Not only do they gain access to a large pool of potential 
customers, but also access to select data which can have 
significant pricing and proprietary value. 
We already operate very effectively with this structure in our 
Home Insurance business and, although we are still in the 
early stages of development, we are seeing strong demand 
from underwriters to be part of the motor panel and the 
indicative prices they are providing are very encouraging.  
We will be providing further updates on our progress during 
the course of this year. 
We announced earlier this year that we plan to acquire, 
subject to regulatory approval, Bennetts, the UK’s leading 
motorbike insurance provider. Upon completion we will add 
over 200,000 motorbike insurance policies to the 18,000 we 
already provided under the Saga brand. 
In many ways this proposed acquisition encapsulates our 
strategy: a growing UK insurance broker with a market-leading 
brand, and where the combined customer base offers great 
potential for both Saga and Bennetts. 77% of Bennetts’ 
customers are over 40, 43% are over 50 and it is a growth 
market with nearly a third of all spending on motorcycling 
activities in 2014 coming from those over 50. This is 
predominantly characterised by the second-time-around biker 
who, with disposable income available, is able to indulge in 
their passion for biking. Additionally, a large proportion of 
Bennetts’ customers have cars and we can now provide 
Bennetts with access to 10.8 million potential new 
customers by using the Saga database. 
Bennetts is the leading brand in the motorbike market in the 
UK and will continue to trade under its own name in the same 
way that has proved so effective with other brands within the 
Group, such as Titan in our Travel business. 
Motor policies sold
Motor core
1,077k
Up 1.5% 
 
Motor add-ons
1,407k
Down 13.8%
Financial Services is Saga’s largest business 
segment and has been operating for over 25 years. 
Financial Services at a glance
Trading EBITDA
£210.6m 
Up 7.4%
Total policies sold
Total core
2,679k
Down 0.7% 
 
Total add-ons
1,999k
Down 10.0%
* GfK NOP at 31 August 2014.
Motor Insurance
Alongside many of our peers, we have continued to experience 
challenging conditions in the motor market. Prices stabilised 
in the second half of 2014 but since then, there have been no 
meaningful signs of any price increases. We have built our 
strategy for the future on the premise that these market 
conditions will prevail but, should that prove to be overly 
pessimistic, we are very well placed to capitalise on  
any improvement. 
After a period during which the core motor book reduced in 
size as a result of our decision not to chase policy numbers  
in unfavourable market conditions, I am pleased to report  
that core policy numbers for the period are up 1.5% on last 
year. This has been achieved through a renewed focus on 
retention, targeting our marketing efforts and resources  
on maintaining the size of the overall book. 
Over the past ten years, we have chosen to underwrite the 
majority of our core motor policies ourselves. We have done 
this very successfully and it has been highly profitable for us. 
However, our underwriting vehicle, AICL, has been deliberately 
highly risk averse. As a result of this, we do not convert the 
majority of the enquiries we receive on an annual basis for 
motor insurance, despite them coming from ‘Saga customers’. 
As a result we still have a relatively small market share of 
around 8.5%* of the over 50s motor insurance market in the 
UK and we have constrained our ability to grow this. 
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
31
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Divisional review continued
Underwriting
The Group has always taken a deliberately prudent approach 
to underwriting and reserving. As a result, our underwriting 
business, AICL, is very well capitalised. At 31 January 2015, 
we held solvency capital of £161.m, resulting in a Solvency I 
coverage ratio of 277%, which is well above the 200% 
minimum margin required by the regulator. 
With regards to the potential impact of Solvency II, as we have 
stated before, our indicative results indicate that Solvency II 
will not require us to make any additional future capital 
injections into AICL. 
Reserve releases were £57.8m in the period, compared with 
£57.0m in the prior year, without any erosion in the strength of 
our reserves. This is a result of our prudent approach to risk in 
challenging market conditions and a favourable development 
in our claims experience.
Home Insurance
The market for home insurance continues to be highly 
competitive and we have seen market rates fall by 5.7%  
over the twelve months to January 2015. 
We operate a panel of 16 insurers in the home market. AICL 
sits on that panel, but the risk it underwrites is 99% co-
insured and 1% reinsured, meaning we take no underwriting 
risk. The panel continues to become ever more efficient, with 
an increasing number of underwriters bringing a wide range of 
different areas of expertise as well as increasingly competing 
with each other for the business. This, in combination with our 
provision of proprietary predictive data from our database to 
the panel (the ‘Saga factor’), has led to a reduction in the net 
rate at which we can source underwriting for these policies  
by 11.6% over the year, 5.9 percentage points more than 
market rates have fallen. 
We can therefore manage our approach proactively, either 
investing in growing our policy numbers by passing the 
savings on to the customer or retaining a greater margin. 
Moving forward, we will continue to build and refine the panel 
and believe we can grow market share from a relatively low 
base of 6.8% of the UK’s over 50s. 
Combined operating ratio for Motor
77.9%
Down 10.5 percentage points
 
Other Financial Services 
Within Other Financial Services we have continued to deliver 
consistently strong growth. Our activities here are driven by 
Private Medical Insurance (‘PMI’) and Travel Insurance, which, 
in combination, account for 65% of our Trading EBITDA in  
this segment. 
Again, we predominantly focus on building products based  
on customer insight and ensuring the customer experience, 
sourcing the best possible third-party provider for product. 
PMI remains an important area for us and we continue to 
grow policy numbers in a declining market by finding new 
routes to market for our product. 
Our Travel Insurance product, which is separate to the travel 
insurance included in our Travel products, has performed 
exceptionally strongly in the past year. This is a very important 
source of income for us but, equally as important, has 
become a key tool in the acquisition of new names onto the 
database, adding 137,000 names during the period. 
Finally, our high-quality Personal Finance business continues 
to make progress alongside the progress we have made in 
launching Saga Investment Services, our wealth management 
joint venture. During the year we opened an additional 66,000 
new savings accounts, provided 158,000 Saga Credit Cards 
on which £221m was spent last year and delivered 108,000 
share trades.
Homes policies sold
Home core
1,258k
Down 3.4% 
 
Home add-ons
587k
Up 0.5%
Other Financial Services policies sold
Other Financial Services core
344k
Up 3.0% 
Other Financial Services add-ons
5k
Up 25.0%
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
32 Legal Services 
During the year we launched a new product, Saga Legal 
Services. Its development is a stand-out example of 
innovation at work within Saga and the highly effective use  
of the business model and the brand. We identified that  
the market for legal services, such as probate, wills and 
conveyancing, is fragmented, with no trusted dominant 
national brand. Additionally, it is a marketplace where Saga 
can differentiate its offer; service levels play a key role, our 
customer knowledge gives us a competitive advantage and 
cross-selling opportunities can flow from an initial relationship. 
We therefore developed a range of products based on customer 
feedback and found a market-leading supplier. Saga Legal 
Services was launched as a pilot offering, testing the products 
in a real world environment and backed with a small amount 
of marketing. The success of the initial pilot, which attracted 
36,000 quotes and 8,500 instructions, led to enhanced 
marketing support with the launch of a television advertising 
campaign in February 2015. Early signs are that this has had  
a very positive impact and we have now had 45,000 quote 
enquiries and over 10,700 instructions since launch.
Our insurance business is making good early progress on 
delivering the strategy outlined in January of this year. We are 
on track to introduce the motor panel, helping us to deliver a 
broader range of products to customers we could not 
historically serve. We are targeting an increased market share 
in our Home Insurance business, driven by the flexibility 
provided to us by the panel we already have in place. We will 
continue to look for opportunities to expand our product 
offering to solve customer needs, maximise our use of digital 
channels and continue our ongoing drive for efficiencies 
throughout the business.
Outlook
Trading across the insurance businesses has started strongly 
and is line with our expectations.
The UK motor and home markets remain highly competitive 
and we have seen rates continue to be flat in early 2015.  
The launch of our Motor Insurance broking panel later this 
year will allow us to offer even more competitive rates to 
customers, as we have achieved with our Home Insurance 
panel, and further grow our market share. We expect 
continued strong profitability in the year ahead.
Our proactive management of the home insurance panel 
and our use of shared proprietary packaged data with 
the panel, the Saga Factor, leave us well placed to 
capitalise on our pricing advantage for our customers in 
a competitive marketplace. We have an encouraging start 
to year although competitive pressures remain.
Performance in Other Financial Services continues to be 
strong, driven by the success of Travel Insurance and 
Private Medical Insurance. We expect a continued robust 
operating performance.
Travel
We have an excellent, highly regarded travel business that 
includes our tour operator businesses, Saga Holidays, Titan 
and Destinology (which we acquired during the year) and our 
Cruising business which comprises of two ships, the Saga 
Sapphire and the Saga Pearl II.
Travel is central to the history of the Saga Group, a key element 
of our DNA and vitally important to our brand with high levels 
of customer satisfaction and 80% repeat business. This 
excellence was recognised again during the year, when Saga, 
Titan and Destinology won a record 46 awards at the industry 
‘Oscars’ the British Travel Awards, making us the most 
successful and most admired travel organisation in the UK. 
However, in the past few years the team was consciously 
given a remit to limit risk rather than focus on significant 
growth, meaning Travel makes a relatively small financial 
contribution to the Group as a whole. 
With our renewed focus on growth throughout our core 
businesses, this has changed and the Travel team, under  
the leadership of Andrew Strong, has been challenged to 
grow the business.
We have announced a strong start today with the Travel 
business enjoying an excellent year from a financial and 
operational perspective. Both our tour operating and Cruising 
businesses expanded. Overall revenues of £381.3m grew by 
15.2% and Trading EBITDA of £26.0m by 29.4%. We took just 
under 200,000 customers on a holiday or cruise in the last year.
Saga has operated its travel business for over 
60 years. Travel is considered to be the centre 
of the Saga brand and provides positive brand 
associations for the other products and services 
offered by Saga. 
Travel at a glance
Trading EBITDA
£26.0m
Up 29.4%
Number of passengers
172k
Holiday passengers 
Up 11.0%
 
336k
Ship passenger days 
Up 6.7%
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
33
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Divisional review continued
Tour operating
We are passionate about our Saga holiday brands, and our 
research shows there is significant additional demand within 
these businesses where our customers want us to take them 
further afield and on more adventurous holidays. 
In July, Saga Holidays successfully launched third party cruise 
products to complement our existing cruise business. This 
part of the business is progressing well and we have taken 
over 2,000 customer bookings on this type of cruise since  
we started. Pleasingly, 74% have never cruised with us before. 
This is also a further strong example of our model in action: 
using first-class third party providers we can offer a broader 
range of products to our current customer base, while 
introducing new customers to the Saga experience. 
In October we launched the sale of Saga Holidays products 
through third party travel agents. As over 50% of our core 
customer demographic will book their holiday through a travel 
agent, this additional distribution channel will drive further 
bookings growth for the future.
During the year we have also upgraded our Saga Holidays 
website to improve the customer journey across PC, tablet 
and mobile. Nearly 27,000 browsers have registered with us 
through our website in the past five months. To complement 
this we have further developed our contact centre capabilities 
offering more flexibility to our customers around choice of 
airport departure. 
Cruising 
Cruising is a vital part of our Travel offering through our 
two ships, the Saga Sapphire and Saga Pearl II. This gives us 
an opportunity for customers to live in our brand for weeks, 
and even months, at a time, trusting us with their wellbeing 
and treating us as a home away from home, is one of the 
most exciting and unique aspects of this business. 
We continue to make the investment required in our cruise 
offering to enhance the customer experience and maintain  
the high levels of customer satisfaction that we see already.  
A major refit of the Sapphire was successfully completed  
in December 2014, enhancing our service capability and 
proposition on board. Load factors were 85% (2014: 77%) 
across both ships and the number of shipping days at 
336,000 was an increase of 6.7% against last year. 
Looking forward, the team will continue to deliver on its 
strategy for growth, including: 
 – continuing to increase and improve the range of products 
offered to our customers through all of our holiday brands
 – delivering an enhanced service proposition, including 
investment in our representatives in resorts and in 
optimising the journey for customers, integrating service 
across customer channels
 – the continuation of the digital transformation throughout 
the Travel business to enhance the customer journey 
and develop on a multi-channel approach to our 
customer interactions. 
Outlook 
Trading across the Travel businesses has started strongly 
and we expect positive growth across all business lines. 
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
34 Healthcare Services
We remain absolutely committed to continuing to explore the 
market for private home healthcare where we can build a 
relationship directly with the customer. This year we have split  
out the private pay care businesses that previously sat within  
the Allied business – Patricia White’s, Country Cousins and  
Saga SOS – and put them under the control of a dedicated 
management team that is also managing our recently announced 
agreement with Spire Hospitals and our private home healthcare 
pilot which is now in market and making good progress. 
While the contribution of our ongoing Healthcare Services 
operations to the bottom line, with Trading EBITDA of £2.2m, 
was relatively modest last year and will continue to be so in the 
short to medium term, we are excited by the long-term prospects 
in this area. The domiciliary care market in the UK remains highly 
fragmented and, after assessing our accumulated learnings 
from running Allied, we see a significant opportunity for a 
trusted brand offering a convenient, private, digital focused 
service to our target demographic on a national scale.
However, we have decided that the public healthcare part  
of the Allied business, where Saga has no direct relationship 
with the consumer, does not fit with the Saga business model. 
We therefore announced our decision to divest the parts of 
Allied Healthcare that focus on the provision of domiciliary 
care to local authorities and the NHS. 
This part of Allied is the leading provider of domiciliary care  
in the UK, employing more than 15,000 carers, looking after 
the frail and elderly at home. In the past 2-3 years, it has 
developed the very highest standards of clinical care and 
quality oversight of any such company, continues to win  
new contracts from local authorities and the NHS and drive 
efficiencies through the business. As a result of this it 
increased its Trading EBITDA in the last twelve months to 
£9.0m (2014: £7.9m), despite a 9.8% decline in revenues. 
Given this decision, we have written down the value of this 
part of the Healthcare business and, together with the other 
charges in respect of the discontinued business, this has 
given rise to a total charge of £220.2m. These operations 
will be reported as discontinued going forward. We have 
appointed advisers to facilitate the sale and we will keep 
the market updated on progress.
Saga’s Healthcare Services segment provides 
private home healthcare. 
The Group’s Media and Central Costs segment 
includes Saga Publishing, which produces and 
markets Saga Magazine, and MetroMail, Saga’s 
own print and mailing house.
Healthcare at a glance Media at a glance
Trading EBITDA
Continuing
£2.2m 
Discontinued
£9.0m 
Media
For three decades, Saga Magazine has played a vital role 
connecting millions of Saga customers with content designed 
to enrich their lives. As the UK’s best selling paid-for monthly 
magazine, Saga Magazine remains an integral part of our 
brand story and Saga’s heritage, and a unique way for Saga  
to engage with more than a million people each month.  
At the end of 2014, Saga Magazine celebrated its 30th 
anniversary, a testament to its relevance and longevity. 
As our customers increasingly migrate to mobile, digital and 
online platforms for content consumption and purchasing, our 
Publishing business is accelerating its move to deliver a digital 
and mobile-first approach to content, to ensure we remain as 
relevant to our audience as we were 30 years ago.
Saga Publishing aims to generate the content that fuels our 
customers’ thirst for life and be the number one source of 
information, advice and entertainment to help Saga customers 
navigate life’s complex choices and decisions.
Our Publishing business is placing content at the heart of our 
customer relationships, using content to build customer journeys 
that bridge across all parts of the Saga Group. Our aim is to 
create seamless content and commercial journeys for our 
audience that support the Group’s wider business objectives.
To meet our digital, business and customer challenges, our 
publishing team has been restructured with centralised 
production, marketing and commercial teams supporting 
dedicated digital and print teams, creating engaging content 
across all platforms. A new leadership team has been put in 
place to transform Saga Publishing into a digital-first business, 
capitalising on commercial partnerships, platforms and 
opportunities that digital engagement offers.
Saga Magazine also aims to reinforce its relevance, and become 
a true advocate of the issues facing the UK’s over 50s. With  
a customer-centric view of the world, Saga Magazine will look 
to effect positive change to improve the lives of its audience.
Thirty years ago, the then-revolutionary idea of using content 
to engage customers helped create the enviable relationship 
that we possess with our audience. The same holds true today, 
and Saga Publishing is ensuring it continues to produce a 
vibrant and relevant magazine and digital content that has  
a clear role in inspiring our audience and broadcasting the 
Group’s wider commercial offerings. 
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
35
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview New opportunities 
While we are clear that our core businesses will be the key 
drivers of the growth targeted in the Group’s strategy, we 
continue to identify and pilot new opportunities that we think 
are the right fit for our business model, can provide attractive 
future growth potential and, most importantly, generate 
exceptional customer satisfaction feedback.
Personal Finance 
Personal Finance, which includes the recently announced 
creation of Saga Investment Services, the 50/50 wealth 
management joint venture with Tilney Bestinvest, represents  
a particularly exciting opportunity. 
The over 50s in the UK hold 68% of the nation’s wealth.  
The changes to the rules in relation to pensions, combined 
with the fact that the changing regulatory environment (RDR1 
and RDR2) has led to many existing providers withdrawing 
The Saga opportunity: ideas generation – illustrative examples
Segment Opportunity Segment Opportunity Segment Opportunity
Housing 
Costs
£31.9bn
Retirement villages, 
home modification for 
independent living, 
mortgages
Vehicle 
Purchase
£11.2bn
Saga cars, mobility 
services
Takeaways
£5.3bn
Ready meals, 
nutrition advice
Energy 
Costs
£16.8bn
Energy supply/
switching for seniors
Health
£5.7bn
Saga private 
healthcare
Transport 
Fares
£5.0bn
Off peak rail travel 
services
Holidays 
Abroad
£14.9bn
Already operating in 
this segment; 
overseas retirement 
communities
Garden & 
Pet 
Equipment
£7.2bn
Two biggest hobbies 
on the Saga database, 
online catalogues
UK Holidays
£4.5bn
UK short break 
holidays
Wealth
£14.0bn
Single wealth 
management platform
Telephone 
Services
£5.9bn
Saga MVNO, 
smartphone with 
specialised content 
services
Sport & 
Leisure
£3.2bn
Fitness classes
Insurance
£11.7bn
Already operating  
in this segment
Maintenance 
& Repair
£5.4bn
Saga trusted 
tradesmen
Internet
£1.6bn
Digital switching 
services
Divisional review continued
from the marketplace, creates an opportunity for a new 
provider with a customer-centric approach and a trusted 
brand. 
We have chosen a partner who shares our absolute 
commitment to the customer and, while it is early days,  
we are in the process of configuring a best-in-class set of 
products which we hope to be able to offer to customers 
towards the end of the year.
Retirement villages 
Another area we have highlighted our interest in is retirement 
villages. These are extremely popular in other parts of the 
world but are yet to gain significant traction in the UK. We 
have partnered with Rangeford, a developer of retirement 
villages, to market Wadswick Green, their new village in 
Corsham, Wiltshire. 
We believe that we can add significant value via our marketing 
expertise, insight and customer relationships and we are 
continuing to evaluate the potential to offer ongoing services 
across the areas we already specialise in through our Travel 
and Healthcare businesses.
Putting innovation at the centre of the business.
Innovation at a glance
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
36 Innovation case studies
Our pilot projects are longer-term initiatives and here 
are three examples.
Retirement villages alongside our partner Rangeford homes. 
They build the homes and we find the customers. It is early 
stages still but progressing well and we are learning quickly 
about how we can move into this fascinating space, offer 
Saga standards of service and make a profit.
Healthcare Our private home healthcare pilot is now under 
way. Over the coming months we will carefully scale it up, 
while we refine the pricing and consumer offer. We know 
that there is a real unmet need in the market for high-quality, 
technologically-enabled care in the home. However, we will 
either do it right or not at all, so we will take our time. We 
have signed a deal with Spire Hospitals to trial a ‘home from 
hospital service’, helping their patients resettle at home after 
a hospital stay.
Legal services This is a great example of innovation at work 
within Saga. We identified that the market for legal services 
was both fragmented and fitted well with our business 
model. We developed a bespoke service, tailored to the 
over 50s’ needs. We have identified the best providers in 
the market and we have now had over 10,700 instructions 
to date. This has now moved beyond the pilot stage, being 
supported by television advertising and will increase in 
profile in the coming months.
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
37
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Group Chief Financial Officer’s Review
Group overview
The Group has delivered strong financial performance in its 
first year as a public company, delivering 9.6% growth in 
like-for-like profit before tax from continuing operations, which 
is shown before tax, one-off IPO and financing costs, new 
interest and debt service costs, and net fair value gains and 
losses on derivatives. The Group has achieved a pro forma 
operating earnings per share of 12.6p. Available cash 
conversion has remained strong, enabling the Board to 
propose a dividend of 4.1p per share, at the top end of the 
payout range communicated at the time of the IPO.
On 15 January 2015, the Group announced its intention to 
divest the local authority section of its healthcare business, 
Allied Healthcare. Accordingly, this has been treated as  
a discontinued operation and is not included in the  
like-for-like analysis. 
Group P&L
12m to 
Jan 2015 Growth
12m to 
Jan 2014
12m to Jan 2014
Reported Adjustment
1
Revenue £900.5m 0.6% £895.4m £944.0m (£48.6m)
Trading EBITDA £227.4m 6.0% £214.5m £226.2m (£11.7m)
Trading EBITDA % (of gross revenue) 21.3% 0.6% 20.7% 
Depreciation/loss on disposal (£17.3m) (£20.1m) (£27.3m) £7.2m 
Amortisation (£11.7m) (£10.7m) (£10.7m) £0.0m 
Interest on available cash £0.0m £1.1m n/a £1.1m 
 
Operating profit £198.4m 7.4% £184.8m £188.2m (£3.4m)
Operating profit % 22.0% 1.4% 20.6% 
Exceptional expenses (£2.4m) (£6.4m) (£6.4m) £0.0m 
Net finance costs (pension scheme) (£0.5m) (£0.1m) (£0.1m) £0.0m 
Like-for-like profit before tax £195.5m 9.6% £178.3m £181.7m (£3.4m)
Net fair value gains/(losses) on derivatives £2.9m (£10.4m) (£10.4m) £0.0m 
IPO expenses and new debt costs
 IPO expenses (£50.0m) £0.0m £0.0m £0.0m 
 Interest on debt and borrowings (£34.6m) £0.0m £0.0m £0.0m 
Profit before tax from continuing operations (reported) £113.8m (32.2%) £167.9m £171.3m (£3.4m)
Loss after tax for the year from discontinued operations (£220.2m) 1,130.2% (£17.9m) (£18.3m) £0.4m 
Tax expense (£27.4m) (36.9%) (£43.4m) (£43.4m) £0.0m 
(Loss)/profit after tax (£133.8m) (225.5%) £106.6m £109.6m (£3.0m)
Basic earnings per share
Pro forma operating earnings per share 12.6p 13.5% 11.1p
Earnings per share from continuing operations 8.6p (46.3%) 16.0p
(Loss)/earnings per share (13.4p) (198.5%) 13.6p 
Stuart Howard Group Chief Financial Officer
Trading EBITDA
Up 6.0%
£227.4m
Available operating  
cash flow
£170.9m
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
38 Segmental performance summary
12m to  
Jan 2015 Growth
12m to  
Jan 2014
12m to Jan 2014
Reported Adjustment
1
Revenue Motor Insurance £312.0m (12.2%) £355.2m £355.2m £0.0m 
Home Insurance £91.8m 1.4% £90.5m £90.5m £0.0m 
Other Financial Services £94.3m (2.7%) £96.9m £96.9m £0.0m 
£498.1m (8.2%) £542.6m £542.6m £0.0m 
Travel £381.3m 15.2% £331.0m £379.6m (£48.6m)
Healthcare Services £4.3m (8.5%) £4.7m £4.7m £0.0m 
Media and Central Costs £16.8m (1.8%) £17.1m £17.1m £0.0m 
£900.5m 0.6% £895.4m £944.0m (£48.6m)
Trading EBITDA Motor Insurance £104.2m 8.9% £95.7m £96.7m (£1.0m)
Home Insurance £64.5m 2.2% £63.1m £63.1m £0.0m
Other Financial Services £41.9m 12.3% £37.3m £37.3m £0.0m
£210.6m 7.4% £196.1m £197.1m (£1.0m)
Travel £26.0m 29.4% £20.1m £27.8m (£7.7m)
Healthcare Services £2.2m (18.5%) £2.7m £2.7m £0.0m
Media and Central Costs (£11.4m) 159.1% (£4.4m) (£1.4m) (£3.0m)
£227.4m 6.0% £214.5m £226.2m (£11.7m)
Revenue
During the financial year ended 31 January 2015, the Group 
generated total revenue from continuing operations of 
£900.5m (2014: £895.4m), which was up 0.6%. Financial 
Services revenue was £498.1m, which was down £44.5m 
(8.2%) reflecting the general reduction in motor market 
premiums. Travel revenue increased by £50.3m (15.2%) to 
£381.3m, with growth from both Holidays and Cruising; the 
acquisition of Destinology contributed £26.2m (52.1%) of the 
total Travel revenue increase.
Trading EBITDA
The Group delivered a £12.9m (6.0%) increase in Trading  
EBITDA from continuing operations to £227 .4m (2014: £214.5m). 
The Financial Services and Travel businesses saw increases 
in Trading EBITDA of £14.5m (7.4%) and £5.9m (29.4%) 
respectively, although this was partially offset by a £7.0m 
increase in Media and Central Costs, driven by higher central 
administrative costs as a result of becoming a plc.
Trading EBITDA as a percentage of gross revenue (which 
represents total sales to customers and includes the third-party 
element of premiums not underwritten by the Group) was 21.3%.
Operating profit
At the operating profit level, the Group delivered a £13.6m 
(7.4%) increase to £198.4m (2014: £184.8m). 
This was in line with Trading EBITDA combined with lower 
depreciation and loss on disposal costs, which were down 
£2.8m and were offset against a £1.0m increase in amortisation.
Like-for-like profit before tax
The Group did not exist in a comparable form in the prior year, 
and therefore like-for-like profit before tax has been included 
to facilitate meaningful year-on-year comparison. Like-for-like 
profit before tax from continuing operations is shown before 
tax, one-off costs associated with the IPO and the issuance 
of the Group’s own debt facilities, interest and service costs 
associated with this debt for which there is no comparative 
cost, and net fair value gains and losses on derivatives.
The increase in operating profit together with lower 
exceptional expenses, which were down £4.0m due to lower 
restructuring costs, has flowed through to like-for-like profit 
before tax, which was £17.2m (9.6%) higher at £195.5m.
Profit before tax
Profit before tax from continuing operations on a statutory 
reporting basis was £113.8m. This was £54.1m lower than 
the previous year (2014: £167.9m) reflecting the £17.2m 
increase in like-for-like profit before tax and a £13.3m 
favourable movement on derivative financial instrument 
gains and losses year-on-year, offset by £50.0m of one-off 
exceptional expenses incurred as a result of the flotation of 
the Group and interest on debt and borrowings of £34.6m for 
which there was no comparable charge in the previous year.
1
 Adjustments have been made to the comparative period to enable like-for-like comparison between the two periods. 
 For revenue, adjustments relate to the Travel business and reflect the retirement of one of the Group’s ships, the Saga Ruby, and the cessation of some small 
Holidays businesses. 
 For operating profit, adjustments reflect the retirement of the Saga Ruby and the ceased Holidays businesses, together with the removal of a one-off benefit 
within the Media and Central Costs segment in respect of a deferred grant and a one-off release of accruals within the Motor Insurance segment.
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
39
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview The favourable year-on-year movement in derivative gains  
and losses reflects a net loss in the prior year of £10.4m 
moving to a net gain in the current year. These gains and 
losses arise on the Group’s currency and fuel hedging activity, 
which the Group excludes from Trading EBITDA due to their 
distorting impact as the derivatives move in and out of the 
money over the period through to delivery date.
Whilst the Group has always maintained a comprehensive 
economic hedging strategy for currency, fuel oil and interest 
rate risk, the conversion to IFRS during the IPO process 
prohibited the retrospective application of hedge accounting. 
The Group implemented hedge accounting for the majority  
of its new foreign exchange derivatives with effect from 
1 February 2014, and for a proportion of its new fuel oil 
derivatives with effect from 1 August 2014. Therefore, the 
volatility associated with the movement in derivative fair  
values is expected to reduce in future years.
Finance charges
During the year, total interest on debt and borrowings of 
£34.6m was charged to the Income Statement. There was  
no equivalent cost in the previous year for the Group’s debt 
financing. The charge of £34.6m comprises £12.1m of one-off 
expenses, namely costs incurred on issue of £5.9m and costs 
expensed on repayment of £550.0m of principal of £6.2m, 
and ongoing debt service costs of £22.5m, comprising the 
amortisation of the remaining costs over the life of the debt of 
£2.4m and other ongoing fees and interest paid and accrued 
of £20.1m.
Tax expense
The Group’s tax expense of £27.4m reduced by £16.0m  
from the previous year. This reflects the tax deductions for 
allowable IPO expenses and the finance cost of the new debt, 
together with a reduction in the corporation tax rate.
Earnings per share
The Group’s basic loss per share for the financial year ending 
31 January 2015 was 13.4p.
However, given the exceptional expenses and new interest 
costs incurred in the period, it is more meaningful to consider 
post-tax operating earnings per share on a pro forma basis 
to enable a like-for-like comparison across periods. 
To do this, an interest charge has been made to reflect a cost 
for the £1.25bn of debt which was provided to the Group via 
intercompany loans by an intermediate parent company up 
until 25 April 2014. The charge has been calculated using the 
rate specified in the Group’s Senior Facilities Agreement for 
a level of debt of £1.25bn.
A charge has also been made to the additional costs incurred 
in connection with being a plc which were not incurred as a 
private company. These costs include the costs of additional 
senior staff, notably the new Group Chief Executive Officer, 
Non-Executive Directors and Investor Relations function, 
together with additional costs associated with the regulatory 
requirements. The charge has been made to include a full year 
of these costs in both periods.
Basic post-tax pro forma operating earnings per share from 
continuing operations for the year was 12.6p (2014: 11.1p), 
which is an increase of 13.5%.
Reconciliation of like-for-like profit before tax to post-tax pro forma 
operating earnings
12m to 
Jan 2015 Growth
12m to 
Jan 2014
Like-for-like profit before tax £195.5m 9.6% £178.3m 
Adjustments:
 Exceptional expenses £2.4m £6.4m
 Ongoing debt service costs (£22.5m) £0.0m 
(£20.1m) £6.4m 
Pro forma adjustments:
 Interest charge (£14.1m) (£61.3m)
 Plc costs (£1.8m) (£4.5m)
 Tax effect of adjustments £3.4m £16.0m 
(£12.5m) (£49.8m)
Tax expense (£36.9m) (£46.5m)
Post-tax pro forma operating earnings £126.0m 42.5% £88.4m
Pro forma operating earnings per share 12.6p 13.5% 11.1p 
Group Chief Financial Officer’s Review
continued
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
40 Dividends
Strong profit delivery and continued high levels of cash 
conversion have enabled the Group to beat its target reduction 
of the net debt to Trading EBITDA ratio of 0.5 times per year. 
The ratio reduced by 0.6 times to 2.5 times during the nine 
months from the IPO to the end of the financial year, which 
has allowed the Board to propose a dividend of 4.1p per 
share. This dividend is at the top end of the payout range 
detailed in the Prospectus, and reflects the period following 
the flotation.
This dividend will be paid on 30 June 2015 to holders of 
ordinary shares on the register at the close of business  
on 5 June 2015.
Cash flow and liquidity
The Group maintained a strong cash flow performance in the 
year to 31 January 2015, achieving an available operating 
cash flow of £170.9m, or 72.3% of Trading EBITDA. This 
reduced by £25.8m (13.1%) on the previous year, as a greater 
proportion of Trading EBITDA came from the restricted trading 
businesses within Financial Services and Travel in the financial 
year to 31 January 2015 when compared with the previous 
year, which will flow through to available cash in the following 
year, coupled with increased capital investment in IT systems 
in the Insurance business.
 
12m to 
Jan 2015 Growth
12m to 
Jan 2014
Trading EBITDA
 From continuing businesses £227.4m 6.0% £214.5m
 From discontinued businesses £9.0m 13.9% £7.9m
 Total £236.4m 6.3% £222.4m
Less Trading EBITDA from restricted businesses (£78.8m) 83.7% (£42.9m)
Working capital and non-cash items (including dividends paid from underwriting vehicle 
and Travel business) £30.1m 8.3% £27.8m 
Capital expenditure funded with available cash (£16.8m) 58.5% (£10.6m)
Available operating cash flow £170.9m (13.1%) £196.7m 
Available operating cash flow % 72.3% (16.1%) 88.4%
The acquisition of Destinology on 13 August 2014 was funded by cash held by the Travel division which is not available to be 
used by the Group for purposes outside of the Travel division. As a consequence, the release of the Travel division’s surplus 
cash to the rest of the Group was reduced by £5.5m. 
Available operating cash flow reconciles to net cash flows from operating activities as follows:
12m to 
Jan 2015
 12m to 
Jan 2014
Net cash flows from operating activities (reported) £155.3m £174.1m
Exclude cash impact of:
 Trading of restricted divisions (£53.2m) (£48.4m)
 Cash released from restricted divisions £26.5m £9.0m 
 Exceptional expenses £7.2m £15.6m 
 Interest paid £19.7m £0.0m 
 Debt issue costs £22.6m £0.0m
£22.8m (£23.8m)
Capital expenditure funded from available cash (£16.8m) (£10.6m)
Exclude ‘non-operating’ interest and tax cash flows £9.6m £57.0m 
Available operating cash flow £170.9m £196.7m 
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
41
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Financing
On 25 April 2014, the Group raised new financing of £1.25bn, 
and later utilised the £550.0m of proceeds raised via the  
IPO to repay the gross debt down to £700.0m. The debt 
matures in 2019. Interest is incurred at a variable rate of 
LIBOR plus 2.25%.
To protect the Group from significant LIBOR increases, 
instruments are in place which cover £510.0m of the debt 
and cap LIBOR at 3.0% until June 2016.
The Group has access to a revolving credit facility of £150.0m 
on a next day basis. This amount has not been drawn in cash 
although the Group has used £31.0m of it to secure various 
regulatory bonds and other guarantees.
The pro forma starting net debt to Trading EBITDA ratio for the 
Group, which has been adjusted to treat all IPO and refinancing 
costs as paid at that date, was 3.1 times. Since then, cash 
generation and Trading EBITDA growth has reduced this ratio 
by 0.6 times to 2.5 times as at 31 January 2015.
Pensions
The Group operates three funded defined benefit schemes. 
The Saga Pension Scheme (‘Saga scheme’) is open to new 
members who accrue benefits on a career average salary 
basis. The two remaining schemes, the Nestor Healthcare 
Group Retirement Benefits Scheme and the Healthcall Group 
Limited Pension Scheme (‘Nestor schemes’) are closed and 
have very few active members.  
Over the year, the total deficit on an IAS 19 basis for all three 
schemes increased by £30.8m to £55.1m (2014: £24.3m). This 
has been driven by a £77.6m increase in the present value  
of the total defined benefit obligations to £321.4m (2014: 
£243.8m), offset by a £46.8m increase in the fair value of the 
scheme assets to £266.3m (2014: £219.5m). The significant 
increase in the present value of future obligations has been 
driven by the dramatic fall in gilt yields seen at the end of 
2014, leading to a reduction in the discount rate applied to 
value future liabilities.
By scheme, the deficit at 31 January 2015 comprises £40.4m 
on the Saga scheme and £14.7m on the Nestor schemes. 
The Nestor scheme liability has been included in liabilities 
held for sale.
Actuarial valuations for funding purposes were performed on 
the Nestor Healthcare Group Retirement Benefits Scheme as 
at 5 April 2012, and on the Healthcall Group Limited Pension 
Scheme as at 31 October 2012. Following these valuations, 
recovery plans were put in place for these schemes, costing 
£3.4m annually. 
During the year a funding valuation was performed for the 
Saga scheme as at 31 January 2014 which showed a deficit 
of £15.6m at that date. Further to this valuation, the Group  
has agreed a recovery plan for the Saga scheme under which 
it will contribute an additional £2.0m per year for ten years, 
commencing in February 2015.
At 31 January 2015
Saga 
scheme
Nestor 
schemes Total
Fair value of scheme assets £212.3m £54.0m £266.3m 
Present value of defined benefit obligation (£252.7m) (£68.7m) (£321.4m)
Defined benefit scheme liability (£40.4m) (£14.7m) (£55.1m)
At 31 January 2014
Saga 
scheme  
Nestor  
schemes Total
Fair value of scheme assets £171.2m £48.3m £219.5m 
Present value of defined benefit obligation (£186.1m) (£57.7m) (£243.8m)
Defined benefit scheme liability (£14.9m) (£9.4m) (£24.3m)
Significant balance sheet movements not considered elsewhere
Total assets and liabilities have reduced by £1,163.1m and 
£1,027.4m respectively over the year, which reflects the 
repayment or cancellation of balances with parent 
undertakings in preparation for the listing of the Group on the 
London Stock Exchange and the write-down of the goodwill 
associated with the Allied Healthcare business.
The repayment or cancellation of balances with parent 
undertakings reduced total assets by £1,030.7m and reduced 
total liabilities by £1,779.9m. Total liabilities then increased  
by £700.0m following the drawing of the Group’s own  
debt facilities to replace those previously provided by an 
intermediate parent via the repaid liabilities – the outstanding 
bank debt liability net of unamortised costs at 31 January 
2015 is £692.2m.
Goodwill has reduced by £164.8m to £1,471.4m. This 
reduction reflects a £177.8m write-down as part of the 
classification of the Allied Healthcare business as held for 
sale, partially offset by £13.0m additional goodwill arising  
on the acquisition of Destinology. The classification of the 
Allied Healthcare business as held for sale also required the 
write-down of intangible fixed assets by £19.9m, offset by 
those acquired with Destinology totalling £20.8m. Overall, 
other intangible fixed assets have reduced by £12.6m to 
£34.8m driven by the amortisation charge for the year.
The classification of Allied Healthcare as held for sale also 
accounts for £52.6m of the reduction in trade receivables 
(down £52.7m to £163.7m), as these receivables at 31 January 
2015 of £40.4m are included within the total assets held for 
sale of £47.7m.
Group Chief Financial Officer’s Review
continued
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
42 Financial Services
Financial Services revenue has fallen by £44.5m (8.2%) to £498.1m over the course of the year. This is almost entirely driven by 
the Motor Insurance business where revenues are down £43.2m as a result of the continued reduction in average premiums 
within the motor market. 
Core policies are broadly flat year-on-year (down 0.7% to 2,679k) although add-on policies have fallen by 10.0% to 1,999k 
following the implementation of regulatory changes across the industry over the sale of add-ons.
Despite the reduction in revenue, the Financial Services businesses have delivered a £14.5m (7.4%) increase in Trading EBITDA 
to £210.6m. This has been driven by a very strong underwriting (‘UW’) performance on the Group’s core underwritten Motor 
business – up £19.8m to £78.5m for the year (2014: £58.7m) – offset by a £7.8m decrease in Motor ancillaries, as detailed in 
the following Motor Insurance section.
 
 12m to Jan 2015 12m to Jan 2014
 
 Core 
UW Ancillary
Broking/
Other
Total 
Financial 
Services Growth
Core 
UW Ancillary
Broking/
Other
2
Total 
Financial 
Services
Gross revenue £280.7m £51.2m £334.5m £666.4m (2.4%) £318.5m £58.6m £305.8m £682.9m 
Revenue £280.7m £51.0m £166.4m £498.1m (8.2%) £318.5m £58.4m £165.7m £542.6m 
Gross profit £109.6m £43.6m £140.3m £293.5m 4.3% £89.3m £51.2m £140.8m £281.3m 
Gross profit % 39.0% 85.2% 41.9% 44.0% 2.8% 28.0% 87.4% 46.0% 41.2% 
Operating expenses (£44.2m) (£9.0m) (£55.8m) (£109.0m) 1.2% (£45.7m) (£8.4m) (£53.6m) (£107.7m)
Investment return £17.1m £0.2m £0.0m £17.3m 13.1% £15.1m £0.2m £0.0m £15.3m 
Joint venture £0.0m £0.0m £1.2m £1.2m 100.0% £0.0m £0.0m £0.0m £0.0m 
Operating profit £82.5m £34.8m £85.7m £203.0m 7.5% £58.7m £43.0m £87.2m £188.9m 
Operating profit % 29.4% 68.0% 25.6% 30.5% 2.8% 18.4% 73.4% 28.5% 27.7% 
Add back depreciation  
and amortisation
£3.6m £0.4m £3.6m £7.6m 5.6% £4.1m £0.3m £2.8m £7.2m 
Trading EBITDA £86.1m £35.2m £89.3m £210.6m 7.4% £62.8m £43.3m £90.0m £196.1m 
Trading EBITDA % 30.7% 68.8% 26.7% 31.6% 2.9% 19.7% 73.9% 29.4% 28.7% 
Number of policies sold:
– core 981k 22k 1,676k 2,679k (0.7%) 1,014k 4k 1,679k 2,697k 
– add-ons n/a 1,911k 88k 1,999k (10.0%) n/a 2,142k 79k 2,221k 
981k 1,933k 1,764k 4,678k (4.9%) 1,014k 2,146k 1,758k 4,918k 
Gross written premiums £241.6m £60.0m £306.0m £607.6m (5.3%) £270.5m £61.9m £309.2m £641.6m 
2
  Adjustments have been made to the comparative period to enable a like-for-like comparison between the two periods, by removing a one-off release  
of £1.0m of accruals from operating expenses.
Individual analysis of the Motor Insurance, Home Insurance and Other Financial Services businesses is provided on the 
following pages.
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
43
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Motor Insurance
The reduction in average premiums within the motor market over the course of 2013 has continued this year, driven by 
reductions in claims costs and competitive pricing from a number of insurers. Despite this, the Group has grown the volume  
of its core Motor policies by 1.5% to 1,077k policies.
The Group’s careful pricing strategy has delivered a relative reduction in claims costs compared with revenue, which, coupled 
with a consistent level of reserve releases, has driven a strong growth in Trading EBITDA.  
12m to Jan 2015
Growth
12m to Jan 2014
Core 
UW Ancillary
Broking/ 
Other
Total 
Motor
Core 
UW Ancillary
Broking/ 
Other
3
Total 
Motor
Gross revenue £240.8m £35.4m £65.1m £341.3m (5.9%) £275.9m £42.1m £44.6m £362.6m 
Revenue £240.8m £35.2m £36.0m £312.0m (12.2%) £275.9m £41.9m £37.4m £355.2m 
Gross profit £101.7m £31.1m £11.1m £143.9m 5.6% £84.7m £38.5m £13.1m £136.3m 
Gross profit % 42.2% 87.9% 17.1% 42.2% 4.6% 30.7% 91.4% 29.4% 37.6% 
Operating expenses (£42.2m) (£8.2m) (£8.7m) (£59.1m) 0.0% (£44.0m) (£7.8m) (£7.3m) (£59.1m)
Investment return £15.6m £0.0m £0.0m £15.6m 10.6% £14.1m £0.0m £0.0m £14.1m 
Operating profit £75.1m £22.9m £2.4m £100.4m 10.0% £54.8m £30.7m £5.8m £91.3m 
Operating profit % 31.2% 64.7% 3.7% 29.4% 4.2% 19.9% 72.9% 13.0% 25.2% 
Add back depreciation  
and amortisation £3.4m £0.0m £0.4m £3.8m (13.6%) £3.9m £0.0m £0.5m £4.4m 
Trading EBITDA £78.5m £22.9m £2.8m £104.2m 8.9% £58.7m £30.7m £6.3m £95.7m 
Trading EBITDA % 32.6% 64.7% 4.3% 30.5% 4.1% 21.3% 72.9% 14.1% 26.4% 
Number of policies sold:
 – core 947k 22k 108k 1,077k 1.5% 978k 4k 79k 1,061k 
 – add-ons n/a 1,324k 83k 1,407k (13.8%) n/a 1,558k 75k 1,633k 
947k 1,346k 191k 2,484k (7.8%) 978k 1,562k 154k 2,694k 
Gross written premiums £235.0m £37.9m £32.0m £304.9m (8.7%) £263.3m £41.6m £29.0m £333.9m 
3
 Adjustments have been made to the comparative period to enable a like-for-like comparison between the two periods, by removing a one-off release of £1.0m 
of accruals from operating expenses.
Revenue
The Motor Insurance business generated revenue of £312.0m, 
£43.2m (12.2%) lower than the previous year (2014: £355.2m). 
Revenue from core underwriting reduced by £35.1m (12.7%) 
driven by the impact of lower claims costs and market 
conditions on average premiums, and a small reduction (3.2%) 
in the number of core Motor policies underwritten by the 
Group. This reduction in policies was more than offset by 
a 56.6% increase in broker and ancillary core policies, 
resulting in an overall increase in core policies of 1.5%.
Ancillary revenue was down £6.7m (16.0%), which was 
primarily due to a 234k (15.0%) reduction in add-on policy 
sales as a result of enhanced operational controls introduced 
during the course of 2013 following the implementation of 
regulatory changes across the industry over the sale of 
add-ons.
Revenue from broking and other activities was down 3.7% to 
£36.0m driven by lower average premiums, which have been 
partially offset by a 37k (24.0%) increase in policies sold.
Gross profit
Motor Insurance as a whole generated gross profit of £143.9m, 
which was £7.6m (5.6%) higher than the previous year 
(2014: £136.3m).
Gross profit from the core underwritten Motor business 
increased by £17.0m, driven by a 12.7 percentage point 
improvement in the reported loss ratio. This was due to 
a significant improvement in claims experience driving a 
marked decrease in current year claims costs (down 22.7% 
to £180.0m) and a consistent level of reserve releases.
The reduction in claims costs reflects the 12.5% reduction in 
premium (item A in the following table), improved risk selection 
and favourable claims experience, mainly in relation to bodily 
injury claims.
Claims handling costs for the Motor core underwriting 
business were largely flat against the previous year, and total 
expenses were down £1.8m (4.1%); however, net earned 
premiums reduced at a greater rate (12.5%) leading to an 
increase in the expense ratio of 2.2 percentage points.
Group Chief Financial Officer’s Review
continued
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
44 The net result was a 10.5 percentage point improvement in 
the reported combined operating ratio year-on-year to 77.9%.
Ancillary gross profit was down £7.4m (19.2%) as a result of 
lower add-on sales, and gross profit from broking and other 
activities was down £2.0m (15.3%).
Operating profit and Trading EBITDA
The business delivered operating profit of £100.4m and 
Trading EBITDA of £104.2m, which were up £9.1m (10.0%) 
and £8.5m (8.9%) respectively year-on-year.
Operating profit from core underwriting was up £20.3m 
(37.0%), as the improvement in gross profit flowed through  
to the bottom line, coupled with a £1.8m (4.1%) reduction in 
operating expenses in line with volumes and a £1.5m (10.6%) 
increase in investment returns.
The reduction in ancillary gross profit flowed through to 
operating profit, which was down £7.8m (25.4%).
Similarly, the reduction in gross profit from broking and other 
activities flowed through to operating profit, which was down 
£3.4m (58.6%).
Motor core underwriting P&L
 
12m to 
Jan 2015 Growth
12m to 
Jan 2014
Net earned premium A £232.8m (12.5%) £266.1m
Instalment income £3.6m (25.0%) £4.8m
Other income £4.4m (12.0%) £5.0m
Revenue £240.8m (12.7%) £275.9m
Claims costs B (£180.0m) (22.7%) (£232.8m)
Reserve releases C £52.6m (1.7%) £53.5m 
Claims handling D (£11.7m) (1.7%) (£11.9m)
Total cost of sales E (£139.1m) (27.2%) (£191.2m)
Gross profit £101.7m 20.1% £84.7m
Total expenses F (£42.2m) (4.1%) (£44.0m)
Investment return £15.6m 10.6% £14.1m
 
Operating profit £75.1m 37.0% £54.8m
Add back depreciation and amortisation £3.4m (12.8%) £3.9m
Trading EBITDA £78.5m 33.7% £58.7m
Reported loss ratio (B+C)/A 54.7% 12.7% 67.4% 
Expense ratio (D+F)/A 23.2% (2.2%) 21.0% 
Reported combined operating ratio (E+F)/A 77.9% 10.5% 88.4% 
Pure combined operating ratio (B+D+F)/A 100.5% 8.0% 108.5%
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
45
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Home Insurance
The home insurance industry saw a fall in average market premiums over the course of 2013/14, particularly for buildings 
cover, as favourable weather conditions led to lower claims costs. However, average net rates provided by the Group’s panel of 
home insurers fell faster than the market, and the Group was able to pass on these net rate reductions to its customers 
thereby improving its competitive position whilst maintaining overall profitability. 
12m to Jan 2015 
Growth
12m to Jan 2014
Ancillary 
UW
Core Broking/ 
Co-insured
Total 
Home
Ancillary 
UW
Core Broking/ 
Co-insured
Total 
Home
Gross revenue £15.8m £157.7m £173.5m (12.3%) £16.5m £181.3m £197.8m 
Revenue £15.8m £76.0m £91.8m 1.4% £16.5m £74.0m £90.5m 
Gross profit £12.5m £74.8m £87.3m 1.4% £12.7m £73.4m £86.1m 
Gross profit % 79.1% 47.4% 50.3% 6.8% 77.0% 40.5% 43.5% 
Operating expenses (£0.8m) (£24.6m) (£25.4m) 1.6% (£0.6m) (£24.4m) (£25.0m)
Investment return £0.2m £0.0m £0.2m 0.0% £0.2m £0.0m £0.2m 
Operating profit £11.9m £50.2m £62.1m 1.3% £12.3m £49.0m £61.3m 
Operating profit % 75.3% 31.8% 35.8% 4.8% 74.5% 27.0% 31.0% 
Add back depreciation  
and amortisation £0.4m £2.0m £2.4m 33.3% £0.3m £1.5m £1.8m 
Trading EBITDA £12.3m £52.2m £64.5m 2.2% £12.6m £50.5m £63.1m 
Trading EBITDA % 77.8% 33.1% 37.2% 5.3% 76.4% 27.9% 31.9% 
Number of policies sold:
– core n/a 1,258k 1,258k (3.4%) n/a 1,302k 1,302k 
– add-ons 587k n/a 587k 0.5% 584k n/a 584k 
587k 1,258k 1,845k (2.2%) 584k 1,302k 1,886k 
Gross written premiums £22.1m £159.9m £182.0m (6.9%) £20.3m £175.2m £195.5m 
Revenue
The Home Insurance business generated revenue of  
£91.8m, an increase of £1.3m (1.4%) on the previous year 
(2014: £90.5m).
Revenue from the core Home product, which is underwritten 
by a panel of third party insurers, was up £2.0m (2.7%) from 
£74.0m to £76.0m. Lower net rates from the panel led to a 
reduction in gross written premiums charged to the customer, 
which were down £15.3m (8.7%) year-on-year.
Revenue from the ancillary products that are underwritten by 
the Group was down marginally by £0.7m (4.2%) from £16.5m 
to £15.8m.
Gross profit
Overall, Home Insurance generated gross profit of £87.3m, 
which was up £1.2m (1.4%) year-on-year. 
Claims handling costs have increased by £0.8m as a result of 
the Group selling a greater share of its Home policies through 
its co-insurance arrangement, where policies are administered 
within the Group but are underwritten by the New India 
Assurance Company Ltd. However, this has been matched by 
higher reserve releases resulting in cost of sales being largely 
flat at £4.5m and allowing the upside on revenue to flow 
through to gross profit.
Operating profit and Trading EBITDA
The business delivered operating profit of £62.1m and  
Trading EBITDA of £64.5m from its Home Insurance trading, 
which were up £0.8m (1.3%) and £1.4m (2.2%) respectively 
year-on-year.
Group Chief Financial Officer’s Review
continued
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
46 Other Financial Services
Trading in Other Financial Services has been solid, with increases in Travel Insurance sales, growth in the return from our Saga 
Law joint venture and increases in profit from the underwriting of third party products all contributing to an uplift in operating 
profit and Trading EBITDA. 
12m to Jan 2015
Growth
12m to Jan 2014
Core 
UW
Core Broking/ 
Other
Total 
Other 
Financial 
Services
Core 
UW
Core Broking/ 
Other
Total 
Other
Financial 
Services
Gross revenue £39.9m £111.7m £151.6m 23.8% £42.6m £79.9m £122.5m 
Revenue £39.9m £54.4m £94.3m (2.7%) £42.6m £54.3m £96.9m 
Gross profit £7.9m £54.4m £62.3m 5.8% £4.6m £54.3m £58.9m 
Gross profit % 19.8% 48.7% 41.1% (7.0%) 10.8% 68.0% 48.1% 
Operating expenses (£2.0m) (£22.5m) (£24.5m) 3.8% (£1.7m) (£21.9m) (£23.6m)
Investment return £1.5m £0.0m £1.5m 50.0% £1.0m £0.0m £1.0m 
Joint venture £0.0m £1.2m £1.2m 100.0% £0.0m £0.0m £0.0m 
Operating profit £7.4m £33.1m £40.5m 11.6% £3.9m £32.4m £36.3m 
Operating profit % 18.5% 29.6% 26.7% (2.9%) 9.2% 40.6% 29.6% 
Add back depreciation  
and amortisation £0.2m £1.2m £1.4m 40.0% £0.2m £0.8m £1.0m 
Trading EBITDA £7.6m £34.3m £41.9m 12.3% £4.1m £33.2m £37.3m 
Trading EBITDA % 19.0% 30.7% 27.6% (2.8%) 9.6% 41.6% 30.4% 
Number of policies sold:
– core 34k 310k 344k 3.0% 36k 298k 334k 
– add-ons n/a 5k 5k 25.0% n/a 4k 4k 
34k 315k 349k 3.3% 36k 302k 338k 
Gross written premiums £6.6m £114.1m £120.7m 7.6% £7.2m £105.0m £112.2m 
Number of Personal 
Finance customers n/a 0.3m 0.3m 0.0% n/a 0.3m 0.3m 
Revenue
Other Financial Services generated revenue of £94.3m, which 
was down £2.6m (2.7%) on the previous year (2014: £96.9m).
Revenue from broking and non-insurance trading was broadly 
flat year-on-year at £54.4m. Broking policies sold were up  
13k (4.3%) and broking gross written premiums were up 
£9.1m (8.7%) due to increased Travel Insurance sales and  
a greater proportion of annual travel policies being sold,  
which carry a higher premium than single trip policies.  
This resulted in higher commission revenue from the Travel 
Insurance product, which was offset by lower commission  
on non-insurance products.
Core underwriting activity generated revenue of £39.9m,  
a reduction of £2.7m (6.3%) on the previous year. This was 
due to lower premiums being earned on third party insurance 
underwritten by the Group.
Gross profit
Gross profit of £62.3m generated across Other Financial 
Services as a whole increased by £3.4m (5.8%) on the 
previous year (2014: £58.9m).
Gross profit from broking and non-insurance trading activity 
was broadly flat in line with revenue, as this tranche of 
business has no cost of sales.
Gross profit from core underwriting activity was up £3.3m 
(71.7%) due to higher reserve releases.
Operating profit and Trading EBITDA
The Group delivered operating profit of £40.5m and Trading 
EBITDA of £41.9m in its Other Financial Services business, 
which were up £4.2m (11.6%) and £4.6m (12.3%) respectively 
against the previous year.
Growth in our Saga Law joint venture delivered a net return of 
£1.2m. This was offset against an increase in operating 
expenses, resulting in a £0.7m (2.2%) year-on-year improvement 
in operating profit from broking and non-insurance trading as a 
whole. £0.4m of the increase in operating expenses was due to 
an increase in depreciation costs, and therefore Trading EBITDA 
increased by £1.1m (3.3%) year-on-year.
The increase in gross profit from core underwriting activity flowed 
through to the bottom line, with operating profit and Trading 
EBITDA up £3.5m (89.7%) and £3.5m (85.4%) respectively.
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
47
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Insurance underwriting
Reserving
The Group’s prudent approach to underwriting and reserving has facilitated reserve releases in most financial years. Reserves are 
regularly assessed by the Group’s internal actuarial team and are reviewed annually by external professional actuaries. Due to the 
uncertainties associated with claims reserves including the length of time required to settle certain claims, the Group deems it 
appropriate to maintain margin for a period of time to allow actual experience to develop. When it is appropriate to do so, any 
surplus margin is released and realised in the Group’s Trading EBITDA.
Favourable claims development experience at the end of 2013 and throughout the twelve months to 31 January 2015 has 
resulted in prior year claims reserves totalling £57.8m being released during the year. This release is in line with the previous year.
The Group’s total insurance contract liabilities net of reinsurance assets has reduced by £24.5m over the year from £665.8m 
as at 31 January 2014 to £641.3m as at 31 January 2015, driven primarily by a £24.0m reduction in IBNR claims reserves. 
12m to 
Jan 2015 Growth
12m to 
Jan 2014
Motor Insurance:
 Core UW £52.6m (1.7%) £53.5m 
 Ancillary £0.6m (40.0%) £1.0m 
£53.2m (2.4%) £54.5m 
Home Insurance £1.6m 77.8% £0.9m 
Other insurance £3.0m 87.5% £1.6m 
Total £57.8m 1.4% £57.0m 
Analysis of insurance contract liabilities at 31 January 2015 and 31 January 2014 is as follows:
12m to Jan 2015 
 
12m to Jan 2014
Gross
Reinsurance 
assets Net Gross
Reinsurance 
assets Net
Insurance contract liabilities
Reported claims £330.6m (£45.9m) £284.7m £324.2m (£45.5m) £278.7m 
Incurred but not reported £211.5m (£14.3m) £197.2m £234.0m (£12.8m) £221.2m 
Claims handling provision £10.3m £0.0m £10.3m £8.7m £0.0m £8.7m 
Total claims outstanding £552.4m (£60.2m) £492.2m £566.9m (£58.3m) £508.6m 
Unearned premiums £152.3m (£3.2m) £149.1m £161.4m (£4.2m) £157.2m 
Total £704.7m (£63.4m) £641.3m £728.3m (£62.5m) £665.8m 
Investment Portfolio
The majority of the Group’s financial assets are held by its underwriting entity and represent premium income received and 
invested to settle claims and to satisfy the regulatory capital requirements of the Gibraltan regulator. The maturity profile of the 
invested financial assets is aligned with the expected cash outflow profile associated with the settlement of claims in the future.
The amount held in invested funds increased by £3.4m (0.5%) over the course of the financial year, from £650.6m as at 
31 January 2014 to £654.0m as at 31 January 2015. As at 31 January 2015, £542.0m (82%) of the financial assets held by the 
Group were invested with counterparties with a risk rating of A or above reflecting the Group’s prudent investment strategy. 
Group Chief Financial Officer’s Review
continued
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
48 At 31 January 2015 AAA AA A Unrated Total
Underwriting investment portfolio:
 Deposits with financial institutions £30.0m £180.3m £213.6m £55.5m £479.4m 
 Debt securities £71.9m – – – £71.9m 
 Money market funds £40.6m – – – £40.6m 
 Loan funds – – – £19.6m £19.6m 
 Hedge funds – – – £33.8m £33.8m 
 Equities – – – £8.7m £8.7m 
Total invested funds £142.5m £180.3m £213.6m £117.6m £654.0m 
Hedging derivative assets – – £5.6m – £5.6m 
Total financial assets £142.5m £180.3m £219.2m £117.6m £659.6m 
At 31 January 2014 AAA AA A Unrated Total
Underwriting investment portfolio:
 Deposits with financial institutions £29.0m £120.0m £310.3m £6.5m £465.8m 
 Debt securities £51.2m – – – £51.2m 
 Money market funds £107.5m – – – £107.5m 
 Loan funds – – – £13.0m £13.0m 
 Hedge funds – – – £13.1m £13.1m 
Total invested funds £187.7m £120.0m £310.3m £32.6m £650.6m 
Amounts owed by related undertakings under the  
previous group structure – – – £1,031.1m £1,031.1m 
Total financial assets £187.7m £120.0m £310.3m £1,063.7m £1,681.7m 
Solvency capital
The Group’s underwriting entity continues to hold more than twice the amount of capital reserves that it is statutorily required 
to hold pursuant to Gibraltar Financial Services Commission regulations. The coverage ratio maintained by the underwriting 
company at 31 January 2015 was up 52 percentage points since 31 January 2014 to 277%, where the regulator requires a 
minimum of 200%. 
This will reduce in the coming year as the underwriting entity distributes part of its profit for the current year to the Group. 
However, the Group does not foresee any requirement to inject additional capital into the underwriting business as a result  
of this distribution or as a result of Solvency II coming into effect in the future. 
12m to 
Jan 2015   
12m to 
Jan 2014
Solo statutory solvency capital
Total invested equity £178.9m £161.2m 
Regulatory adjustments (£17.3m) (£17.4m)
Total regulatory capital resource £161.6m £143.8m 
European Insurance Directive Requirement (Solvency I)
Required minimum margin (RMM) £58.3m £64.0m 
Capital resources in excess of RMM £103.3m £79.8m 
Coverage ratio 277% 225% 
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
49
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Travel
The Travel business has had an excellent year in the twelve months to 31 January 2015, with very strong growth in revenues, 
profits and margins in both the Holidays and Cruising businesses, when compared on a like-for-like basis by removing the 
trading results of the Saga Ruby and the smaller Holidays brands that were discontinued during the previous year.
The Group has seen organic growth in passenger volumes, which has been further enhanced by the acquisition of Destinology 
in August 2014. There has also been a shift towards higher-value long-haul and river cruise holidays, coupled with restructured 
cabin pricing and improved availability of on-board services and excursions in the Cruising business. 
12m to 
Jan 2015 Growth 
12m to 
Jan 2014
 
 
12m to Jan 2014
Reported Adjustment
Revenue:
 Holidays £297.3m 15.8% £256.8m £270.0m (£13.2m)
 Cruising £84.0m 13.2% £74.2m £109.6m (£35.4m)
£381.3m 15.2% £331.0m £379.6m (£48.6m)
Gross profit:
 Holidays £58.9m 8.7% £54.2m £53.3m £0.9m 
 Cruising £17.8m 79.8% £9.9m £11.3m (£1.4m)
£76.7m 19.7% £64.1m £64.6m (£0.5m)
Gross profit % 20.1% 0.7% 19.4% 
 
Trading EBITDA £26.0m 29.4% £20.1m £27.8m (£7.7m)
Trading EBITDA % 6.8% 0.7% 6.1% 
 
Operating profit £13.6m 151.9% £5.4m £5.9m (£0.5m)
Operating profit % 3.6% 2.0% 1.6% 
Number of holidays passengers 172k 11.0% 155k 
Number of ship passenger days 336k 6.7% 315k 
Revenue
The Travel business generated revenue of £381.3m, which 
was up £50.3m (15.2%) on the previous year on a like-for-like 
basis (2014: £331.0m).
The Holidays business generated revenue of £297.3m, an 
increase of £40.5m (15.8%). £26.2m of this was attributable to 
Destinology Limited, which was acquired on 13 August 2014, 
with the remaining growth coming from the established brands.
The Saga Holidays brand saw a 1.5% drop in the number of 
passengers travelling during the financial year, but delivered 
revenue growth of £5.9m (3.3%). This was due to a shift in 
product mix towards higher-value long-haul holidays, coupled 
with the introduction of the sale of third party cruise product 
offerings by Saga Holidays in July 2014 for departures from 
1 January 2015. Prior to this, third-party cruise products had 
only been offered by Titan Travel.
In October 2014, the business also launched the sale of its 
Saga Holidays products through third party travel agents, 
providing an additional distribution channel through which  
to drive further bookings growth for the future.
The Titan Travel brand delivered passenger growth of 9.7% 
and revenue growth of £8.4m (10.7%).
Saga Cruising generated revenue of £84.0m, which was up 
£9.8m (13.2%). The business restructured the pricing and 
banding of its cabins at the start of the year, which drove an 
increase in demand for higher-graded cabins from customers. 
This was coupled with an increase in passenger days and an 
enhanced availability of packages for on-board services and 
excursions, both in advance of and during each cruise. These 
all contributed to the growth in revenues.
Holidays passengers
0k
25k
50k
75k
100k
125k
150k
175k
200k
12m to Jan 2015 12m to Jan 2014
Saga Holidays Titan Travel Destinology
Group Chief Financial Officer’s Review
continued
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
50 Gross profit
The Travel business generated gross profit of £76.7m, which 
was up £12.6m (19.7%) on the previous year (2014: £64.1m).
Gross profit generated by the Holidays business of £58.9m 
was up £4.7m (8.7%). £3.7m of this growth was attributable to 
Destinology, with the rest attributable to a shift towards 
higher-value, higher-margin long-haul holidays.
The Cruising business generated gross profit of £17.8m, 
which was up £7.9m (79.8%) on the previous year. A higher 
number of passenger days resulted in much improved load 
factors, which had a positive impact on the gross margin of 
each ship. The Saga Sapphire and Saga Pearl II load factors 
were up 6.8 and 9.2 percentage points on the previous year, 
to 83.6% and 87.0%, respectively. This represents high 
occupancy levels for the passenger demographic of the ships 
where single occupancy and the absence of children in cabins 
naturally reduce the load factors. The improvements to cabin 
pricing structures and improved availability of on-board services 
and excursions also contributed to higher gross profits.
Operating profit and Trading EBITDA
The business delivered an operating profit of £13.6m and 
Trading EBITDA of £26.0m, which were up £8.2m (151.9%) 
and £5.9m (29.4%) respectively.
The increase seen in gross profits was partially offset by an 
increase in overheads due to the inclusion of Destinology and 
an increase in spend on TV advertising to drive passenger 
volumes for the coming years.
Acquisition of Destinology
On 13 August 2014, the Group acquired a 75% shareholding 
in Destinology Limited, one of the UK’s leading online travel 
companies, which offers bespoke holidays at five-star hotels 
and resorts in major international destinations, including the 
Maldives, Dubai, the Caribbean, the Far East, the USA and 
Europe. Destinology fits well with the Group’s existing travel 
brands and demographic, enhancing the range of travel offers 
to customers.
The acquisition cost of £23.0m was settled via an upfront 
cash payment of £22.2m with £0.8m deferred for one year. 
Acquisition costs of £0.3m have been charged to the income 
statement as an exceptional expense. These amounts have 
been settled from the restricted cash held by the Travel 
business.
The Group has the option to acquire the remaining 25% 
shareholding in Destinology at a later date. Accordingly the 
subsequent purchase is considered to be a linked transaction 
and Destinology has been consolidated as a 100% subsidiary.
 
Holidays passengers
(1)
 by destination  
(12m to 31 Jan 2015)
 1. Package – Europe – 94.4k (55%)
 2. Package – long haul – 47.7k (28%)
 3. Package – UK – 9.1k (5%)
 4. River cruise – 16.2k (9%)
 5. Third party cruises – 4.8k (3%)
1
2
3
4
5
Holidays passengers
(1)
 by destination  
(12m to 31 Jan 2014)
 1. Package – Europe – 91.3k (59%)
 2. Package – long haul – 35.5k (23%)
 3. Package – UK – 9.5k (6%)
 4. River cruise – 14.6k (9%)
 5. Third party cruises – 4.5k (3%)
1
2
3
4
5
Load factors by ship
72%
74%
76%
78%
80%
82%
84%
86%
88%
12m to Jan 2015 12m to Jan 2014
76.8%
77.8%
83.6%
87.0%
Saga Sapphire Saga Pearl II
1 Includes Saga Holidays, Titan Travel and Destinology.
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
51
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Group Chief Financial Officer’s Review
continued
Healthcare Services
On 15 January 2015, the Group announced its decision to divest the local authority part of its healthcare business, Allied 
Healthcare, and focus on privately funded healthcare. As at 31 January, the Allied business represented a disposal group  
held for sale and as such is reported as a discontinued operation in the Group’s financial statements.
The continuing part of the segment, Saga Healthcare, constitutes the private pay elements of the business that remains, 
namely the Country Cousins and Patricia White’s brands and the Saga SOS Personal Alarms product offering.
Continuing operations
12m to 
Jan 2015 Growth
12m to 
Jan 2014
Revenue £4.3m (8.5%) £4.7m
 
Gross profit £4.0m (9.1%) £4.4m 
Gross profit % 93.0% (0.6%) 93.6%
 
Trading EBITDA £2.2m (18.5%) £2.7m 
Trading EBITDA % 51.2% (6.2%) 57.4% 
 
Operating profit £2.0m (20.0%) £2.5m 
Operating profit % 46.5% (6.7%) 53.2% 
The Saga Healthcare business, which represents the continuing portion of the Healthcare Services segment, experienced a 
broadly stable year of trading.
The business generated revenue of £4.3m, which reduced by £0.4m (8.5%) on the previous year (2014: £4.7m). This flowed 
through to gross profit of £4.0m, which similarly reduced by £0.4m (9.1%), as this business has very low cost of sales since all 
of the Country Cousins and Patricia White’s carers are self-employed.
The business generated Trading EBITDA of £2.2m and operating profit of £2.0m, which both decreased by £0.5m, or 18.5% 
and 20.0% respectively.
Discontinued operations
The Group has recognised a total loss after tax in respect of the discontinued Allied Healthcare operation of £220.2m,  
a significant increase on the loss in the previous year of £17.9m, analysed as follows:
12m to 
Jan 2015
12m to 
Jan 2014
12m to Jan 2014
Reported Adjustment
(Loss)/profit for the year from discontinued operations  
after tax (£0.3m) £0.7m £0.3m £0.4m
Amortisation of associated intangible assets (£10.4m) (£14.9m) (£14.9m) £0.0m
Impairment of associated intangible assets £0.0m (£3.7m) (£3.7m)
£0.0m
Loss on re-measurement of disposal group to fair value (£209.5m) £0.0m £0.0m £0.0m
Trading EBITDA (£220.2m) (£17.9m) (£18.3m) £0.4m
The majority of this loss, £209.5m, has arisen on the re-measurement of the disposal group’s assets and liabilities to fair value, 
with a further £10.4m of amortisation costs recognised in respect of intangible assets that form part of the disposal group, and 
a loss after tax from discontinued operations of £0.3m during the year.
The fair value re-measurement has placed a value on the business of £nil. This value has been determined by considering the 
current asset and liability position of the business, the future profit cash flows and the associated capital investment set out 
within management’s five year plan for the business, the risk attaching to the various cash flows, and the costs of disposing  
of the business. There are a range of ways of valuing the business and it is our expectation that an appropriate buyer will 
ultimately value the business higher than £nil. 
The Allied Healthcare business has continued to operate in a challenging market throughout the year and the revenue for the 
year of £283.2m was down £30.6m (9.8%) on the previous year (2014: £313.8m).
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
52 12m to 
Jan 2015 Growth
12m to 
Jan 2014
12m to Jan 2014
Reported Adjustment
Revenue £283.2m (9.8%) £313.8m £313.8m £0.0m
   
Gross profit £83.4m (6.8%) £89.5m £89.1m £0.4m
Gross profit % 29.4% 0.9% 28.5%
   
Trading EBITDA £9.0m 13.9% £7.9m £7.5m £0.4m 
Trading EBITDA % 3.2% 0.7% 2.5% 
   
Operating profit £6.2m 17.0% £5.3m £4.9m £0.4m 
Operating profit % 2.2% 0.5% 1.7% 
Exceptional items (£8.4m) 6.3% (£7.9m) (£7.9m) £0.0m 
Net finance costs (£0.3m) (40.0%) (£0.5m) (£0.5m) £0.0m 
   
Loss before tax (£2.5m) (19.4%) (£3.1m) (£3.5m) £0.4m 
Tax expense £2.2m (42.1%) £3.8m £3.8m £0.0m
(Loss)/profit for the year from discontinued operations (£0.3m) (142.9%) £0.7m £0.3m £0.4m
Despite this revenue pressure, the business has taken a number of actions throughout the year and over the previous year 
which have delivered benefits. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue has improved by 0.9 percentage points year-on-year 
to 29.4% driven by the branch efficiency programme, which is a good performance given the deflationary pressures on hourly 
rates for the provision of care services experienced throughout the market.
Significant focus on central administrative expenses has enabled the business to grow Trading EBITDA by £1.1m (13.9%) to £9.0m. 
This has dropped through to a year-on-year increase in operating profit of £0.9m (17.0%), and takes operating profit to £6.2m.
The cost of the ongoing restructuring programme during the year was £8.4m, which has been treated as exceptional, coupled 
with net finance costs of £0.3m, after which the Allied business made a loss before tax of £2.5m, which was £0.6m (19.4%) 
better than the previous year (2014: £3.1m).
Media and Central Costs
12m to 
Jan 2015 Growth
12m to 
Jan 2014
12m to Jan 2014
Reported Adjustment
Revenue £16.8m (1.8%) £17.1m £17.1m £0.0m 
   
Gross profit £1.2m 200.0% £0.4m £0.4m £0.0m 
Gross profit % 7.1% 4.8% 2.3% 
   
Trading EBITDA (£11.4m) (159.1%) (£4.4m) (£1.4m) (£3.0m)
Trading EBITDA % (67.9%) (42.2%) (25.7%)
   
Operating loss (£18.0m) (51.3%) (£11.9m) (£10.0m) (£1.9m)
Operating loss % (107.1%) (37.5%) (69.6%)
Revenue
The Group generated third party revenue of £16.8m in its 
Media and Central Costs segment, which was broadly flat 
year-on-year.
Gross profit
Gross profit was up £0.8m (200.0%) to £1.2m reflecting better 
margins in the Saga Magazine business.
Operating loss and Trading EBITDA
The Media and Central Costs segment as a whole made 
an operating loss of £18.0m and a Trading EBITDA loss of 
£11.4m, which were up £6.1m and £7.0m year-on-year. 
This was driven by a reduction in interest received on available 
cash and higher central administrative overheads necessary  
to establish and operate Saga plc. Such incremental 
overheads equate to £4.5m on an annualised basis. 
Stuart Howard
Group Chief Financial Officer 
29 April 2015
 
The Strategic report was approved by the Board and signed 
on its behalf by Lance Batchelor, Group Chief Executive 
Officer on 29 April 2015.
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
53
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Corporate Governance Statement 
Executive Chairman’s Statement
Andrew Goodsell Executive Chairman
Committed to the highest  
standards of governance.
54
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our report 
on Corporate Governance within the Group. It was important 
for a solid governance structure to be established in our 
first year as a listed Group, so that we had a framework of 
effective systems of internal control, to support and protect 
our business in a practical way whilst promoting a solid 
structure for us to report to our shareholders.
It was important that the independent Non-Executive 
Directors who joined us at flotation gained an understanding 
of our key businesses and our short and long-term strategic 
goals. A structured induction programme was developed to 
ensure that this happened quickly, and a ‘strategy day’ was 
held in November 2014 to provide a valuable opportunity for 
Board members to review and discuss the objectives and 
goals of those businesses directly with the business leaders. 
The Board has played a fundamental part in deciding on the 
direction in which the business is travelling and in ensuring 
that the Group has the appropriate strategies, structures 
and processes in place to ensure good governance and 
stewardship, and to facilitate future growth.
The establishment of the Board and Audit, Risk, Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees (the ‘Committees’) was key 
in this respect. We worked hard to ensure that the terms 
of reference of the Committees provided strong 
governance structures. 
The Group’s risk management processes were further 
strengthened with the establishment of a separate Risk 
Committee, which is responsible for the oversight of principal 
risks, and of the risk management process, including the 
identification, monitoring and mitigation of risk.
The Board has considered the reporting requirement that 
the annual report as a whole should be ‘fair, balanced and 
understandable’ and asked the Audit Committee to give 
assurance that the relevant systems and processes are in 
place to support that requirement. Details can be found in 
the Audit Committee Report on pages 67-69.
During the year, Stuart Howard announced his intention to 
retire as Group Chief Financial Officer by the end of 2015 after 
15 years at Saga and the Nomination Committee members 
played an important part in identifying a suitable replacement. 
Stuart’s in-depth experience and knowledge of the Company’s 
business was an invaluable resource during the period leading 
up to and immediately following our flotation. In April 2015, 
Jonathan Hill joined the Group so that a thorough handover 
could take place and so that he could assume the role of 
Group Chief Financial Officer. I am confident that Jonathan’s 
experience will have a positive effect on the Company’s 
strategy and stewardship. 
The Remuneration Committee had much work to do to ensure 
growth and to draft a remuneration policy which is acceptable 
to our shareholders. The full Remuneration Report can be 
found on pages 73-95. 
During this period of change, the Board continues to maintain 
a dialogue with key investors and will make itself available to 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’). The 
governance process will continue to evolve as the Group 
takes shape, and will take account of future changes in 
regulation and best practice.
Andrew Goodsell
Executive Chairman 
29 April 2015
It was important for a solid 
governance structure to be 
established in our first year 
as a listed Group, so that 
we had a framework of effective 
systems of internal control.
55
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Corporate Governance Statement 
Compliance Statement
The Board recognises the importance of high standards of 
corporate governance and is committed to managing Saga’s 
operations in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code 2012 (the ‘Code’). A full version of the Code can  
be found on the Financial Reporting Council’s website  
www.frc.org.uk. The Company complied with all of the provisions 
of the Code throughout the year, except for provisions A.2.1, 
A.3.1, A.4.2, B.1.2, B.6.1, B.6.3, B.7.2 and E.1.1.
The Group has adopted elements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2014 in relation to remuneration and the 
long-term success of the Company, minimum number of 
shares to be held and clawback/malus. This demonstrates 
that the Remuneration Committee supports the changes in 
the 2014 Code and wishes for Saga’s first Remuneration 
Policy as a listed entity to adhere to corporate governance 
best practice.
Explanations
A.2.1 and A.3.1 The Code recommends that the roles of 
chairman and chief executive should not be exercised by the 
same individual. The division of responsibilities between the 
chairman and chief executive should be clearly established, 
set out in writing and agreed by the board. The Code also 
recommends that the chairman of the board should meet the 
independence criteria set out in the Code on appointment. 
Andrew Goodsell acts as Executive Chairman (‘the Chairman’) 
and, as detailed in the prospectus dated 8 May 2014 (the 
‘Prospectus’), was not independent on appointment, having 
previously been the Group Chief Executive and Chairman. 
Andrew is responsible for the leadership and overall 
effectiveness of the Board and setting the Board’s agenda. 
Andrew is working with Lance to transition the majority of 
the day to day management of the Group to him as the 
Group Chief Executive Officer. In due course, Andrew’s 
responsibilities will be aligned with those normally undertaken 
by a Non-Executive Chairman, as recommended by the 
Code. During the period that Andrew has been Executive 
Chairman, Philip Green, our Senior Independent Director, 
has had certain responsibilities which go beyond those 
contemplated in the Code, notably in relation to the 
appointment of independent Non-Executive Directors 
to the Committees.
The division of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman 
and the Group Chief Executive Officer was set out in writing, 
considered and approved by the Board on 22 May 2014.  
This will be reviewed annually.
A.4.2 The Code recommends that the chairman should hold 
meetings with the non-executive directors without the 
executive directors present and that, led by the senior 
independent director, the non-executive directors should 
meet at least annually to appraise the chairman’s performance 
and on other occasions as deemed appropriate.
B.6.3 The Code recommends that the non-executive directors, 
led by the senior independent director, should be responsible 
for performance evaluation of the chairman, taking into 
account the views of the executive directors.
B.7.2 The chairman should confirm to shareholders when 
proposing re-election that, following formal performance 
evaluation, the individual’s performance continues to be 
effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
As we have had less than one full year of Board meetings, 
we feel that it is too early to assess the performance of the 
Chairman or conduct a formal Board evaluation. However, 
during the period since listing, the Chairman has maintained 
regular contact and dialogue with the Non-Executive Directors 
and his performance will be assessed during the evaluation 
which will take place following a full year of operation.
B.1.2 The Code recommends that at least half the board 
of directors of a UK-listed FTSE 350 company, excluding 
the chairman, should comprise non-executive directors 
determined by the board to be independent in character 
and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances 
which may affect, or could appear to affect, the  
director’s judgement. 
During the period being reported on, the Company was 
not compliant with this provision of the Code, as the Board 
structure consisted of four independent Non-Executives, 
three Executives and three Non-Executive Directors appointed 
by the Private Equity Investors referred to in the Relationship 
Agreement dated 8 May 2014. We feel that this was the 
correct balance for the Board to be effective during the first 
year following listing. However, we intend to become fully 
compliant with the Code in this respect within a period of 
24 months from listing.
B.6.1 The Code recommends that the board should state  
in the annual report how performance evaluation of the  
board, its committees and its individual directors has  
been conducted. 
As we have had less than a full year as a Board, we felt it 
was too early to carry out an effectiveness review of our 
performance and work and therefore this disclosure has 
not been made. A full evaluation of the Board, its Committees 
and its individual Directors will be conducted in the next 
financial year.
E.1.1 The Code recommends that the senior independent 
director should attend sufficient meetings with a range 
of major shareholders to listen to their views in order to 
help develop a balanced understanding of their issues 
and concerns.
The Senior Independent Director has not attended meetings 
with our major shareholders to date. Our focus was on 
ensuring that the Senior Independent Director (and all 
Non-Executives) first gained a thorough and comprehensive 
understanding of our business prior to holding such meetings. 
Notwithstanding this, we have maintained dialogue with  
our major shareholders. Details can be found on page 72  
of this report. 
56
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 A. Leadership B. Effectiveness 
A1 The role of the Board
The Board met formally five times since 
listing. There is a clear schedule of 
matters reserved for the Board, together 
with delegated authorities throughout 
the Group.
A2 Division of responsibilities
The Board is moving towards a clear 
division of responsibilities, as set out 
in the Explanations section above.
A3 The Chairman
The Chairman sets the agendas for 
meetings, manages the meeting 
timetable (in conjunction with the 
Company Secretary) and facilitates  
open and constructive dialogue during 
the meetings.
A4 Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman promotes an open and 
constructive environment in the 
boardroom and actively invites the 
Non-Executive Directors’ views. The 
Non-Executive Directors provide 
objective, rigorous and constructive 
challenge to management and meet 
regularly without the Executive Directors.
B1 The composition of the Board
The Nomination Committee is 
responsible for regularly reviewing the 
composition of the Board. In making 
appointments to the Board, the 
Nomination Committee considers the 
wide range of skills, knowledge and 
experience required in order to maintain 
an effective Board.
B2 Appointments to the Board 
The appointment of new Directors to the 
Board is led by the Nomination 
Committee. Further details of the 
activities of the Nomination Committee 
can be found on page 63.
B3 Commitment
On appointment, Directors are notified of 
the time commitment expected from 
them. External directorships, which may 
impact on the existing time commitments 
of the Executive Directors, must be 
agreed beforehand with the Chairman.
C1 Financial and business reporting
The Strategic Report is set out on pages 
02-53 (inclusive) and this provides 
information about the performance of 
the Group, the business model, strategy 
and the risks and uncertainties relating 
to the Group’s future prospects.
C2 Risk management and  
internal control 
The Board sets out the Group’s risk 
appetite and annually reviews the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management and internal control 
systems. The activities of the Risk 
Committee, which assists the Board 
with its responsibilities in relation to the 
management of risk, are summarised 
on pages 70-71.
C3 Audit Committee and auditors 
The Board has delegated a number of 
responsibilities to the Audit Committee, 
which is responsible for overseeing the 
Group’s financial reporting processes, 
internal controls and the work undertaken 
by the external auditors. 
The chairmen of the Risk and Audit 
Committees are Board members and 
provide regular updates to the Board 
regarding Committee business.
D. Remuneration E. Relations with shareholders 
E1 Dialogue with shareholders
The Board takes an active role in 
engaging with shareholders. The Board 
particularly values opportunities to meet 
with shareholders and the Chairman 
ensures that the Board is kept informed 
of shareholder views. 
E2 Constructive use of the AGM
The AGM provides the Board with 
an important opportunity to meet 
with shareholders.
Details of how the Board engages with 
shareholders can be found on page 72.
C. Accountability
B4 Development
All Directors receive an induction on 
joining the Board and the training and 
development needs of each Director 
will be assessed as part of the annual 
effectiveness evaluation.
B5 Information and support
The Chairman, in conjunction with the 
Company Secretary, ensures that all 
Board members receive accurate and 
timely information.
B6 Evaluation
The Board will conduct a formal and 
rigorous annual evaluation of its own 
performance and that of its Committees 
and individual Directors after a full year of 
operation, as set out in the Explanations 
section above.
B7 Re-election of Directors
All Directors are subject to shareholder 
annual re-election. 
D1 The level and components  
of remuneration
The Remuneration Committee sets levels 
of remuneration appropriately in order to 
attract, retain and motivate the Board, 
but also structures remuneration to 
link it to both corporate and individual 
performance, thereby aligning 
management’s interests with those 
of shareholders. 
D2 Procedure
Details of the work of the Remuneration 
Committee and the approach to setting 
the Remuneration Policy can be found in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 73-95 (inclusive).
The Company applied the main principles of the Code as follows:
57
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Corporate Governance Statement 
Leadership
Our brand values – human, personal and warm – underpin 
everything that we do and this culture is modelled throughout our 
business. The Executive Directors visit business areas, including 
our call centres, attend internal employee roadshows and spend 
time on our ships, to fully understand what Saga is, what our 
customers are saying and how our employees are feeling. 
Lance Batchelor, Group Chief Executive Officer, hosts events 
for all of the managers who report to him (or to his direct 
reports). These sessions, held quarterly, allow for two way 
communication – for Lance to communicate delivery against 
strategy and for senior management to challenge our brand – 
by asking “What is Saga?” Lance has also held meetings with 
over 300 managers to communicate our strategy.
Our independent Non-Executive Directors have had a full 
induction programme, as detailed on page 62 and are planning 
a visit on board one of our cruise ships later this year. The 
Board participated in an offsite strategy event, in November 
2014, which gave them the opportunity to meet with each 
divisional chief executive, in order to fully understand the 
strategy of each business. Subsequent training is available 
on an individual basis to continue to build their knowledge 
of the Company. 
The Board of Directors
The Board is responsible for, and provides, the overall 
leadership and management of Saga including setting  
Saga’s values and standards. A fundamental part of this  
role is considering the balance of interests between our 
shareholders, our employees, our customers and the 
communities in which we work.
We also provide oversight and supervision of Saga’s 
operations ensuring:
 – successful implementation of agreed plans
 – sound planning and competent management
 – a sound system of internal control and risk management
 – adequate accounting and other records
 – compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations.
Our Board
The Board has a clearly articulated set of matters which are 
specifically reserved to it and this will be reviewed annually. 
The Board recognises that certain items cannot be delegated 
and there are some matters that they choose not to delegate. 
Examples of such matters are:
 – any decision likely to have a material impact on Saga from 
any perspective including, but not limited to, financial, 
operational, strategic or reputational
 – the strategic direction of the overall business, objectives, 
budgets and forecasts, levels of authority to approve 
expenditure, and any material changes to them
 – the commencement, material expansion, diversification 
or cessation of any of Saga’s activities
 – Saga’s regulatory, financial and material operational policies
 – changes relating to Saga’s capital, corporate, management 
or control structures
 – material capital or operating expenditures, outside pre-
determined tolerances or beyond the delegated authorities
 – major capital projects, corporate action or investment by 
Saga that will have, or are likely to have, a financial cost 
greater than the amount set out in the relevant contract 
approval processes from time to time
 – any material contract or joint venture and material 
arrangements with customers or suppliers.
Our strategy provides the focus for all of the discussions at 
our Board meetings and each meeting focuses on a review  
of our strategic objectives and financial performance. 
Board attendance during the year 
The Board is scheduled to meet at least six times a year and 
on an ad hoc basis as necessary. During the last financial 
year since listing, it met formally on five occasions. In addition, 
meetings are convened as necessary to approve strategic 
matters, and a strategy event is held each year, to present 
an annual and five year plan for each of the businesses to 
the Board.
1
  Non-attendance was due to prior commitments, which could not be 
rescheduled, or for compassionate reasons.
The Company Secretary, Vicki Haynes, attends all meetings 
as secretary to the Board. In addition, we also invite other 
executives and directors from around the Group, and external 
advisers, to provide input on relevant agenda items.
Allocation of time spent on matters at Board meetings 
(since listing) for year ended 31 January 2015
 1. Strategic review – 30%
 2. Financial review – 28%
 3. Shareholder relations – 12%
 4. Risk management – 12%
 5. Health and safety – 11%
 6.  Regulatory matters and  
policy review – 7%
1
2
3
4
5
6
Member   
(in alphabetical order after the Chairman)
Member  Attendance at  
Board meetings
Andrew Goodsell (Chairman) 5/5
James Arnell
1
4/5
Lance Batchelor 5/5
Philip Green 5/5
Pev Hooper 5/5
Stuart Howard 5/5
Ray King
1
4/5
Orna NiChionna
1
4/5
Charles Sherwood 5/5
Gareth Williams
1
4/5
58
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015  – Sets and monitors the 
remuneration policy 
for senior executives
 – Recommends and 
monitors remuneration 
packages for Executive 
Directors, the Chairman 
and senior management
 – Reviews and administers 
employee share schemes
 – Sets key performance 
indicators for the Annual 
Bonus Plan and  
long-term incentives
 – Prepares an annual 
remuneration report 
for approval by the 
shareholders at  
the AGM
The Remuneration 
Committee Report is 
contained within the 
Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 73-95 
and is incorporated into 
this Corporate Governance 
Statement by reference.
 – Strategic direction of the Group
 – Overall leadership and management
 – Sets values and standards
 – Considers needs of our shareholders, employees and customers
 – Compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations
 – Management of risk and control
 – Provides recommendations 
on size, structure and 
composition of the Board
 – Undertakes succession 
planning
 – Evaluates skills, knowledge, 
independence and 
diversity of the Board
 – Identifies and nominates 
candidates to fill 
Board vacancies
 – Reviews Board 
performance  
evaluation results
The Nomination Committee 
Report is on page 63.
 – Monitors integrity of 
financial statements
 – Reviews internal and 
external audit work plans
 – Assesses the adequacy 
and effectiveness of  
the Company’s internal 
and external audits  
and controls 
 – Reviews Saga’s annual 
and half year financial 
statements and 
accounting policies
 – Considers and makes 
recommendations for  
the engagement of 
external auditors 
 – Monitors the scope of  
the annual audit and the 
extent of the non-audit 
work undertaken by 
external auditors
 – Ensures whistleblowing 
and anti-fraud systems 
in place within Saga 
The Audit Committee 
Report is on pages 67-69.
 – Advises on the Group’s 
risk appetite, tolerance 
and strategy
 – Oversees and advises  
the Board on current  
risk exposures and future 
risk strategy
 – Reviews risk assessment 
and management 
procedures
 – Monitors principal 
business risks
 – Reviews adequacy 
and effectiveness  
of risk management 
systems and the 
compliance function
 – Reviews and monitors 
management response  
to the Chief Risk  
Officer’s findings and 
recommendations
The Risk Committee Report 
is on pages 70-71.
Reports directly to the Board via the Group Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer.
 – Implements strategy as determined by the Board
 – Executive management – monitors trading against strategy
 – Day to day operational management
 – Management of risk and conduct
Structure 
We have set up five committees of the Board.
BOARD
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE
NOMINATION 
COMMITTEE
AUDIT  
COMMITTEE
RISK  
COMMITTEE
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
59
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Board of Directors
Andrew Goodsell Executive Chairman
Andrew has spent the last 23 years with Saga which he joined in 1992 as Business Development Manager, 
Saga Services. He became Saga Group Business Development Director in 1995, Chief Executive of 
Saga Services and Saga Investment Direct in 1999, Deputy Group Chief Executive in 2001 and Chief 
Executive and Chairman in 2004. He has led two management buyouts at Saga. The second, in 2007, 
brought together Saga and the AA under the holding company Acromas Holdings. Andrew was Executive 
Chairman of both Saga and the AA from 2007 until Acromas Holdings sold the AA in 2014, he remains 
Chairman of Acromas Holdings. Andrew brings great experience of the Group to his Board role.
Jonathan Hill Group Chief Financial Officer Designate
Jonathan joined Saga in April 2015 as Group Chief Financial Officer Designate from Bovis Homes Group 
plc where he was Group Finance Director. Prior to that, he held various senior roles within TUI Travel and 
Centrica. Jonathan qualified as a Chartered Accountant at Price Waterhouse in London. He brings a 
wealth of senior financial operational and corporate listed experience to his role at Saga.
Lance Batchelor Group Chief Executive Officer
Lance joined Saga as Group Chief Executive Officer in March 2014. Prior to that he was CEO of 
Domino’s Pizza Group plc from 2011-2014 and CEO of Tesco Mobile from 2008-2011. His earlier 
experience includes senior marketing roles at Procter & Gamble, Amazon.com and Vodafone. Lance’s 
first career was as a Royal Navy submarine officer. He holds an MBA from Harvard Business School, 
and is a Trustee of the National Gallery. Lance brings a wealth of senior operational experience in listed 
companies to his role at Saga.
Stuart Howard Group Chief Financial Officer
Stuart has spent the last 15 years with Saga, which he joined in 2000 as Group Chief Financial Officer. 
In 2007, Stuart became Chief Financial Officer of Acromas. Prior to joining Acromas, he worked for 
two years at the advertising group Cordiant Communications plc as Deputy Chief Financial Officer and 
for ten years prior to that at the advertising group WPP Group plc in various positions. Stuart qualified 
as a Chartered Accountant at KPMG in London. He brings his financial acumen to the Board table, but 
is also able to advise the Board on numerous other matters outside of the purely financial sphere.
Philip Green Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Philip is currently Chairman of Carillion plc. He is also Chairman of BakerCorp, a US industrial services 
company owned by Permira, and Chairman Designate of Williams & Glyn. Previously, Philip was Chairman 
of Clarkson plc, Chief Executive of United Utilities Group plc and Chief Executive of Royal P&O Nedlloyd 
NV. His earlier business experience includes serving as Chief Operating Officer of Reuters Group plc  
and Chief Operating Officer of DHL for Europe and Africa. Philip is also the UK Prime Minister’s adviser 
on corporate responsibility and Chairman of Sentebale, a charity set up by HRH Prince Harry. Philip brings 
his experience of running a variety of complex international organisations and acting as an executive and 
non-executive director of many public companies to the Board.
Ray King Independent Non-Executive Director
Ray is currently a Non-Executive Director of Infinis Energy plc and Rothesay Life Limited. Previously, he 
was Chief Executive of Bupa from 2008-2012, after serving as Group Finance Director from 2001-2008. 
Before Bupa, Ray was a Non-Executive Director of Friends Provident plc, Deputy Chief Executive of 
Parity Group plc, Director of Group Finance and Control at Diageo plc and Group Finance Director of 
Southern Water plc. Ray is also a Reporting Panel Member of the Competition and Markets Authority 
and a member of the Audit and Assurance Council of the Financial Reporting Council. His financial 
experience coupled with his knowledge of running a business similar to Saga, and his recent 
Non-Executive Director experiences including that of chairing an Audit Committee are  
all immensely helpful to the Board.
60
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Orna NiChionna Independent Non-Executive Director
Orna is currently Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Royal Mail plc. Previously, she was 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of HMV plc, Northern Foods plc and Bupa and a Non-
Executive Director of the Bank of Ireland UK Holdings plc and Bristol & West plc. Orna is also currently 
the Deputy Chairman of the National Trust and a former Partner at McKinsey & Company. Whilst at 
McKinsey & Company, she looked after many consumer facing clients and brings these skills to the 
Board along with her considerable experience in other Non-Executive Director roles.
Gareth Williams Independent Non-Executive Director
Gareth is currently a Non-Executive Director of YSC Limited and WNS (Holdings) Limited. Previously,  
he was Human Resources Director of Diageo plc and held a series of key positions in human resources 
at Grand Metropolitan plc. Gareth’s contributions to the Board are on all aspects of human resources 
and his experience of working at Director level in a consumer facing organisation also allows him to 
contribute to all other subjects of debate.
James Arnell Non-Executive Director
James has been a Partner at Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP since 1998. He was involved in  
the acquisition of Saga by the Charterhouse Funds in 2004 and in Charterhouse’s investment in the 
Acromas Group in 2007. He has been a member of the Saga and Acromas Boards throughout the 
period of Charterhouse’s investment. He is also a Non-Executive Director of various other companies 
and has been involved in Charterhouse’s investments in the UK, France and Germany. James’s role  
on the Board is to represent the views of Charterhouse, but his professional and business experiences 
also ensure that he makes a very valuable contribution.
Peveril (‘Pev’) Hooper Non-Executive Director
Pev is a Partner at CVC Capital Partners. In addition to Saga, Pev is responsible for CVC funds’ 
investments in Merlin Entertainments, the AA, Virgin Active, Domestic & General, and SkyBet – and has 
been a non-executive director on the board of these and other CVC fund portfolio companies. He joined 
CVC in 2003 after working in mergers & acquisitions at Schroders and Citigroup. Pev represents the views 
of CVC on the Saga board, but also brings broader experience of public and private company boards 
across numerous consumer facing businesses.
Charles Sherwood Non-Executive Director
Charles has been a Partner of Permira Advisers (formerly Schroder Ventures) since 1985. He has served 
on the firm’s holding company board and investment committee. Charles has been a Non-Executive 
Director of Acromas and Saga since 2007. He has also served as a Non-Executive Director on the boards 
of a number of Permira’s investments including Homebase, the AA Group, Provimi and Just Retirement. 
Charles’s role on the Board is to represent the views of Permira; he has served on the boards of many 
other companies during his career and brings this knowledge and wide experience to his Board role  
with Saga.
61
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Corporate Governance Statement 
Effectiveness
The members of the Board
The Board considers its overall size and composition to be 
appropriate, having regard in particular to the independence 
of character and integrity of all the Directors and the 
experience and skills that they bring to their duties, which 
prevents any individual or small group from dominating its 
decision making. We give due regard to the benefits of 
diversity in its widest sense as we consider our composition 
both now and in the future.
We consider that the skills and experience of our individual 
members, particularly in the areas of insurance, financial 
services, consumer services, brand management, corporate 
finance, mergers and acquisitions, and risk management, are 
fundamental to the pursuit of our strategic objectives. In 
addition, the quoted company experience of members of the 
Board in a variety of sectors and markets is invaluable to Saga. 
Independence of Non-Executive Directors 
Of the current Directors of Saga, the Board considers four 
of the Non-Executive Directors to be independent of Saga’s 
executive management and free from any business or other 
relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of 
their independent judgement. These directors are Philip Green, 
Ray King, Orna NiChionna and Gareth Williams. Although 
Philip Green serves on the Board of BakerCorp (a Permira 
portfolio company), the other Directors have concluded that 
Philip’s judgement, experience and challenging approach 
ensure that he makes a significant contribution to the work 
of the Board and its Committees. Therefore, the Board has 
determined that Philip is of independent character and 
judgement and should be regarded as an independent 
director for the purposes of the Code. 
As set out in the Explanations section on page 56, the  
Board is working towards at least half of its members being 
independent within 24 months of listing. Future independent 
Non-Executive Directors will be selected to ensure that the 
Group maintains a balance of skills appropriate for a group 
including insurance and financial services businesses.
Selection of the current Non-Executive Directors
Four independent Non-Executive Directors were appointed 
to the Board with effect from 29 May 2014. 
MWM Consulting, an external search agency, assisted in the 
recruitment process. MWM Consulting was selected after a 
competitive pitch process. A role description for each of the 
four appointments was developed and set out the capabilities 
required. After MWM Consulting had identified a list of 
potential candidates, a shortlist was selected for interview. 
After detailed interviewing, thorough referencing and careful 
consideration of the balance of the Board that would be 
created, the Directors were selected and put forward for 
board approval.
MWM Consulting has no other relationship with the Company.
Pursuant to the Relationship Agreement entered into between 
the Company and each of the Private Equity Investors (as 
defined and explained further on page 97) each Private Equity 
Investor appointed one Non-Executive Director to the Board.
Group Chief Financial Officer
Stuart Howard, our Group Chief Financial Officer, has 
announced his intention to retire by the end of 2015. Stuart 
has provided the business with a significant period of notice 
prior to his departure, ensuring that he had the opportunity to 
assist the Company with the recruitment and induction of his 
replacement. We would like to acknowledge Stuart’s immense 
contribution to Saga’s development and to wish him all the 
very best.
External search consultant, Russell Reynolds Associates, was 
engaged to conduct a confidential search for candidates after 
a competitive pitch process. We reviewed and developed a 
role description for the position and agreed the critical 
competencies required.
A wide range of candidates from a variety of national and 
multi-national companies, both publicly and privately owned, 
were put forward by Russell Reynolds Associates for 
consideration and a shortlist was agreed upon for interview. 
After detailed interviews, thorough referencing and careful 
consideration of the experience and background of the 
potential candidates against the key responsibilities 
and critical competencies, the recommendation was to 
appoint Jonathan Hill as Stuart’s replacement. Jonathan 
joined the Group as Group Chief Financial Officer Designate 
on 7 April 2015 and was appointed as a Director of the Board 
on 29 April 2015.
Russell Reynolds Associates is a signatory to the Voluntary 
Code of Conduct for executive search firms and has no other 
connection to the Company.
Induction of the current Non-Executive Directors
Our recently appointed independent Non-Executive Directors 
followed an extensive induction programme which included 
half-day visits to each of the main businesses in London and 
Folkestone. In addition they attended strategy sessions for 
each of our businesses to understand the short and long-term 
goals of the Group and familiarised themselves with our 
governance and risk management structure, Board and 
Committee meeting terms of reference, strategy papers, 
recent analyst and broker reports, and our policies 
and procedures. 
Annual re-election
The Directors are standing for election at the AGM. Our view 
is that each of the Directors standing for election should be 
appointed, as we believe that they have the skills required for 
the Board to discharge its responsibilities, as outlined in each 
of their biographies set out on pages 60-61. 
62
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Corporate Governance Statement 
Nomination Committee Report
Philip Green Chairman, Nomination Committee
Dear Shareholder, 
I am pleased to report on the activities of the Nomination 
Committee during its first year following the Company’s 
listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Nomination Committee was formed at the time 
of the IPO and its members are the four independent 
Non-Executive Directors appointed on listing. We have 
met on two occasions during the financial year and have 
considered and made a recommendation regarding the 
appointment of the new Group Chief Financial Officer 
Designate, membership and chairmanship of the 
Board Committees.
I am confident that the Nomination Committee will ensure 
that the Board and Board Committees have the right 
leadership skills for the Company as it continues its 
long-term growth strategy.
Attendance during the year
Member Attendance 
Philip Green (Chairman) 2/2 
Ray King 2/2
Orna NiChionna 2/2
Gareth Williams
1
 0/2
1
  Non-attendance was due to prior commitments, which could not be 
rescheduled, or for compassionate reasons.
The Company Secretary, Vicki Haynes, attends all meetings 
as secretary to the Committee. In addition, Lance Batchelor 
(Group Chief Executive Officer) attends by invitation.
 – evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, 
experience and diversity on the Board and, in light of this 
evaluation, prepare a description of the role and capabilities 
required for a particular appointment and its expected  
time commitment
 – review the results of the Board performance evaluation 
process that relate to the composition of the Board.
Our activities
At the centre of our remit is a detailed understanding of the 
Board’s and the Board Committees’ structure, size and 
composition. We have considered this since the Company 
became a plc and plan to conduct an assessment of the 
Board’s skills, independence and experience (including 
diversity) after a full year of operation. 
Our procedures for appointing Directors and  
our policy on diversity 
Our terms of reference say how we will go about the 
recruitment and appointment of Directors to the Board. 
We will use open advertising or the services of external 
advisers to facilitate our search for the best possible candidates 
from a wide range of backgrounds when this is necessary.
We believe it is in the very nature of Saga to recognise the 
benefits that diversity brings. With this in mind our policy is to 
appoint the best possible candidate, who will be considered 
on merit and against objective criteria, rather than to set 
quotas for a particular aspect that may deflect us from 
achieving this fundamental target every time. At the date 
of this report, 10% of the Board is female. 
Appointment of Directors
The selection of the Non-Executive Directors took place 
before the Company was listed and the Nomination 
Committee was created, although their recruitment followed 
the principles and provisions of the Code. 
The appointments were effective shortly before or from the 
Company’s listing. An overview of the Director induction 
process has been included in the Effectiveness section of 
the Corporate Governance Statement on page 62. For further 
information, please also refer to Selection of the current 
Non-Executive Directors on page 62. 
Philip Green
Chairman, Nomination Committee
Allocation of time spent on matters at Nomination 
Committee meetings for year ended 31 January 2015
 1. Board composition – 40%
 2.  Board Committees’ 
composition – 40%
 3.  Non-Executive Directors’  
induction – 20%
1
2
3
Our terms of reference and main responsibilities
Our full terms of reference, explaining our role and the 
authority delegated by the Board are available on the Saga 
website at http://corporate.saga.co.uk/investor-relations/
corporate-governance/
Our main responsibilities are to:
 – regularly review the structure, size and composition 
(including the skills, knowledge, independence, experience 
and diversity) of the Board and to make recommendations 
with regard to any changes
 – give full consideration to succession planning for Directors 
and other senior executives, to ensure progressive 
refreshing of the Board
63
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Corporate Governance Statement 
Accountability
Risk management and internal control
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Group’s risk management and internal control framework and receives regular 
reports from the Group CEO on the Group’s business risk profile and key risks. All key risk, compliance and control activities 
are considered at either the Risk or Audit Committees. This framework is designed to manage and mitigate risk rather 
than eliminate it and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material loss or misstatement. 
This framework is regularly reviewed and complies with the Financial Reporting Council’s Internal Control: Revised Guidance 
for Directors (formerly ‘The Turnbull Guidance’).
The three lines of defence work as follows:
1st line of defence – Risk taking by management, in line with agreed risk appetite, risk policies and procedures. Various 
governance forums in each business review all risk exposures and risk mitigation activities on a regular basis, supported 
by the 2nd line of defence oversight functions. Consideration of business risks are a standing agenda item at each executive 
meeting within the Group.
2nd line of defence – Independent oversight provided by the various control functions, including risk, compliance and health 
and safety. Specific duties include advice on Group and business risk appetites, independent review of both the rating of key 
risks, and approach and adequacy of business risk management strategies. The 2nd line of defence is also responsible for 
reporting on the management of principal risks and uncertainties to the Risk Committee and Board.
3rd line of defence – Independent assurance on the operation and effectiveness of internal control throughout the Group, 
including consideration of the effectiveness of the risk management process. The 3rd line of defence reports to the Board  
by way of the Audit Committee. 
The Committee structure and flow of risk, compliance and internal control information is shown on page 24.
Saga’s spread and variety of business operations require risk and internal control issues to be considered at both specialist 
business level and aggregated Group level. Risk and internal control oversight is provided at all Committees and key concerns 
are raised to the Audit and Risk Committees and ultimately to the Board if required.
Two further Group Committees are in force to consider specialist risks and issues in the following key areas:
 – Financial crime, data and information security
 – Business continuity
Governing body/Board/Audit and/or Risk Committee
Senior management
1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence
External audit
Regulator
Financial control
Security
Risk management
Internal
audit
Compliance
Health and safety
Manage-
ment
controls
Internal
control
measures
Saga’s ‘three lines of defence’ risk governance model
64
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Risk management cycle
The Group risk management cycle is an iterative cycle of 
activities, comprising the following:
Identification of risk appetite
Saga defines risk appetite as the amount and sources of risk 
which we are seeking, willing to accept or looking to avoid in 
pursuit of our business objectives over a set period of time. 
Group risk appetite is derived from our strategic objectives 
and is used as a measure against which all of our current and 
proposed activities are tested. Group risk appetites are further 
defined within the Principal risks and uncertainties section  
(pages 24-29).
Business risk appetites are separately crafted, complementary 
to Group appetites but customised to reflect the specific 
needs and characteristics of each business. Business risk 
appetites may be different to Group appetites but cannot 
exceed them.
Group and business risk appetites are reviewed at least 
annually to ensure that they are aligned with any changes  
in strategy or specific strategic initiatives. 
Risk policies
Saga has a Group risk policy, defining our risk management 
strategy, framework, governance structures, and detailed 
assessment and mitigation processes. Beneath this Group 
document, individual business policies are created, 
customised to reflect specific business characteristics but 
still consistent with the overall risk management framework. 
All risk policies are reviewed at least annually and approved 
at business or Group boards as appropriate. 
Risk assessment and risk registers
All Saga businesses assess each risk for likelihood and 
impact. Most use a common risk assessment matrix, although 
several have a customised impact scale to reflect their size or 
the highly specialist nature of their risks. Each business then 
creates appropriate controls to manage such risks. Risks are 
rated on both an inherent and residual basis and are rated on 
a red, amber, yellow and green scale. 
Risk assessments are reviewed at business risk committees 
and the principal risks are subject to independent review by 
the Risk Committee.
Risk registers have been created for each business to 
capture their key risks, associated controls and incidents. 
These registers are typically sub-divided by function or 
business area. The highest rated residual risks in terms of 
impact and probability for each business are aggregated at 
Group level to produce a list of principal risks and uncertainties, 
assessed at residual level against Group risk appetite. 
Risk review
Reports on key risks and controls, and incidents, are 
presented to each governance forum meeting specified in 
the Committee structure, flow of risk, compliance and internal 
control information chart on page 24. In addition, checks 
against control effectiveness, and any exceptions or overdue 
actions are also considered. Each of these governance 
meetings is attended by key 1st and 2nd line of defence 
managers and the actions are minuted and followed up at 
the next meeting. Significant control weaknesses or failures 
are escalated to the individual business board in question or, 
if of sufficient scale and seriousness, to the Risk Committee. 
Each risk committee also considers cross-Group risks and 
incidents to ensure the risk of contagion is minimised.
Risk oversight
Independent oversight of the risk management process, 
including key risks and their associated management, 
incidents and compliance, is provided by the Chief Risk 
Officer and the risk team, the compliance team, the Risk 
Committee and, ultimately, the Board. 
Risk monitoring
All risk registers are independently reviewed by the risk  
team at least quarterly to test for completeness of risk and 
control capture, effective testing of key control measures,  
and recording and reporting of any exceptions and  
overdue actions.
Ongoing monitoring
Independent
policies
assurance
Risk review
Risk oversight
Risk assessment
Group risk policy
Group risk appetite
Business-speciﬁc
risk appetites
Business-speciﬁc
policies
Group strategy
Risk management process
65
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Risk information
All risk data, including risks, controls, control tests and 
incidents, is captured in an internet-enabled risk portal. This 
portal produces risk reports for all governance meetings. 
Independent process assurance
Saga’s internal audit function (‘Internal Audit’) provides 
independent assurance of the completeness and 
effectiveness of the risk management procedures at both 
Group and business levels.
Process feedback
Outputs from the risk management cycle are fed back to the 
Risk Committee to assist with necessary revision of the Group 
risk management policy and framework. They may also be 
used to inform future iterations of the Group’s strategy. 
Internal control
Internal Audit acts as the 3
rd
 line of defence within Saga’s 
three line of defence risk management framework. The 
objective of Internal Audit is to help protect the assets, 
reputation and sustainability of the organisation by providing 
independent, reliable, valued and timely assurance to the 
Board and executive management. To preserve the 
independence of Internal Audit, the Head of Audit’s primary 
reporting line is to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, 
and the staff of the function are prohibited from performing 
operational duties for the business.
All activities of the Group fall within the scope of Internal 
Audit’s remit and there are no restrictions on the scope  
of Internal Audit’s work. Internal Audit fulfils its role and 
responsibilities by delivering the annual, risk-based audit plan. 
Each audit within the plan provides an opinion on the control 
environment and details of issues found. Internal Audit works 
with the businesses to agree remedial actions necessary  
to improve the control environment, and these are tracked  
to completion.
The Head of Audit submits reports to, and attends, board and 
audit committee meetings for the subsidiary Saga businesses, 
as well as the Audit Committee.
Financial reporting
The Group maintains a control environment that is regularly 
reviewed by the Board. The principal elements of the control 
environment include comprehensive management and 
financial reporting systems and processes, defined operating 
controls and authorisation limits, regular Board meetings, 
clear subsidiary board and operating structures, and an 
Internal Audit function.
Internal control and risk management systems relating to the 
financial reporting process and the process for preparing 
consolidated accounts ensure the accuracy and timeliness  
of internal and external financial reporting.
The Group undertakes an annual strategy process which 
updates the plan for the next five years, and produces 
a detailed budget for the next financial year. Throughout  
each year, detailed reforecasts are performed by each area  
of the Group each month and are consolidated to provide an 
updated view of expected performance for the current year. 
Each reforecast covers the income statement, cash flow and 
balance sheet positions phased on a monthly basis through  
to the end of the year. 
Regular weekly and monthly reporting cycles allow 
management to assess performance, and identify risks and 
opportunities at the earliest opportunity. Trading performance 
is formally reviewed on a weekly basis by the management  
of the trading subsidiaries, and monthly by the management 
of the Group. Performance is reported to the Board at each 
Board meeting. Performance is assessed against budget  
and against the latest forecast expectations.
The Group has an established and well-understood 
management structure with documented levels for the 
authorisation of business transactions and clear bank 
mandates to control the approval of payments. Control of  
the Group’s cash resources is operated by a centralised 
treasury function.
Internal management reporting and external statutory 
reporting timetables and delivery requirements are well 
established and documented. Control of these is maintained 
centrally and communicated regularly.
The Group maintains computer systems to record and 
consolidate all of its financial transactions. These ledger 
systems are used to produce the information for the monthly 
management accounts, and for the annual statutory financial 
statements. The trading subsidiaries within the Group prepare 
their accounts under UK GAAP and the central consolidation 
processes capture the additional information required to 
convert subsidiary performance to IFRS, to consolidate it, 
and to prepare the relevant disclosure notes. 
The accounts production process ensures that there is a clear 
audit trail from the output of the Group’s financial reporting 
systems, through the conversion and consolidation 
processes, to the Group’s financial statements.
Statement of review
The risk management process detailed above was in place  
for the year under review and up to the date of approval  
of this report.
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness 
of Saga’s risk management and internal control systems, 
including all material financial, operational and compliance 
controls, and concluded that these are acceptable. 
Corporate Governance Statement 
Accountability continued
66
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Corporate Governance Statement 
Audit Committee Report
Our terms of reference and main responsibilities
Our full terms of reference, explaining our role and the 
authority delegated to us by the Board, are available on the 
Saga website at http://corporate.saga.co.uk/investor-relations/
corporate-governance/
Our main responsibilities are to:
 – monitor the integrity of financial statements of the 
Company
 – review and report to the Board on significant financial 
reporting issues and judgements
 – review and assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal financial controls and internal control 
systems (including compliance, whistleblowing, fraud 
detection and the prevention of bribery)
 – review and approve the internal audit charter, budget  
and work plan
 – monitor and review the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal audit function, in the context of the Company’s 
overall risk management system
 – consider and make recommendations to the Board in 
relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal 
of the Company’s external auditors
 – ensure that at least once every ten years the audit services 
contract is put out to tender
 – monitor, review and assess the external auditors’ 
independence and review the external audit work plan
 – review the findings of the audit with the external auditors.
We work in co-operation with the Risk Committee, to monitor 
the range of internal control and risk management issues 
affecting the Group. The common membership of both 
Committees helps us to operate in a very integrated way. 
Our activities
As a new committee, our early work involved developing  
our understanding of the Company’s financial reporting  
and internal control processes through meetings with key 
management and the external auditors. This allowed us to set 
work plans and robust agendas for meetings and ensure that 
appropriate policies, procedures and reporting arrangements 
were in place to address our remit.
At our first meeting, in September 2014, we reviewed our 
terms of reference, established the flow of reporting to the 
Audit Committee and reviewed the recent work of Internal 
Audit and of the existing subsidiary audit committees. Work 
plans for the year were agreed with internal and external audit. 
We considered the Group’s main accounting policies and 
reviewed the interim results before their consideration 
by the Board.
At this meeting, we considered the external auditors’ 
engagement terms for 2014/15, including the fee proposal, 
and made recommendations to the Board. We considered 
a report from the external auditors setting out the significant 
risks and other areas of audit emphasis identified by them 
through their planning work, and their intended approach to 
auditing these areas. We also determined the Group policy 
for purchasing non-audit services and procedures to address 
financial crime.
Dear Shareholder, 
I am pleased to report on the activities of the Audit 
Committee during its first year following the Company’s 
listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Audit Committee was formed at the time of the IPO, 
met on two occasions during the financial year and has 
met twice since the year end. We have worked closely 
with management and the external auditors to develop an 
early understanding of the Group’s businesses and its 
financial reporting and internal control processes. We 
have also met with the independent chairmen of the audit 
committees of the Group’s two key subsidiaries, AICL, 
our insurance underwriting business based in Gibraltar 
and Saga Services Ltd in order to gain their perspectives.
These early meetings have been marked by open, 
constructive discussion and I would like to thank all 
participants for their contribution.
The members of the Audit Committee are the four 
independent Non-Executive Directors appointed at the 
time of the IPO, Philip Green, Ray King, Orna NiChionna 
and Gareth Williams. I chair the Audit Committee and  
as a chartered accountant have had recent and relevant 
financial experience as a CEO and CFO. The Company 
Secretary, Vicki Haynes, is secretary to the Audit Committee. 
Attendance during the year
Member Attendance 
Ray King (Chairman) 2/2 
Philip Green
1
 1/2
Orna NiChionna 2/2
Gareth Williams
1
 1/2
1
  Non-attendance was due to prior commitments, which could not be 
rescheduled, or for compassionate reasons.
In addition to the Audit Committee members, Lance 
Batchelor (Group Chief Executive Officer), Stuart Howard 
(Group Chief Financial Officer), Andrew Stringer (Group 
Financial Controller), Helen Webb (Head of Internal Audit), 
Andy Bulgin (Chief Risk Officer) and representatives from 
our external auditors attend by invitation. We also invite 
other executives and Directors from around the Group to 
provide input on relevant agenda items and have private 
meetings with the Head of Internal Audit and the 
Company’s auditors.
Ray King Chairman, Audit Committee
67
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Corporate Governance Statement 
Audit Committee Report continued
At our next meeting in December 2014 we considered a 
report from Internal Audit on the effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk management systems and received a presentation on 
preparations in AICL for Solvency II, the European Union 
Insurance Directive which comes into force on 1 January 
2016. We also received a detailed report on whistleblowing 
procedures in Saga.
At the February 2015 meeting we received a presentation 
from the chairman of the audit committee for Saga Services 
and Direct Choice Insurance Services; considered the annual 
report planning and received an update from the external 
auditors. We discussed with Ernst & Young LLP (‘EY’ or the 
‘Auditor’) their main observations following the interim audit. 
The meeting in April 2015 focused on the annual report, 
and we conducted and evaluated the effectiveness of the 
audit process and auditor’s performance.
An evaluation of the Audit Committee’s effectiveness will be 
conducted after a full year of operation. 
Annual report
Review of interim and full year results
The interim and full year results were reviewed, together with 
papers summarising the process of preparing the financial 
statements, the appropriateness and application of key 
accounting policies, and the areas of significant judgement, 
including how those judgements were made.
Key areas of significant judgement which we discussed were:
 – Valuation of insurance contract liabilities £641.3m. We 
considered the conclusions of the Insurance Reserving 
Committee and the actuarial processes for valuing these 
liabilities including the key judgements made. We also 
received the views of EY from their work on the assessment 
of reserves and concluded that the valuation of insurance 
contract liabilities was appropriate.
 – Testing of the carrying value of goodwill for impairment. 
We considered the methodology to perform the impairment 
reviews of the carrying value of goodwill and concluded 
that no impairments were necessary, except in relation 
to the Healthcare Services segment where we agreed with 
the impairment processed by management of £177.8m.
Allocation of time spent on matters at Audit 
Committee meetings for year ended 31 January 2015
 1.  Procedure (terms of reference  
and flow of reporting) – 17%
 2. Internal audit – 23%
 3. External audit – 34%
 4.  Accounting procedures, policies  
and judgements – 5%
 5.  Policy review (financial crime  
and non-audit) – 10%
 6.  In-depth analysis of business  
area – 8%
 7.  Private meetings (External auditors  
and Head of Internal Audit) – 3%
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
 – Assets held for sale. Following the Group’s decision to 
dispose of the Allied Healthcare business, we considered 
the classification of this business as a held-for-sale 
disposal group and concluded that the criteria in IFRS 5 
had been met and the assets and liabilities had been 
appropriately fair-valued.
 – Share-based payments. We considered the determination 
and valuation of charges in respect of the various share-
based payments and concluded that the charge in the 
income statement was appropriate.
Reports were received from EY at the conclusion of their work 
on the interim and full year results and during the process  
of their audit. The reports on the full year results included 
specific focus on those areas identified as having significant 
audit risk or other audit emphasis.
Following our review of the accounts and after reading the 
annual report we advised the Board that we supported its 
statement on page 99 that the annual report and accounts, 
taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s business performance, business 
model and strategy.
External audit
Our responsibilities with regard to external audit include 
recommending to the Board the appointment of auditors, 
agreeing their remuneration, ensuring their independence 
and objectivity and working with them to achieve an efficient 
and effective audit. Representatives of EY attend each Audit 
Committee meeting and the chairman of the Audit Committee 
maintains contact between meetings, as required. 
The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the 
external audit process. We considered how the EY team 
had demonstrated their skill, independence and objectivity 
during the year, the quality of reports received by the Audit 
Committee and the efficiency of the year end process. Views 
were also received from executive management. The Audit 
Committee is satisfied that the audit continues to be effective 
and provides an appropriate independent challenge to the 
Group’s senior management.
Auditor re-appointment
The Audit Committee unanimously recommended to 
the Board on 28 April 2015 that a resolution for the 
re-appointment of EY as the Company’s independent Auditor 
be proposed to shareholders at the AGM and the Board 
has accepted and endorsed this recommendation.
External audit tendering
EY were appointed as auditors of the principal trading 
companies within the Acromas group in September 2007 
following a competitive audit tender process. They were then 
appointed as auditors of Saga plc on 24 September 2014 
following its incorporation and insertion within the Group prior 
to listing. In accordance with the Competition and Market 
Authority’s order which requires FTSE 350 companies to 
tender the audit at least every ten years, the Group intends to 
undertake its next competitive tender process following the 
completion of the audit of the year ending 31 January 2017. 
68
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Auditor independence and non-audit services
The independence of EY is reviewed by the Audit Committee 
and confirmed by the Auditor throughout the year. 
The Audit Committee approved a list of non-audit services 
where we were satisfied EY could carry out those services 
without jeopardising their role as auditor. We also set clear 
approval levels where the Audit Committee Chairman (or the 
whole Audit Committee) would be required to authorise 
assignments. Competitive tendering will be used for 
substantial work.
The audit fees payable to EY in respect of the year ended 
31 January 2015 are £1,110,000 and non-audit service fees 
incurred were £930,900, the latter being heavily influenced  
by work necessary for the listing. This equates to a non-audit 
to audit fee ratio of 0.84. The equivalent fees have not been 
provided in respect of the year ended 31 January 2014 as  
the Group did not exist in its current form during that year.
Excluding fees for services associated with the listing of the 
Group in May 2014 where EY provided accounting services, 
non-audit fees were £216,900, a ratio of 0.20. The main 
non-audit fees related to the interim results, assistance with 
conversion to IFRS and reporting on the Group’s debt 
covenants and its Travel business. A summary of fees paid to 
the Auditor is set out in note 4 to the consolidated financial 
statements on page 129. 
Internal control and Internal Audit
A key part of our work is the oversight of the Internal Audit 
function. This includes reviewing the results of the internal 
auditor’s work and the assurance from Internal Audit on 
its 3rd line of defence review of the functioning of the risk 
management framework. We also review and monitor 
management’s responsiveness to the internal auditor’s 
findings and recommendations. The function consists of 
11 people with a broad range of skills; we also purchase 
audit skills externally for specialised audits. Our view is 
that the Internal Audit function was adequately resourced.
Internal Audit’s charter setting out the purpose, scope and 
responsibilities for Internal Audit was noted and supported, 
and the 2014/15 internal audit plan was discussed, including 
resource levels within the team and time spent on individual 
audits and businesses. 
Where Internal Audit reviews identify significant areas of 
business risk we consider the implications and actions 
required in the Risk Committee. 
Matters referred this year included a number of IT issues, 
notably the threat of cybercrime and risk management 
procedures in the Healthcare division. 
In liaison with the Risk Committee we have reviewed the 
effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls and risk 
management systems.
Financial crime policies
We considered financial crime policies including anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption, whistleblowing and fraud and discussed 
how these policies were to be communicated throughout the 
Group, noting that training had taken place during the year for 
the majority of Senior Managers and that investment was being 
made into an IT system which would monitor and provide an 
audit trail for such training. The proceedings of the Group 
financial crime, data and information security committee 
(in terms of monitoring the effectiveness of such policies) 
are reported to the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
We approved the draft policies and recommended that these 
be submitted to the Board for consideration and they were 
duly adopted. 
Ray King
Chairman, Audit Committee
69
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Corporate Governance Statement 
Risk Committee Report
Our terms of reference and main responsibilities
Our full terms of reference, explaining our role and the 
authority delegated to us by the Board, are available on the 
Saga website at http://corporate.saga.co.uk/investor-relations/
corporate-governance/
Our main responsibilities are:
 – advising the Board on the Group’s overall risk appetite, 
tolerance and strategy
 – overseeing and advising the Board on the current risk 
exposures of the Group and future risk strategy
 – keeping under review the Group’s overall risk assessment 
processes that inform the Board’s decision making, 
ensuring both qualitative and quantitative metrics are used, 
and reviewing these measures regularly
 – keeping under review the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management systems
 – reviewing the Group’s capability to identify and manage 
new risk types and ensuring that a supportive risk 
management culture is embedded and maintained 
throughout the Group 
 – where appropriate, agreeing with the Remuneration 
Committee how risk should be recognised when setting 
performance objectives for executive remuneration 
 – reviewing reports on any material breaches of risk limits 
and the adequacy of proposed action
 – reviewing Group compliance performance, assessing the 
adequacy and effectiveness of the various compliance 
functions and giving particular consideration to any 
breaches and/or required notifications to compliance 
authorities and how these have been rectified
 – reviewing reports from the CRO on the effectiveness  
of risk management operations
 – reviewing and monitoring management’s responsiveness 
to the findings and recommendations of the CRO.
Our activities 
Risk strategy, policy and appetite
The Risk Committee has worked with management to ensure 
that the Group has tailored risk management structures which 
meet the needs of each business and which also work within 
the Group’s overall risk management in terms of policy, risk 
appetite and monitoring procedures. 
The Risk Committee also recognised the need to define risk 
appetites and tolerances for both financial and non-financial 
risks. We therefore ensured that management produced risk 
appetite and tolerance statements for a range of risk categories, 
both at Group and business level. The final Group risk policy 
was approved by the Committee and signed off by the Board.
Management and reporting
At our early meetings we focused on agreeing the risk 
management procedures throughout the Group. We worked 
closely with the CRO and executive management to understand 
and agree resourcing, reporting lines and information flows 
to the Risk Committee. Enhancements to the existing risk 
management framework were agreed and we introduced a 
formal requirement for business CEOs to certify compliance 
with the risk management framework at year end.
Ray King Chairman, Risk Committee
Dear Shareholder, 
I am pleased to present the first report of the Risk Committee, 
which was established at the time of the IPO. All of the 
independent Non-Executive Directors are members of the 
Risk Committee and also of the Audit Committee and this 
has helped us to develop a broad-based understanding 
of internal control and risk management in Saga.
The role of the Risk Committee is to monitor the Group’s 
risk and compliance management procedures (described 
on pages 24-25) and regularly review principal business 
risks and compliance matters on behalf of the Board. 
While Saga’s business is mainly in retail financial services, 
its businesses in travel, shipping and care of the elderly 
bring specific risk and compliance issues which we keep 
under regular review. Saga’s principal business risks 
and uncertainties are described in pages 24-29.
Maintenance of an effective risk reward balance in pursuit 
of our objectives is essential. The Risk Committee provides 
a forum for careful consideration of our risks on an 
individual and aggregated basis across our businesses. 
We have made a good start in reviewing and contributing 
to the management of the principal risks in the Group and 
I look forward to building on this in the coming year. 
Attendance during the year
The Risk Committee meets as necessary, although 
normally at least four times a year. During the last 
financial year since listing, it met on two occasions 
and it has also met twice since the year end. 
Member Attendance 
Ray King (Chairman) 2/2 
Philip Green 2/2
Orna NiChionna 2/2
Gareth Williams
1
 1/2
1
  Non-attendance was due to prior commitments, which could not be 
rescheduled, or for compassionate reasons.
The Company Secretary, Vicki Haynes, attends all meetings 
as secretary to the Risk Committee. In addition, Lance 
Batchelor (Group Chief Executive Officer), Stuart Howard 
(Group Chief Financial Officer), Andy Bulgin (Chief Risk Officer, 
’CRO’) and Helen Webb (Head of Internal Audit) attend by 
invitation. We also invite other executives and Directors 
from around the Group to provide input on relevant agenda 
items and have private meetings with the CRO.
70
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Compliance
The Group has regulated businesses in financial services, 
travel and healthcare, all of which require a robust approach 
to safeguard standards of compliance. At each meeting, the 
Risk Committee reviews the overall Group compliance status 
and receives a report on significant incidents within each of 
our businesses to assess the Company’s response. 
Review of individual businesses
One of the Risk Committee’s first actions was to initiate, on 
a rotational basis, meetings with each of the business CEOs 
and key functional managers to discuss in detail the risk 
and compliance issues in their business. Importantly, these 
meetings have focused both on current operational issues 
and on the implications of business development plans and 
possible changes in our markets, and more generally in 
the economy.
These meetings were prioritised according to risk ratings 
in the Group’s risk register (for further information refer to 
the Group’s principal risks on pages 24-29). During the 
financial year we received presentations from IT (following 
which a more detailed presentation including the threat of 
cybercrime was made to the Board) and Healthcare.
Since the year end, we have received presentations from 
the CEOs of Saga Services, Direct Choice Insurance Services 
and the Shipping division, which included a summary of the 
relevant risk environment and provided confirmation of how 
risk and compliance is embedded within each area.
An evaluation of the Risk Committee’s effectiveness will be 
conducted after a full year of operation. 
Ray King
Chairman, Risk Committee
Allocation of time spent on matters at Risk 
Committee meetings for year ended 31 January 2015
 1.  Risk strategy and policy – 11%
 2. Risk appetite – 6%
 3.  Resourcing and implementation 
of policy – 11%
 4.  Risk report review – 22%
 5.  Compliance report review – 11%
 6.  In-depth review of business  
areas – 28%
 7.  Private meetings with CRO – 11%
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
71
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Responsibility for maintaining regular communications with 
shareholders rests with Lance Batchelor as Group Chief 
Executive Officer and Stuart Howard, Group Chief Financial 
Officer. Lance and Stuart are assisted by the shareholders 
relations team led by Tim McCall, Director of Corporate Affairs.
We attach significant importance to the effectiveness of 
our communications with all of our shareholders and set 
ourselves the target of providing information that is timely, 
clear and concise. 
Saga has a diverse shareholder register which is formed of 
both institutional and retail ownership, the latter numbering 
over 200,000. Saga also has a number of analysts following 
the Company and providing regular research around key 
events and developments such as results and acquisitions 
announcements. As such, communication with these groups 
has been strategically structured in the following way:
Shareholder communication
 – Regular meetings with key shareholders
 – Face-to-face presentations of full year and half year results 
where the Group Chief Executive Officer and directors of 
business areas were available for discussions
 – Face-to-face presentation of the five year strategy at the 
Group’s Capital Markets Day 
 – Telephone briefings for in conjunction with key financial 
announcements. 
 – Live and post-event webcasts of key presentations
 – Investor ‘road shows’
 – Investor days, briefings and ad hoc meetings on request, 
where calendar and regulatory requirements allow
 – Conducted tours of Saga’s operations
 – Notification of key financial calendar information
 – Notification of the provision of live webcasting services  
for key presentations
 – Notification of availability of past key presentations via  
our corporate website
Wider communication
 – Face-to-face presentations of full year and half year results 
where the Group Chief Executive Officer and management 
team were available for discussions 
 – Face-to-face presentation of the five year strategy at the 
Group’s Capital Markets Day 
 – Telephone briefings for analysts in conjunction with key 
financial announcements. 
 – Face-to-face and telephone meetings for analysts with  
the management team
 – Face-to-face presentations with bank sales teams
 – Conducted tours of Saga’s operations for analysts
The Board as a whole is informed on a regular basis about 
the views of key shareholders, including their concerns, along 
with any new analyst research. The Director of Corporate 
Affairs reports directly to the Group Chief Executive Officer 
and Group Chief Financial Officer regarding all shareholder 
and wider market matters and provides regular updates to the 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors by way of face-to-face 
briefings, email updates and an Investor Relations Report, 
which is included at each Board meeting.
Corporate Governance Statement 
Relations with shareholders 
 – Feedback from investor meetings, including key 
questions and concerns
 – Recommendations and expectations of sell-side 
analysts
 – Peer group news
 – Share price performance monitoring
 – Composition of the shareholder register
 – Feedback from our professional and other external 
advisers/market participants
The Board is kept fully up to date on the views 
of shareholders and analysts through: 
72
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Annual Statement
Group highlights for the 2014/15 financial year
Since April 2014, considerable work has been done by 
Andrew, Lance and the senior management team to bring 
further clarity to the ambition and strategy of the Company. 
This has resulted in increased investor interest, activity and 
an uplift in the share price as we closed the fiscal year.
The effectiveness of the strategy has been substantiated 
in the key performance highlights of the year.
 – The Group’s capital efficient, cash generative strategy, 
has led to strong trading performance. In the 2014/15 
financial year, Trading EBITDA increased by 6% to £227.4m 
(2014: £214.5m
1
).
 – Strong profit delivery and continued high levels of cash 
conversion meant the Group beat its debt reduction target 
for 2014/15 and now has a net debt to Trading EBITDA 
ratio of 2.5x. This has allowed the proposed final dividend 
of 4.1p per share to come in at the top end of the range 
detailed in the IPO prospectus. 
 – The Group’s acquisition of Destinology, the digitally focused 
travel company and proposed acquisition, subject to 
regulatory approval of Bennetts, the UK’s leading motorbike 
insurance broker, will allow the Group to expand its footprint 
in areas with significant synergies for the current business. 
When completed Bennetts will add over 200,000 motorbike 
policies and highly complementary customers to the Saga 
database, while Destinology enhances the range of travel 
options available to Saga customers. 
 – The Group’s strategy of expanding into new areas whilst 
maintaining its capital efficient model saw a joint venture 
with Tilney Bestinvest and a partnership with Rangeford 
signalling moves into the wealth management and 
retirement villages sectors. 
Remuneration decisions and activity  
in the 2014/15 financial year
The Remuneration Policies and practices that were outlined 
in detail at the time of the Company’s listing in May 2014 have 
been largely maintained. However, we have taken the opportunity 
to review all the key components of remuneration and amend a 
number of areas in service of our goal of stimulating sustainable 
growth and performance. The Remuneration Committee is 
satisfied that the execution of the policies and practices is in 
line with the intent of the remuneration governance framework.
In particular we:
 – commissioned an updated benchmarking study to 
audit the compensation position that was outlined in 
the listing information. This confirmed to us that Saga’s 
senior executives are appropriately positioned to be well 
rewarded for delivering stretching and sustainable 
business performance.
 – made an adjustment to the 2014/15 annual incentive for 
the Executive Directors, adding a second financial measure  
of debt reduction. We have made further adjustments  
for 2015/16, with 80% of the incentive linked to PBT and  
cash flow targets, and 20% linked to key strategic and 
performance goals which will be determined by the 
Remuneration Committee, in conjunction with management, 
each year. Further details can be found on pages 79 and 91.
1
   Adjusted to allow like-for-like comparison between the two periods.
Gareth Williams Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Dear Shareholder,
I am conscious that this is the first Remuneration Report 
for Saga as a listed company. We started our work as a 
new Remuneration Committee following the initial share 
offering on 29 May 2014. The Remuneration Committee 
reviewed and built on the remuneration work done by 
the Board in the lead up to the IPO and published in 
the Prospectus.
Our goal is to have a Remuneration Policy and strategy 
which stimulates sustainable, value creating growth 
and performance for the business and rewards the 
performance of management accordingly. This has 
guided our thinking and actions in our initial work 
together and our dialogue with senior management.
This report lays out the core principles of our Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy and our practice over the past year. 
I trust we have done this with the transparency and clarity 
that aids your understanding of both our intent and our 
activity. I would appreciate any feedback you have to  
offer on this point (my contact details are at the end  
of the statement).
Attendance during the year
Member Attendance 
Gareth Williams
1
 2/3
Philip Green 3/3
Ray King (Chairman) 3/3
Orna NiChionna 3/3
1
  Non-attendance was due to prior commitments, which could not be 
rescheduled, or for compassionate reasons.
Structure of the Report
Annual Statement (pages 73-74)
 – Directors’ Remuneration Report ‘at a glance’ (pages 75-79)
 – Directors’ Remuneration Policy (pages 80-89) 
 – Annual Report on Remuneration (pages 90-95)
Our core principles of remuneration
 – Sustainable long-term value creation
 – Profitable growth and strong cash generation
 – Attraction, retention and motivation of a talented 
leadership cadre to deliver the business strategy
73
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015  – modified the cash bonus deferral terms for 2015/16, 
introducing a uniform 33% deferral across the total bonus 
achieved rather than the previous arrangement where 
deferral of bonus commenced when bonus payout 
exceeded 60% of salary (whereby one-third of the total 
bonus achieved was deferred into shares). Further details 
can be found on pages 79 and 91.
 – increased the shareholding requirement for the Executive 
Directors. This is now 200% for the Executive Chairman 
and Group Chief Executive Officer (previously 100%) and 
150% for the Group Chief Financial Officer (previously 
100%). The shareholding requirement for the Executive 
Team is 75% of salary.
 – reviewed the two measures in the Long-Term Incentive 
Plan (‘LTIP’) – comparative total shareholder return (‘TSR’) 
and earnings per share (‘EPS’) – and concluded that they 
remain appropriate. The targets for the 2014/15 and 
2015/16 awards are outlined on page 79.
In addition, we have undertaken the following:
 – determined the Remuneration Committee’s terms 
of reference
 – reviewed and reaffirmed the appointment of PwC 
as advisors to the Remuneration Committee
 – formulated the Company’s Remuneration Policy  
as a listed company
 – drafted the Company’s first Remuneration Report  
as a listed company
An evaluation of the Remuneration Committee’s effectiveness 
will be conducted after a full year of operation.
As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I also talked 
with a number of our top shareholders in late March 2015. 
It was a valuable opportunity to have a discussion, and 
receive feedback, on our Company and Remuneration Policy.
We have many valued Saga customers included in our 
shareholder register, so for the benefit of everyone, let me 
summarise the process for considering this Remuneration 
Report at our forthcoming AGM on 23 June 2015.
Allocation of time spent on matters at Remuneration 
Committee meetings for year ended 31 January 2015
 1.  Procedure (terms of reference and 
policy) – 9%
 2.  Executive team 
benchmarking – 21%
 3. Annual bonus metrics – 29%
 4.  Formation of remuneration  
policy/report – 29%
 5.  Employee share plans – 12%
1
2
3
4
5
Under the voting regime that now governs these matters,  
two resolutions will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
We will first seek approval for the Remuneration Policy 
Report (Part A: pages 80-89). This outlines the Company’s 
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors effective from 
the 2015 AGM. The vote is binding on the Remuneration 
Committee and has a duration of up to three years.
The second is seeking approval for the Annual Report on 
Remuneration (Part B: pages 90-95). It details decisions 
and actions taken by the Remuneration Committee over the 
past 12 months and the performance and remuneration 
consequences. This section of the Report is voted 
upon annually.
Our goal has been to be thoughtful and clear in the layout  
of both parts of the Report and I ask for your support on  
both resolutions.
I welcome any feedback from the Company’s shareholders 
and you can contact me on gareth.williams@saga.co.uk if you 
have any questions or comments on this Report.
Gareth Williams
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Annual Statement continued
Notes
This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Large 
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions of the current Corporate 
Governance Code and taking into account the new UK Corporate Governance 
Code (applying for financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2014) (the 
‘Code’) and the Listing Rules. The report consists of three sections:
 – The Annual Statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman and 
associated ‘At a glance section’
 – The Remuneration Policy Report which sets out the Company’s 
remuneration policy for Directors and the key factors that were taken into 
account in setting the policy. This policy will apply for three years from its 
date of approval at the 2015 AGM
 – The Annual Report on Remuneration which sets out payments made to 
the Directors and details the link between Company performance and 
remuneration for the 2014/15 financial year.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee’s Annual Statement and the 
Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the 
AGM. The Remuneration Policy will be subject to a binding vote.
74
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Introduction
In this section, we summarise the purpose of our Remuneration Policy and its linkage to our corporate strategic objectives. We 
highlight the performance and remuneration outcomes for the 2014/15 financial year. More detail can be found in the Remuneration 
Policy Report and Annual Report on Remuneration.
Our remuneration policy and its link to our Group strategy
The Group’s strategy is laid out on pages 14-17. The key elements of the Company’s strategy and how its successful 
implementation is linked to the Company’s remuneration are set out in the following table.
Strategic priorities
Remuneration policy (from the 
date of shareholder approval)
Capitalise on the high-
growth opportunity in our 
core businesses
Make more of our database 
and digital marketing
Continued growth and 
long-term shareholder 
value creation
Equity 
ownership 
and 
retention of 
shares
Retain and 
reward 
Executive 
Team to 
deliver the 
strategy
Fixed remuneration 
(salary, benefits and 
pension)
The Company provides 
competitive levels to attract 
and retain talent required to 
successfully deliver on our 
business strategy.
 – Expand our Insurance 
footprint leveraging our 
existing broker model
 – Grow the Travel 
business which is 
central to the strength 
of our brand
 – Continue to expand 
our high-quality 
personal finance 
offering
 – Make more of our 
database which is an 
exceptionally valuable 
tool which can be 
developed further to 
make segmentation, 
digital marketing and 
distribution an ever 
more significant part  
of our activities
 – C on si s t e n t fi na n cia l 
performance underpinned 
by balanced and profitable 
growth measured  
by PBT and EPS
 – Remain a cash generative 
business which will support 
a progressive dividend 
policy and ensure long-term 
value for shareholders
 – Continue to put 
innovation at the centre of 
our business to meet 
customer needs
Annual bonus metrics
Maximum annual bonus 
opportunity is 150% of salary.
 – two thirds of the total 
bonus to be paid 
immediately in cash
 – one third deferred into 
shares subject to a three 
year vesting period
Profit before tax growth
An incentive to grow in 
the core markets is 
provided in the short term 
through the profit before 
tax (‘PBT’) growth and 
cashflow targets in the 
Annual Bonus Plan.
Group cash flow
The success in 
maximising operational 
excellence will be 
reflected through 
increased profitability  
and cash flow.
Encouraged through bonus 
deferral and shareholding 
requirements.
LTIP metrics
Maximum annual award is 
200% of salary.
Awards will vest at the end of 
three years subject to the 
achievement of:
 – stretching EPS conditions 
which provide alignment to 
our core strategic priorities
 – relative TSR performance of 
the Company which provides 
alignment to the success  
of our business in delivering 
value to our shareholders 
compared with relevant 
comparator companies
An incentive to grow this 
market in the longer term 
is provided through EPS 
growth targeted by  
the LTIP.
The success in 
maximising operational 
excellence will be 
measured through the 
long term through EPS 
growth targeted by the 
LTIP . In addition, sustained 
value generation will be 
reflected in the share 
price of the Company 
which will be measured 
through the Company’s 
TSR performance under 
the LTIP.
TSR and EPS
The generation of cash and 
PBT growth targeted by the 
annual bonus will help 
enhance the value  
of the Company which will 
be measured through the 
success of the Company’s 
TSR performance against  
its comparators (a 
performance condition 
under the LTIP).
Minimum shareholding 
requirements
 – Executive Chairman and 
Group Chief Executive 
Officer 200% of salary
 – Group Chief Financial 
Officer 150% of salary
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
At a glance
75
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 How have we performed?
KPIs Threshold Target Maximum Actual
Percentage of 
maximum bonus 
earned/current 
potential LTIP vesting
Annual Bonus Plan
Group Trading EBITDA £228.9m £233.9m £238.9m £236.4m
2
80.0%
Leverage ratio
1
2.58x 2.51x 2.43x 2.46x 83.5%
LTIP as at year end 
31 January 2015
EPS growth (p.a.) 7% – 12% 13.4% 100%
TSR Median – Upper quartile < Median 0%
Notes
1
 (Bank debt less available cash)/Trading EBITDA.
2
  Trading EBITDA achieved comprises £227.4m on the continuing business and £9.0m on the discontinued Allied Healthcare business. Both areas of the 
business were continuing at the time the performance measures were set.
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors for the 2014/15 financial year
Executive Directors Period
Salary 
£
Taxable 
benefits 
£
Bonus 
£
LTIP 
£
Pension 
£
Other
1
£
Other
2
£ Total
Andrew Goodsell 
(Executive 
Chairman)
2014/15 777,462 41,496 941,506 – 265,915 5,000,000 – 7,026,379
2013/14 777,462 40,456 544,224 n/a 291,207 n/a n/a 1,653,349
Lance Batchelor  
(Group Chief  
Executive Officer)
2014/15 556,667 13,225 655,958 – 102,852 – 4,000,000 5,328,702
2013/14 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Stuart Howard 
(Group Chief  
Financial Officer) 
2014/15 472,781 27,794 477,036 – 180,719 3,000,000 – 4,158,330
2013/14 472,781 17,241 283,669 n/a 186,750 n/a n/a 960,441
Notes:
1
 Executive Directors were provided a one-off award on IPO (‘IPO Award’). For the Executive Chairman and the Group Chief Financial Officer, share awards fully 
vested on IPO (with the sale restrictions on the shares to be lifted on 29 May 2015 in accordance with the lock-up arrangements outlined in the IPO prospectus). 
2
 The Group Chief Executive Officer was provided a cash award and a share award on IPO. 
a. Cash award of £4m awarded based on continued employment. 25% immediately on the IPO, 25% on the first anniversary of the award and 50% on the 
second anniversary; this was part of the buy-out on the recruitment of the Group Chief Executive Officer to compensate for awards lapsing on his ceasing 
employment with his former employer.
b. Share award consisted of a one-off award on IPO of share options calculated by reference to £4m divided by Saga’s share price on Admission of £1.85. 
25% will vest and become exercisable on the third anniversary of the award, 25% on the fourth anniversary and 50% on the fifth anniversary. The exercise 
price associated with the options is £1.85 and therefore the value on grant date was £nil. This was part of the buy-out on the recruitment of the Group Chief 
Executive Officer to compensate for awards lapsing on his ceasing employment with his former employer.
For the full notes accompanying the single figure table, please see page 90 in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
How does the actual remuneration in 2014/15 compare to our proposed Remuneration Policy?
The following charts show the 2014/15 actual remuneration (excluding one-off entitlements set out in the ‘Other’ column of the 
single total figure table) against the proposed Policy levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors.
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
At a glance continued
0
1
2
3
4
Actual Maximum Target Minimum
Fixed elements
£m
Bonus LTIP
100%
£1,084,873
44%
28%
28%
£2,484,305
32%
34%
34%
£3,417,259
54%
46%
£2,026,379
Executive Chairman (Andrew Goodsell)
76
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 0
1
2
3
4
Actual Maximum Target Minimum
Fixed elements
£m
Bonus LTIP
100%
£681,294
49%
26%
26%
£1,390,465
37%
32%
32%
£1,863,246
59%
41%
£1,158,330
Group Chief Financial Officer (Stuart Howard)
0
1
2
3
4
Actual Maximum Target Minimum
Fixed elements
£m
Bonus LTIP
100%
£672,744
37%
27%
36%
£1,841,745
26%
32%
42%
£2,621,079
51%
49%
£1,328,702
Group Chief Executive Officer (Lance Batchelor)
The Policy remuneration that could be payable to each of the Executive Directors is based on salaries at the start of 2014/15, 
under three different performance scenarios: (i) Minimum; (ii) Target; and (iii) Maximum. The elements of remuneration have 
been categorised into three components: (i) Fixed; (ii) Annual Bonus (Deferred Bonus); and (iii) LTIP. In addition, for the 
purposes of comparison we have included the actual single figure remuneration paid in 2014/15 (excluding one-off entitlements 
set out in the ‘Other’ column of the single total figure table on page 76).
Element Description Minimum Target Maximum
Fixed Salary
1
, benefits
2
 and pension. Included. Included. Included.
Annual bonus Annual bonus (including deferred shares). No annual variable. 60% of maximum bonus. 100% of maximum bonus
3
.
LTIP Award under the LTIP No multiple year 
variable.
60% of the maximum 
award.
100% of the maximum 
award
4
.
Note:
1
  Group Chief Executive Officer base salary pro-rated for time served in role for the financial year has been used for the illustrations provided.
2
 Based on 2014/15 financial year benefit payments.
3
  Equating to 150% of base salary for the Executive Chairman, 150% for the Group Chief Executive Officer and 125% for the Group Chief Financial Officer.
4
  Equating to 150% of base salary for the Executive Chairman, 200% for the Group Chief Executive Officer and 125% for the Group Chief Financial Officer.
In accordance with the regulations share price growth has not been included. In addition, dividend equivalents have not been 
added to deferred share bonus and LTIP share awards.
Equity exposure of the Board (audited)
The following table and chart set out all subsisting interests in the equity of the Company held by the Executive Directors 
at 31 January 2015:
Director
Shareholding 
requirement  
(% salary)
Current 
shareholding
(% salary)
1
Shares held directly Other shares held Options
Shareholding 
requirement 
met?
Beneficially
 owned
2
Deferred shares 
not subject to 
performance 
conditions
LTIP interests 
subject to
performance 
conditions Vested Unvested
Executive Directors
Andrew Goodsell 200% 637% 2,702,703 – 630,374 – – Yes
Stuart Howard 150% 629% 1,621,622 – 319,446 – – Yes
Lance Batchelor 200% – – – 702,702 – 2,162,162 No
Non-Executive Directors
James Arnell – – – – – – – n/a
Philip Green – – 32,432 – – – – n/a
Pev Hooper – – – – – – – n/a
Ray King – – 27,027 – – – – n/a
Orna NiChionna – – 10,811 – – – – n/a
Charles Sherwood – – – – – – – n/a
Gareth Williams – – 32,432 – – – – n/a
1
  Values not calculated for Non-Executive Directors as they are not subject to shareholding requirements.
2
  The shares are in respect of Andrew Goodsell and Stuart Howard’s IPO Awards made on Admission. Shares are fully vested but subject to a lock-up period, 
of one year from the date of Admission as disclosed in the IPO prospectus.
77
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Shareholding requirements in operation at the company are currently 200% of base salary for the Executive Chairman and 
Group Chief Executive Officer and 150% for the Group Chief Financial Officer.
Executive Directors are required to build up their shareholdings over a reasonable amount of time which would normally 
be five years and then subsequently hold a shareholding equivalent to a percentage of base salary. 
The number of shares of the Company in which current Directors had a beneficial interest and details of long-term incentive 
interests as at 31 January 2015 are set out below.
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700
Value of/gain on interests over shares (i.e. unvested/unexercised awards)
Value of beneﬁcially owned shares
Shareholding requirement
Value of/gain on interests over shares (i.e. unvested/unexercised awards)
Value of beneﬁcially owned shares
Shareholding requirement
Value of/gain on interests over shares (i.e. unvested/unexercised awards)
Value of beneﬁcially owned shares
Shareholding requirement
Andrew Goodsell
Stuart Howard
Lance Batchelor
% of salary
Notes
 – The closing share price of £1.833 as at 30 January 2015 has been taken for the purpose of calculating the current shareholding (i.e. value of beneficially 
owned shares and value of/gain on interests over shares) as a percentage of salary.
 – Value of/gain on interests over shares comprises unvested 2014 LTIP awards. The one-off IPO share option award for the Group Chief Executive Officer  
has an exercise price of £1.85, hence there was no gain on these awards as at 30 January 2015.
 – Unvested LTIP shares and options do not count towards satisfaction of the shareholding guidelines.
 – In addition, Andrew Goodsell and Stuart Howard have an interest via Acromas Holdings Limited, which has a 100% shareholding in Acromas Bid Co Limited.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy in the 2015/16 financial year
The Remuneration Committee proposes to implement the policy for the 2015/16 financial year, subject to shareholder 
approval, as set out below:
Salary
The following table sets out the proposed salaries for 2015/16:
Name
Salary (£)
2015/16 2014/15 % increase
Andrew Goodsell £793,012 £777,462 2%
Lance Batchelor £663,000 £650,000 2%
Stuart Howard £472,781 £472,781 0%
In addition, the Board has determined to increase the base fee for Non-Executive Directors by 2%.
The average salary rise for employees in 2015/16 is 2%.
Benefits and pension
The values of pension contribution and salary supplement for the financial year are as follows:
Name
Employer pension contribution/  
Salary supplement
1
2015/16
Andrew Goodsell
2
20% of salary
Lance Batchelor 15% of salary 
Stuart Howard
3
20% of salary
1
  Up to the date of approval of the new Remuneration Policy, Andrew Goodsell and Stuart Howard will continue on their respective pension arrangements that 
were in place pre-IPO. With respect to these arrangements, the Company agreed with the Trustees to increase the employer contribution from 11.7% to 
13.6% with effect from 1 February 2015. This applies to all members of the Saga Defined Benefit Pension Scheme.
 
2
 Up to the date of approval of the new Remuneration Policy Andrew Goodsell will receive employer pension contributions capped at 13.6% Company 
contribution (earnings capped at £142,200 for 2014/15) plus 28% cash above cap.
 
3
 Up to the date of approval of the new Remuneration Policy Stuart Howard will receive employer pension contributions capped at 13.6% Company contribution 
(earnings capped at £142,200 for 2014/15) plus 25% cash above cap.
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
At a glance continued
78
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual Bonus Plan
Operation and potential value Performance metrics used, weightings and time period applicable
Maximum bonus opportunity as a percentage of salary:
 – Executive Chairman – 150%
 – Group Chief Executive Officer – 150%
 – Group Chief Financial Officer – 125%
The annual bonus will be paid in cash and deferred shares.  
Two thirds of the total bonus to be paid immediately in cash 
and one third deferred into shares for three years.
The performance conditions and their weightings are as follows:
 – Group PBT – 60%
 – Group cash flow
1
 – 20%
 – Personal objectives – 20%
The Remuneration Committee is of the opinion that given the 
commercial sensitivity arising in relation to the detailed financial 
targets used for the annual bonus, disclosing precise targets for the 
bonus plan in advance would not be in shareholder interests. Actual 
targets, performance achieved and awards made will be published 
at the end of the performance periods so shareholders can fully 
assess the basis for any payouts under the annual bonus.
1
  Defined as net available cash generation.
Long-Term Incentive Plan
There are no proposed changes for the 2015/16 financial year. 
Operation and potential value Performance metrics used, weightings and time period applicable
Maximum value of 200% of salary p.a. based on the market value  
at the date of grant set in accordance with the rules of the Plan.
The proposed grants for the Executive Directors as a percentage  
of salary are:
 – Executive Chairman – 150%
 – Group Chief Executive Officer – 200%
 – Group Chief Financial Officer – 150%
 – 50% EPS – EPS growth of 7% p.a. for 25% of this element of the 
award to vest with full vesting occurring for EPS growth of  
12% p.a.
 – 50% Comparative TSR performance of the Company compared 
to the FTSE 250 (excluding real estate and equity investment 
trusts) – 25% of this element of the award vesting for median  
TSR comparative performance with full vesting at upper quartile.
HMRC Share Incentive Plan
Saga operated a Share Incentive Plan for all employees on IPO in 2014.
Remuneration arrangements for our incoming and outgoing Group Chief Financial Officer
Jonathan Hill was appointed the new Group Chief Financial Officer Designate and joined Saga on 7 April 2015.
Jonathan Hill’s remuneration arrangements on joining Saga are:
 – Base salary – £408,000
 – Pensions and other benefits – 15% p.a. pension contribution (either as a salary supplement or as a maximum contribution 
to the Saga pension scheme of up to 13.6% p.a. and a salary supplement for any amounts above this), use of company 
car with lease value of up to £12,000 p.a. or monthly cash allowance of £1,000, life assurance of four times salary
 – Annual bonus opportunity – 125% of salary
 – Long-term incentive – 150% of salary
 – Buyout award – £190,000
 – The award was made in the form of Saga shares (101,932 shares based on Saga’s closing share price on 7 April 
of 186.40p) which will vest in two equal tranches on the first and second anniversary of the date of Jonathan’s 
commencement of employment with Saga. The vesting is subject to his continued employment with Saga.
After 15 years with Saga, Stuart Howard will step down from his role as Group Chief Financial Officer later this year. Stuart 
will work on a consultant basis until the end of the year. He will receive no termination payment from the Company on his 
cessation of employment. However, under the terms of the existing Deferred Annual Bonus Plan, Long-Term Incentive Plan 
and Saga’s policy around loss of office, as a good leaver he will receive the following incentive payouts from the plans:
Plan Outstanding awards Elements the Remuneration Committee will consider with respect to final payout
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (‘DBP’) 2014/15 DBP Stuart Howard will be treated as a good leaver under the terms of the 
Deferred Bonus Plan on his retirement from the Company.
As a good leaver, all subsisting deferred share awards will vest in full on 
cessation of employment, subject to the discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee (see page 88 for further details).
Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) 2014/15 LTIP Stuart Howard will be treated as a good leaver under the terms of the LTIP 
on his retirement from the Company. 
As a good leaver, the final payout will based on Saga’s achievement of the 
LTIP performance conditions at the end of the three year performance 
period, pro-rated for time served over the performance period, subject to the 
discretion of the Remuneration Committee (see page 89 for further details).
Full details of the remuneration arrangements for Stuart Howard on his departure from Saga and Jonathan Hill’s remuneration 
for 2015/16 will be disclosed in the next year’s remuneration report.
79
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Introduction
In accordance with the new regulations, the Directors’ Remuneration Policy (the ‘Policy’) as set out below will become formally 
effective at the AGM on 23 June 2015 and will apply for the period of three years from the date of approval.
The Company’s core principles of remuneration are to support:
 – sustainable long-term value creation
 – profitable growth and strong cash generation
 – attraction, retention and motivation of a talented leadership cadre to deliver the business strategy.
The Remuneration Committee will review annually the remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors and the 
Executive Team drawing on trends and adjustments made to all employees across the Group and taking into consideration:
 – our business strategy
 – overall corporate performance
 – market conditions affecting the Company
 – the recruitment market where Saga competes for talent
 – changing views of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies.
UK Corporate Governance Code
The Remuneration Committee is comfortable that the proposed Policy is in line with the new UK Corporate Governance Code 
(applying for financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2014). The following table sets out the key elements of the revised 
Code and how the Company’s remuneration policy for Executive Directors is in line with the Code:
Code provision Company Remuneration Policy
Executive Directors’ remuneration should be 
designed to promote the long-term success 
of the Company.
The Company has an LTIP with a three year performance period and has provision for the 
Remuneration Committee to add holding periods post vesting. The policy incorporates 
bonus arrangements where part of the bonus is deferred in shares for three years with 
the facility for the Remuneration Committee to add holding periods post vesting. It is the 
Remuneration Committee’s view that these arrangements provide a holistic approach to 
ensuring Executive Directors are focused on the long-term success of the Company.
For share-based remuneration, the 
Remuneration Committee should consider 
requiring Directors to hold a minimum number 
of shares and to hold shares for a further 
period after vesting or exercise, including for  
a period after leaving the Company, subject  
to the need to finance any costs of acquisition 
and associated tax liabilities.
The policy contains the following relevant features:
 – Minimum shareholding requirement for Group Chief Executive Officer of 200% of salary 
and for the Group Chief Financial Officer 150% of salary
 – The provision for the Remuneration Committee to add holding periods post vesting for 
the Annual Bonus Plan and the LTIP in the policy which are not currently being applied. 
The Remuneration Committee will consider this position on an annual basis when 
determining the implementation of the Policy for the future year.
Schemes should include provisions that 
would enable the Company to recover sums 
paid or withhold the payment of any sum,  
and specify the circumstances in which it 
would be appropriate to do so.
The Annual Bonus Plan, Deferred Bonus Plan and the LTIP include best practice malus 
and/or clawback provisions. 
Malus is the adjustment of unpaid bonus, outstanding LTIP awards and deferred share 
awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan as a result of the occurrence of one or more 
circumstances listed below. The adjustment may result in the value being reduced to zero.
Clawback is the recovery of payments under the Annual Bonus Plan or vested long-term 
incentive awards as a result of the occurrence of one or more circumstances listed below.
The circumstances in which malus and clawback could apply are as follows:
 – Discovery of a material misstatement resulting in an adjustment in the audited 
consolidated accounts of the Company
 – The assessment of any performance target or condition in respect of an award was 
based on error, or inaccurate or misleading information
 – The discovery that any information used to determine the number of shares subject to 
an award was based on error, or inaccurate or misleading information
 – Action or conduct of an award holder which, in the reasonable opinion of the Board, 
amounts to fraud or gross misconduct
 – Events or behaviour of an award holder have led to the censure of the Company by a 
regulatory authority or have had a significant detrimental impact on the reputation of any 
Group Company provided that the Board is satisfied that the relevant award holder was 
responsible for the censure or reputational damage and that the censure or reputational 
damage is attributable to the award holder
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
80
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Applicable period
Annual Bonus Plan Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Long-Term Incentive Plan
Malus Up to the date of the bonus determination. To the end of the three year  
deferral period.
To the end of the three year  
vesting period
Clawback Three years post the bonus determination. Two years post vesting. 
The Remuneration Committee believes that the rules of the Plans provide sufficient powers to enforce malus and clawback 
where required.
Discretion
The Remuneration Committee has discretion in several areas 
of the Remuneration Policy as set out in this Report. The 
Committee may also exercise operational and administrative 
discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders 
as set out in those rules. Where discretion is applied by the 
Remuneration Committee, this will be fully disclosed in the 
following year’s Remuneration Report. In addition, the 
Remuneration Committee has the discretion to amend 
policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where 
it would be, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, 
disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
It is the Remuneration Committee’s intention that commitments 
made in line with its policies prior to 23 June 2015 will be 
honoured, even if satisfaction of such commitments is made 
after the Company’s first AGM on 23 June 2015 and may be 
inconsistent with the above policies.
Differences in policy from the wider  
employee population
The Group aims to provide a remuneration package for 
all employees that is market competitive and operates the 
same core structure as for the Executive Directors. The 
Group operates employee share and variable pay plans, 
with pension provisions provided for all Executive Directors 
and employees. In addition, any salary increases for Executive 
Directors are expected to be generally in line with those for 
UK-based employees.
Consideration of shareholder views
The Remuneration Committee takes the views of the 
shareholders seriously and these views are taken into account 
in shaping Remuneration Policy and practice. Shareholder 
views are considered when evaluating and setting remuneration 
strategy and the Remuneration Committee commits to 
consulting with key shareholders prior to any significant 
changes to this Remuneration Policy. As at 31 January 2015, 
72.02% of our shares were owned by Acromas Bid Co Limited. 
As detailed on page 97 of the Directors’ Report and page 56 
of the Corporate Governance Statement, the Relationship 
Agreement between the Company, Acromas Bid Co Limited 
and certain funds managed or advised by Charterhouse 
Capital Partners, CVC Capital Partners and Permira, provides 
for each such investor to appoint a Non-Executive Director to 
the Board. The combined holdings held through Acromas Bid 
Co Limited were reduced to 62.03% on 27 February 2015.
Shareholder voting at general meeting
The Director’s Remuneration Policy will be put to a binding 
vote at the AGM on 23 June 2015. The Remuneration 
Committee’s Chairman’s Annual Statement and the Annual 
Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote. 
This is the Company’s first year as a public company and 
therefore the 2015 AGM will be the first. This means that 
there is no historical voting to disclose on the Company’s 
executive remuneration. 
81
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Remuneration Policy
Element of 
remuneration
How it supports the Company’s short and long-term  
strategic objectives Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Salary Provides a base level of remuneration to support 
recruitment and retention of Executive Directors with 
the necessary experience and expertise to deliver the 
Group’s strategy.
An Executive Director’s basic salary is set on appointment and 
reviewed annually or when there is a change in position or 
responsibility.
When determining an appropriate level of salary, the Remuneration 
Committee considers:
 – remuneration practices within the Group
 – the general performance of the Group
 – salaries within the ranges paid by the companies in the 
comparator group used for remuneration benchmarking
 – the economic environment.
Individuals who are recruited or promoted to the Board may, on 
occasion, have their salaries set below the targeted policy level until 
they become established in their role. In such cases subsequent 
increases in salary may be higher than the general rises for 
employees until the target positioning is achieved.
The Remuneration Committee ensures that maximum salary levels 
are positioned in line with companies of a similar size to Saga in the 
comparator group.
The companies in the comparator group are the constituents of  
the FTSE 250.
The Remuneration Committee intends to review the comparator group 
each year and may add or remove companies from the group as it 
considers appropriate. Any changes to the comparator group will be 
disclosed in the part of the Report setting out the operation of the 
Policy for the future year.
In general salary increases for Executive Directors will be in line with 
the increase for employees.
The Company will set out in the section headed Implementation of 
Remuneration Policy, in the following financial year the salaries for that 
year for each of the Executive Directors (see page 78).
Benefits Provides a minimum level of benefits to support  
a low fixed cost and a performance-based 
Remuneration Policy.
The Executive Directors receive family private health cover, death in 
service life assurance, a car allowance, subsistence expenses and 
staff discounts in line with other employees. 
The Remuneration Committee recognises the need to maintain 
suitable flexibility in the determination of benefits that ensure it is 
able to support the objective of attracting and retaining personnel and 
therefore additional benefits may be offered such as relocation 
allowances on recruitment.
The maximum will be set at the cost of providing the benefits described.
See description of benefits in previous column.
Pensions Provides a minimum level of pension provision to 
support a low fixed cost and a performance-based 
Remuneration Policy.
The maximum contribution to an Executive Director’s pension or 
salary supplement is 20% of gross basic salary.
A salary supplement would not itself be pensionable or form part of 
salary for the purposes of determining the extent of participation in 
the Company’s incentive arrangements.
Maximum possible contribution 20% of salary.
The Company will set out in the section headed Implementation  
of Remuneration Policy in the following financial year the pension 
contributions for that year for each of the Executive Directors  
(see page 78).
Annual 
Bonus Plan 
and 
Deferred 
Bonus Plan 
(‘DBP’)
The Annual Bonus Plan provides a significant incentive 
to the Executive Directors linked to achievement  
in delivering goals that are closely aligned with  
the Company’s strategy and the creation of value  
for shareholders.
In particular, the Annual Bonus Plan supports the 
Company’s objectives allowing the setting of annual 
targets based on the businesses’ strategic objectives 
at that time, meaning that a wider range of 
performance metrics can be used that are relevant 
and achievable.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to defer 
part of the annual bonus earned in shares under the 
DBP. The advantage of deferral is:
 – ongoing risk adjustment due to the link to the share 
price over the deferral period
 – amounts deferred in shares are also forfeitable  
on a Director’s voluntary cessation of employment 
which provides an effective lock-in.
The Remuneration Committee will determine the maximum annual 
participation in the Annual Bonus Plan for each year, which will not 
exceed 150% of salary.
The Company will set out in the section headed Implementation  
of Remuneration Policy, in the following financial year, the nature  
of the targets and their weighting for each year (see page 79).
Details of the performance conditions, targets and their level of 
satisfaction for the year being reported on will be set out in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee can determine that part of the bonus 
earned under the Annual Bonus Plan is provided as an award of 
shares under the DBP.
The maximum value of deferred shares is 50% of the  
bonus earned.
The main terms of these awards are:
 – minimum deferral period of three years
 – the participant’s continued employment at the end of the deferral 
period unless he/she is a good leaver.
The Remuneration Committee may award dividend equivalents on 
those shares to Plan participants to the extent that they vest.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to apply a holding 
period of two years post vesting for deferred bonus shares.
Percentage of bonus maximum earned for levels of performance:
 –Threshold 20%
 – Target  60%
 –Maximum 100%
The annual bonus will be paid in cash and deferred shares. 
The Annual Bonus Plan is based on a mix of financial and strategic/
operational conditions and is measured over a period of one 
financial year. The financial measures will account for no less than 
50% of the bonus opportunity.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion in exceptional 
circumstances to change performance measures and targets and 
the weightings attached to performance measures part-way 
through a performance year if there is a significant and material 
event which causes the Committee to believe the original measures, 
weightings and targets are no longer appropriate.
Discretion may also be exercised in cases where the Remuneration 
Committee believes that the bonus outcome is not a fair and 
accurate reflection of business performance. The exercise of this 
discretion may result in a downward or upward movement in the 
amount of bonus earned resulting from the application of the 
performance measures.
Any adjustments or discretion applied by the Remuneration 
Committee will be fully disclosed in the following year’s 
Remuneration Report.
The Remuneration Committee is of the opinion that given the 
commercial sensitivity arising in relation to the detailed financial 
targets used for the annual bonus, disclosing precise targets for the 
Annual Bonus Plan in advance would not be in shareholder 
interests. Actual targets, performance achieved and awards made 
will be published at the end of the performance periods so 
shareholders can fully assess the basis for any payouts under the 
annual bonus.
Both the Annual Bonus Plan and the DBP contain malus provisions. 
In addition, the Annual Bonus Plan contains clawback provisions.
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
82
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Remuneration Policy
Element of 
remuneration
How it supports the Company’s short and long-term  
strategic objectives Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Salary Provides a base level of remuneration to support 
recruitment and retention of Executive Directors with 
the necessary experience and expertise to deliver the 
Group’s strategy.
An Executive Director’s basic salary is set on appointment and 
reviewed annually or when there is a change in position or 
responsibility.
When determining an appropriate level of salary, the Remuneration 
Committee considers:
 – remuneration practices within the Group
 – the general performance of the Group
 – salaries within the ranges paid by the companies in the 
comparator group used for remuneration benchmarking
 – the economic environment.
Individuals who are recruited or promoted to the Board may, on 
occasion, have their salaries set below the targeted policy level until 
they become established in their role. In such cases subsequent 
increases in salary may be higher than the general rises for 
employees until the target positioning is achieved.
The Remuneration Committee ensures that maximum salary levels 
are positioned in line with companies of a similar size to Saga in the 
comparator group.
The companies in the comparator group are the constituents of  
the FTSE 250.
The Remuneration Committee intends to review the comparator group 
each year and may add or remove companies from the group as it 
considers appropriate. Any changes to the comparator group will be 
disclosed in the part of the Report setting out the operation of the 
Policy for the future year.
In general salary increases for Executive Directors will be in line with 
the increase for employees.
The Company will set out in the section headed Implementation of 
Remuneration Policy, in the following financial year the salaries for that 
year for each of the Executive Directors (see page 78).
Benefits Provides a minimum level of benefits to support  
a low fixed cost and a performance-based 
Remuneration Policy.
The Executive Directors receive family private health cover, death in 
service life assurance, a car allowance, subsistence expenses and 
staff discounts in line with other employees. 
The Remuneration Committee recognises the need to maintain 
suitable flexibility in the determination of benefits that ensure it is 
able to support the objective of attracting and retaining personnel and 
therefore additional benefits may be offered such as relocation 
allowances on recruitment.
The maximum will be set at the cost of providing the benefits described.
See description of benefits in previous column.
Pensions Provides a minimum level of pension provision to 
support a low fixed cost and a performance-based 
Remuneration Policy.
The maximum contribution to an Executive Director’s pension or 
salary supplement is 20% of gross basic salary.
A salary supplement would not itself be pensionable or form part of 
salary for the purposes of determining the extent of participation in 
the Company’s incentive arrangements.
Maximum possible contribution 20% of salary.
The Company will set out in the section headed Implementation  
of Remuneration Policy in the following financial year the pension 
contributions for that year for each of the Executive Directors  
(see page 78).
Annual 
Bonus Plan 
and 
Deferred 
Bonus Plan 
(‘DBP’)
The Annual Bonus Plan provides a significant incentive 
to the Executive Directors linked to achievement  
in delivering goals that are closely aligned with  
the Company’s strategy and the creation of value  
for shareholders.
In particular, the Annual Bonus Plan supports the 
Company’s objectives allowing the setting of annual 
targets based on the businesses’ strategic objectives 
at that time, meaning that a wider range of 
performance metrics can be used that are relevant 
and achievable.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to defer 
part of the annual bonus earned in shares under the 
DBP. The advantage of deferral is:
 – ongoing risk adjustment due to the link to the share 
price over the deferral period
 – amounts deferred in shares are also forfeitable  
on a Director’s voluntary cessation of employment 
which provides an effective lock-in.
The Remuneration Committee will determine the maximum annual 
participation in the Annual Bonus Plan for each year, which will not 
exceed 150% of salary.
The Company will set out in the section headed Implementation  
of Remuneration Policy, in the following financial year, the nature  
of the targets and their weighting for each year (see page 79).
Details of the performance conditions, targets and their level of 
satisfaction for the year being reported on will be set out in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee can determine that part of the bonus 
earned under the Annual Bonus Plan is provided as an award of 
shares under the DBP.
The maximum value of deferred shares is 50% of the  
bonus earned.
The main terms of these awards are:
 – minimum deferral period of three years
 – the participant’s continued employment at the end of the deferral 
period unless he/she is a good leaver.
The Remuneration Committee may award dividend equivalents on 
those shares to Plan participants to the extent that they vest.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to apply a holding 
period of two years post vesting for deferred bonus shares.
Percentage of bonus maximum earned for levels of performance:
 –Threshold 20%
 – Target  60%
 –Maximum 100%
The annual bonus will be paid in cash and deferred shares. 
The Annual Bonus Plan is based on a mix of financial and strategic/
operational conditions and is measured over a period of one 
financial year. The financial measures will account for no less than 
50% of the bonus opportunity.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion in exceptional 
circumstances to change performance measures and targets and 
the weightings attached to performance measures part-way 
through a performance year if there is a significant and material 
event which causes the Committee to believe the original measures, 
weightings and targets are no longer appropriate.
Discretion may also be exercised in cases where the Remuneration 
Committee believes that the bonus outcome is not a fair and 
accurate reflection of business performance. The exercise of this 
discretion may result in a downward or upward movement in the 
amount of bonus earned resulting from the application of the 
performance measures.
Any adjustments or discretion applied by the Remuneration 
Committee will be fully disclosed in the following year’s 
Remuneration Report.
The Remuneration Committee is of the opinion that given the 
commercial sensitivity arising in relation to the detailed financial 
targets used for the annual bonus, disclosing precise targets for the 
Annual Bonus Plan in advance would not be in shareholder 
interests. Actual targets, performance achieved and awards made 
will be published at the end of the performance periods so 
shareholders can fully assess the basis for any payouts under the 
annual bonus.
Both the Annual Bonus Plan and the DBP contain malus provisions. 
In addition, the Annual Bonus Plan contains clawback provisions.
83
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
Remuneration Policy continued
Element of 
remuneration
How it supports the Company’s short and long-term  
strategic objectives Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Long-Term 
Incentive 
Plan 
(‘LTIP’)
Awards are designed to incentivise the Executive 
Directors to maximise TSR by successfully delivering 
the Company’s objectives and to share in the resulting 
increase in total shareholder value.
The use of EPS ensures Executive Directors are 
focused on ensuring the annual profit performance 
targeted by the Annual Bonus Plan flows through to 
long-term sustainable EPS growth.
The use of comparative TSR measures the success  
of the implementation of the Company’s strategy  
in delivering an above market level of return.
Awards are granted annually to Executive Directors in the form of a 
conditional share award or nil cost option. These will vest at the end 
of a three year period subject to:
 – the Executive Director’s continued employment at the date  
of vesting
 – satisfaction of the performance conditions.
The Remuneration Committee may award dividend equivalents on 
awards to the extent that these vest.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to apply a holding 
period of two years post vesting for the LTIP.
Maximum value of 200% of salary p.a. based on the market value  
at the date of grant set in accordance with the rules of the Plan.
25% of the award will vest for threshold performance. 100% of the 
award will vest for maximum performance. Straight-line vesting 
between these points.
The performance conditions for awards are currently equally 
weighted between EPS growth and comparative TSR.
The Remuneration Committee may change the balance of the 
measures, or use different measures for subsequent awards, 
as appropriate. No material change will be made to the type of 
performance conditions without prior shareholder consultation.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion in exceptional 
circumstances to change performance measures and targets 
and the weightings attached to performance measures part-way 
through a performance period if there is a significant and material 
event which causes the Remuneration Committee to believe 
the original measures, weightings and targets are no longer 
appropriate. 
Discretion may also be exercised in cases where the Remuneration 
Committee believes that the outcome is not a fair and accurate 
reflection of business performance. The exercise of this discretion 
may result in a downward or upward movement in the amount of 
the LTIP vesting resulting from the application of the performance 
measures.
Details of the performance conditions for grants made in the year 
will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration and for future 
grants in the section headed Implementation of Remuneration 
Policy, in the future financial year.
The LTIP contains clawback and malus provisions.
Share 
Incentive 
Plan (‘SIP’)
The purpose of the SIP is to encourage all employees to become shareholders in the Company and thereby align their 
interests with shareholders.
The maximums set by legislation from time to time.
The Company retains the discretion to introduce additional plans,  
and to make Directors eligible for these as appropriate.
The Company in accordance with the legislation may impose 
objective conditions on awards of free shares to employees.
Minimum 
shareholding 
requirement
The Remuneration Committee has adopted formal shareholding guidelines that will encourage the Executive Directors to 
build up over a five year period and then subsequently hold a shareholding equivalent to a percentage of base salary. 
Adherence to these guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the equity incentive arrangements. This policy 
ensures that the interests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders are closely aligned. The following table sets out 
the minimum shareholding requirements:
Role Shareholding requirement (percentage of salary)
Group Chief Executive Officer and Executive Chairman 200%
Group Chief Financial Officer 150%
The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to 
increase the shareholding requirements.
Non-
Executive 
Director fees
Provides a level of fees to support recruitment and 
retention of Non-Executive Directors with the necessary 
experience to advise and assist with establishing and 
monitoring the Group’s strategic objectives. 
The Board as a whole is responsible for setting the remuneration  
of the Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are paid a base fee and additional fees  
for chairmanship of committees. The Committee Chairmen do not 
receive any additional fees for membership of other committees.
Fees are reviewed annually based on equivalent roles in  
the comparator group used to review salaries paid to the  
Executive Directors. Fees are set at broadly the median of  
the comparator group.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any variable 
remuneration or benefits arrangements.
The fees for Non-Executive Directors are set at broadly the median  
of the comparator group.
In general the level of fee increase for the Non-Executive Directors will 
be set taking account of any change in responsibility and will take into 
account the general rise in salaries across the UK workforce.
The Company will pay reasonable expenses incurred by the 
Committee Chairmen and Non-Executive Directors and may settle 
any tax incurred in relation to these.
None.
84
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Remuneration Policy continued
Element of 
remuneration
How it supports the Company’s short and long-term  
strategic objectives Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Long-Term 
Incentive 
Plan 
(‘LTIP’)
Awards are designed to incentivise the Executive 
Directors to maximise TSR by successfully delivering 
the Company’s objectives and to share in the resulting 
increase in total shareholder value.
The use of EPS ensures Executive Directors are 
focused on ensuring the annual profit performance 
targeted by the Annual Bonus Plan flows through to 
long-term sustainable EPS growth.
The use of comparative TSR measures the success  
of the implementation of the Company’s strategy  
in delivering an above market level of return.
Awards are granted annually to Executive Directors in the form of a 
conditional share award or nil cost option. These will vest at the end 
of a three year period subject to:
 – the Executive Director’s continued employment at the date  
of vesting
 – satisfaction of the performance conditions.
The Remuneration Committee may award dividend equivalents on 
awards to the extent that these vest.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to apply a holding 
period of two years post vesting for the LTIP.
Maximum value of 200% of salary p.a. based on the market value  
at the date of grant set in accordance with the rules of the Plan.
25% of the award will vest for threshold performance. 100% of the 
award will vest for maximum performance. Straight-line vesting 
between these points.
The performance conditions for awards are currently equally 
weighted between EPS growth and comparative TSR.
The Remuneration Committee may change the balance of the 
measures, or use different measures for subsequent awards, 
as appropriate. No material change will be made to the type of 
performance conditions without prior shareholder consultation.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion in exceptional 
circumstances to change performance measures and targets 
and the weightings attached to performance measures part-way 
through a performance period if there is a significant and material 
event which causes the Remuneration Committee to believe 
the original measures, weightings and targets are no longer 
appropriate. 
Discretion may also be exercised in cases where the Remuneration 
Committee believes that the outcome is not a fair and accurate 
reflection of business performance. The exercise of this discretion 
may result in a downward or upward movement in the amount of 
the LTIP vesting resulting from the application of the performance 
measures.
Details of the performance conditions for grants made in the year 
will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration and for future 
grants in the section headed Implementation of Remuneration 
Policy, in the future financial year.
The LTIP contains clawback and malus provisions.
Share 
Incentive 
Plan (‘SIP’)
The purpose of the SIP is to encourage all employees to become shareholders in the Company and thereby align their 
interests with shareholders.
The maximums set by legislation from time to time.
The Company retains the discretion to introduce additional plans,  
and to make Directors eligible for these as appropriate.
The Company in accordance with the legislation may impose 
objective conditions on awards of free shares to employees.
Minimum 
shareholding 
requirement
The Remuneration Committee has adopted formal shareholding guidelines that will encourage the Executive Directors to 
build up over a five year period and then subsequently hold a shareholding equivalent to a percentage of base salary. 
Adherence to these guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the equity incentive arrangements. This policy 
ensures that the interests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders are closely aligned. The following table sets out 
the minimum shareholding requirements:
Role Shareholding requirement (percentage of salary)
Group Chief Executive Officer and Executive Chairman 200%
Group Chief Financial Officer 150%
The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to 
increase the shareholding requirements.
Non-
Executive 
Director fees
Provides a level of fees to support recruitment and 
retention of Non-Executive Directors with the necessary 
experience to advise and assist with establishing and 
monitoring the Group’s strategic objectives. 
The Board as a whole is responsible for setting the remuneration  
of the Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are paid a base fee and additional fees  
for chairmanship of committees. The Committee Chairmen do not 
receive any additional fees for membership of other committees.
Fees are reviewed annually based on equivalent roles in  
the comparator group used to review salaries paid to the  
Executive Directors. Fees are set at broadly the median of  
the comparator group.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any variable 
remuneration or benefits arrangements.
The fees for Non-Executive Directors are set at broadly the median  
of the comparator group.
In general the level of fee increase for the Non-Executive Directors will 
be set taking account of any change in responsibility and will take into 
account the general rise in salaries across the UK workforce.
The Company will pay reasonable expenses incurred by the 
Committee Chairmen and Non-Executive Directors and may settle 
any tax incurred in relation to these.
None.
85
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Illustrations of application of Remuneration Policy
See tables on pages 76-77.
Recruitment policy
The Company’s principle is that the remuneration of any new recruit will be assessed in line with the same principles as for the 
Executive Directors, as set out in the Remuneration Policy table above. The Remuneration Committee is mindful that it wishes 
to avoid paying more than it considers necessary to secure a preferred candidate with the appropriate calibre and experience 
needed for the role. In setting the remuneration for new recruits, the Remuneration Committee will have regard to guidelines 
and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short-term or long-term incentive payments as well as giving 
consideration for the appropriateness of any performance measures associated with an award.
The Company’s detailed policy when setting remuneration for the appointment of new Directors is summarised in the table below:
Remuneration element Recruitment policy
Salary, benefits and pension These will be set in line with the policy for existing Executive Directors.
Annual bonus Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Company’s policy for existing Executive 
Directors and will not exceed 150% of salary.
LTIP Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Company’s policy for existing Executive 
Directors and will not exceed 200% of salary.
‘Buyout’ of incentives forfeited on 
cessation of employment
Where the Remuneration Committee determines that the individual circumstances of recruitment justified 
the provision of a buyout, the equivalent value of any incentives that will be forfeited on cessation of an 
Executive Director’s previous employment will be calculated taking into account the following:
 – The proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Executive Director’s 
cessation of employment
 – The performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them 
being satisfied
 – Any other terms and conditions having a material effect on their value (‘lapsed value’)
The Remuneration Committee may then grant up to the same value as the lapsed value, where 
possible, under the Company’s incentive plans. To the extent that it was not possible or practical to 
provide the buyout within the terms of the Company’s existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement 
would be used.
Sign-on compensation The Remuneration Committee’s policy is not to provide sign-on compensation. 
However, in exceptional circumstances where the Remuneration Committee decides to provide this 
type of compensation it will endeavour to provide the compensation in equity, subject to a holding 
period during which cessation of employment will generally result in forfeiture and subject to the 
satisfaction of performance targets. The maximum value of this one-off compensation will be 
proportionate to the overall remuneration offered by the Company and in all circumstances is limited 
to 150% of salary.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the policy set out above would apply from the date of promotion  
but there would be no retrospective application of the policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration 
arrangements. Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured  
and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the person concerned. These would be disclosed to shareholders in the 
Remuneration Report for the relevant financial year.
The Company’s policy when setting fees for the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors is to apply the policy which 
applies to current Non-Executive Directors.
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
86
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Service agreements and letters of appointment 
Executive Directors
Notice periods
Compensation provisions  
for early termination Name Date of service contract Nature of contract From Company From Director
Andrew Goodsell 2 May 2014 Rolling 12 months 6 months None
Lance Batchelor 2 May 2014 Rolling 6 months 6 months None
Stuart Howard 2 May 2014 Rolling 12 months 6 months None
Non-Executive Directors
Name Date of letter of appointment
Phillip Green 29 May 2014
Ray King 29 May 2014
Orna NiChionna 29 May 2014
Gareth Williams 29 May 2014
James Arnell 5 May 2014
Pev Hooper 5 May 2014
Charles Sherwood 5 May 2014
The Remuneration Committee’s policy for setting notice periods is that a six month period will apply for Executive Directors 
unless the Remuneration Committee determines that 12 months would be more appropriate in the circumstances. The 
Remuneration Committee may in exceptional circumstances arising on recruitment, allow a longer period, which would in any 
event reduce to either six or 12 months following the first year of employment. The Non-Executive Directors of the Company 
do not have service contracts. The Non-Executive Directors are appointed by letters of appointment. Each independent 
Non-Executive Director’s term of office runs for a three year period. 
The Company follows the UK Corporate Governance Code’s recommendation that all directors of FTSE 350 companies be 
subject to annual re-appointment by shareholders.
87
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Payment for loss of office 
The Remuneration Committee will honour Executive Directors’ contractual entitlements. Service contracts do not contain 
liquidated damages clauses. There are no contractual arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited or no 
abatement on severance or early retirement. There is no agreement between the Company and its Executive Directors or 
employees, providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid. 
The Company has the ability to terminate the service agreements of the Executive Directors by the payment of a cash sum 
in lieu of notice equal to the aggregate of (i) salary; (ii) the cost to the Company of providing the Executive Director’s pension 
benefits; and (iii) the cost to the Company of providing private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life insurance 
(for Andrew Goodsell and Stuart Howard only) and the Company car or car allowance, in each case during the notice period. 
The payment in lieu of notice can, at the Company’s discretion, be paid as a lump sum or in equal monthly instalments over 
the notice period. There is a mechanism to reduce the monthly instalments if the Executive Director commences alternative 
employment during the notice period. In addition, on termination the Executive Directors are entitled to be paid in lieu of 
accrued but untaken holiday.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in 
discharge of an existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation); or by way of settlement or 
compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Director’s office or employment.
Remuneration element Treatment on cessation of employment
Salary, benefits and 
pension
These will be paid over the notice period. The Company has discretion to make a payment as set out above. 
Annual Bonus Plan Good leaver reason
Pro-rated to time and performance for year of cessation.
Other reason
No bonus payable for year of cessation.
Deferred Bonus Plan Good leaver reason
All subsisting deferred 
share awards will vest  
in full on cessation  
of employment.
Other reason
Lapse of any unvested 
deferred share awards.
Discretion
The Remuneration Committee has the following 
elements of discretion:
 – To determine that an executive is a good 
leaver. It is the Remuneration Committee’s 
intention to only use this discretion in 
circumstances where there is an appropriate 
business case which will be explained in full 
to shareholders.
 – To vest deferred shares at the end of the 
original deferral period or at the date of 
cessation. The Remuneration Committee will 
make this determination depending on the 
type of good leaver reason resulting in the 
cessation; and
 – Whether to pro-rate the maximum number of 
shares to the time from the date of grant to 
the date of cessation. The Remuneration 
Committee’s policy is that it will not pro-rate 
for time. The Remuneration Committee will 
determine whether or not to pro-rate based 
on the circumstances of the Executive 
Director’s departure.
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
88
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Remuneration element Treatment on cessation of employment
LTIP Good leaver reason
Pro-rated to time and 
performance in respect  
of each subsisting  
LTIP award.
Other reason
Lapse of any unvested  
LTIP awards.
Discretion
The Remuneration Committee has the following 
elements of discretion:
 – To determine that an executive is a good 
leaver. It is the Remuneration Committee’s 
intention to only use this discretion in 
circumstances where there is an appropriate 
business case which will be explained in full 
to shareholders.
 – To measure performance over the original 
deferral period or at the date of cessation. 
The Remuneration Committee will make this 
determination depending on the type of good 
leaver reason resulting in the cessation; and
 – To pro-rate the maximum number of shares to 
the time from the date of grant to the date of 
cessation. The Remuneration Committee’s 
policy is that it will pro-rate awards for time. 
It is the Remuneration Committee’s intention 
to use discretion to not pro-rate in 
circumstances where there is an appropriate 
business case which will be explained in full 
to shareholders.
Other contractual 
obligations
There are no other contractual provisions other than those set out above agreed prior to 27 June 2012. 
A good leaver reason is defined as cessation in the following circumstances:
 – death
 – ill-health
 – injury or disability
 – retirement
 – employing company ceasing to be a Group company
 – transfer of employment to a company which is not a Group company
 – at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee (as described above).
Cessation of employment in circumstances other than those set out above is cessation for other reasons.
Change of control
The Remuneration Committee’s policy on the vesting of incentives on a change of control is summarised below:
Name of incentive plan Change of control Discretion
Annual Bonus Plan Pro-rated to time and performance to the 
date of the change of control.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to continue the 
operation of the Plan to the end of the bonus year.
Deferred Bonus Plan Subsisting deferred share awards will vest 
on a change of control.
The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to pro-rate  
to time.
LTIP The number of shares subject to subsisting 
LTIP awards on a change of control will be 
pro-rated to time and performance.
There is a presumption that the Remuneration Committee will 
pro-rate to time. The Remuneration Committee will only waive pro-
rating in exceptional circumstances where it views the change of 
control as an event which has provided exceptional enhanced 
value to shareholders which will be fully explained to shareholders. 
In all cases the performance conditions must be satisfied.
89
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration
Single total figure of remuneration (audited)
Executive Directors (audited)
The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director in respect of the 
2014/15 financial year. Comparative figures for the 2013/14 financial year have also been provided. Figures provided have been 
calculated in accordance with the new UK disclosure requirements: the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (Schedule 8 to the Regulations).
Executive Directors Period
Salary
£
Taxable 
benefits
2
£
Bonus
£
LTIP
£
Pension
3
£
Other
4
£
Other
5
£
Total
£
Andrew Goodsell 
(Executive 
Chairman)
2014/15 777,462 41,496 941,506 – 265,915 5,000,000 – 7,026,379
2013/14 777,462 40,456 544,224 n/a 291,207 n/a n/a 1,653,349
Lance Batchelor
1
 
(Group Chief  
Executive Officer)
2014/15 556,667 13,225 655,958 – 102,852 – 4,000,000 5,328,702
2013/14 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Stuart Howard  
(Group Chief  
Financial Officer) 
2014/15 472,781 27,794 477,036 – 180,719 3,000,000 – 4,158,330
2013/14 472,781 17,241 283,669 n/a 186,750 n/a n/a 960,441
Notes:
1
 The Group Chief Executive Officer was appointed on 24 March 2014. Salary, taxable benefits and pension provision pro-rated in accordance to time in role.
2
 The types of benefits provided are set out in the Policy section of the Report.
3
 Pension contribution for the Executive Chairman and the Group Chief Financial Officer was 11.7% company contribution to the Saga Plus Pension (earnings 
capped at £142,200 for 2014/15 and £138,000 for 2013/14) and 28% and 25% of salary as cash supplement above the cap respectively. The Group Chief 
Executive Officer is provided a total of 15% of salary pension contribution and cash supplement.
4
 Executive Directors were provided a one-off award on IPO (“IPO Award”). For the Executive Chairman and the Group Chief Financial Officer, share awards fully 
vested on IPO (with the sale restrictions on the shares to be lifted on 29 May 2015 in accordance with the lock up arrangements outlined in the IPO 
prospectus). 
5
 The Group Chief Executive Officer was provided a cash award and a share award on IPO. 
a. Cash award of £4m awarded based on continued employment. 25% immediately on the IPO, 25% on the first anniversary of the award and 50% on the 
second anniversary; this was part of the buy-out on the recruitment of the Group Chief Executive Officer to compensate for awards lapsing on his ceasing 
employment with his former employer.
b. Share award consisted of a one-off award on IPO of share options calculated by reference to £4m divided by Saga’s share price on Admission of £1.85. 
25% will vest and become exercisable on the third anniversary of the award, 25% on the fourth anniversary and 50% on the fifth anniversary. The exercise 
price associated with the options is £1.85 and therefore the value on grant date was £nil. This was part of the buy-out on the recruitment of the Group Chief 
Executive Officer to compensate for awards lapsing on his ceasing employment with his former employer.
Non-Executive Directors (audited) 
The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-Executive Director. 
2014/15 2013/14
Non-Executive 
Directors
1
Fees
2
 
£
Taxable 
benefits 
£
Total 
£
Fees 
£
Taxable 
benefits 
£
Total 
£ Roles
Phillip Green 60,692 – 60,692 n/a n/a n/a Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 
Nomination Committee Chairman
Ray King 53,949 – 53,949 n/a n/a n/a Non-Executive Director, Audit Committee 
Chairman, Risk Committee Chairman
Orna NiChionna 40,462 – 40,462 n/a n/a n/a Non-Executive Director
Gareth Williams 47,205 – 47,205 n/a n/a n/a Non-Executive Director,  
Remuneration Committee Chairman
1
 James Arnell, Pev Hooper and Charles Sherwood are Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors who do not receive a fee from Saga plc.
2
 Fees received for time served in financial year.
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Annual Report on Remuneration
90
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual fees
2014/15 annual fee 
£
2013/14 annual fee
£
Board fee 60,000 n/a
Committee Chairmanship (per committee) 10,000 n/a
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director fee 20,000 n/a
Annual bonus 
In respect of the 2014/15 financial year, the bonus awards payable to Executive Directors were agreed by the Remuneration 
Committee having reviewed the Group’s results. Details of the targets used to determine bonuses in respect of the 2014/15 
financial year and the extent to which they were satisfied are shown in the table below. These figures are included in the single 
figure table.
Performance  
condition Weighting
Threshold 
performance 
required
Maximum 
performance 
required
Actual 
performance
Annual bonus 
value for 
threshold and 
maximum 
performance
(% of maximum)
Percentage of 
maximum  
performance 
achieved
Annual bonus value achieved
A Goodsell L Batchelor S Howard
Group Trading 
EBITDA
80% £228.9m £238.9m £236.4m 20%-100% 80.0% 96.0% of 
salary
93.4% of 
salary
80.0% of 
salary
Leverage ratio
1
20% 2.58x 2.43x 2.46x 20%-100% 83.5% 25.1% of 
salary
24.4% of 
salary
20.9% of 
salary
Total 100% – 80.7% 121.1% of 
salary
117.8% of 
salary
100.9% of 
salary
Total £ £941,506 £655,958 £477,036
Notes:
1
 Leverage ratio is calculated as (Bank debt less available cash) / Trading EBITDA.
 – The leverage ratio excludes any discretionary investments which may be approved by the Board outside of the budget during the course of the year.
 – The ‘threshold’ and ‘maximum’ leverage ratios are built around the corresponding threshold (£228.9m) and maximum (£238.9m) Trading EBITDA targets.
Under the terms of the Annual Bonus Plan, 20% for each element is payable for achieving the threshold performance 
increasing to 60% for target performance and 100% for achieving maximum performance. Achievements between these 
points are calculated on a straight-line basis.
The Group achieved a total Trading EBITDA for the year of £236.4m, comprising £227.4m on the continuing business and £9.0m 
in respect of the discontinued Allied Healthcare business (the latter being part of the Budget upon which the targets were set).
The Group’s Leverage ratio at 31 January 2015 was 2.46x, calculated as follows:
Net Debt/Trading EBITDA = (£700.0m – £117.7m) / £236.4m
The bonus for the 2014/15 financial year will be paid two thirds in cash and one third deferred in shares which will vest after 
three years based on continued employment.
No discretion was exercised by the Remuneration Committee in relation to the outcome of the annual bonus awards.
Awards granted on Admission
Nil cost options were granted on the day of Admission to the Executive Chairman, Group Chief Financial Officer and 55 other 
employees of the Group to recognise their contribution to the business in the lead up to Admission (options were granted with 
reference to the share price on Admission). 
91
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Name
Award 
type
Basis on 
which 
award 
made
Face value 
of award
£
Number 
of shares
Percentage of 
award vesting at 
threshold 
performance
%
Maximum 
percentage of 
face value that 
could vest 
% Performance conditions
Andrew 
Goodsell
Fully 
vested 
shares
One-off 
award
£5,000,000 2,702,702 100% 100% None. 
Award subject to lock-up period, 
one year from the date of 
Admission as disclosed in the 
IPO prospectus.
Stuart 
Howard
Fully 
vested 
shares
One-off 
award
£3,000,000 1,621,621 100% 100% None. 
Award subject to lock-up period, 
one year from the date of 
Admission as disclosed in the 
IPO prospectus.
As disclosed in the IPO prospectus, the awards for the Executive Chairman and the Group Chief Financial Officer are fully vested on grant (subject to the lock-up 
arrangements) and the options will be exercisable for ten years from grant.
One-off awards
As part of the successful IPO, Lance Batchelor was provided a share option with a face value of £4m with an exercise price set 
at the price on Admission of £1.85. 25% of the shares under the options will vest on the third anniversary of Admission, a further 
25% on the fourth anniversary of Admission and the final 50% on the fifth anniversary of Admission. 
In addition, Lance was provided a £1m cash bonus on IPO with a further £1m cash bonus on the first anniversary  
of the IPO and £2m cash bonus on the second anniversary of the IPO. 
These awards were agreed as part of his recruitment and the buyout of bonus and share awards which lapsed on his joining Saga.
Neither the awards granted on Admission nor the one-off awards are part of the Remuneration Committee’s future 
Remuneration Policy.
Long-term incentives awarded in the 2014/15 financial year (audited)
The table below sets out the details of the long-term incentive awards granted in the 2014/15 financial year where vesting will 
be determined according to the achievement of performance conditions that will be tested in future reporting periods:
Name
Award 
type
Basis on 
which 
award 
made
Face value 
of award
£
Shares 
awarded
Percentage of 
award vesting at 
threshold 
performance 
%
Maximum 
percentage of 
face value that 
could vest 
% Performance conditions
Andrew Goodsell LTIP Annual £1,166,193 630,374 25% 100% Relative TSR and EPS equally weighted
Lance Batchelor LTIP Annual £1,300,000 702,702 25% 100% Relative TSR and EPS equally weighted
Stuart Howard LTIP Annual £590,976 319,446 25% 100% Relative TSR and EPS equally weighted
The awards were granted on 30 June 2014; the face value is calculated with reference to the share price on Admission of 
£1.85. The performance conditions are set out on page 79 in the Implementation of Remuneration Policy in the 2015/16 
financial year. The awards will vest, subject to the level of performance achieved, on 30 June 2017.
Payments to past Directors/payments for loss of office
There were no payments in the financial year.
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests
See tables on pages 77-78.
Fees retained for external non-executive directorships
Executive Directors may hold positions in other companies as Non-Executive Directors and retain the fees. 
Andrew Goodsell and Stuart Howard are directors of Acromas Holdings Limited. They do not receive a fee for their positions. 
Lance Batchelor is a Trustee of the charity White Ensign Association and is a Trustee of the National Gallery; he does not 
receive a fee for either position. 
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
92
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Comparison of overall performance and pay
The graph below shows the value of £100 invested in the Company’s shares since listing compared with the FTSE 250 Index. The 
graph shows the TSR generated by both the movement in share value and the re-investment over the same period of dividend income. 
The Remuneration Committee considers that the FTSE 250 is the appropriate index because the Company has been a 
member of this since listing. This graph has been calculated in accordance with Regulations. It should be noted that the 
Company listed on 23 May 2014 and therefore only has a listed share price for the period of 23 May 2014 to 31 January 2015.
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
30/01/15 31/12/14 28/11/14 31/10/14 30/09/14 29/08/14 31/07/14 30/06/14 30/05/14 23/05/14
Saga FTSE 250 Index
Executive Chairman historical remuneration
The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Executive Chairman over the last two years valued using  
the methodology applied to the single total figure of remuneration. The Remuneration Committee does not believe that the 
remuneration payable in its earlier years as a private company bears any comparative value to that paid in its later years and 
therefore the Remuneration Committee has chosen to disclose remuneration only for the two most recent financial years:
Executive Chairman 2014/15 2013/14
Total single figure (£) 7,026,379 1,653,349
Annual bonus payment level achieved (% of maximum opportunity) 80.7% 70%
LTIP vesting level achieved (% of maximum opportunity) n/a n/a
Option vesting level achieved (% of maximum opportunity) n/a n/a
There was no long-term incentive plan or share option plan operated prior to listing. It should be noted that £5m of single total 
figure for 2014/15 related to the award granted on Admission, which was a one-off payment.
Relative importance of the spend on pay
The table below sets out the relative importance of spend on pay in the 2014/15 financial year and 2013/14 financial year 
compared with other disbursements. The Company as a UK-based business believes that its total tax contribution to the 
UK is a relevant consideration when considering disbursements from profit. All figures provided are taken from the relevant 
Company accounts.
 
Disbursements from profit in 
2014/15 financial year 
£m
Disbursements from profit in 
2013/14 financial year 
£m % change
Profit distributed by way of dividend Nil Nil n/a
Total tax contributions
1,2
51.6 102.7 -49.8%
Overall spend on pay  
including Executive Directors
330.7 368.8 -10.3%
1
 Total tax contributions include corporation tax, PAYE, national insurance contributions, VAT and Air Passenger Duty.
2
 The reduction in tax contributions is driven by corporation tax, where 2014/15 has reduced due to deductions for loan interest, and payments were 
made during 2013/14 in respect of the previous year, 2012/13.
Change in the Executive Chairman’s remuneration compared with employees
The following table sets out the change in the remuneration paid to the Executive Chairman from 2013/14 to 2014/15 
compared to the average percentage change for employees. 
The Executive Chairman’s remuneration disclosed in the table below has been calculated to take into account base salary, 
taxable benefits and annual bonus (including any amount deferred).
93
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 The employee pay has been calculated using the following elements: annual salary – base salary and standard monthly 
allowances; taxable benefits – car allowance and private medical insurance premiums; annual bonus – company bonus, 
management bonus, commission and incentive payments.
Salary
Taxable 
benefits Bonus
2014/15 2013/14
Percentage 
change 2014/15 2013/14
Percentage 
change 2014/15 2013/14
Percentage 
Change
Executive 
Chairman
£777,462 £777,462 0.0% £41,496 £40,456 +2.6% £941,506 £544,223 +73.0%
Average per 
employee (full 
time equivalent)
£23,870 £22,510 +6.0% £543 £537 +1.1% £2,999 £2,789 +7.5%
Notes: 
Number of full time equivalent (FTE) employees: 3,404 (2014/15 financial year); 3,219 (2013/14 financial year). This includes all permanent and fixed term contract 
staff. The following should be noted:
 – Employees within Destinology have not been included for the purposes of calculation during this year as they only joined the Group part way through the 
financial year; they will be included in future years.
 – Employees within the Allied/Nestor Primecare Services business have not been included for the purposes of calculation as they represent a disposal group 
held for sale and as such are considered a discontinued operation for reporting purposes.
 – Ships’ crew who are employed via a manning agency are excluded.
Statement of conditions elsewhere in the Group
Each year, prior to reviewing the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the members of the Executive Team, the 
Remuneration Committee considers a report prepared by the Group HR Director detailing remuneration practice across the 
Group. The report provides an overview of how employee pay compares to the market, any material changes during the year 
and includes detailed analysis of basic pay and variable pay changes within the UK. 
While the Company does not directly consult with employees as part of the process of reviewing executive pay and formulating 
the remuneration policy set out in this Report, the Company does receive an update and feedback from the broader employee 
population on an annual basis using an engagement survey which includes a number of questions relating to remuneration. 
The Group does not use remuneration comparison measurements.
Cascade of incentives through our organisation
Maximum bonus award Maximum LTIP award Organisational level
100% 100% Executive Team
60% 60% Directors
40% 40% Senior leadership
Up to 40% – Rest of employee population
Statement of implementation of the Remuneration Policy in the 2015/16 financial year
See tables on pages 78-79.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ Remuneration 
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee, under agreed terms of reference, responsibility for the 
Remuneration Policy and for determining specific packages for the Executive Directors, the Executive Chairman and other 
members of the Executive Team. Prior to the establishment of this Remuneration Committee, remuneration decisions were 
made by the Board of the Company. The Company consults with key shareholders in respect of remuneration policy and the 
introduction of new incentive arrangements. 
The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee are available on the Company’s website,  
http://www.corporate.saga.co.uk/investor-relations/corporate-governance, and from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
Our main responsibilities are: 
 – to determine and agree with the Board the broad remuneration policy for the Senior Executives. 
 – to recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management. 
 – to review the on-going appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy. 
 – to review any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Company or Group and to administer all 
aspects of any share scheme. 
 – to administer all aspects of any all-employee share scheme.
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
94
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 The Remuneration Committee receives assistance from the Group HR Director and Company Secretary, who attend meetings 
by invitation, except when issues relating to their own remuneration are being discussed. The Group Chief Executive Officer 
and Group Chief Financial Officer attend by invitation on occasions. The Remuneration Committee met three times during the 
financial year. Meeting attendance is shown on page 73 of this Report. For the names of each Remuneration Committee 
member, see page 73.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee 
Following a selection process carried out by the Board prior to the IPO of the Company, the Remuneration Committee has 
engaged the services of PwC as independent remuneration adviser.
During the financial year, PwC advised the Remuneration Committee on all aspects of the remuneration policy for Executive 
Directors and members of the Executive Team. PwC also provided the Company with tax and assurance work during the year. 
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the nature of the services provided and was satisfied that no conflict of interest exists 
or existed in the provision of these services.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and the voluntary code of conduct of that body is designed to 
ensure objective and independent advice is given to remuneration committees. Fixed fees of £57,500 (2013/14: £nil) were 
provided to PwC during the year in respect of remuneration advice received.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Saga plc.
By Order of the Board
Gareth Williams
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
29 April 2015
95
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Directors’ Report 
The Directors present their report together with the audited 
consolidated financial statements for the year ended 
31 January 2015 in accordance with section 415 of the 
Companies Act 2006 which were approved by the Board 
on 29 April 2015.
Management report
The Directors’ Report, together with the Strategic Report  
set out on pages 02-53 form the Management Report for 
the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.5R.
Statutory information contained elsewhere in the 
annual report 
Information required to be part of this Directors’ Report can 
be found elsewhere in the annual report as indicated in the 
table below and is incorporated into this report by reference: 
Information 
Location in  
annual report 
Likely future developments in the business 
of the Company or its subsidiaries 
Pages 02-53
Corporate social responsibility Page 22
Greenhouse gas emissions Page 23
Employees (employment of disabled 
persons, employee engagement  
and policies)
Page 21
Corporate Governance Statement Pages 54-72
Directors’ details Pages 58 and 60-61
Related party transactions Note 37 on page 168
Directors’ statements Page 99
Statement of disclosure of information  
to the Auditor
Page 99
Employee share schemes Note 32 on pages 
161-163
Financial instruments: Information on the 
Group’s financial instruments and risk 
management objectives and policies, 
including our policy for hedging
Note 2.3 on pages 
118-121
Additional information Pages 174-176
Responsibility statements
As required under the Disclosure Rules and Transparency 
Rules ‘DTRs’, a statement made by the Board regarding the 
preparation of the financial statements is set out on page 99. 
This statement also provides details regarding the disclosure 
of information to the Company’s auditors.
Results and dividends
The Group made a loss after taxation of £133.8m for the 
financial year ended 31 January 2015. The Board proposes  
to pay, subject to shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM,  
a final dividend of 4.1p net per share in respect of the year 
ended 31 January 2015.
Going concern
The going concern statement required by the Listing Rules 
and the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) is set 
out in the Directors’ statements on page 99.
Political donations
No political donations were made during the year. 
Directors’ interests
A list of the Directors, their interests in its long-term 
performance share plan, contracts and ordinary share capital 
of the Company are given in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 73-95.
Rules on appointment and replacement of Directors
All Directors will seek re-election at the AGM in accordance 
with the Company’s articles of association and the 
recommendations of the Code. 
A Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the 
shareholders in a general meeting following nomination by 
the Board or a member (or members) entitled to vote at such 
a meeting. In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director  
to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the 
individual retires at the next AGM. 
A Director may be removed by the Company in certain 
circumstances set out in the Company’s articles of 
association or by an ordinary resolution of the Company. 
Pursuant to the Relationship Agreement entered into between 
the Company and each of the Private Equity Investors (as 
defined on page 97) each Private Equity Investor is entitled to 
appoint one Non-Executive Director to the Board for so long 
as it is entitled, either directly or indirectly through its voting 
rights in Acromas Bid Co Limited, to exercise or to control the 
exercise of the equivalent of 10% or more of the votes able to 
be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings 
of the Company.
Directors’ indemnities and insurance
As at the date of this Report, indemnities are in force under 
which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors,  
to the extent permitted by law and the Company’s articles  
of association, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in 
connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and 
responsibilities, as Directors of the Company or any of its 
subsidiaries. No amount was paid under any of these 
indemnities or insurances during the year other than the 
applicable insurance premiums. Directors and officers liability 
insurance is in place as at the date of this Report, at an 
amount which the Board considers adequate. A review was 
carried out in May 2014 and takes place on an annual basis.
96
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Share capital and substantial shareholdings
The Company’s share capital is set out on page 160. At the 
date of this report the Company’s issued share capital 
comprised a single class of share capital which is divided 
into ordinary shares of 1p each. As at 31 January 2015, 
1,110,705,405 ordinary shares of 1p each have been issued, 
are fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
At 31 January 2015, in accordance with DTR5, the Company 
has been notified of the following interests in three per cent  
or more of the Company’s total voting rights:
Name Ordinary shares % of capital Nature of holding
Acromas Bid Co 
Limited (‘ABCL ’)
799,974,283 72.02 Direct
On 27 February 2015, the Company was notified that 
ABCL sold 111,000,000 shares (in aggregate), pursuant to 
transactions which took place on 26 and 27 February 2015. 
Following such transactions, ABCL held 688,974,283 ordinary 
shares, representing 62.03% of capital at 20 April 2015.
Relationship Agreement
The Company has entered into an agreement with Acromas 
Bid Co Limited as its controlling shareholder as required under 
Listing Rule 9.2.2A R (2)(a), complies with the independence 
provisions set out in LR 6.1.4D R and has a constitution that 
allows for the election and re-election of independent Directors 
to be conducted in accordance with the election provisions 
set out in LR 9.2.2E R and LR 9.2.2F R.
As far as the Company is aware:
 – the controlling shareholder and its associates have also 
complied with the independence provisions referred  
to above
 – the controlling shareholder has complied with its 
agreement to procure compliance with the independence 
provisions referred to above by another controlling 
shareholder and its associates.
Change of control – significant agreements
A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon 
a change of control of the Company including following a 
takeover bid, for example insurance, commercial contracts 
and distribution agreements. None is considered to be 
significant in terms of its impact on the business of the 
Group as a whole. 
The Senior Facilities Agreement provides the Group with  
loan and revolving credit facilities for general financing 
purposes. In the event of a change of control the facilities 
would either require repayment or re-negotiation. Further 
details on banking facilities are shown in note 28 to the 
consolidated financial statements. 
The Relationship Agreement between the Company, Acromas 
Bid Co Limited (the ‘Principal Shareholder’) and certain funds 
managed or advised by Charterhouse Capital Partners, CVC 
Capital Partners and Permira (the ‘Private Equity Investors’) 
remains in force until the later of (i) any of the Private Equity 
Investors (together with its associates) being entitled to 
exercise or control the exercise, directly or indirectly, of 10% 
or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially  
all matters at general meetings of the Company; and (ii) the 
Principal Shareholder (together with its associates) being 
entitled to exercise or control the exercise, directly or 
indirectly, of 30% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or 
substantially all matters at general meetings of the Company. 
There are also provisions that provide for the Relationship 
Agreement to be automatically terminated if the Company’s 
shares cease to be listed on the premium listing segment of 
the Official List and traded on the London Stock Exchange 
plc’s main market for listed securities. There are no provisions 
in the Relationship Agreement which allow the Principal 
Shareholder or the Private Equity Investors to terminate the 
agreement in the event of a change of control of the Company.
The rules of the Company’s employee share plans generally 
provide for the accelerated vesting and/or release of share 
awards in the event of a change of control of the Company.
The Company does not have any agreements with Directors 
or employees which would pay compensation in the event  
of a change of control.
Conflicts of interest
Each Director is obliged to disclose any potential or actual 
conflict of interest in accordance with the Company’s  
conflict of interest policy. Such declarations are subject  
to annual review.
Authority to allot/purchase own shares
A shareholders’ resolution was passed on 7 May 2014 which 
authorised the Company to make market purchases within 
the meaning of section 693 (4) of the Companies Act 2006 (up 
to 10% of aggregate nominal share capital of the share capital 
of the Company following Admission; subject to a minimum 
price of 1p and a maximum price of the higher of 105% of the 
average mid-market quotations for five business days prior to 
purchase or price of last individual trade and highest current 
individual bid as derived from the London Stock Exchange 
trading system).
The Company did not exercise this authority during the year 
ended 31 January 2015. The above authority will expire at the 
forthcoming AGM and a resolution proposing renewal will be 
proposed.
97
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Directors’ Report continued
Rights attaching to shares
The rights attached to the shares are governed by applicable 
law and the Company’s articles of association (which are 
available at http://corporate.saga.co.uk/assets/downloads/
corporate-governance/saga-plc-articles-of-association.pdf).
Ordinary shareholders have the right to receive notice, attend 
and vote at general meetings; receive a copy of the 
Company’s report and accounts and a dividend when 
approved and paid. On a show of hands, each shareholder 
present in person, or by proxy (or an authorised representative 
of a corporate shareholder), shall have one vote. In the event 
of a poll, one vote is attached to each share held.
The notice of the AGM (the ‘Notice’) states deadlines for 
exercising voting rights and for appointing a proxy/proxies.
No shareholder owns shares with special rights as to control.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares
Other than where imposed by law or regulations, or where the 
Listing Rules require certain persons to obtain clearance 
before dealing, there are no restrictions regarding the transfer 
of shares in the Company (other than as stated below).
Pursuant to the underwriting agreement entered into between, 
amongst others, the Company, Acromas Bid Co Limited and 
the Company’s Directors on 8 May 2014 (the ‘Underwriting 
Agreement’), the Company and Acromas Bid Co Limited each 
agreed, subject to certain customary exceptions, during the 
period of 180 days from the completion of the IPO on 29 May 
2014, not, without the prior written consent of a majority of 
Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Credit Suisse Securities 
(Europe) Limited, Goldman Sachs International and Merrill 
Lynch International (being the joint global co-ordinators to the 
Company on the IPO), to issue (in the case of the Company 
only), offer, lend, sell or contract to sell, grant any option, 
right or warrant to subscribe or purchase or allow any 
encumbrance to be created over or otherwise dispose of, 
directly or indirectly, or announce an offer of any of the 
Company’s ordinary shares (or any interest therein or in 
respect thereof) or enter into any transaction with the same 
economic effect as, or agree to do, any of such things, or 
publicly announce any intention to do any of the foregoing.
Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, each of the 
Company’s Directors has agreed, subject to certain 
customary exceptions, during the period of 365 days from the 
completion of the IPO on 29 May 2014, not, without the prior 
written consent of a majority of Citigroup Global Markets 
Limited, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited, Goldman 
Sachs International and Merrill Lynch International (being the 
joint global co-ordinators to the Company on the IPO), to offer, 
lend, sell or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant 
to subscribe or purchase or allow any encumbrance to be 
created over or otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly, or 
announce an offer of any of the Company’s ordinary shares 
(or any interest therein or in respect thereof) or enter into any 
transaction with the same economic effect as, or agree to do, 
any of such things, or publicly announce any intention to do 
any of the foregoing.
Save as set out above, the Company is not aware of any 
agreement which would result in a restriction on the transfer 
of shares or voting rights.
Articles of association
Any amendment to the Company’s articles of association 
may only be made by passing a special resolution of the 
shareholders of the Company.
Branches outside the UK
The Company does not have any branches outside of the UK.
Post-balance sheet events
There have been no important events affecting the Company 
or any of its subsidiary undertakings since 31 January 2015.
Auditor
A resolution to re-appoint Ernst and Young LLP (who have 
indicated their willingness to act) as our auditor will be 
proposed at the 2015 AGM.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held on Tuesday 23 June 2015 at 10am 
at Enbrook Park, Sandgate, Folkestone, Kent, CT20 3SE. 
The Notice contains an explanation of special business to 
be considered at the meeting.
A copy of the Notice will be available on our website,  
http://corporate.saga.co.uk in due course.
By order of the Board
V Haynes
Secretary 
29 April 2015
Saga plc
Company no. 08804263
98
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Directors’ statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and Accounts in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations. Company law requires the Directors to prepare 
Group financial statements for each financial year. Under that 
law, the directors are required to prepare Group financial 
statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the 
Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that, to 
the best of their knowledge, they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the 
Group for that period. In preparing the Group financial 
statements the Directors are required to:
 – present fairly the financial position, financial performance 
and cash flows of the Group
 – select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 
‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates 
and Errors’ and then apply them consistently
 – present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information
 – make judgements that are reasonable and prudent
 – provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union is insufficient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions 
on the Group’s financial position and financial performance
 – state whether the Group financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of the Group and enable them to 
ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Strategic 
Report, the Directors’ Report, the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and the Corporate Governance Statement in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable 
regulations, including the requirements of the Listing Rules 
and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Neither the Company nor the Directors accept (and hereby 
exclude) any liability to any person in relation to the annual 
report except to the extent that such liability is imposed by 
law and may not be validly excluded. Accordingly, any liability 
to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue 
or misleading statement or omission shall be determined in 
accordance with section 90A and schedule 10A of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, as amended.
Each of the Directors, who were in office at the date of this 
report, whose names and responsibilities are listed on pages 
58-61, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
 – the Group financial statements, which have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit of the Group, and
 – the Strategic and Directors’ Report contained on pages 02-53 
and 96-98 include a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces.
Fair, balanced and understandable
In accordance with the principles of the Code, the Board 
has established arrangements to evaluate whether the 
information presented in the annual report is fair, balanced and 
understandable. Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, 
the Board considers the annual report and accounts, taken as a 
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy.
Disclosure of information to the Auditor
Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as each of the 
Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information (as 
defined by section 418(3) of the Companies Act 2006) of which 
the Company’s Auditor is unaware and the Directors have 
taken all the steps they ought to have taken as Directors to 
make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and 
to ensure that the Company’s Auditor is aware of that information.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors 
likely to affect its future development and performance, its 
exposure to risk and its management of these risks, details  
of its financial instruments and derivative activities, and details 
of other financial and non-financial liabilities are described 
throughout these financial statements.
The Group has access to sufficient cash and other financial 
resources together with a large renewing income stream from 
insurance policies and high-repeat purchase levels from 
customers of its other products, together with long-term 
contracts with a number of suppliers across different industries. 
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well 
placed to successfully manage its business risks.
The Group has net assets at the year end. The Directors 
have considered this, together with projected cash flows for  
a period of one year from the date of signing of these financial 
statements (including the impact of the financing detailed in 
note 28 to the consolidated financial statements), the Group’s 
and Company’s budget for the next financial year, and other 
longer-term plans and have concluded that, at the time of 
approving the financial statements, the Group has sufficient 
funds to continue trading for this period, and the foreseeable 
future. It is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements.
By order of the Board
V Haynes
Secretary 
29 April 2015
99
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
In our opinion:  
‒ the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 
31 January 2015 and of the Group’s loss for the year then ended; 
‒ the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union;  
‒ the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
‒ the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
Overall Group materiality of £9.6m which represents approximately 5% of Operating Profit from 
continuing operations 
The divisions and entities where we performed full audit procedures accounted for 93% of the Group’s 
revenue and 91% of the Group’s Operating Profit 
‒ Valuation of insurance contract liabilities 
‒ Valuation of goodwill 
‒ Revenue recognition 
‒ Discontinued operations and assets held for sale 
The table below shows the risks we identified that have had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of 
resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team. For each risk identified we have documented our 
response and audit procedures. 
Refer to the Audit Committee Report, accounting policy note 2.3q and disclosure note 25. 
For insurance contracts, estimates have to be made both for 
the expected ultimate cost of claims reported at the reporting 
date and for the expected ultimate cost of claims incurred but 
not yet reported at the reporting date (IBNR). It can take a 
significant period of time before the ultimate claims cost can 
be established with certainty. Management makes judgement 
in respect of the trends in bodily injury claims frequency and 
severity, the propensity for large claims to settle as Periodical 
Payment Orders (PPOs), the Ogden discount rate and other 
regulatory developments. 
Management sets reserves at a level that includes a margin 
over the actuarial best estimate to take account of uncertainty 
that may impact the value of the insurance contract liabilities 
ultimately settled. 
Note 18(d) Insurance risk provides further detail of these 
uncertainties and the process for establishing insurance 
contract liabilities. 
We understood, assessed and tested the design and 
operational effectiveness of key controls over the process 
applied by Management in establishing insurance contract 
liabilities, including controls over the completeness and 
accuracy of data used by the internal actuary to project 
the claims liabilities.  
Supported by our actuarial specialists, we: 
‒ obtained an understanding of the methodology and key 
assumptions applied by Management;  
‒ challenged the methodology and key assumptions against 
our knowledge of the sector and the Group’s own claims 
experience; 
‒ performed independent actuarial projections on the motor 
classes which account for 89% of the gross insurance 
contract liabilities; 
‒ reconciled the claims data supporting the actuarial 
projections to source systems and, on a sample basis, 
verified the accurate recording of data against the 
underlying policy and claims documentation; and 
‒ assessed the level of reserve margin compared to market 
practice and prior periods, in the context of areas of 
uncertainty for which the margin is held. 
  
Saga plc
100 
Independent Auditor’s report  
to the members of Saga plc 
 
Our opinion on the financial statements  
Overview 
Materiality 
Audit scope 
Areas of focus 
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement and response to that risk 
Valuation of insurance contract liabilities 
Risk Response 
Independent auditor’s report 
to the members of Saga plc
100
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Refer to the Audit Committee Report, accounting policy 2.3h and disclosure note 15(a). 
The goodwill recorded as at 31January 2015 is £1,471.4m 
and is tested for impairment by Management by considering 
the recoverable amount of the goodwill as described in 
note 15a. 
In determining the recoverable amount, judgement is applied 
by Management in deriving:  
‒ the forecast cash flows expected to arise from the 
approved five year plan and the underlying assumptions 
in setting the five year plan; 
‒ the pre-tax discount rates that reflect the market 
assessment of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the cash flow estimates; and 
‒ the growth rate used to extrapolate cash flow projections 
beyond the five year plan period. 
Management’s impairment assessment of the recorded 
goodwill value was performed as at 1 January 2015. We have 
evaluated and challenged this assessment, specifically: 
‒ we validated that the cash flows underpinning the 
calculation were consistent with the five year strategic plan 
approved by the Board; 
‒ we challenged the reasonableness of growth forecasts 
during the five year plan period, having regard to back 
testing performed by Management to support the 
robustness of the forecast process; 
‒ we compared the pre-tax discount rate to the Group’s 
weighted average cost of capital and to discount rates 
used by similar UK companies that operate in the financial 
services and travel industries; 
‒ we compared the long-term growth rates to economic and 
industry forecasts; and  
‒ we assessed the adequacy of sensitivity analysis performed 
by Management, stressing each of the above assumptions 
in isolation and in combination to best reflect what we 
considered to be reasonably foreseeable changes in the 
key assumptions. 
 
  
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
101 
Valuation of goodwill 
Risk Response 
101
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Refer to accounting policy 2.3(a) and disclosure note 3. 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) presume there may be pressures or 
incentives on Management to commit fraudulent financial 
reporting through inappropriate revenue recognition to meet 
budgeted performance measures. 
We have assessed the revenue streams in the Financial 
Services and Travel segments as being most susceptible to 
manipulation through the application of inappropriate revenue 
recognition policies: 
‒ The Financial Services segment revenue consists primarily 
of revenue earned by the insurance intermediary and the 
insurance underwriter. The intermediary revenue from both 
external underwriters and the Group underwriter is 
recognised upon commencement of the policy period of 
risk, whereas the Group underwriter recognises revenue on 
an earned basis over the term of the policy. Consolidation 
adjustments are processed to ensure that the overall 
revenue recorded in respect of risks underwritten by the 
Group is recognised in accordance with the Group policy 
2.3(a)(i).  
Additional considerations are required to be made in 
respect of post-placement services provided by the 
insurance intermediary, such as advocacy or claims 
handling, as the provision of such services would require 
an element of revenue to be deferred, and recognised 
as those post-placement obligations are provided.  
There is a risk that: 
‒ revenue recognised by the intermediary is not deferred 
where post-placement obligations exist; and  
‒ consolidation adjustments required to ensure that the 
overall revenue recorded in respect of risks underwritten 
by the Group is recognised in accordance with the 
Group policy are not correctly processed. 
‒ In the Travel segment, revenue from tour operations 
is recognised on the passenger’s date of departure and 
for cruise holidays, where the Group operates the cruise 
ship, revenue is recognised on a per diem basis over 
the duration of the cruise. There is a risk that revenue 
recognition is accelerated and recognised when 
holidays are booked or cash in respect of those 
bookings is received.  
We considered the accounting policies for the revenue 
streams in the Financial Services and Travel segments, having 
regard to the requirements of applicable revenue recognition 
standards, being IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ and IFRS 4 ‘Insurance 
Contracts’. 
We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the 
controls in operation over the Financial Services and Travel 
revenue recognition and recording processes.  
For the Financial Services segment we: 
‒ for a sample of contracts, re-performed earnings 
calculations to validate that insurance revenues were being 
recognised over the policy term;  
‒ inspected a sample of contracts with policyholders and 
underwriters to validate whether any contractual obligations 
to provide post-placement services were in place;  
‒ performed cut-off testing to confirm revenue had been 
recorded in the correct period; 
‒ reviewed the consolidation adjustments posted to eliminate 
the revenue transactions between the Group intermediary 
and Group underwriter; 
‒ challenged and corroborated reasons for variances 
from prior periods based on analytical procedures 
performed; and 
‒ tested a sample of manual journals for any indication of 
inappropriate revenue recognition. 
For the Travel segment we: 
‒ performed detailed testing of a sample of transactions to 
confirm that the tour operator revenues and cruise holiday 
revenues were being recognised in line with the contract 
terms and applicable accounting policy; 
‒ performed cut-off testing to confirm revenue had been 
recorded in the correct period;  
‒ challenged and corroborated reasons for variances from 
prior periods based on analytical procedures performed; 
and 
‒ tested a sample of manual journals for any indication of 
inappropriate revenue recognition. 
 
  
102 
Saga plc
Independent Auditor’s report  
to the members of Saga plc 
 
 
Revenue recognition 
Risk Response 
Independent auditor’s report 
to the members of Saga plc continued
102
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Refer to the Audit Committee Report, accounting policy 2.3k and disclosure note 35. 
As at 31 January 2015, the Allied Healthcare business has 
been classified as a disposal group in accordance with the 
requirements of IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale 
and Discontinued Operations’.  
For this classification to be adopted the business must be 
available for sale in its present condition and the sale should 
be considered highly probable.  
This is a qualitative assessment requiring judgement to be 
exercised by Management based on the relevant facts and 
circumstances extant at 31 January 2015. 
IFRS 5 also requires businesses classified as held for sale to 
be measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair 
value less costs to sell, as well as requiring specific 
presentation and disclosure relating to the disposal group. 
The determination of fair value less costs to sell requires the 
application of judgement by Management.  
The re-measurement of the assets and liabilities of the 
disposal group to fair value less costs to sell has resulted 
in a loss of £209.5m. 
We considered the appropriateness of Management’s 
classification of the disposal group as held for sale 
by considering: 
‒ whether, based on our understanding of the disposal 
group’s processes and operations, it was in a condition 
to be sold at the year end; and 
‒ whether there was a formal disposal plan in place at the 
year end, which had been appropriately considered and 
approved by the Board. 
We read the independent valuation report in respect of the 
disposal group that had been obtained by Management, and 
challenged management’s forecasts and analyses supporting 
the computation of the fair value less costs to sell of the 
disposal group.  
We assessed whether the loss on re-measurement had been 
properly applied to reduce the values of the non-current 
assets within the disposal group as required by IFRS 5. 
We reviewed the disclosures in the financial statements to 
confirm that the assets and liabilities held for sale had been 
presented in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 5. 
We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of identified 
misstatements on our audit and of uncorrected misstatements, if any, on the financial statements and in forming our opinion 
in the Audit Report.  
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would 
be material for the financial statements as a whole. We determined materiality for the Group to be £9.6m, which is approximately 
5% of the Group’s Operating Profit from continuing operations as this is a key measure used by Management to reflect 
underlying segment performance. This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment 
procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further 
audit procedures. 
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, our judgement 
is that overall performance materiality (i.e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance) for the Group 
should be 50% of materiality, namely £4.8m. Our objective in adopting this approach is to ensure that total uncorrected and 
undetected audit differences do not exceed our materiality of £9.6m for the financial statements as a whole. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £0.5m, as well as 
differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the 
light of other relevant qualitative considerations. 
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
103 
Discontinued operations and assets held for sale 
Risk Response 
Our application of materiality  
  
103
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The Group is structured into four trading segments, being Financial Services, Travel, Healthcare Services, and Media and 
Central Costs.  
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, we selected eleven entities 
which represent the principal entities within the Group’s reportable segments and account for 95% of the Group’s revenue and 
92% of the Group’s Operating Profit. Seven of these were subject to a full audit representing 93% of the Group’s revenue and 
91% of the Group’s Operating Profit, whilst at the remaining four specific audit procedures were performed including full audit of 
the accounts that were impacted by our assessed risks of material misstatement and the materiality of those entities. They were 
also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified 
above. For the remaining entities within the group, we performed procedures to confirm there were no significant risks of 
material misstatement in the Group financial statements. 
Audits of these entities are performed at performance materiality levels calculated by reference to a proportion of Group 
materiality appropriate to the relative scale of the business concerned, ranging from £4.8m to £1.0m.  
The Group audit team reviewed component team working papers and participated in their planning and execution of the audit 
in respect of the risks identified above. 
We have audited the financial statements of Saga plc for the year ended 31 January 2015, which comprise: 
‒ the consolidated income statement  
‒ the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income  
‒ the consolidated statement of financial position  
‒ the consolidated statement of changes in equity 
‒ the consolidated statement of cash flows  
‒ the related notes to 1 to 39 to the consolidated financial statements 
‒ the parent company balance sheet 
‒ the related notes to 1 to 8 to the parent company financial statements 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.  
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is 
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).  
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are 
required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, 
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Statements set out on page 99, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and parent company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the Annual report and accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired 
by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report. 
104 
Saga plc
Independent Auditor’s report  
to the members of Saga plc 
 
 
Overview of the scope of our audit  
What we have audited 
Group 
Company 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements  
Independent auditor’s report 
to the members of Saga plc continued
104
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
In our opinion: 
‒ the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; and 
‒ the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:  
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: 
‒ materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or  
‒ apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course 
of performing our audit; or  
‒ is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired 
during the audit and the Directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and 
whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we 
consider should have been disclosed. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
‒ adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
‒ the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
‒ certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
‒ we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
‒ the Directors’ statement, set out on page 99, in relation to going concern; and 
‒ the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the ten provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review. 
 
 
 (Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor 
London 
29 April 2015 
 
 
 
1. The maintenance and integrity of the Saga plc website is the responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration 
of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were 
initially presented on the website. 
2. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
 
 
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
105 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception  
John Headley
105
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The notes on pages 111-168 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
 
 Note 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Revenue 3 900.5 944.0
Cost of sales 3 (525.1) (593.3)
Gross profit  375.4 350.7
Administrative and selling expenses 4 (244.5) (181.6)
Investment income 5 13.9 12.7
Finance costs 6 (35.1) (10.6)
Finance income 7 2.9 0.1
Share of profit of joint venture  1.2 –
Profit before tax from continuing operations  113.8 171.3
Tax expense 9 (27.4) (43.4)
Profit for the year from continuing operations  86.4 127.9
   
Loss after tax for the year from discontinued operations 35 (220.2) (18.3)
   
(Loss)/profit for the year  (133.8) 109.6
   
Attributable to:   
Equity holders of the parent  (134.2) 108.5
Non-controlling interests  0.4 1.1
  (133.8) 109.6
   
   
(Loss)/earnings per share:   
Basic  11 (13.4p) 13.6p
Diluted  11 (13.4p) 13.6p
   
Earnings per share for continuing operations:   
Basic  11 8.6p 16.0p
Diluted  11 8.5p 16.0p
Saga plc
Consolidated income statement 
for the year ended 31 January 2015 
106 
Consolidated income statement 
for the year ended 31 January 2015
106
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The notes on pages 111-168 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
  
 Note 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
(Loss)/profit for the year  (133.8) 109.6
Other comprehensive income  
Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit and loss account 
in subsequent years  
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations  – 0.1
Net loss on cash flow hedges  (3.0) –
Net gain/(loss) on available for sale financial assets  3.8 (1.1)
Tax effect   (0.1) 0.2
  0.7 (0.8)
Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit and loss account 
in subsequent years  
Re-measurement losses on defined benefit plans 24 (34.8) (16.4)
Tax effect   6.9 3.3
  (27.9) (13.1)
  
Total other comprehensive losses  (27.2) (13.9)
  
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year  (161.0) 95.7
  
Attributable to:  
Equity holders of the parent  (161.4) 94.6
Non-controlling interests  0.4 1.1
  (161.0) 95.7
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income  
for the year ended 31 January 2015 
107 
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income  
for the year ended 31 January 2015
107
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The notes on pages 111-168 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
Signed for and on behalf of the Board on 29 April 2015 by 
 
Group Chief Executive Officer    Group Chief Financial Officer 
 
 Note 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Assets   
Goodwill 13 1,471.4 1,636.2
Intangible fixed assets 14 34.8 47.4
Investment in joint venture  1.2 –
Property, plant and equipment 16 133.2 139.8
Financial assets 17 659.6 1,681.7
Deferred tax assets 9 22.9 19.9
Current tax assets  – 5.1
Reinsurance assets 25 63.4 62.5
Inventories 20 5.3 4.8
Trade and other receivables 21 163.7 216.4
Assets held for sale 35 47.7 –
Cash and short-term deposits 22 198.8 151.3
Total assets  2,802.0 3,965.1
Liabilities   
Retirement benefit scheme obligations 24 40.4 24.3
Gross insurance contract liabilities 25 704.7 728.3
Provisions 26 5.9 9.2
Financial liabilities 17 711.7 1,798.4
Current tax liabilities  14.0 –
Deferred tax liabilities 9 5.5 7.0
Other liabilities 27 129.3 113.2
Trade and other payables 23 158.7 164.9
Liabilities held for sale 35 47.7 –
Total liabilities  1,817.9 2,845.3
Equity   
Issued capital 29 11.1 –
Share premium  519.4 –
Retained earnings  410.7 1,118.7
Share-based payment reserve  40.7 –
Foreign currency translation reserve  0.5 0.5
Available for sale reserve  3.6 0.6
Hedging reserve  (2.3) –
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent  983.7 1,119.8
Non-controlling interest  0.4 –
Total equity  984.1 1,119.8
Total liabilities and equity  2,802.0 3,965.1
108 
Saga plc
Consolidated statement of cash flows  
for the year ended 31 January 2015 
L H L Batchelor    S M Howard 
Consolidated statement of financial 
position as at 31 January 2015
108
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The notes on pages 111-168 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
  
 Attributable to the equity holders of the parent 
 
Issued 
capital 
£’m 
Share 
premium 
£’m 
Retained 
earnings
£’m
Share-
based 
payment 
reserve
£’m
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve
£’m
Available
for sale 
reserve
£’m
Hedging 
reserve
£’m
Total 
£’m 
Non-
controlling 
interests
£’m
Total 
equity
£’m
At 1 February 2014 – – 1,118.7 – 0.5 0.6 – 1,119.8 – 1,119.8
Loss for the year – – (134.2) – – – – (134.2) 0.4 (133.8)
Other comprehensive 
losses – – (27.9) – – 3.0 (2.3) (27.2) – (27.2)
Corporate 
restructuring 8.0 – 1,516.1 – – – – 1,524.1 – 1,524.1
Dividends paid – – (2,063.0) – – – – (2,063.0) – (2,063.0)
Issue of share capital 3.0 547.0 – – – – – 550.0 – 550.0
Costs associated 
with issue of 
share capital – (27.6) – – – – – (27.6) – (27.6)
Issue of treasury 
shares  0.1 – – (0.1) – – – – – –
Share-based 
payment charge – – – 41.8 – – – 41.8 – 41.8
Exercise of share 
options – – 1.0 (1.0) – – – – – –
At 31 January 2015 11.1 519.4 410.7 40.7 0.5 3.6 (2.3) 983.7 0.4 984.1
    
At 1 February 2013 – – 1,043.3 – 0.5 1.4 – 1,045.2 (0.1) 1,045.1
Profit for the year – – 108.5 – – – – 108.5 1.1 109.6
Dividends paid – – (20.0) – – – – (20.0) (1.0) (21.0)
Other comprehensive 
losses – – (13.1) – – (0.8) – (13.9) – (13.9)
At 31 January 2014 – – 1,118.7 – 0.5 0.6 – 1,119.8 – 1,119.8
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
Consolidated statement of  
changes in equity  
for the year ended 31 January 2015 
109 
Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity  
for the year ended 31 January 2015
109
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The notes on pages 111-168 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
 
 Note 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Net cash flows from operating activities 33 155.3 174.1
   
Investing activities   
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  0.2 9.5
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (26.4) (29.5)
Net purchase of financial assets  (61.3) (39.2)
Acquisition of subsidiaries  12 (14.3) (0.7)
Net cash flows used in investing activities  (101.8) (59.9)
   
Financing activities   
Payment of finance lease liabilities   (0.6) (1.2)
Proceeds from borrowings 28 1,250.0 –
Repayment of borrowings 28 (550.0) –
Proceeds from issue of share capital on flotation 29 550.0 –
Costs associated with issue of share capital on flotation  (26.2) –
Net movement on balances with related undertakings 37 (4.1) (1,262.2)
Net movement on balances with parent undertakings 37 774.9 814.7
Dividends paid   (2,063.0) (21.0)
Net cash flows used in financing activities  (69.0) (469.7)
   
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents  (15.5) (355.5)
Net foreign exchange differences  (0.2) 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 February  253.6 609.0
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 January 22 237.9 253.6
Saga plc
Consolidated statement of cash flows  
for the year ended 31 January 2015 
110 
Consolidated statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 January 2015
110
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
 
Saga plc (the ‘Company’) is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies 
Act 2006 (registration number 8804263). Its registered office is located at Enbrook Park, Folkestone, Kent CT20 3SE. On 
29 May 2014, the Company was admitted via a Premium Listing to the London Stock Exchange.  
The consolidated financial statements of Saga plc and the entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries, collectively ‘Saga 
Group’ or the ‘Group’) for the year ended 31 January 2015 were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 29 April 2015. 
Saga Group offers a wide range of products and services to its customer base which include a range of general insurance and 
financial services products, package and cruise holidays, domiciliary care and a monthly subscription magazine. Accordingly, 
the Group segments its business into four trading segments – Financial Services, Travel, Healthcare Services and Media and 
Central Costs (see note 3).  
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (‘IFRS’) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) and adopted by the European Union. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and on a historical cost basis except as 
otherwise stated. 
Amounts in the consolidated financial statements are stated in pounds sterling (£’m), which is also the Company’s functional 
currency. 
On the basis that the Group was created via a corporate reorganisation on 4 March 2014, including the creation of a new parent 
(the ‘Company’), the transaction is considered to be outside the scope of IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ and has been 
accounted for using the pooling of interest method, whereby the carrying values of the assets and liabilities of the combining 
entities are included at previous IFRS carrying values, adjusted to achieve uniformity of accounting policies. The results and cash 
flows of all of the Group entities have been consolidated as if the transactions that gave rise to the formation of the Group took 
place on 1 February 2011, being the date of transitioning to IFRS for the combining entities. 
IFRS requires the Directors to adopt accounting policies that are the most appropriate to the Group’s circumstances. In 
determining and applying accounting policies, Directors and management are required to make judgements in respect of 
items where the choice of specific policy, accounting estimate or assumption to be followed could materially affect the 
Group’s reported financial position, results or cash flows; it may later be determined that a different choice may have been 
more appropriate.  
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial 
statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. A discussion on the Group’s 
significant accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty is detailed in note 2.5. Actual results could differ 
from those estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting 
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period 
of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods. 
Management has identified accounting estimates and assumptions relating to revenue, taxation, business combinations 
and goodwill, finite lived intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, financial assets, insurance contract liabilities and 
reinsurance assets, retirement benefit schemes, impairment and share-based payments that it considers to be critical due 
to their impact on the Group’s financial statements. 
The principal accounting policies adopted, which have been applied consistently, unless otherwise stated, are set out in note 
2.3 below. 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the 
Company (its subsidiaries) made up to 31 January each year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern 
the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. The existence and effect of 
potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls 
another entity. 
  
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements 
111 
1 Corporate information 
2.1 Basis of preparation 
2.2 Basis of consolidation 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements
111
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has: 
‒ power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee)  
‒ exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee  
‒ the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.  
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights results in control. To support this presumption and when the 
Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and 
circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including:  
‒ the contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the investee  
‒ rights arising from other contractual arrangements  
‒ the Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights.  
The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to 
one or more of the three elements of control. Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the 
subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary 
acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date the Group gains 
control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary. 
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are identified and measured at their fair values at the 
date of acquisition. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised 
as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired (i.e. discount 
on acquisition) is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition. The interest of non-controlling shareholders is 
stated at the non-controlling interest’s proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised. Profit or loss and each 
component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and to non-controlling 
interests, even if this results in non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, 
income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the 
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. Where a subsidiary which constituted a major 
line of business is disposed of or otherwise meets the requirements of IFRS 5 to be held for sale, it is disclosed as a 
discontinued operation.  
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.  
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets (including goodwill), liabilities, non-controlling 
interest and other components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. Any investment retained 
is recognised at fair value. 
Revenue represents amounts receivable from the sale or supply of goods and services provided to customers in the ordinary 
course of business. The recognition policies for the Group’s various revenue streams by segment are as follows: 
Insurance premiums received for risks underwritten by the Group are recognised on a straight-line time-apportioned basis over 
the period of the policy. Any changes to premium arising as a result of adjustments to the underlying risk notified by the 
policyholders are recognised over the remaining period of the policy from the effective date of notification.  
Revenue received in connection with the sale, renewal, or adjustment of insurance policies not underwritten by the Group is 
recognised at the commencement of the period of risk. 
Insurance premiums received for risks which are not underwritten by the Group are not recognised in the income statement, as 
these amounts are passed through directly to the relevant insurer. These amounts are, however, included in the calculation of 
Trading EBITDA %. 
Insurance premiums and sales revenues received in advance of the inception date of a policy are treated as advanced receipts 
and included as other liabilities in the statement of financial position.  
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
112 
2.2 Basis of consolidation continued 
2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies 
a. Revenue recognition  
i) Financial Services 
Insurance operations 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
112
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Premiums and sales revenue in respect of insurance policies underwritten by the Group which are live at the reporting date and 
which relate to the period after the reporting date are treated as unearned and included in insurance contract liabilities in the 
statement of financial position.  
Income from credit provided to customers to facilitate payment of their insurance costs over the life of their policy is treated as 
part of the revenue from insurance operations and recognised over the period of the policy in proportion to the outstanding 
premium balance. 
Revenue from personal finance products is recognised when the customer contracts with the provider of the relevant personal 
finance product where the revenue comprises a one-off payment by the provider of the product. 
Where the personal finance product is one that delivers a recurring income stream, for example ongoing investment, savings 
or lending products, revenues are recognised over the life of the product. 
Revenue from tour operations and cruise holidays where the Group does not operate the cruise ship is recognised in full on the 
passenger’s date of departure which represents the date upon which the revenue becomes fully non-refundable. Revenue in 
respect of cruise holidays where the Group operates the cruise ship is recognised on a per diem basis over the duration of the 
cruise reflecting the often longer durations of cruise holidays, and to facilitate more accurate matching of revenue with costs as 
they arise. 
Revenue from sales in resort, for example for optional excursions, or on board a cruise ship operated by the Group, for example 
bar sales or optional excursions, is recognised as and when earned. 
Revenue from tour operations received in advance of the date of departure, and the unearned element of cruise revenues not 
yet recognised on a per diem basis, are included as other liabilities in the statement of financial position. 
Revenue from healthcare operations is recognised when services are supplied to customers against orders received.  
For Social Care operations, the point of supply is generally defined as the point at which a service user has received care 
services from the Group and which are usually provided on a daily basis.  
For Primary Care operations, revenue is recognised on delivery of the contracted services or, for capacity-related contracts, on a 
time-elapsed basis as the principal contractual obligation is to provide an agreed level of capacity over a fixed term. On longer-
term contracts, where the timing of the provision of services is not necessarily consistent with the patterns for billing of services 
rendered, for example contracts with Primary Care Trusts for the operation of walk-in health centres, revenue is recognised over 
the life of each contract in line with the pattern of delivery of the associated services.  
Magazine subscription revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the subscription. Revenue generated 
from advertising within the magazine is recognised when the magazine is provided to the customer. The element 
of subscriptions and advertising revenue relating to the period after the reporting date is treated as unearned and included 
within other liabilities in the statement of financial position. 
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed 
to the buyer, usually on delivery of the goods. 
 
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
113 
Insurance operations continued 
Personal Finance operations 
ii) Travel 
Travel operations 
iii) Healthcare Services 
Healthcare operations 
iv) Media and Central Costs 
Magazine subscriptions 
Sale of goods 
 
113
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Costs directly associated with the revenues generated by the Group’s principal activities (excluding insurance underwriting) are 
recognised in the income statement on a basis consistent with the relevant revenue recognition policy (and detailed above). 
Acquisition costs arising from the selling or renewing of insurance policies underwritten by the Group are recognised on a 
straight-line time-apportioned basis over the period of the policy in which the related revenues are earned. The proportion 
of acquisition costs relating to premiums treated as unearned at the reporting date are deferred and included as other assets 
in the statement of financial position. 
Claims costs incurred in respect of insurance policies underwritten by the Group include claims made for losses reported as 
occurring during the period together with the related handling costs, any adjustments to claims outstanding from previous 
periods, and a provision for the estimated cost of claims incurred during the period but not reported at the reporting date. 
Further detail is provided in note 25. 
The Group undertakes a programme of reinsurance in respect of the policies which it underwrites. Outward reinsurance 
premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the related inward insurance premiums and are included 
as a deduction from earned premium, and therefore as a reduction in revenue.  
The amount of any anticipated reinsurance recoveries is treated as a reduction in claims costs. This amount is reported 
separately in the statement of financial position. 
Finance costs comprise interest paid and payable which is calculated using the effective interest rate method and recognised in 
the income statement as it accrues. Accrued interest is included within the carrying value of the interest bearing financial liability 
in the statement of financial position. 
Other expenses are taken to the income statement as incurred and exclude intra-group transactions. 
Investment income in the form of interest is recognised in the income statement as it accrues and is calculated using the 
effective interest rate method. Fees and commissions which are an integral part of the effective yield of the financial asset 
or liability are recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate of the instrument. 
Investment income in the form of dividends is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. For listed securities, 
this is the date the security is listed as ex-dividend. 
Realised and unrealised gains and losses on financial investments are recorded as finance income in the income statement. 
Realised gains and losses on the sale of investments are calculated as the difference between net sales proceeds and the 
original or amortised cost and are recorded on the date of sale. Unrealised gains and losses, arising on financial assets 
measured at fair value through profit and loss which have not been derecognised as a result of disposal or transfer, represent 
the difference between the carrying value at the year end and the carrying value at the previous year end or the purchase value 
for investments acquired during the year, net of the reversal of previously recognised unrealised gains and losses in respect of 
disposals made during the year. 
Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current period are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from 
or paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or 
substantively enacted at the reporting date. Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised 
in equity and not in the income statement.  
  
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
114 
2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
b. Cost recognition 
i) Direct costs 
ii) Acquisition costs  
 
iii) Claims costs 
iv) Reinsurance costs 
v) Finance costs  
vi) Other expenses 
c. Recognition of other income statement items 
i) Investment income 
ii) Gains and losses on financial investments 
d. Taxes 
i) Current income tax 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
114
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the reporting date. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward 
of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised.  
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised 
deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that 
future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.  
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised 
or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other 
comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is dealt with in other comprehensive income. 
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. 
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by the Group at their respective functional currency spot rate at the date 
the transaction first qualifies for recognition. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated 
at the functional currency spot rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date. Differences arising on settlement or translation 
of monetary items are recognised in the income statement. 
Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the initial 
transaction. Non-monetary items measured at fair value are translated using the exchange rate at the date when the fair value is 
determined. The gains or losses arising on translation of non-monetary items measured at fair value are treated in line with the 
recognition of gains or losses arising on a change in the fair value of the item (i.e. the translation differences on items whose fair 
value gain or loss is recognised in other comprehensive income or the income statement are also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or the income statement respectively). 
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into pounds sterling at the rate of exchange prevailing at the 
reporting date and their income statements are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. The 
exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in other comprehensive income. On disposal of a foreign operation, 
the component of other comprehensive income relating to that particular foreign operation is recycled to the income statement. 
Intangible assets acquired are measured on initial recognition at cost. Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are 
measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition and, following initial recognition, are carried at cost less any accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Internally generated intangibles, excluding internally developed software, 
are not capitalised and the related expenditure is reflected in the income statement in the period in which the expenditure 
is incurred. 
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite. Estimated useful lives are as follows: 
 
  
Goodwill Indefinite
Brands 10 years 
Customer relationship over the life of the customer relationship 
Contracts acquired over the life of the contract 
Software 3-6 years 
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
115 
ii) Deferred tax 
e. Foreign currencies 
i) Transactions and balances 
ii) Group companies 
f. Intangible assets 
115
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their useful economic life on a basis appropriate to the consumption 
of the asset and are assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The 
amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of 
each reporting period. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits 
embodied in the asset are considered to modify the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes 
in accounting estimates. The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the income statement 
in the expense category that is consistent with the function of the intangible assets. 
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the 
cash generating unit (‘CGU’) level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life 
continues to be supportable. If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis. 
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the income statement when the asset is derecognised. 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting. The cost of an acquisition is measured as 
the aggregate of the consideration transferred measured at acquisition date at fair value and the amount of any non-controlling 
interests in the acquiree. For each business combination, the Group elects whether to measure the non-controlling interests in 
the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets.  
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities is recognised as goodwill. If the 
cost of acquisition is less than the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired business, the difference is 
treated as negative goodwill and is recognised directly in the income statement in the year of acquisition.  
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and included in administrative expenses. 
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to CGUs at the point of acquisition and 
is reviewed annually for impairment.  
The Group undertakes a full impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill at each reporting date. The Group also assesses 
at each reporting date whether there is any indication that any other non-financial assets may be impaired. If such an indication 
exists, the recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying amount. If the recoverable amount is less than the 
carrying amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount and the impairment loss is 
recognised immediately in the income statement.  
In assessing value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. In determining fair value less 
costs of disposal, recent market transactions are taken into account. If no such transactions can be identified, an appropriate 
valuation model is used. These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly traded 
companies or other available fair value indicators. The Group bases its impairment calculations on detailed budgets, plans 
and long-term growth assumptions, which are prepared separately for each of the Group’s CGUs to which individual assets 
are allocated.  
The Group participates in a joint arrangement where control of the arrangement is shared with another party. A joint 
arrangement is classified as a joint operation or joint venture, depending on management’s assessment of the legal form 
and substance of the arrangement. 
The Group’s share of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flows of joint operations are included in the consolidated 
financial statements on a line-by-line basis, whereas the Group’s investment and share of results of joint ventures are shown 
within single line items in the consolidated statement of financial position and the consolidated income statement respectively. 
  
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
116 
2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
f. Intangible assets continued 
g. Business combinations and goodwill 
h. Impairment of non-financial assets 
i. Joint arrangements 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
116
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, if any. Where an item 
of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, they are accounted for separately. 
Likewise, when a major inspection or dry-docking is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of the plant and 
equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied. All other repairs and maintenance costs are recognised in 
the income statement as incurred.  
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis so as to write off the depreciable amount of property, 
plant and equipment over its estimated useful lives. The depreciable amount is the cost of an asset less its residual value. Land 
is not depreciated. Estimated useful lives are as follows: 
Costs relating to cruise ship mandatory dry-dockings are capitalised and depreciated over the period up to the next dry-docking 
where appropriate. 
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected 
from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of an asset (calculated as the difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in the income statement when the asset is derecognised. 
Estimated residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually.
The Group classifies non-current assets and disposal groups as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally 
through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. To be classified as held for sale, an asset must be available for 
immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for the sale of such assets, and the 
sale must be highly probable. Sale is considered to be highly probable when management is committed to a plan to sell an 
asset and an active programme to locate a buyer and complete the plan has been initiated at a price that is reasonable in 
relation to its current fair value, and there is an expectation that the sale will be completed within one year from the date of 
classification. Non-current assets classified as held for sale are carried on the Group’s statement of financial position at the 
lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. 
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once classified as held for sale are not depreciated or amortised. 
Discontinued operations are excluded from the results of continuing operations and are presented as a single amount of profit 
or loss after tax from discontinued operations in the income statement. 
  
Buildings, properties and related fixtures:  
Buildings 50 years 
Related fittings 3-20 years 
Leasehold properties over the period of the lease 
Cruise ships 2-15 years 
Computers 3 years 
Plant, vehicles and other equipment  3-10 years 
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
117 
j. Property, plant and equipment 
 
k. Non-current assets held for sale, disposal groups and discontinued operations 
117
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Financial assets are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity 
investments or available for sale financial assets. The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial 
recognition and they are accounted on a trade date basis. All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus, in the 
case of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to 
the acquisition of the financial asset. The Group has fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables and available  
for sale financial assets. 
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification as described below: 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (‘FVTPL’) 
Financial assets at FVTPL are assets: 
‒ which upon initial recognition are designated at fair value through the income statement to eliminate or significantly reduce 
a measurement recognition inconsistency, or  
‒ which are acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near term or forming part of the portfolio of financial 
instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of short-term profit taking. 
Derivative financial instruments not designated as hedging instruments and hedge funds are classified as FVTPL. Financial 
assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised through the income statement. The fair values 
are quoted market prices (where there is an active market) or are based on valuation techniques (where there is no active market 
or the securities are unlisted). Valuation techniques include the use of recent arm’s length transactions, discounted cash flow 
analysis and other commonly used valuation techniques.  
The Group has not designated any financial assets upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss. 
Loans and receivables 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
rate (‘EIR’) method, less impairment losses. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on 
acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included in finance income in the 
income statement. The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the income statement in finance costs. 
Available for sale financial investments 
Available for sale financial investments include debt securities and money market funds. After initial measurement, available  
for sale financial investments are subsequently measured at fair value with unrealised gains or losses recognised as other 
comprehensive income in the available for sale reserve until the investment is derecognised, at which time, the cumulative gain 
or loss is recognised in other operating income, or determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative loss is reclassified to 
the income statement in finance costs and removed from the available for sale reserve. Interest income on available for sale debt 
securities is calculated using the EIR and is recognised in the income statement. 
A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired or when the Group has 
transferred substantially all the risks and rewards relating to the asset to a third party. 
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial 
assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is deemed to be impaired if there is objective evidence of 
impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (an incurred ‘loss event’) 
and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the group of financial assets that 
can be reliably estimated. Evidence of impairment may include indications that debtors are experiencing significant financial 
difficulty, or where observable data indicates that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, such as 
changes in arrears or other factors that correlate with defaults. 
Loans and receivables 
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset or group of financial assets classified as loans and 
receivables has been incurred, the Group measures the amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying amount of the 
asset or group of assets and the present value of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets, discounted at 
the effective interest rate of the instrument at initial recognition. 
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
118 
2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
l. Financial instruments 
i) Financial assets 
Initial recognition and measurement 
Subsequent measurement 
Derecognition 
Impairment of financial assets 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
118
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Loans and receivables continued 
Impairment losses are assessed individually where significant, or collectively for assets that are not individually significant.  
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement and the carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial 
assets is reduced by establishing an allowance for the impairment losses. If in a subsequent period the amount of the 
impairment loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to an event after the impairment was recognised, the previously 
recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.  
Available for sale financial investments  
When a decline in the fair value of a financial asset classified as available for sale has been recognised directly in equity and 
there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income 
statement. The loss is measured as the difference between the amortised cost of the financial asset and its current fair value. 
Impairment losses on available for sale equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement, but those on 
available for sale debt instruments are reversed if there is an increase in fair value that is objectively related to a subsequent 
event. Subsequent increases in the fair value of available for sale debt instruments are all recognised in equity. 
Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or 
derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate. The Group determines the classification 
of its financial liabilities at initial recognition. 
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings, net of directly attributable 
transaction costs. 
The Group’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings and derivative financial instruments. 
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification as follows: 
Financial liabilities at FVTPL 
Derivative financial instruments not designated as hedging instruments are classified as FVTPL. Financial liabilities at FVTPL are 
stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised through the income statement.  
Loans and borrowings and other payables 
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings and other payables are subsequently measured at amortised cost 
using the EIR method. Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as 
through the EIR amortisation process. 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an 
integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included in finance costs in the income statement. 
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. 
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an 
existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability 
and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement. 
  
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
119 
ii) Financial liabilities 
Initial recognition and measurement 
Subsequent measurement 
Derecognition 
119
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Derivatives are measured at fair value both initially and subsequent to initial recognition. Derivatives are presented as assets 
when the fair values are positive and as liabilities when the fair values are negative. A derivative is presented as a non-current 
asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be 
realised or settled within 12 months.  
The Group measures financial instruments, such as derivatives and financial instruments classified as available for sale and at 
FVTPL, at fair value at each reporting date.  
Fair value is the price that would be required to sell an asset or to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the 
asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal market accessible by the Group for the asset or liability or in the 
absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market accessible by the Group for the asset or liability.  
The fair values are quoted market prices where there is an active market or are based on valuation techniques when there is no 
active market or the instruments are unlisted. Valuation techniques include the use of recent arm’s length market transactions, 
discounted cash flow analysis and other commonly used valuation techniques. An analysis of the fair values of financial 
instruments and further details as to how they are measured are provided below. 
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the 
fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement 
as a whole: 
‒ Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities 
‒ Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly 
or indirectly observable 
‒ Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement 
is unobservable 
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether 
transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period. 
The Group designates certain derivative financial instruments as cash flow hedges of certain forecast transactions. These 
transactions are highly probable to occur and present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect 
amounts determined in profit or loss. 
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge, the effective part of any fair value gain or loss on the derivative 
financial instrument is recognised directly in the hedging reserve. Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately 
within the income statement. 
When a hedged forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, any 
associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from the hedging reserve and reclassified into the income statement in the same 
period in which the asset or liability affects profit or loss. When a hedged forecast transaction subsequently results in the 
recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, any associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from the hedging 
reserve and is included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.  
For foreign currency hedges, prospective hedge effectiveness testing is performed at the inception of the hedging relationship, 
and subsequently at each balance sheet date, through comparison of the projected fair values of the hedged forecast 
transaction and the hedging instrument using a combination of the hypothetical derivative approach and sensitivity analysis, as 
part of the dollar-offset method. Retrospective hedge testing is also performed at each reporting date using the dollar-offset 
method, by comparing the cumulative changes in the fair values of the forecast hedged transaction and the hedging instrument. 
  
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
120 
2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
l. Financial instruments continued 
ii) Financial liabilities continued 
Derivatives 
iii) Fair values 
iv) Hedge accounting 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
120
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
For fuel oil hedges, prospective hedge effectiveness testing is performed at the inception of the hedging relationship, and 
subsequently at each balance sheet date, using regression analysis. This method involves calculating the strength of the 
correlation between the price of the derivative and the price of the fuel oil being purchased. Retrospective hedge testing 
is also performed at each reporting date using the same technique. 
When a hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, through maturity, sale, other termination, or 
the revoking of the designated hedging relationship, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. If the hedged forecast 
transaction is still expected to occur, the associated cumulative gain or loss remains in the hedging reserve and is recognised 
in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, 
the cumulative unrealised gain or loss is recognised in the income statement immediately. 
Leases under which substantially all of the risk and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group are finance leases. 
All other leases are operating leases.  
Assets held under finance leases are recognised at the lower of the fair value of the asset and the present value of the minimum 
lease payments within property, plant and equipment on the statement of financial position and depreciated over the shorter of 
the lease term or their expected useful lives. The interest element of finance lease payments represents a constant proportion 
of the capital balance outstanding and is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease.  
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Income arising from operating leases where the Group acts as lessor is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term 
and included in operating income due to its operating nature. 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a 
substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective asset. 
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they occur. 
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. 
Cash and short-term deposits in the statement of financial position comprise cash at bank and on hand and short-term deposits 
with a maturity of three months or less from their inception date. 
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash, short-term deposits as 
defined above and short-term highly liquid investments (including money market funds) with original maturities of three months 
or less which are subject to insignificant risk of change in value, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.  
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs include all costs incurred in bringing each product to 
its present location and condition. Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be 
incurred to completion and disposal. 
Insurance contract liabilities include an outstanding claims provision, a provision for unearned premiums and, if required, 
a provision for premium deficiency.  
The provision for outstanding claims is set on an individual claim basis and is based on the ultimate cost of all claims notified 
but not settled less amounts already paid by the reporting date, together with a provision for related claims handling costs. The 
provision also includes the estimated cost of claims incurred but not reported at the statement of financial position date, which is 
set using statistical methods. The outstanding claims provision is not discounted for the time value of money with the exception 
of claims settled on a periodical payment orders (‘PPOs’) basis. 
The amount of any anticipated reinsurance, salvage or subrogation recoveries is separately identified and reported within trade 
and other receivables and insurance contract liabilities respectively. 
Differences between the provisions at the reporting date and settlements and provisions in the following year (known as ‘run off 
deviations’) are recognised in the income statement as they arise. 
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
121 
m. Leases 
n. Borrowing costs 
o. Cash and short-term deposits 
p. Inventories 
q. Insurance contract liabilities  
i) Outstanding claims provision 
121
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The provision for unearned premiums represents that portion of premiums received or receivable that relates to risks that have 
not yet expired at the reporting date. The provision is recognised when contracts are entered into and premiums are charged, 
and is brought to account as premium income over the term of the contract in accordance with the pattern of insurance service 
provided under the contract. 
At each reporting date, the Group reviews its unexpired risks and a liability adequacy test is performed to determine whether 
there is any overall excess of expected claims and deferred acquisition costs over unearned premiums. This calculation uses 
current estimates of future contractual cash flows after taking account of the investment return expected to arise on assets 
relating to the relevant insurance technical provisions. If these estimates show that the carrying amount of the unearned 
premiums (less related deferred acquisition costs) is inadequate, the deficiency is recognised in the income statement by 
setting up a provision for premium deficiency. 
The Group provides benefits to employees (including Directors) in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby 
employees render services as consideration for equity instruments (‘equity-settled transactions’). The cost of equity-settled 
transactions is measured by reference to the fair value on the grant date and is recognised as an expense over the relevant 
vesting period, ending on the date on which the employee becomes fully entitled to the award.  
Fair values of share-based payment transactions are calculated using Black-Scholes and Monte-Carlo modelling techniques. In 
valuing equity-settled transactions, assessment is made of any vesting conditions to categorise these into market performance 
conditions, non-market performance conditions and service conditions. 
Where the equity-settled transactions have market performance conditions (that is, performance which is directly or indirectly 
linked to the share price), the fair value of the award is assessed at the time of grant and is not changed, regardless of the actual 
level of vesting achieved, except where the employee ceases to be employed prior to the vesting date. 
For service conditions and non-market performance conditions, the fair value of the award is assessed at the time of grant and 
is reassessed at each reporting date to reflect updated expectations for the level of vesting. No expense is recognised for 
awards that ultimately do not vest. 
At each reporting date prior to vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period 
has expired and, in the case of non-market conditions, the best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately 
vest or, in the case of instruments subject to market conditions, the fair value on grant adjusted only for leavers. The movement 
in the cumulative expense since the previous reporting date is recognised in the income statement, with the corresponding 
increase in the share-based payments reserve. 
Upon vesting of an equity instrument, the cumulative cost in the share-based payments reserve is reclassified to retained 
earnings in equity. 
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share. 
The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans which require contributions to be made to separately 
administered funds. The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans are determined separately using the 
projected unit credit valuation method.  
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are credited/charged to other comprehensive income and comprise the effects of 
changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments due to differences between the previous actuarial assumptions 
and what has actually occurred. In particular, the difference between the interest income and the actual return on plan assets 
is recognised in other comprehensive income. 
Other movements in the net surplus or deficit, which include the current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any 
curtailment or settlements, are recognised in the income statement. Past service costs are recognised in the income statement 
on the earlier of the date of plan curtailment and the date that the Group recognises restructuring-related costs. The interest 
cost less interest income on assets held in the plans is also charged to the income statement.  
  
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
122 
2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
q. Insurance contract liabilities continued 
ii) Provision for unearned premiums 
iii) Provision for premium deficiency 
r. Share-based payments 
s. Retirement benefit schemes 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
122
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The defined benefit schemes are funded, with assets of the schemes held separately from those of the Group, in separate 
Trustee administered funds. Scheme assets are measured using market values, and scheme liabilities are measured using the 
projected unit actuarial method and are discounted at the current rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent 
term and currency to the liability. Full actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each reporting date. 
The resulting defined benefit asset or liability is presented separately after other net assets and liabilities on the face of the 
statement of financial position. The value of a retirement benefit scheme asset is restricted to the amount that may be recovered 
either through reduced contributions or agreed refunds from the scheme. 
For defined contribution schemes, the amounts charged to the income statement are the contributions payable in the year. 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, and it is 
probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, 
the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset, but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain. The expense relating 
to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement. If the effect of the time value of money is 
material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. 
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost. 
A provision is recognised for onerous contracts in which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract 
exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it. The unavoidable costs reflect the least net cost of exiting the 
contract, which is the lower of the cost of fulfilling it and any compensation or penalties arising from failure to fulfil it. 
The Group has ordinary shares that are classified as equity. Incremental external costs that are directly attributable to the issue 
of these shares are recognised in equity, net of tax. 
The following is a list of standards and amendments to standards that are in issue but are not effective or adopted as at 
31 January 2015. Comment on these new standards or amendments is as follows: 
In July 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ that will essentially replace IAS 39. The classification and 
measurement of financial assets and liabilities will be directly linked to the nature of the instrument’s contractual cash flows and 
the business model employed by the holder of the instrument. The impact of this standard on the Group’s financial statements 
is still being assessed. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. 
The objective of IFRS 15 is to establish the principles that an entity should apply to report useful information to users of financial 
statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a contract with a customer. 
The impact of this standard on the Group’s financial statements is still being assessed. The standard is effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017. 
These amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 provide additional guidance on how the depreciation or amortisation of property, plant 
and equipment and intangible assets should be calculated. The requirements of IAS 16 and IAS 38 are amended to clarify that 
depreciation and amortisation methods that are based on revenue are not appropriate. The amendment is effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 and will have no effect on the financial statements. 
The amendments reinstate the equity method as an accounting option for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates in an entity’s separate financial statements. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2016, with earlier application being permitted and will have no effect on the financial statements. 
 
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
123 
t. Provisions 
u. Equity 
2.4 Standards issued but not yet effective 
i) IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ 
ii) IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ 
iii) Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 ‘Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation’ 
iv) Amendments to IAS 27 ‘Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements’ 
 
123
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The amendments state that the acquirer of an interest in a joint operation in which the activity constitutes a business, as defined 
in IFRS 3, is required to apply all of the principles on business combinations accounting in IFRS 3 and other IFRSs with the 
exception of those principles that conflict with the guidance in IFRS 11. The amendments are effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2016, with earlier application being permitted and will have no effect on the financial statements.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have a 
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are 
discussed below: 
For insurance contracts, estimates have to be made both for the expected ultimate cost of claims reported at the reporting date 
and for the expected ultimate cost of claims incurred but not yet reported at the reporting date (‘IBNR’). It can take a significant 
period of time before the ultimate claims cost can be established with certainty. For some types of policies, IBNR claims form 
the majority of the liability in the statement of financial position. 
The ultimate cost of outstanding claims is estimated by using a range of standard actuarial claims projection techniques, such 
as Chain Ladder and Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods. 
The main assumption underlying these techniques is that past claims development experience can be used to project future 
claims development and hence ultimate claims costs. As such, these methods extrapolate the development of paid and incurred 
losses, average costs per claim and claim numbers based on the observed development of earlier years and expected loss 
ratios. Historical claims development is mainly analysed by accident years, but can also be further analysed by geographical 
area, as well as by significant business lines and claim types. Large claims are usually separately addressed, either by being 
reserved at the face value of loss adjuster estimates or separately projected in order to reflect their future development. In most 
cases, no explicit assumptions are made regarding future rates of claims inflation or loss ratios. Instead, the assumptions used 
are those implicit in the historical claims development data on which the projections are based. Additional qualitative judgement 
is used to assess the extent to which past trends may not apply in future, (e.g. to reflect one-off occurrences, changes in 
external or market factors such as public attitudes to claiming, economic conditions, levels of claims inflation, judicial decisions 
and legislation, as well as internal factors such as portfolio mix, policy features and claims handling procedures) in order to arrive 
at the estimated ultimate cost of claims that present the likely outcome from the range of possible outcomes, taking account of 
all of the uncertainties involved. 
The ultimate cost of claims is not discounted except for those in respect of periodical payment orders (‘PPOs’). The valuation 
of these claims involves making assumptions about the rate of inflation and the expected rate of return on assets to determine 
the discount rate. Due to the size of PPO claims, the ultimate cost is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. The 
assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. 
Similar judgements, estimates and assumptions are employed in the assessment of the adequacy of provisions for unearned 
premium. Judgement is also required in determining whether the pattern of insurance service provided by a contract requires 
amortisation of unearned premium on a basis other than time apportionment. 
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis. This requires an estimation of the value in use of the 
CGUs to which goodwill is allocated. The value-in-use calculation requires the Group to estimate the future cash flows expected 
to arise from the CGUs at a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value. 
The cost of defined benefit pension plans and the present value of the retirement benefit scheme obligation are determined 
using actuarial valuations. The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, expected rates of return 
on assets, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases. Due to the complexity of the valuation, the 
underlying assumptions and its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these 
assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. 
Where the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are categorised under Level 2 or 3, they are determined using 
a variety of valuation techniques that include the use of discounted cash flow models and/or mathematical models. The inputs 
to these models are derived from observable market data where possible, but where observable market data is not available, 
judgement is required to establish fair values. The judgements include considerations of liquidity risk, credit risk, and model 
inputs such as volatility for longer dated derivatives and discount rates and prepayment rates.  
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
124 
2.4 Standards issued but not yet effective continued 
v) Amendments to IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ 
 
2.5 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
i) Valuation of insurance contract liabilities 
ii) Goodwill impairment testing 
iii) Valuation of retirement benefit scheme obligation 
iv) Fair value of financial instruments determined using valuation techniques 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
124
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
During the period, the Group has granted a number of different equity-based awards to employees and customers for which a 
share-based payments charge may be required to be made in the income statement. The Group has considered each award 
separately to determine whether it comprises a share-based payment and to determine whether it is ‘equity-settled’ or ‘cash-
settled’, and to determine the vesting period and any vesting conditions. 
The fair values of share-based payments have been determined using techniques based upon ‘Black-Scholes’ and ‘Monte-
Carlo’ pricing models. The model assumptions have been considered at the time of award and, in the case of non-market based 
conditions, will be revisited at each reporting date up to vesting. 
The Group incurred incremental costs totalling £30.3m in respect of its listing on the London Stock Exchange and issue of new 
shares. IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ requires the Group to charge the costs of issuing new shares against the 
share premium account within Equity. 
The Group has reviewed the incremental costs to identify those solely incurred in issuing new shares, those incurred in 
connection with the entire share capital, and those not associated with issuing new shares at all. Those costs incurred 
in connection with the entire share capital have been apportioned to the issue of new shares by reference to the number 
of new shares compared to the entire share capital. 
Further to this, the Group has charged £27.6m against share premium and charged the remaining £2.7m to the income 
statement as an exceptional expense. These costs are not deductible for corporation tax purposes. 
Further to the Group’s decision to divest the local authority section of its Healthcare business, Allied Healthcare, the business 
has been classified as a disposal group held for sale, and the assets and liabilities of the business have been re-measured to 
fair value. 
In order to be recognised as a disposal group held for sale, IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued 
Operations’ requires the business to be available for immediate sale in its present condition, subject only to terms that are usual 
and customary for sales of such assets, and the sale must be highly probable.  
The Group has considered the Allied Healthcare business and the processes under way to divest it, in particular those relating to 
marketing and contact with interested potential buyers, and concluded that the relevant criteria have been met at 31 January 
2015. Accordingly, the business has been treated as a disposal group held for sale in the statement of financial position and as 
a discontinued activity in the income statement. 
  
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
125 
vi) Share-based payments 
viii) Share issue costs 
ix) Disposal group held for sale 
125
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
For management purposes, the Group is organised into business units based on their products and services and has four 
reportable operating segments as follows: 
‒  The segment primarily comprises general insurance and financial services products. Revenue is derived 
primarily from insurance premiums, insurance commissions and financial services product commissions. This segment is 
further analysed into three sub-segments: 
‒ Motor Insurance 
‒ Home Insurance 
‒ Other Financial Services 
The Group operates its own general insurer which underwrites all of the Group’s Saga-branded Motor Insurance policies, a 
proportion of its Home Insurance policies, and some of its other products. The remaining insurance policies are underwritten 
by third party underwriters. 
‒  The segment primarily comprises the operation and delivery of package tours and cruise holiday products. The Group 
operates its own cruise ships and one hotel. All other holiday products are packaged together with third party supplied 
accommodation, flights and other transport arrangements. 
 
‒  The segment primarily comprises the delivery of domiciliary care services and delivery of various primary 
care services. 
 
‒  The segment primarily comprises a monthly subscription magazine product, the Group’s internal 
mailing house and centrally borne administrative costs. 
Segment performance is primarily evaluated using the Group’s key performance measure of Trading EBITDA. Items 
not allocated to a segment relate to transactions that do not form part of the ongoing segment performance. Group 
financing (including finance costs) and income taxes are managed on a Group basis and are not allocated to individual 
operating segments. 
Transfer prices between operating segments are set on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third 
parties. Segment income, expenses and results includes transfers between business segments which are then eliminated 
on consolidation. 
Finance income and costs, and fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments are not allocated to individual 
segments as the underlying instruments are managed on a Group basis. Current taxes, deferred taxes and certain financial 
assets and liabilities are not allocated to segments as they are also managed on a Group basis. 
  
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
126 
3 Segmental information 
Financial Services:
Travel:
Healthcare Services:
Media and Central Costs:
 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
126
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The total revenue of £900.5m is generated solely in the UK. 
Cost of sales within the Financial Services segment comprises claims costs and claims handling expenses incurred on insurance 
policies underwritten by the Group (see note 3b). The costs of marketing, selling and administering the policies are deducted in 
arriving at Trading EBITDA. 
  
 Financial Services   
2015 
Motor 
Insurance 
£’m 
Home 
Insurance
£’m
Other 
Financial 
Services
£’m
Total
£’m
Travel
£’m
Healthcare 
Services 
£’m 
Media and 
Central 
Costs 
£’m 
Adjustments
£’m
Total
£’m
Gross revenue 341.3 173.5 151.6 666.4 381.3 4.3 16.8 – 1,068.8
Inter-segment  – – – – – – 8.3 (8.3) –
Segment revenue 341.3 173.5 151.6 666.4 381.3 4.3 25.1 (8.3) 1,068.8
Third party premiums (29.3) (81.7) (57.3) (168.3) – – – – (168.3)
Revenue 312.0 91.8 94.3 498.1 381.3 4.3 25.1 (8.3) 900.5
Cost of sales (168.1) (4.5) (32.0) (204.6) (304.6) (0.3) (15.6) – (525.1)
Gross profit 143.9 87.3 62.3 293.5 76.7 4.0 9.5 (8.3) 375.4
Results    
Trading EBITDA 104.2 64.5 41.9 210.6 26.0 2.2 (11.4) – 227.4
Trading EBITDA %  30.5% 37.2% 27.6% 31.6% 6.8% 51.2% (45.4%) 21.3%
Depreciation (1.5) (0.6) (0.6) (2.7) (9.3) (0.2) (5.1) – (17.3)
Amortisation of intangible assets (2.3) (1.8) (0.8) (4.9) (3.1) – (1.5) (2.2) (11.7)
Operating profit 100.4 62.1 40.5 203.0 13.6 2.0 (18.0) (2.2) 198.4
Exceptional expenses    (52.4)
Net fair value gain on derivative 
financial instruments    2.9
Net finance costs    (35.1)
Profit before tax from 
continuing operations    113.8
    
Total assets less liabilities  299.7 (25.1) –  (89.2) 798.7 984.1
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
127 
127
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The total revenue of £944.0m is generated solely in the UK. 
Cost of sales within the Financial Services segment comprises claims costs and claims handling expenses incurred on insurance 
policies underwritten by the Group (see note 3b). The costs of marketing, selling and administering the policies are deducted in 
arriving at Trading EBITDA. 
Total assets less liabilities detailed as adjustments relates to the following unallocated items: 
 
  
 Financial Services  
2014 
Motor 
Insurance 
£’m 
Home 
Insurance 
£’m 
Other 
Financial 
Services
£’m
Total
£’m
Travel
£’m
Healthcare 
Services
£’m
Media and 
Central 
Costs 
£’m 
Adjustments
£’m
Total
£’m
Gross revenue 362.6 197.8 122.5 682.9 379.6 4.7 17.1 – 1,084.3
Inter-segment  – – – – – – 8.9 (8.9) –
Segment revenue 362.6 197.8 122.5 682.9 379.6 4.7 26.0 (8.9) 1,084.3
Third party premiums (7.4) (107.3) (25.6) (140.3) – – – – (140.3)
Revenue 355.2 90.5 96.9 542.6 379.6 4.7 26.0 (8.9) 944.0
Cost of sales (218.9) (4.4) (38.0) (261.3) (315.0) (0.3) (16.7) – (593.3)
Gross profit 136.3 86.1 58.9 281.3 64.6 4.4 9.3 (8.9) 350.7
Results    
Trading EBITDA 96.7 63.1 37.3 197.1 27.8 2.7 (1.4) – 226.2
Trading EBITDA %  26.7% 31.9% 30.4% 28.9% 7.3% 57.4% (5.4%) – 20.9%
Depreciation (1.3) (0.5) (0.3) (2.1) (17.9) (0.2) (5.5) – (25.7)
Loss on disposal – – – – (1.6) – – – (1.6)
Amortisation of intangible assets (3.1) (1.3) (0.7) (5.1) (2.4) – (3.1) (0.1) (10.7)
Operating profit 92.3 61.3 36.3 189.9 5.9 2.5 (10.0) (0.1) 188.2
Exceptional expenses    (6.4)
Net fair value loss on derivative 
financial instruments    (10.4)
Net finance costs    (0.1)
Profit before tax from 
continuing operations    171.3
    
Total assets less liabilities   274.9 (5.3) (0.2) (55.5) 905.9 1,119.8
 Note 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Goodwill 13 1,471.4 1,636.2
Contracts, brands and customer relationships 14 18.8 29.2
Bank loans 28 (692.2) –
Assets relating to discontinued operations  –  (2.4)
Net amounts owed to parent undertakings  17 –  (749.2)
Net amounts owed to previous related undertakings  17 – (4.2)
Deferred tax – non-retirement benefit scheme related  0.7 (3.7)
  798.7 905.9
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
128 
3 Segmental information continued 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
128
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
  
 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Income from insurance underwritten by the Group 
– Motor Insurance 270.0 310.9
– Home Insurance 16.4 16.4
– Other 39.3 41.7
 325.7 369.0
Income from other insurance and financial services products 172.4 173.6
 498.1 542.6
 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Net claims incurred on insurance underwritten by the Group 
– Motor Insurance 143.3 194.8
– Home Insurance 4.5 4.4
– Other 31.5 37.8
 179.3 237.0
Other cost of sales 25.3 24.3
 204.6 261.3
 Note 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Staff costs  8 86.9 82.3
Marketing and fulfilment costs  44.8 43.9
Lease rentals  0.8 1.0
Auditors’ remuneration  2.0 1.2
Other administrative costs  38.5 27.7
Depreciation 16 7.4 6.8
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment  – 1.6
Amortisation of intangible assets 14 11.7 10.7
Exceptional expenses   52.4 6.4
  244.5 181.6
 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.3 –
Audit of subsidiary financial statements 0.8 0.8
Audit-related assurance services 0.2 –
Other assurance services – 0.2
Corporate finance services 0.6 0.1
Other non-audit services 0.1 0.1
Total auditors’ remuneration 2.0 1.2
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
129 
a. Analysis of Financial Services revenue 
b. Analysis of Financial Services cost of sales 
4 Administrative and selling expenses 
a. Auditors’ remuneration 
129
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Flotation and other costs comprise the cost of various bonuses paid to Directors and employees of the Group on the IPO date, 
and the costs of the IPO which have not been charged to the share premium account of £2.7m. 
Restructuring costs represents costs associated with restructuring and reorganising a number of Group operations and include 
staff-related costs such as redundancy and other termination costs, together with various professional fees for advice and 
processes associated with the restructuring. 
 
  
 Note 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Share-based payment costs  32 40.8 –
Flotation and other costs  9.2 –
Restructuring costs  1.0 5.6
Acquisition of subsidiaries  12 0.3 –
Other exceptional expenses  1.1 0.8
  52.4 6.4
 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Investment income from Financial Services  
– Motor Insurance 15.6 14.1
– Home Insurance 0.2 0.2
– Other 1.5 1.0
 17.3 15.3
Elimination of intra-group property rental income (4.0) (3.9)
Interest income from other segments 0.6 1.3
 13.9 12.7
 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Interest and charges on debt and borrowings 22.5 –
Exceptional debt and borrowings costs 12.1 –
Net fair value loss on derivative financial instruments – 10.4
Net finance expense on retirement benefit schemes 0.5 –
Unwinding of discount and effect of changes in discount rate on provisions – 0.2
 35.1 10.6
 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Net fair value gain on derivative financial instruments  2.9 –
Net finance income on retirement benefit schemes – 0.1
 2.9 0.1
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
130 
4 Administrative and selling expenses continued 
b. Exceptional expenses 
5 Investment income 
6 Finance costs 
7 Finance income 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
130
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Staff costs in respect of continuing operations have been allocated £18.8m (2014: £18.0m) to Cost of sales and £86.9m 
(2014: £82.3m) to Administrative and selling expenses. 
The number of employees in the Travel segment includes 848 (2014: 1,218) crew who are employed indirectly via 
a manning agency. 
The information required by the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority is contained on 
pages 73 to 95 in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
Key management personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and 
controlling the activities of the Group and comprise the Directors of the Company and the Chief Executive Officers of the major 
businesses within the trading segments. 
The amounts recognised as an expense during the financial year in respect of key management personnel are as follows: 
 
  
Amounts charged to the income statement for the year are as follows: Note 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Continuing operations  
Wages and salaries  91.2 87.1
Social security costs  7.9 7.5
Pension costs  24 6.6 5.7
  105.7 100.3
Discontinued operations   
Wages and salaries  211.7 254.0
Social security costs  12.9 14.2
Pension costs  24 0.4 0.3
  225.0 268.5
Total staff costs  330.7 368.8
Average monthly number of employees 2015 2014
Financial Services 2,043 2,113
Travel 2,160 2,423
Healthcare Services 39 37
Media and Central Costs 618 651
Continuing operations 4,860 5,224
Employees attributable to discontinued operations 15,235 16,807
Total staff numbers 20,095 22,031
  
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Short-term benefits  6.9 4.5
Share-based payments   17.8 –
  24.7 4.5
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
131 
8 Directors and employees 
Directors’ remuneration 
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group 
131
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The major components of the income tax expense are: 
Reconciliation of tax expense to profit before tax multiplied by the UK corporation tax rate: 
Deferred tax: 
Reflected in the statement of financial position as follows: 
 
  
 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Consolidated income statement  
Current income tax  
Current income tax charge 29.9 48.1
Adjustments in respect of previous years – 0.9
 29.9 49.0
Deferred tax  
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences (2.0) (5.6)
Adjustments in respect of previous years (0.5) –
Tax expense in the income statement 27.4 43.4
 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Profit before tax 113.8 171.3
  
Tax at rate of 21.3% (2014: 23.2%)  24.2 39.7
Adjustments in respect of previous years (0.5) 0.9
Rate change adjustment on temporary differences 0.3 2.9
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes:  
– Fair value adjustments  – 0.9
– Other non-deductible expenses/non-taxed income 3.4 (1.0)
Tax expense in the income statement 27.4 43.4
 
Consolidated statement  
of financial position 
Consolidated income  
statement 
 
2015
£’m
2014 
£’m 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Excess of depreciation over capital allowances 6.5 8.7 (0.3) 1.8
Intangible assets (4.6) (6.7) 0.3 1.8
Retirement benefit scheme liabilities 8.1 4.9 (0.2) (1.6)
Short-term temporary differences 7.3 5.2 2.9 2.9
Losses available for offsetting against future taxable income 0.1 0.8 (0.2) 0.7
Deferred tax credit  2.5 5.6
Net deferred tax assets 17.4 12.9  
 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Deferred tax assets  22.9 19.9
Deferred tax liabilities (5.5) (7.0)
Net deferred tax assets 17.4 12.9
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
132 
9 Tax 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
132
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Reconciliation of net deferred tax assets: 
The Group offsets tax assets and liabilities if, and only if, it has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and current 
tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority. 
A reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% took effect on 1 April 2014, and a further reduction to 20% was 
enacted in the Finance Act 2013 to take effect from 1 April 2015. As a result, the closing deferred tax balances have been 
reflected at 20%. 
The Group has tax losses which arose in the UK of £4.9m (2014: £4.6m) that are available indefinitely for offsetting against 
future taxable profits of the companies in which the losses arose. 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as they may not be used to offset taxable profits 
elsewhere in the Group, they have arisen in subsidiaries that have been loss-making for some time, and there are no other tax 
planning opportunities or other evidence of recoverability in the near future. If the Group were able to recognise all unrecognised 
deferred tax assets, the profit would increase by £1.0m.  
With the exception of the corporate restructuring dividends disclosed in note 30, no dividends were declared by the Company 
during the year ended 31 January 2015 (2014: nil). 
The Directors propose a final dividend for the year ended 31 January 2015 of 4.1p per share. This is subject to approval by 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 23 June 2015 and would be paid on 30 June 2015. These financial statements 
do not reflect this dividend payable. 
  
 Note 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
At 1 February  12.9 0.7
Tax credit recognised in the income statement   2.5 5.6
Tax credit recognised in other comprehensive income  6.8 3.5
Deferred taxes acquired in business combinations  (4.0) –
Deferred tax charge attributable to discontinued operations  0.5 3.1
Transferred to assets held for sale  35 (1.3) –
At 31 January  17.4 12.9
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
133 
10 Dividends 
133
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit after tax for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. 
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year and which would be issued on conversion of all potential dilutive 
options into ordinary shares. 
The Group did not exist in its current form for the comparative period, therefore basic and diluted EPS have been calculated 
using the number of shares pre-admission to the London Stock Exchange as if they had always been in issue, in accordance 
with IAS 33. 
There have been no other transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and 
the date of authorisation of these financial statements. 
The calculation of basic and diluted EPS is as follows: 
The diluted EPS for the year is not adjusted for the share options and shares to be issued as these are anti-dilutive. 
  
Basic EPS Note 2015 2014
(Loss)/profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent (£’m)   (134.2) 108.5
Profit from continuing operations (£’m)  86.4 127.9
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (millions)   
Original shares  800.0 800.0
297.3m shares issued on 29 May 2014  202.0 –
0.5m share options exercised  32 0.4 –
Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (millions)  1,002.4 800.0
Basic EPS   (13.4p) 13.6p
Basic EPS for continuing operations  8.6p 16.0p
Diluted EPS Note 2015 2014
(Loss)/profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent (£’m)  (134.2) 108.5
Profit from continuing operations (£’m)  86.4 127.9
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic EPS (millions)  1,002.4 800.0
Effect of dilution:   
12.6m share options  32 8.6 –
7.0m shares to be issued on 29 May 2015  29 4.7 –
Weighted average number of ordinary shares adjusted for the effect of dilution (millions)  1,015.7 800.0
Diluted EPS   (13.4p) 13.6p
Diluted EPS for continuing operations  8.5p 16.0p
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
134 
11 Earnings per share 
 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
134
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The Group’s key earnings per share measure is Operating EPS. 
Operating EPS is presented to exclude items which are not considered to be part of the Group's operating performance. This is 
achieved by removing the impact of non-recurring exceptional items, and by measuring prior to net fair value gains and losses 
on derivatives not designated as hedges under IAS 39 as these movements arise and reverse across financial periods and are 
not representative of the actual effectiveness the Group's economic hedging activities. 
The following table provides a reconciliation of Operating earnings after tax from continuing operations and the calculated basic 
and diluted Operating EPS: 
The Group did not exist in its current form during the prior year. On 25 April 2014, the Group took on its own bank debt to 
replace that previously provided by the Group’s parent company via interest-free intercompany loans (see note 28), and on 
29 May 2014, the Group was listed on the London Stock Exchange (see note 28). 
Accordingly, in order to provide more comparable period-on-period understanding, a Pro forma Operating EPS has also been 
calculated which adjusts the current and prior year periods to allow like-for-like comparison: 
Pro forma adjustments have been made for interest charges and plc costs to allow comparison between the periods on a  
like-for-like basis. 
The interest charge is made to include a charge for the £1.25bn of debt which was provided to the Company via intercompany 
loans by an intermediate parent company up until 25 April 2014 (see note 28). Interest has been calculated using the rate 
specified in the Group’s Senior Facilities Agreement for a level of debt of £1.25bn. 
On 29 May 2014, the Group was listed on the London Stock Exchange and, as a consequence, started to incur additional costs 
associated with being a plc which it did not incur as a private company. These costs include the costs of additional senior staff, 
notably the new CEO, Non-Executive Directors and Investor Relations function, together with additional costs associated with 
the regulatory requirements. The plc costs charge is made to include a full year of these costs in both periods. 
  
Operating EPS Note 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Profit before tax from continuing operations  113.8 171.3
Adjusted for:  
Exceptional expenses  4 52.4 6.4
Exceptional debt and borrowings costs  6 12.1 –
Net fair value gains/(losses) on derivatives  (2.9) 10.4
Operating earnings before tax from continuing operations  175.4 188.1
Tax at effective rate  (36.9) (46.5)
Operating earnings after tax from continuing operations  138.5 141.6
Post-tax Operating EPS (basic)  13.8p 17.7p
Post-tax Operating EPS (diluted)  13.6p 17.7p
Pro forma Operating EPS 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Post-tax operating earnings from continuing operations 138.5 141.6
Adjusted for: 
Pro forma interest charge (14.1) (61.3)
Pro forma plc costs (1.8) (4.5)
Underlying adjustments – (3.4)
Tax on adjustments at effective rate of 21.3% (2014: 23.2%) 3.4 16.0
Post-tax pro forma operating earnings from continuing operations 126.0 88.4
Post-tax Pro forma Operating EPS (basic) 12.6p 11.1p
Post-tax Pro forma Operating EPS (diluted) 12.4p 11.1p
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
135 
135
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
On 13 August 2014, the Group acquired a 75% shareholding in Destinology Limited, one of the UK’s leading online travel 
companies, which offers bespoke holidays at five-star hotels and resorts in major international destinations, including the 
Maldives, Dubai, the Caribbean, the Far East, the USA and Europe. Destinology fits well with the Group’s existing travel brands 
and demographic, enhancing our range of travel offers to customers. 
The Group has the option to acquire the remaining 25% shareholding in Destinology at a later date. Accordingly the subsequent 
purchase is considered to be a linked transaction and Destinology has been consolidated as a 100% subsidiary.  
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Destinology Limited acquired on the date of acquisition were:  
The goodwill arising on acquisition of £13.0m represents the fair value arising from the acquired management structure, 
strategic knowledge, capability and other synergies arising on acquisition. 
The initial acquisition cost for the 75% shareholding of £23.0m was settled using £22.2m of cash held by the Travel segment, 
with £0.8m deferred to be paid during the year ending 31 January 2016.  
The Group and the existing shareholders respectively hold call and put options over the remaining 25% of the shares. The 
price to be paid for the remaining 25% is dependent upon the profitability of the Destinology business at certain future dates 
(specifically one year, and two years from the acquisition date). The contingent consideration of £6.2m in respect of the 
remaining 25% has been valued based upon a probability-weighted range of outcomes and is classified as Level 3 in the fair 
value hierarchy. 
Transaction costs of £0.3m have been expensed and are included as part of the exceptional expenses within administrative 
and selling expenses (see note 4). 
 
Fair value
£’m 
Assets  
Brand 12.7
Database of customers 7.4
Software 0.7
Property, plant and equipment 0.4
Trade receivables 4.9
Cash 8.0
Total assets 34.1
 
Liabilities 
Trade payables  (13.9)
Deferred tax liability (4.0)
Total liabilities (17.9)
 
Total identifiable net assets at fair value 16.2
Goodwill arising on acquisition 13.0
Purchase consideration transferred 29.2
Purchase consideration £’m
Cash settled on acquisition date 22.2
Deferred for one year  0.8
Contingent consideration in respect of remaining 25% shareholding 6.2
Total consideration 29.2
Analysis of cash flows on acquisition: £’m
Initial cash consideration (22.2)
Net cash acquired 8.0
 (14.2)
Transaction costs of the acquisition (included in operating cash flows) (0.3)
Net cash flow on acquisition (14.5)
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
136 
12 Business combinations and acquisition of non-controlling interests 
a. Acquisitions during the year ended 31 January 2015 
i) Destinology Limited 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
136
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
From the date of acquisition, Destinology Limited contributed £26.2m of revenue and £0.9m to the Group profit before tax for 
the year ended 31 January 2015. Had these acquisitions occurred at the beginning of the financial year, contribution to Group 
revenue and profit before income tax for the full year would have been £56.5m and £1.7m respectively. 
Cash consideration of £0.1m was paid during the year ended 31 January 2015 in relation to Nestor Healthcare Group 
as part of the deferred consideration on this acquisition. As at 31 January 2015, £0.2m of the deferred consideration 
remains outstanding.  
There were no acquisitions in the year ended 31 January 2014.  
Cash consideration of £0.7m was paid during the year ended 31 January 2014 in relation to Nestor Healthcare Group 
as part of the deferred consideration on this acquisition. As at 31 January 2014, £0.3m of the deferred consideration 
remained outstanding. 
Goodwill represents that arising via the pooling of interest method detailed in note 2.1, and goodwill acquired through business 
combinations. Goodwill has been allocated to CGUs on initial recognition and for subsequent impairment testing, and is 
allocated to the Financial Services and Travel segments. Goodwill relating to the discontinued element of the Healthcare 
Services segment has been transferred to assets held for sale. 
Goodwill deductible for tax purposes amounts to £22.2m (2014: £22.2m). 
  
 Note
Goodwill
£’m
Cost  
At 1 February 2013 1,636.3
Fair value adjustment  (0.1)
At 31 January 2014 1,636.2
Additions through business combinations  12 13.0
Reclassification to assets held for sale  35 (177.8)
At 31 January 2015 1,471.4
 
Impairment 
At 1 February 2013 –
Impairment –
At 31 January 2014 –
Impairment –
Reclassification to assets held for sale  35 –
At 31 January 2015 –
 
Net book value  
At 31 January 2015 1,471.4
 
At 31 January 2014 1,636.2
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
137 
i) Destinology Limited continued 
ii) Nestor Healthcare Group Limited 
b. Acquisitions during the year ended 31 January 2014 
13 Goodwill 
137
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Intangible assets detailed as Contracts, Brands and Customer Relationships at 31 January 2014 represent assets identified at 
the time of acquisition of various subsidiaries within the Healthcare Services segment. These intangible assets relating to the 
Allied Healthcare business to be disposed of have been transferred to assets held for sale as the disposal group has met the 
criteria set out in IFRS 5 (see note 35). 
Brands and Customer Relationships assets have been acquired during the year through the business combination relating 
to Destinology Limited (see note 12). These assets have been reviewed for indicators of impairment at 31 January 2015 
(see note 15). 
The amortisation charge for the year is analysed as follows: 
 
  
 Note
Contracts
£’m
Brands
£’m
Customer 
Relationships 
£’m 
Software 
£’m 
Total
£’m
Cost    
At 1 February 2013 81.1 1.4 19.1 50.9 152.5
Additions – – – 8.2 8.2
Disposals  – – – (0.4) (0.4)
At 31 January 2014 81.1 1.4 19.1 58.7 160.3
Additions – – – 8.6 8.6
Acquisitions through business combinations – 12.7 7.4 0.7 20.8
Reclassification to assets held for sale  35 (81.1) – (19.1) (6.7) (106.9)
At 31 January 2015 – 14.1 7.4 61.3 82.8
   
Amortisation and impairment   
At 1 February 2013 35.5 0.3 18.7 29.5 84.0
Amortisation 13.6 0.2 0.4 11.4 25.6
Impairment 3.7 – – – 3.7
Disposals – – – (0.4) (0.4)
At 31 January 2014 52.8 0.5 19.1 40.5 112.9
Amortisation 9.6 0.8 1.4 10.3 22.1
Reclassification to assets held for sale  35 (62.4) – (19.1) (5.5) (87.0)
At 31 January 2015 – 1.3 1.4 45.3 48.0
   
Net book value    
At 31 January 2015 – 12.8 6.0 16.0 34.8
   
At 31 January 2014 28.3 0.9 – 18.2 47.4
 Note 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Administrative and selling expenses 4 11.7 10.7
Discontinued operations:   
Amortisation charge for the year 35 10.4 14.9
Impairment of intangible fixed assets 35 – 3.7
  22.1 29.3
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
138 
14 Intangible fixed assets 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
138
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to CGUs on initial recognition and subsequently for 
impairment testing. Additions to goodwill during the year relating to Destinology Limited have been disclosed as a separate 
CGU relating to the new subsidiary only. The carrying value of goodwill by CGU is as follows: 
The Group has tested the goodwill in respect of the Financial Services and Travel CGUs (including the acquired Destinology 
business) for impairment at 31 January 2015. The impairment test compares the recoverable amount of the goodwill of each 
CGU to its carrying value. The goodwill associated with the Destinology business has been considered separately but as this 
business becomes more integrated into the overall Travel business, it is likely to be necessary to consider this as part of the 
overall Travel CGU. 
The recoverable amount of each CGU has been determined based on a value-in-use calculation using cash flow projections 
from the Group’s five year plan through to the year ending 31 January 2020. Terminal values have been included using 3% 
as the expected long-term average growth rate of the UK economy, and calculated using the Gordon growth model. 
The pre-tax cash flows of each CGU have been discounted considering the weighted average cost of capital of a market 
participant capable of acquiring a similar business. For the Financial Services CGU, this pre-tax discount rate has been 
assessed to be 8.8%, and for the Travel and Destinology CGUs, it has been assessed to be 12.4%.  
The value-in-use calculation is most sensitive to the assumptions used for growth and for the discount rate. Accordingly, stress 
testing has been performed on these key assumptions as part of the impairment test to determine whether any reasonably 
foreseeable change in any of the key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount of the CGU to be lower than its 
carrying amount. 
To undertake the stress testing, terminal values were separately recalculated using 1.5% growth and nil growth, and the 
relevant discount rate was separately increased by 3%. No evidence of any impairment was seen under any of these stress 
test scenarios. Consequently, no impairment of the goodwill relating to the Financial Services and two Travel CGUs has 
been recognised.  
As detailed in note 35, the Group has decided to divest the Allied Healthcare business; accordingly, the goodwill which 
arose on the acquisition of this business has been reclassified as held for sale and considered as part of the realisable 
value of this business. 
Separately identifiable intangible assets are valued and their appropriate useful lives established at the time of acquisition. 
The carrying values of these assets and their remaining useful lives are reviewed annually for indicators of impairment. 
The Group has performed a review for indicators of impairment at 31 January 2015 and concluded that no indicators of 
impairment exist at that date. 
As at 31 January 2014, the assessed recoverable amount of acquired contracts was lower than the carrying amount, 
and consequently an impairment of £3.7m was recognised.  
  
 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Financial Services 1,398.6 1,398.6
Travel 59.8 59.8
Travel – Destinology 13.0 –
Healthcare – reclassified as held for sale – 177.8
 1,471.4 1,636.2
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
139 
15 Impairment of intangible assets 
a. Goodwill 
b. Other intangible assets 
139
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The net book value of Plant and equipment includes £0.2m (2014: £0.4m) in respect of Plant and machinery held under finance 
lease agreements. The accumulated depreciation on these assets is £0.3m (2014: £2.9m). 
The depreciation charge for the year is analysed as follows: 
During the year, the Group disposed of assets with a net book value of £0.2m (2014: £11.1m). The profits and losses arising on 
disposal were £nil (2014: £1.6m loss) and are all included within Administrative and selling expenses. 
  
 Note
Freehold Land & 
Buildings
£’m
Long Leasehold 
Land & Buildings
£’m 
Cruise Ships 
£’m 
Plant & 
Equipment 
£’m 
Total
£’m
Cost or valuation   
At 1 February 2013 49.5 7.4 115.1 59.2 231.2
Additions  9.4 – 5.9 4.7 20.0
Disposals (0.5) – (40.7) (7.9) (49.1)
At 31 January 2014 58.4 7.4 80.3 56.0 202.1
Additions  – – 5.2 14.2 19.4
Disposals (0.2) – – (6.0) (6.2)
Acquired with subsidiaries – 0.2 – 0.2 0.4
Reclassification to assets held for sale 35 – – – (16.6) (16.6)
At 31 January 2015 58.2 7.6 85.5 47.8 199.1
   
Depreciation and impairment   
At 1 February 2013 6.9 1.2 33.3 30.6 72.0
Provided during the year 0.7 0.1 14.8 12.7 28.3
Disposals – – (30.1) (7.9) (38.0)
At 31 January 2014 7.6 1.3 18.0 35.4 62.3
Provided during the year 1.1 0.2 7.5 11.3 20.1
Disposals – – – (6.0) (6.0)
Reclassification to assets held for sale 35 – – – (10.5) (10.5)
At 31 January 2015 8.7 1.5 25.5 30.2 65.9
   
Net book value    
At 31 January 2015 49.5 6.1 60.0 17.6 133.2
   
At 31 January 2014 50.8 6.1 62.3 20.6 139.8
 Note 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Cost of sales  9.9 18.9
Administrative and selling expenses 4 7.4 6.8
  17.3 25.7
Discontinued operations 35 2.8 2.6
  20.1 28.3
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
140 
16 Property, plant and equipment 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
140
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Available for sale investments and deposits with financial institutions relate to monies held by the Group’s insurance business 
and are subject to regulatory restrictions and are not readily available to be used for other purposes within the Group.  
Whilst fixed/floating interest securities investments could be realised at short notice, it is anticipated that they will be held 
until maturity.  
  
 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Fair value through profit or loss 
Foreign exchange forward contracts 1.5 –
Loan funds 19.6 13.0
Hedge funds 33.8 13.1
Equities 8.7 –
 63.6 26.1
 
Fair value through the hedging reserve 
Foreign exchange forward contracts 4.1 –
 4.1 –
 
Loans and receivables 
Deposits with financial institutions  479.4 465.8
Amounts owed by parent undertaking – 1,030.7
Amounts owed by related undertakings – 0.4
 479.4 1,496.9
 
Available for sale investments 
Debt securities  71.9 51.2
Money market funds  40.6 107.5
 112.5 158.7
 
Total financial assets 659.6 1,681.7
 
Current 234.4 1,600.6
Non-current 425.2 81.1
 659.6 1,681.7
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
141 
17 Financial assets and financial liabilities 
a. Financial assets 
141
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Financial instruments held at fair value are valued using quoted market prices or other valuation techniques.  
Valuation techniques include net present value and discounted cash flow models, and comparison to similar instruments for 
which market observable prices exist. Assumptions and market observable inputs used in valuation techniques include foreign 
currency exchange rates and future oil prices.  
The objective of using valuation techniques is to arrive at a fair value determination that reflects the price of the financial 
instrument at the reporting date which would have been determined by market participants acting at arm’s length.  
Observable prices are those that have been seen either from counterparties or from market pricing sources including 
Bloomberg. The use of these depends upon the liquidity of the relevant market. 
The fair value and carrying value of financial assets and financial liabilities are materially the same. Financial instruments held 
at fair value have been categorised into a fair value measurement hierarchy as follows: 
These are valuation techniques that are based entirely on quoted market prices in an actively traded market and are the most 
reliable. All money market funds and debt securities are categorised as Level 1 as the fair value is obtained directly from the 
quoted market price. 
These are valuation techniques for which all significant inputs are taken from observable market data. These include valuation 
models used to calculate the present value of expected future cash flows and may be employed either when no active market 
exists or when there are quoted prices available for similar instruments in active markets. The models incorporate various inputs 
including the credit quality of counterparties, interest rate curves and forward rate curves of the underlying instrument.  
  
 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Fair value through profit or loss  
Foreign exchange forward contracts 2.1 7.2
Fuel oil swaps 4.5 0.9
 6.6 8.1
  
Fair value through the hedging reserve  
Foreign exchange forward contracts 4.6 –
Fuel oil swaps 2.5 –
 7.1 –
  
Loans and borrowings  
Bank loans 692.2 –
Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase  – 0.6
Bank overdrafts 5.8 5.2
Amounts owed to parent undertaking – 1,779.9
Amounts owed to related undertakings – 4.6
 698.0 1,790.3
  
Total financial liabilities 711.7 1,798.4
  
Current 21.1 1,797.5
Non-current 690.6 0.9
 711.7 1,798.4
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
142 
17 Financial assets and financial liabilities continued 
b. Financial liabilities 
c. Fair values 
i) Level 1 
ii) Level 2 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
142
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
All the derivative financial instruments are categorised as Level 2 as the fair values are obtained from the counterparty, brokers 
or valued using observable inputs. Where material, CVA/DVA risk adjustment is factored into the fair values of these instruments. 
As at 31 January 2015, the marked-to-market values of derivative assets are net of a credit valuation adjustment attributable to 
derivative counterparty default risk. 
The fair values are periodically reviewed by the Treasury Committee. 
These are valuation techniques for which any one or more significant inputs are not based on observable market data. 
The following tables provide the quantitative fair value hierarchy of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities: 
There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 and no non-recurring fair value measurements of assets and liabilities 
during the year.  
  
  Fair value measurement using 
 Note
Quoted prices in 
active markets
(Level 1)
£’m
Significant 
observable inputs 
(Level 2) 
£’m 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs
(Level 3)
£’m
Total
£’m
Financial assets measured at fair value  
Foreign exchange forward contract – 5.6 – 5.6
Loan funds – 19.6 – 19.6
Hedge funds – 33.8 – 33.8
Equities 8.7 – – 8.7
Available for sale financial assets  
Debt securities  71.9 – – 71.9
Money market funds – 40.6 – 40.6
  
Financial liabilities measured at fair value  
Contingent consideration 12 – – 6.2 6.2
Derivative financial liabilities  
Foreign exchange forward contracts – 6.7 – 6.7
Fuel oil swaps – 7.0 – 7.0
  
Assets for which fair values are disclosed  
Loans and receivables  
Deposits with financial institutions  – 479.4 – 479.4
  
Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed  
Loans and borrowings  
Bank loans – 692.2 – 692.2
Bank overdrafts – 5.8 – 5.8
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
143 
ii) Level 2 continued 
iii) Level 3 
At 31 January 2015 
143
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 and no non-recurring fair value measurements of assets and liabilities 
during the year ended 31 January 2014. 
During the year ended 31 January 2015, the Group designated 226 foreign exchange forward currency contracts as hedges 
of highly probable foreign currency cash expenses in future periods. These contracts are entered into to minimise the Group’s 
exposure to foreign exchange risk. 
The table below summarises the foreign currency cash flow hedging instruments in place as at 31 January 2015:  
Hedging instruments for other currencies are in respect of Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, Swiss francs, Japanese yen, 
New Zealand dollars, Norwegian krone, Swedish krona, Thai baht and South African rand.  
  
 Fair value measurement using 
 
Quoted prices in 
active markets
(Level 1)
£’m
Significant 
observable inputs 
(Level 2) 
£’m 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs 
(Level 3) 
£’m 
Total
£’m
Financial assets measured at fair value   
Loan funds – 13.0 – 13.0
Hedge funds – 13.1 – 13.1
Available for sale financial assets   
Debt securities  51.2 – – 51.2
Money market funds – 107.5 – 107.5
   
Financial liabilities measured at fair value   
Derivative financial liabilities   
Foreign exchange forward contracts – 7.2 – 7.2
Fuel oil swaps – 0.9 – 0.9
   
Assets for which fair values are disclosed   
Loans and receivables   
Deposits with financial institutions  – 465.8 – 465.8
Amounts owed by parent undertaking  – 1,030.7 – 1,030.7
Amounts owed by related undertakings – 0.4 – 0.4
   
Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed   
Loans and borrowings   
Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts  – 0.6 – 0.6
Bank overdrafts – 5.2 – 5.2
Amounts owed to parent undertaking  – 1,779.9 – 1,779.9
Amounts owed to related undertaking – 4.6 – 4.6
Designated in year  
ended 31 Jan 2015 
All current cash flow hedges 
 Fair value 
Volume £’m Volume £’m
Foreign currency cash flow hedging instruments   
Euro (EUR) 63 (4.2) 63 (4.2)
US dollar (USD) 50 4.0 50 4.0
Other currencies 113 (0.3) 113 (0.3)
Total 226 (0.5) 226 (0.5)
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
144 
17 Financial assets and financial liabilities continued 
At 31 January 2014 
d. Cash flow hedges 
i) Forward currency risk 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
144
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The table below summarises the present value of the highly probable forecast foreign currency cash flows that have been 
designated in a hedging relationship as at 31 January 2015. These cash flows are expected to become determined in profit 
or loss in the same period in which the cash flows occur. 
During the year, the Group recognised £4.1m of gains and £4.6m of losses on forward currency cash flow hedging instruments 
through other comprehensive income into the hedging reserve. The Group recognised a £0.4m loss though the income 
statement in respect of the ineffective portion of hedges measured during the period. 
There has been no de-designation of hedges during the year ended 31 January 2015 as a result of foreign currency cash flows 
forecast that are no longer expected to occur, or as a result of failed ineffectiveness testing. No amounts have been removed 
from the hedging reserve to be included in either profit or loss or in the carrying value of non-financial assets and liabilities. 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to mitigate the risk of adverse changes in the price of fuel oil used by its cruise 
ships. The Group enters into fixed price contracts (swaps) in the management of its fuel oil price exposures. All fuel oil hedges 
are designated as cash flow hedges. 
These contracts are entered into to reduce the volatility attributable to fluctuations in the price of fuel oil. Hedging the price 
volatility of forecast fuel purchases is in accordance with the risk management strategy outlined by the Board of Directors.  
The table below summarises the commodity cash flow hedging instruments in place as at 31 January 2015:  
The table below summarises the present value of the highly probable forecast fuel oil purchase cash flows that have been 
designated in a hedging relationship as at 31 January 2015. These cash flows are expected to become determined in profit 
or loss in the same period in which the cash flows occur. 
During the period, the Group recognised £2.5m of losses on commodity cash flow hedging instruments through other 
comprehensive income into the hedging reserve. The Group recognised a £10,000 loss though the income statement 
in respect of the ineffective portion of hedges measured during the period. 
There has been no de-designation of hedges during the year ended 31 January 2015 as a result of commodity cash flows 
forecast that are no longer expected to occur, or as a result of failed ineffectiveness testing. No amounts have been removed 
from the hedging reserve to be included in either profit or loss or in the carrying value of non-financial assets and liabilities. 
  
Determination period 
EUR
£’m
USD 
£’m 
Other currencies
£’m
Total
£’m
1 February 2015 to 31 July 2015 19.2 9.9 3.4 32.5
1 August 2015 to 31 January 2016 25.8 25.9 5.3 57.0
1 February 2016 to 31 July 2016 15.0 13.7 3.2 31.9
1 August 2016 to 31 January 2017 1.9 2.0 1.1 5.0
Total 61.9 51.5 13.0 126.4
Designated in year  
ended 31 Jan 2015 
All current cash flow hedges 
 Fair value 
Volume £’m Volume £’m
Commodity cash flow hedging instruments 36 (2.5) 36 (2.5)
Determination period 
Total
£’m
1 February 2015 to 31 July 2015 0.8
1 August 2015 to 31 January 2016 1.5
1 February 2016 to 31 July 2016 0.4
1 August 2016 to 31 January 2017 –
Total 2.7
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
145 
ii) Commodity price risk 
145
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The Group’s principal financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings and trade and other payables. The main purpose of 
these financial liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations and to provide guarantees to support its operations. The Group’s 
principal financial assets include debt securities, deposits with financial institutions, money market funds, loan funds and hedge 
funds. The Group also enters into derivative transactions such as foreign exchange forward contracts, fuel and gas oil swaps 
and interest rate swaps to manage its exposures to various risks. 
The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, insurance risk and operational risk. The Group’s senior 
management oversees the management of these risks, supported by the Group Treasury function and Treasury Committees 
within the key areas of the Group that advise on financial risks and the appropriate financial risk governance framework for the 
Group. The Treasury Committees ensure that the Group’s financial risks are governed by appropriate policies and procedures 
and that financial risks are identified, measured and managed in accordance with the Group’s policies and risk objectives. All 
derivative activities are for risk management purposes and are carried out by the Group’s Treasury function. It is the Group’s 
policy that no trading in derivatives for speculative purposes may be undertaken. 
The Group manages concentration risk through a policy of diversification that is outlined in the Group Treasury Policy and 
approved by the Board. The policy defines the exposure limit to third party institutions based on the credit ratings of the 
individual counterparties, combined with the views of the Board. On a monthly basis, exposure to each counterparty is 
calculated and reported, and compliance with the policy is monitored. 
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below. 
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market 
prices. The Group is exposed to the following market risk factors: 
‒ Foreign currency risk 
‒ Commodity price risk 
‒ Interest rate risk 
The Group has policies and limits approved by the Board for managing the market risk exposure. These set out the principles 
that the business should adhere to for managing market risk and establishing the maximum limits the Group is willing to accept 
considering strategy, risk appetite and capital resources.  
The Group has the ability to monitor market risk exposure on a daily basis and has established limits for each component 
of market risk.  
The Group uses derivatives for hedging its exposure to foreign currency, fuel oil prices and interest rate risks. The market risk 
policy explicitly prohibits the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. 
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial asset or liability will fluctuate because of 
changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to 
the Group’s operating activities (when revenue or expense is denominated in a different currency from the Group’s presentation 
currency) and the Group’s net investments in foreign subsidiaries.  
The Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts to manage the majority of its transaction exposures. The foreign exchange 
forward contracts are not formally designated as hedging instruments and are entered into for periods consistent with the 
foreign currency exposure of the underlying transactions, generally from one to 24 months. The foreign exchange forward 
contracts vary with the level of expected foreign currency sales and purchases. 
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the fair value of forward exchange contracts to a 5% change in US dollar and 
Euro exchange rates, with all other variables held constant. The Group’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other 
currencies is not material. The impact is shown net of tax at the current rate.  
 
Sensitivity of 
+/- 5% rate change in 
Effect on profit
 after tax and equity
2015 EUR +/- £3.7m
 USD +/- £3.7m
  
2014 EUR +/- £3.0m
 USD +/- £2.5m
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
146 
18 Financial risk management objectives and policies 
a. Market risk 
i) Foreign currency risk 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
146
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The Group is affected by the price volatility of certain commodities. Its operating activities require the ongoing purchase of fuel 
and gas oil to sail its cruise ships and therefore requires a continuous supply of fuel and gas oil. The volatility in the price of fuel 
and gas oil has led to the decision to enter into commodity fuel and gas oil swap contracts. These contracts are expected to 
reduce the volatility attributable to price fluctuations, and managing the price volatility of forecast oil purchases is in accordance 
with the risk management strategy outlined by the Board of Directors.  
The Group manages the purchase price using forward commodity purchase contracts based on a maximum 24 month forecast 
of the required fuel oil supply.  
The following table shows the sensitivity of the fair value of fuel oil swaps to changes in the US dollar exchange rate with all other 
variables held constant. The impact is shown net of tax at the current rate. 
Interest rate risk arises primarily from medium-term and long-term investments in fixed interest securities. The market value 
of these investments is affected by the movement in interest rates. This is managed by a policy of holding all investments to 
maturity by closely matching asset and liability duration. 
It is also ensured that the investment portfolio has a diversified range of investments such that there is a combination of fixed 
and floating rate securities, as well as other types of investments such as RPI linked securities. 
Interest rate risk also arises in respect of the Group’s borrowings where the interest rate attaching to those borrowings is not 
fixed. Where the Group perceives there to be a significant interest rate risk, it manages its exposure to such risks by purchasing 
interest rate caps to limit the risk. At 31 January 2015, interest caps are in place to cover a nominal value of interest payable of 
£510m, up to June 2016. 
The following table shows the sensitivity of financial assets and liabilities to changes in the LIBOR rate. The impact is shown net 
of tax at the current rate. 
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading 
to a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk in relation to its financial assets, outstanding derivatives and trade and 
other receivables. The Group assesses its counterparty exposure in relation to the investment of surplus cash, fuel oil and 
foreign currency contracts, and undrawn credit facilities. The Group primarily uses published credit ratings to assess 
counterparty strength and therefore to define the credit limit for each counterparty in accordance with approved 
Treasury policies. 
The credit risk in respect of trade and other receivables is limited as payment from customers is generally required before 
services are provided, with the exception of the Healthcare Services products.  
Credit risk in relation to deposits and derivative counterparties is managed by the Group’s Treasury function in accordance with 
the Group’s policy. Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to 
each counterparty. Counterparty credit limits are reviewed on a regular basis, and updated throughout the year subject to 
approval of the Group Board. The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss 
through any potential counterparty failure.  
The Group is exposed to the risk of default by on the reinsurance arrangements in its insurance business when amounts 
recoverable under those arrangements become due. Credit risk in respect of reinsurance arrangements is assessed at the time 
of entering into a reinsurance contract. The Group's reinsurance programme is only placed with reinsurers which meet the 
Group's financial strength criteria, with no single reinsurer holding more than a 20% of the programme. 
£’000 
Sensitivity of  
+/- 5% rate change in 
Effect on profit
 after tax and equity
2015 USD +/- £0.8m
  
2014 USD +/- £0.8m
£’000 
Sensitivity of  
+/- 0.25% rate change in 
Effect on profit
 after tax and equity
2015 LIBOR +/- £0.7m
  
2014 LIBOR +/- £0.8m
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
147 
ii) Commodity price risk 
iii) Interest rate risk 
b. Credit risk 
147
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk for financial assets and trade and other receivables at 31 January 2015 and 
31 January 2014 is the carrying amount in the statement of financial position. The Group’s maximum exposure for financial 
guarantees and financial derivative instruments is noted under liquidity risk. 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, either does not have available sufficient financial resources to enable it 
to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity 
risk is to evaluate current and expected liquidity requirements to ensure that it maintains sufficient reserves of cash and 
headroom on its revolving credit facility. The Group manages its obligations to pay claims to policyholders as they fall due 
by matching the maturity of investments to the expected maturity of claims payments. 
The table below analyses the maturity of the Group’s financial liabilities on contractual undiscounted payments. The analysis 
of non-derivative financial liabilities is based on the remaining period at the reporting date to the contractual maturity date. 
The analysis of claims outstanding is based on the expected dates on which the claims will be settled.  
 
 
  
31 January 2015 
£’m AAA AA A Unrated Total
Debt securities 71.9 – – – 71.9
Money market funds 40.6 – – – 40.6
Deposits with financial institutions 30.0 180.3 213.6 55.5 479.4
Derivative assets – – 5.6 – 5.6
Loan funds – – – 19.6 19.6
Hedge funds – – – 33.8 33.8
Equities – – – 8.7 8.7
 142.5 180.3 219.2 117.6 659.6
Reinsurance assets – 33.0 29.5 0.9 63.4
Total 142.5 213.3 248.7 118.5 723.0
31 January 2014 
£’m AAA AA A Unrated Total
Debt securities 51.2 – – – 51.2
Money market funds 107.5 – – – 107.5
Deposits with financial institutions 29.0 120.0 310.3 6.5 465.8
Loan funds – – – 13.0 13.0
Hedge funds – – – 13.1 13.1
 187.7 120.0 310.3 32.6 650.6
Reinsurance assets – 32.0 29.7 0.8 62.5
Total 187.7 152.0 340.0 33.4 713.1
31 January 2015 
£’m On demand Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years over 5 years Total
Loans and borrowings  5.8 – – 700.0 – 705.8
Interest on loans and borrowings 3.4 18.1 22.0 53.4 – 96.9
Insurance contract liabilities – 187.5 186.7 236.2 125.7 736.1
Contingent consideration  – 6.2 – – – 6.2
Other liabilities 135.2 – – – – 135.2
Trade and other payables 158.7 – – – – 158.7
Derivative liabilities – 12.0 1.7 – – 13.7
 303.1 223.8 210.4 989.6 125.7 1,852.6
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
148 
18 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
 b. Credit risk continued  
Ratings analysis 
 
c. Liquidity risk 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
148
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Insurance risk arises from the inherent uncertainties as to the occurrence, cost and timing of insured events that could lead 
to significant individual or aggregated claims in terms of quantity or value. This could be for a number of reasons, including 
weather-related events, large individual claims, changes in claimant behaviour patterns such as increased levels of fraudulent 
activities, the use of PPOs, prospective or retrospective legislative changes, unresponsive and inaccurate pricing or reserving 
methodologies and the deterioration in the Group’s ability to effectively and efficiently handle claims while delivering excellent 
customer service.  
The Group manages insurance risk within its risk management framework as set out by the Board. The key policies and 
processes of mitigating these risks have been implemented, which include underwriting partnership arrangements, reinsurance 
and excess of loss contracts, pricing policies and claims management, and administration policies. 
The Group primarily underwrites motor insurance for private cars in the UK. The book consists of a large number of individual 
risks which are widely spread geographically which helps to minimise concentration risk. The Group has controls in place to 
restrict access to its products to only those risks it wishes to underwrite. 
The Group has management information to allow it to monitor underwriting performance on a continuous basis and the ability to 
make pricing and underwriting changes quickly. The Group undertakes detailed statistical analyses of underwriting experience 
for each rating factor and combinations of rating factors to enable it to adjust pricing for emerging trends. 
Reserving risk is the risk that insufficient funds have been set aside to settle claims as they fall due. The Group undertakes 
regular internal actuarial reviews and commissions external actuarial reviews at least once a year. These reviews estimate 
the future liabilities in order to consider the adequacy of the provisions. 
Claims which are subject to PPOs are a significant source of uncertainty in the claims reserves. Cash flow projections are 
undertaken for PPO claims to estimate the gross and net of reinsurance provisions required. For PPOs, the provisions are 
discounted for future investment returns. 
An important source of uncertainty is the risk of future legislative changes affecting bodily injury awards including the ongoing 
Ministry of Justice review of the discount rate. 
The Group purchases reinsurance to reduce the impact of individual large losses or accumulations from a single catastrophe 
event. The Group purchases individual excess of loss protections for the motor portfolio to limit the impact of a single large 
claim. Similar protections are in place for all years for which the Group has written motor business. The Group has quota share 
reinsurance in place for third-party branded motor business for drivers aged under 50. 
Reinsurance recoveries on individual excess of loss protections can take many years to collect, particularly if a claim is subject to 
a PPO. This means that the Group has exposure to reinsurance credit risk for many years. Reinsurers are therefore required to 
have strong credit ratings and their financial health is regularly monitored. 
  
31 January 2014 
£’m On demand Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years over 5 years Total
Loans and borrowings  1,788.3 0.5 1.5 – – 1,790.3
Insurance contract liabilities – 135.4 152.7 294.6 161.7 744.4
Contingent consideration  – – – – – –
Other liabilities 122.4 – – – – 122.4
Trade and other payables 164.9 – – – – 164.9
Derivative liabilities – 7.3 0.8 – – 8.1
 2,075.6 143.2 155.0 294.6 161.7 2,830.1
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
149 
d. Insurance risk 
i) Underwriting and pricing risk 
ii) Reserving risk 
iii) Reinsurance 
149
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The following table demonstrates the impact on profit and loss and equity of a 1 percentage point variation in the recorded loss 
ratio at 31 January 2015 and 31 January 2014. The impact of a 1% change in claims outstanding is also shown at the same 
dates. The impact is shown net of reinsurance and tax at the current rate. 
Effective operational risk management requires the Group to identify, assess, manage, monitor, report and mitigate all areas 
of exposure. The Group operates across a range of segments and operational risk is inherent in all of the Group’s products 
and services, arising from the operation of assets, from external events and dependencies, and from internal processes 
and systems. 
The Group manages its operational risk through the risk management framework agreed by the Board, and through the use of 
risk management tools which together ensure that operational risks are identified, managed and mitigated to the level accepted, 
and that contingency processes and disaster recovery plans are in place. Regular reporting is undertaken to segment boards 
and includes details of new and emerging risks, as well as monitoring of existing risks. Testing of contingency processes and 
disaster recovery plans is undertaken to ensure the effectiveness of these processes. 
All of the Group’s operations are dependent on the proper functioning of its IT and communication systems; on its properties 
and other infrastructure assets; on the need to adequately maintain and protect customer and employee data and other 
information; and on the ability of the Group to attract and retain staff. Specific areas of operational risk by segment include: 
The Financial Services segment is required to comply with various operational regulatory requirements primarily in the UK but 
also within Gibraltar for its underwriting business. To the extent that significant external events could increase the incidence 
of claims, these would place additional strain on the claims handling function but any financial impact of such an event is 
considered to be an insurance risk. 
The Travel segment operates two cruise ships which are the Group’s largest trading assets. Risk to the operation of these cruise 
ships arises from the impact of mechanical or other malfunction, non-compliance with regulatory requirements, and from global 
weather and socio-economic events. The tour holidays operated by the segment are also affected by global weather and socio-
economic events which impact either the Group directly or its suppliers. 
The Healthcare Services segment provides a range of domiciliary and non-domiciliary, medical and non-medical services to a 
range of customers, clients and other end-users. Risk to the operation of these services arises mainly from the availability of 
appropriately skilled staff to deliver the level and standard of care required by the end-user, and from the clinical oversight of 
the delivery of these services. 
The Healthcare Services business which serves local authorities, Allied Healthcare, is being divested which will, in due course, 
reduce the Group’s exposure to risk in this segment. 
A structured entity is one which has been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who 
controls the entity, such as when any voting rights relate to the administrative tasks only and the relevant activities are directed 
by means of contractual agreements. The Group has interests in unconsolidated structured entities as described below: 
‒ Investment funds in the form of hedge funds  
‒ Investment funds in the form of bank loan funds 
‒ Investment funds in the form of money market funds 
The nature and purpose of the hedge and bank loan funds is to diversify the assets held within the investment portfolio and 
enhance the overall yield, whilst maintaining an acceptable level of risk for the portfolio as a whole. 
 2015 2014
Impact of 1 percentage point change in loss ratio  +/- £2.6m +/- £2.8m
  
Impact of 1% change in claims outstanding +/- £3.9m +/- £3.9m
  
Impact of a 0.25 percentage point change in discount rate for PPOs +/- £9.0m +/- £9.0m
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
150 
18 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
iv) Sensitivities 
e. Operational risk 
i) Financial Services 
ii) Travel 
iii) Healthcare Services 
19 Interests in unconsolidated structured entities 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
150
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The nature and purpose of the money market funds is to provide maximum security and liquidity for the funds invested whilst 
also providing an adequate return. 
The primary activity of the hedge funds is to invest in a wide range of securities and markets, and the funds may take a variety 
of positions in these markets. Bank loan funds invest in secured loans to companies rated below investment grade. 
The money market funds used by the Group are all members of the International Money Market Funds Association and are 
therefore required to maintain specified liquidity and diversification characteristics on their underlying portfolios which comprise 
investment grade investments in financial institutions. 
The Group invests in unconsolidated structured entities as part of its investment activities. The Group does not sponsor any 
of the unconsolidated structured entities.  
As at 31 January 2015, the Group’s total interest in unconsolidated structured entities was £94.0m analysed as follows: 
These investments are typically managed under insurance risk management as described in note 18. The Group’s maximum 
exposure to loss on the interests presented above is the carrying amount of the Group’s investments. No further loss can be 
made by the Group in relation to these investments. For this reason, the total assets of the entities are not considered 
meaningful for the purposes of understanding the related risks and have not been presented. 
The ageing of trade receivables is as follows: 
 
  
Carrying value 
£’m 
Interest income
£’m
Fair value gains
£’m
Loan funds 19.6 – –
Hedge funds 33.8 – –
Money market funds 40.6 – –
 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Raw materials 0.9 1.0
Finished goods 4.4 3.8
 5.3 4.8
 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Trade receivables 127.7 160.2
Other receivables 8.7 30.7
Prepayments 15.8 13.8
Deferred acquisition costs 9.3 8.7
Other taxes and social security costs 2.2 3.0
 163.7 216.4
  Past due but not impaired 
 
Total 
£’m 
Neither past due 
nor impaired
£’m
< 30 days
£’m
30-60 days
£’m
61-90 days 
£’m 
91-120 days
£’m
> 120 days
£’m
2015 127.7 116.7 3.8 1.5 1.0 0.8 3.9
2014 160.2 135.1 7.1 2.9 1.8 1.6 11.7
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
151 
20 Inventories 
21 Trade and other receivables 
151
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
As at 31 January 2015, impairment provisions totalling £9.0m (2014: £9.0m) were made against trade receivables with an initial 
value of £136.7m (2014: £169.2m). The movements in the provision for impairment of receivables are as follows: 
See note 18 on credit risk of trade receivables, which explains how the Group manages and measures credit quality of trade 
receivables that are neither past due nor impaired. 
Included within cash and short-term deposits are amounts held by the Group’s Travel and Insurance businesses which are 
subject to contractual or regulatory restrictions. These amounts held are not readily available to be used for other purposes 
within the Group and total £85.2m (2014: £66.8m). 
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying 
periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest 
at the respective short-term deposit rates. 
All trade and other payables are current in nature. 
  
 
Individually 
impaired 
£’m 
Collectively 
impaired 
£’m 
Total
£’m
At 1 February 2013 1.2 9.1 10.3
Charge for the year  0.4 7.0 7.4
Unused amounts reversed  (0.9) (7.8) (8.7)
At 31 January 2014 0.7 8.3 9.0
Charge for the year  0.2 8.0 8.2
Utilised in the year – (0.9) (0.9)
Unused amounts reversed – (6.7) (6.7)
 0.9 8.7 9.6
Reclassification to assets held for sale (0.6) – (0.6)
At 31 January 2015 0.3 8.7 9.0
 Note 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Cash at bank and in hand  66.5 52.4
Short-term deposits  132.3 98.9
Cash and short-term deposits  198.8 151.3
Money market funds  40.6 107.5
Bank overdraft  (5.8) (5.2)
Cash held by disposal group  35 4.3 –
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement  237.9 253.6
 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Trade payables 84.8 92.1
Other taxes and social security costs 9.2 12.3
Other payables 24.5 16.3
Accruals 40.2 44.2
 158.7 164.9
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
152 
21 Trade and other receivables continued 
22 Cash and cash equivalents 
23 Trade and other payables 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
152
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The Group operates retirement benefits for the employees of the Group consisting of defined contribution plans and defined 
benefit plans. 
There are a number of defined contribution schemes in the Group. The total charge for the year in respect of the employers’ 
contributions for defined contribution schemes was £1.3m (2014: £0.9m). Employees’ contributions amounted to £1.3m 
(2014: £0.9m). 
The assets of these schemes are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of Trustees. 
The Group operates three funded defined benefit schemes. Two of these schemes, the Nestor Healthcare Group Retirement 
Benefits Scheme and the Healthcall Group Limited Pension Scheme (‘Nestor schemes’), provide benefits based on final salary 
and are closed to new members. The Saga Pension Scheme (‘Saga scheme’) is open to new members who accrue benefits 
on a career average salary basis. The assets of all schemes are held separately from those of the Group in independently 
administered funds.  
These plans are governed by the employment laws of the UK, which require final salary payments to be adjusted for the 
consumer price index once in payment during retirement. The level of benefits provided depends on the member’s length 
of service and salary at retirement age. The defined benefit pension plan requires contributions to be made to a separately 
administered fund. The fund is governed by the Board of Trustees, which consists of an equal number of employer and 
employee representatives. The Board of Trustees is responsible for the administration of the plan assets and for the definition 
of the investment strategy. 
The long-term investment objectives of the Trustees and the Group are to limit the risk of the assets failing to meet the liabilities 
of the schemes over the long term, and to maximise returns consistent with an acceptable level of risk so as to control the long-
term costs of the schemes. To meet those objectives, each scheme’s assets are invested in different categories of assets, with 
different maturities designed to match liabilities as they fall due. The investment strategy will continue to evolve over time and is 
expected to match to the liability profile increasingly closely. The pension liability is exposed to inflation rate risks and changes 
in the life expectancy for pensioners. As the plan assets include investments in quoted equities, the Group is exposed to equity 
market risk.  
The fair value of the assets and present value of the obligations of the defined benefit schemes are as follows: 
The valuations used have been based on a full assessment of the liabilities of the schemes. The present values of the defined 
benefit obligation, the related current service cost and any past service costs have been measured using the projected unit 
credit method. 
  
At 31 January 2015 Note
Saga scheme 
£’m 
Nestor schemes
£’m
Total
£’m
Fair value of scheme assets  212.3 54.0 266.3
Present value of defined benefit obligation  (252.7) (68.7) (321.4)
Defined benefit scheme liability (40.4) (14.7) (55.1)
Reclassification to assets held for sale  35 – 14.7 14.7
 (40.4) – (40.4)
At 31 January 2014 
Saga scheme 
£’m 
Nestor schemes
£’m
Total
£’m
Fair value of scheme assets  171.2 48.3 219.5
Present value of defined benefit obligation  (186.1) (57.7) (243.8)
Defined benefit scheme liability  (14.9) (9.4) (24.3)
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
153 
24 Retirement benefit schemes 
a. Defined contribution plans 
b. Defined benefit plans 
 
153
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The following table summarises the components of the net benefit expense recognised in the income statement and amounts 
recognised in the statement of financial position for the schemes for the year ended 31 January 2015: 
The following table summarises the components of the net benefit expense recognised in the income statement and amounts 
recognised in the statement of financial position for the schemes for the year ended 31 January 2014: 
 
  
Saga scheme Nestor schemes Total
Fair value of 
scheme assets 
£’m 
Defined benefit 
obligation
£’m
Defined benefit 
scheme liability
£’m
Fair value of 
scheme assets
£’m
Defined benefit 
obligation 
£’m 
Defined benefit 
scheme liability 
£’m 
Defined benefit 
scheme liability
£’m
1 February 2014 171.2 (186.1) (14.9) 48.3 (57.7) (9.4) (24.3)
Pension cost charge to  
income statement    
Service cost – (5.6) (5.6) – (0.1) (0.1) (5.7)
Net interest 7.6 (8.1) (0.5) 2.1 (2.4) (0.3) (0.8)
Included in income statement 7.6 (13.7) (6.1) 2.1 (2.5) (0.4) (6.5)
Benefits paid (3.3) 3.3 – (2.8) 2.8 – –
Return on plan assets  
(excluding amounts included  
in net interest expense) 29.7 – 29.7 2.9 – 2.9 32.6
Actuarial changes arising from changes 
in demographic assumptions – (0.4) (0.4) – (0.9) (0.9) (1.3)
Actuarial changes arising from changes 
in financial assumptions – (47.0) (47.0) – (10.4) (10.4) (57.4)
Experience adjustments – (8.7) (8.7) – – – (8.7)
Included in other 
comprehensive income 26.4 (52.8) (26.4) 0.1 (8.5) (8.4) (34.8)
Contributions by employer 7.1 (0.1) 7.0 3.5 – 3.5 10.5
31 January 2015 212.3 (252.7) (40.4) 54.0 (68.7) (14.7) (55.1)
 Saga scheme Nestor schemes Total
 
Fair value of 
scheme assets 
£’m 
Defined benefit 
obligation
£’m
Defined benefit 
scheme liability
£’m
Fair value of 
scheme assets
£’m
Defined benefit 
obligation 
£’m 
Defined benefit 
scheme liability 
£’m 
Defined benefit 
scheme liability
£’m
1 February 2013 160.8 (160.8) – 44.2 (56.8) (12.6) (12.6)
Pension cost charge to  
income statement    
Service cost – (5.0) (5.0) – (0.1) (0.1) (5.1)
Net interest 7.6 (7.5) 0.1 2.1 (2.6) (0.5) (0.4)
Included in income statement 7.6 (12.5) (4.9) 2.1 (2.7) (0.6) (5.5)
Benefits paid (2.9) 2.9 – (1.7) 1.7 – –
Return on plan assets 
(excluding amounts included 
in net interest expense) (1.2) – (1.2) 0.3 – 0.3 (0.9)
Actuarial changes arising from changes 
in demographic assumptions – (6.0) (6.0) – – – (6.0)
Actuarial changes arising from changes 
in financial assumptions – (9.6) (9.6) – (2.8) (2.8) (12.4)
Experience adjustments – – – – 2.9 2.9 2.9
Included in other 
comprehensive income (4.1) (12.7) (16.8) (1.4) 1.8 0.4 (16.4)
Contributions by employer 6.9 (0.1) 6.8 3.4 – 3.4 10.2
31 January 2014 171.2 (186.1) (14.9) 48.3 (57.7) (9.4) (24.3)
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
154 
24 Retirement benefit schemes continued 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
154
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The major categories of plan assets are as follows: 
Equities, Government bonds and Corporate bonds are all quoted in active markets whilst Property and Insurance policies 
are not. 
The principal assumptions used in determining pension benefit obligations for both the Saga scheme and the Nestor schemes 
are shown below: 
Mortality assumptions are set using standard tables based on scheme-specific experience where available. Each scheme’s 
mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables which allow for future mortality improvements. The Saga scheme 
assumption is that a member currently aged 65 will live on average for a further 26.1 years if they are male. The Nestor scheme 
assumption is that an active male retiring in normal health currently aged 65 will live on average for a further 23.6 years. 
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions as at 31 January 2015 and their impact on the net defined benefit 
obligation is as follows: 
Note: a negative impact represents an increase in the net defined benefit liability. 
The above sensitivity analysis is based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. When 
calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method has been 
applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised within the statement of financial position. 
  
At 31 January 2015 
Saga scheme 
£’m 
Nestor schemes
£’m
Total
£’m
Equities 62.7 26.9 89.6
Government bonds 86.6 – 86.6
Corporate bonds 30.4 23.7 54.1
Property 20.2 – 20.2
Insurance policies – 3.2 3.2
Cash and other 12.4 0.2 12.6
Total 212.3 54.0 266.3
At 31 January 2014 
Saga scheme 
£’m 
Nestor schemes
£’m
Total
£’m
Equities 48.9 24.7 73.6
Government bonds 63.0 – 63.0
Corporate bonds 23.3 20.3 43.6
Property 17.1 – 17.1
Insurance policies – 3.0 3.0
Cash and other 18.9 0.3 19.2
Total 171.2 48.3 219.5
 2015 2014
Real rate of increase in salaries 0% 0%
Real rate of increase of pensions in payment 0% 0%
Real rate of increase of pensions in deferment 0% 0%
Discount rate – Pensioner 2.9% 4.1%
Discount rate – Non Pensioner 3.2% 4.5%
Inflation – Pensioner 2.6% 3.2%
Inflation – Non Pensioner 2.9% 3.4%
Assumptions  Discount rate  Future inflation Life expectancy Future salary
Sensitivity + 0.25% - 0.25% + 0.25% - 0.25% +/- 1 year +/- 0.25%
Impact £’m (17.8) 19.1 11.8 (12.3) +/- 10.2 +/- 0.0
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
155 
 
155
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
For the Saga scheme, the expected contribution to the plan for the next year is £8.8m and the average duration of the defined 
benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 22 years. For the Nestor schemes, the expected contribution to the 
plan for the next year is £3.5m and the average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period 
is 18 years.  
Formal actuarial valuations take place every three years for each scheme. The assumptions adopted for actuarial valuations are 
determined by the Trustee and are agreed with the Group and are normally more prudent than the assumptions adopted for 
IAS 19 purposes, which are best estimate. Where a funding deficit is identified, the Group and the Trustee may agree a deficit 
recovery plan.  
The latest valuations of the three schemes were at 31 January 2014 for the Saga scheme, 5 April 2012 for the Nestor 
Healthcare Group Retirement Benefits Scheme, and 31 October 2012 for the Healthcall Group Limited Pension Scheme. 
Further to these valuations, recovery plans are in place for all three schemes.  
Under the agreed recovery plans, the Group made additional payments totalling £3.4m during the year ended 31 January 2015 
to the Nestor schemes, and will make payments totalling a further £19.2m over the next six years, with the last payment being 
made by 5 April 2020. On the Saga scheme, the Group will make payments totalling £20.0m over the next ten years, with the 
last payment being made by 28 February 2024. Total additional payments of £5.2m will be made during the year ending 
31 January 2016. These amounts are included in the expected contributions of £8.8m and £3.5m. 
The analysis of gross and net insurance liabilities is as follows: 
 
 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Gross  
Claims outstanding 552.4 566.9
Provision for unearned premiums 152.3 161.4
Total gross insurance liabilities 704.7 728.3
 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Recoverable from reinsurers  
Claims outstanding 60.2 58.3
Provision for unearned reinsurance premiums 3.2 4.2
Total reinsurers’ share of insurance liabilities 63.4 62.5
 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Net  
Claims outstanding 492.2 508.6
Provision for unearned premiums 149.1 157.2
Total net insurance liabilities 641.3 665.8
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
156 
24 Retirement benefit schemes continued 
25 Insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance assets 
 
 
  
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
156
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The total loss on purchasing reinsurance recognised during the year was £4.0m (2014: £11.0m profit). 
Claims outstanding provisions are calculated on an undiscounted basis, with the exception of PPOs made by the courts as part 
of a bodily injury claim settlement. Claims outstanding provisions for PPOs are discounted at a rate of -1.5% (2014: -1.5%) 
representing the Group’s view on long-term carer wage inflation less the expected return on holding the invested financial assets 
associated with these claims. 
The value of claims outstanding before discounting was £736.1m (2014: £744.4m) gross of reinsurance and £599.1m 
(2014: £605.8m) net of reinsurance.  
The period between the balance sheet date and the estimated final payment date was calculated using Ogden life expectancy 
tables, with appropriate adjustments where necessary for impaired life. The average life expectancy from PPO settlement date to 
the final PPO payment was 47 years (2014: 50 years) and the rate of investment return used to determine the discounted value 
of claims provisions was 2.0% (2014: 2.0%).   
Reconciliation of movements in claims outstanding Note 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Gross claims outstanding at 1 February  566.9 542.4
Less: reinsurance claims outstanding   (58.3) (41.8)
Net claims outstanding at 1 February  508.6 500.6
  
Gross claims incurred  182.9 254.7
Less: reinsurance recoveries  (3.6) (17.7)
Net claims incurred 3b 179.3 237.0
  
Gross claims paid  (197.4) (230.2)
Less: received from reinsurance  1.7 1.2
Net claims paid   (195.7) (229.0)
  
Gross claims outstanding at 31 January  552.4 566.9
Less: reinsurance claims outstanding   (60.2) (58.3)
Net claims outstanding at 31 January  492.2 508.6
Reconciliation of movements in the provision for net unearned premiums Note 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Gross unearned premiums at 1 February  161.4 178.9
Less: unearned reinsurance premiums   (4.2) (2.5)
Net unearned premiums at 1 February  157.2 176.4
  
Gross premiums written   324.2 358.2
Less: outward reinsurance premium   (6.6) (8.4)
Net premiums written  317.6 349.8
  
Gross premiums earned   (333.3) (375.7)
Less reinsurance premium earned   7.6 6.7
Net premiums earned  3a (325.7) (369.0)
  
Gross unearned premiums at 31 January  152.3 161.4
Less: unearned reinsurance premiums   (3.2) (4.2)
Net unearned premiums at 31 January  149.1 157.2
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
157 
 
a. Discounting 
157
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The following table details the Group’s initial estimate of ultimate net claims incurred over the past six years and the re-estimation 
at subsequent year ends. The table details incurred claims (net of reinsurance recoveries) on an accident year basis. 
The development of the associated loss ratios on the same basis is as follows: 
 Financial Year ended 31 January  
 
2010 
£’m 
2011 
£’m 
2012
£’m
2013
£’m
2014
£’m
2015
£’m
Total 
£’m 
Claims
Paid
Claims 
Outstanding
Accident Year          
2009 and earlier (5.5) – (9.2) (11.0) (1.2) (3.2) – 39.9
2010 202.1  –  (4.3) (4.0) (5.5) (3.1) 185.2  (163.8) 21.4
2011  266.0  (2.8) (5.2) (4.6) (13.3) 240.1  (195.6) 44.5
2012   302.3 (25.6) (31.1) (0.6) 245.0  (184.4) 60.6
2013   315.4 (14.6) (22.9) 277.9  (187.8) 90.1
2014   276.8 (14.7) 262.1  (150.8) 111.3
2015   219.1 219.1  (105.0) 114.1
 196.6  266.0  286.0 269.6 219.8 161.3  481.9
Claims handling costs 9.0  10.1  15.6 17.4 17.2 18.0  10.3
 205.6  276.1  301.6 287.0 237.0 179.3  492.2
 Financial Year ended 31 January  
  2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Accident Year   
2010 73% 73% 72% 70% 68% 67%
2011  78% 78% 76% 75% 71%
2012   76% 70% 62% 62%
2013   75% 72% 66%
2014   75% 71%
2015   67%
 
Note
Property
Leases
£’m
Property 
Dilapidations 
£’m 
Other 
£’m 
Total
£’m
At 1 February 2013 3.6 1.9 3.8 9.3
Utilised during the year (1.3) (0.3) (1.3) (2.9)
Released unutilised during the year (0.2) – – (0.2)
Unwinding of discount rate  0.1 – – 0.1
Charge for the year – 0.4 2.5 2.9
At 31 January 2014 2.2 2.0 5.0 9.2
Utilised during the year (1.1) (0.5) (1.3) (2.9)
Released unutilised during the year (0.2) – (0.3) (0.5)
Unwinding of discount rate  – – – –
Charge for the year – 0.6 2.6 3.2
 0.9 2.1 6.0 9.0
Reclassification to assets held for sale  35 (0.9) (2.1) (0.1) (3.1)
At 31 January 2015 – – 5.9 5.9
   
Current – – 4.8 4.8
Non-current – – 1.1 1.1
At 31 January 2015 – – 5.9 5.9
Current 0.7 0.6 4.2 5.5
Non-current 1.5 1.4 0.8 3.7
At 31 January 2014 2.2 2.0 5.0 9.2
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
158 
25 Insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance assets continued  
b. Analysis of net claims incurred: claims development tables 
26 Provisions 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
158
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The provisions in respect of property leases and dilapidations relate to the Group’s Healthcare Services business and represent 
future lease costs of vacant properties, net of expected sub-letting income, together with future costs anticipated to be incurred 
on these properties at the end of each lease. Further to the decision to divest this business, the provisions have been included 
as part of the liabilities of the disposal group (see note 35). 
Other provisions primarily comprise claims in respect of clinical incidents, provisions for the return of insurance commission in 
respect of policies cancelled mid-term after the reporting date, credit hire claims handling provision, and fleet insurance at the 
estimated cost of settling all outstanding incidents at the reporting date. These items are reviewed and updated annually.  
Advance receipts comprises amounts received within the Travel segment for holidays and cruises with departure dates after the 
reporting date, and insurance premiums and sales revenues received in the Financial Services segment in respect of insurance 
policies which commence after the reporting date.  
Deferred revenue represents the unearned elements of revenue relating to the Media and Central Costs segment. The amount 
comprises subscriptions for magazines to be delivered after the reporting date and revenue for advertising to be included after 
the reporting date. 
On 17 April 2014, the Group entered into a Senior Facilities Agreement in order to provide appropriate debt finance and to 
ensure the availability of sufficient liquidity reserves for the Group going forward. Prior to this, these facilities had been provided 
to the Group via its parent undertaking. 
The amounts available to the Group under the Senior Facilities Agreement included (i) a term loan facility of £825.0m maturing in 
2019 (‘Facility A’), (ii) a term loan facility of £425.0m maturing in 2020 (‘Facility B’) and (iii) a multicurrency revolving credit facility 
of £150.0m.  
On 25 April 2014, the Group drew £825.0m under Facility A and £425.0m under Facility B. At the end of May 2014, following 
the receipt of £550.0m from the Group’s flotation, Facility B was repaid in full and £125.0m of Facility A was repaid, leaving the 
outstanding principal on the Group’s borrowings at £700.0m. 
Further to the repayment of £550.0m, interest on the debt is incurred at a variable rate of LIBOR plus 2.25%. To protect the 
Group from significant increases in interest rates, interest rate caps which cap LIBOR at 3.0% are in place to cover £510.0m 
of the debt through to June 2016. 
During the period the Group charged £34.6m to the income statement in respect of fees and interest associated with the 
Senior Facilities Agreement. 
  
 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Advance receipts 122.3 99.3
Deferred revenue 7.0 9.8
Other liabilities – 4.1
 129.3 113.2
 
Current 129.3 108.8
Non-current – 4.4
 129.3 113.2
 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Bank loans, maturing 2019 700.0 –
Accrued interest payable 3.4 –
 703.4 –
Less: deferred issue costs (11.2) –
 692.2 –
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
159 
27 Other liabilities 
28 Loans and borrowings 
159
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
On incorporation on 5 December 2013, the Group issued a single share with a nominal value of £1 to its parent, increasing this 
to 8,000,000 shares on 1 May 2014 via the issue of two shares on 4 March 2014, and a bonus issue on 1 May 2014. Following 
the bonus issue, the issued share capital was sub-divided into 800,000,000 ordinary shares of £0.01 each. 
On 29 May 2014, Saga plc was admitted to the London Stock Exchange, and issued 297,297,297 shares, raising £550m of 
funds which were utilised to repay part of the Group’s bank debt (see note 28). The share premium arising on this transaction 
was £547.0m. 
On the same date, the Group issued 13,408,108 shares into the associated Employee Benefit Trust predominantly in respect of 
the share options issued to certain Directors and employees on the same date (see note 32). 
As part of the IPO, an offer was made to customers and employees of the Group under which they would receive one free share 
for every 20 shares purchased in the Initial Public Offering and held continuously for a period of one year following flotation. 
At 29 April 2015, shareholders owning a total of 138.5m shares still qualify for this offer and on this basis, a bonus issue of 
approximately 7 million shares will be made on or around 29 May 2015. 
The Employee Benefit Trust purchased 13,408,108 shares at their nominal value of £134,000 during the year. There were no 
associated transaction costs. 
During the year, employees exercised options over 539,320 of these shares which were transferred from the Employee Benefit 
Trust into the direct ownership of the employee. The remaining 12,868,788 shares have been treated as treasury shares at 
31 January 2015. 
In preparation for the listing of the Group on the London Stock Exchange, a corporate restructuring took place to establish the 
Group in its current legal form, and to settle outstanding balances between the Group and its parent undertaking.  
Prior to entering into the new Senior Facilities Agreement (see note 28), the Group’s existing debt facilities were provided by 
Acromas Mid Co Limited, an intermediate parent company, and distributed to the Group via intercompany loans.  
Dividend distributions totalling £2,063.0m were made in order to facilitate the repayment of Acromas Mid Co Limited’s 
borrowings following the draw-down of the new Group facilities on 25 April 2014, and to eliminate other intercompany liabilities. 
The amount of £2,063.0m comprises £1,269.5m paid to Acromas Bid Co Limited by Saga plc and £793.5m paid to Acromas 
Bid Co Limited by Saga Mid Co Limited and which has been included in accordance with the basis of preparation (see note 2.1). 
Finally, the Group used part of its distributable reserves to release its parent undertakings from the remaining balance due to it. 
Following these transactions, the amounts owed by and to parent undertakings were reduced to £nil. 
  
 
 Ordinary shares
 Number 
Nominal value 
£  
Nominal value 
£ 
Value
£’m
Allotted, called up and fully paid   
On incorporation – 5 December 2013 1 1.00  –  –
Issue of shares – 4 March 2014 2 1.00  –  –
Bonus issue allotment – 1 May 2014 7,999,997 1.00  –  8.0
 8,000,000 1.00  –  8.0
Sub-division of shares – 1 May 2014 (8,000,000) 1.00  (8.0)
Sub-division of shares – 1 May 2014 800,000,000 0.01 8.0
Issue of share capital on flotation 310,705,405 0.01 3.1
As at 31 January 2015 1,110,705,405  0.01 11.1
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
160 
29 Called up share capital 
a. Bonus issue – free shares 
b. Employee Benefit Trust 
30 Corporate restructuring 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
160
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to 
provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the 
cost of capital.  
For the purposes of the Group’s capital management, capital includes issued capital, share premium and all other capital 
reserves attributable to the equity holders of the parent. It also includes capital, share premium and all other capital reserves 
of any subsidiaries within the Group which are required to comply with any specific requirements in respect of its capital or 
other resources. 
The Group operates in a number of regulated markets. Its Financial Services businesses are regulated primarily by the Financial 
Services Commission (‘FSC’) in Gibraltar and by the Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) in the UK; and the capital requirements 
of its Travel businesses are regulated by the Civil Aviation Authority in the UK. It is the Group’s policy to comply with the 
requirements of these regulators in respect of capital adequacy or other similar tests at all times. 
No changes were made to the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the years ended 31 January 2015 
or 31 January 2014, other than those driven from changes to the requirements of the various regulators. 
The Group’s regulated underwriting business is based in Gibraltar and regulated by the FSC. The underwriting business is 
required to comply with various tests to ensure that it has a sufficient level of capitalisation. The FSC requires the underwriting 
business to hold solvency capital of at least twice the required minimum margin (‘RMM’), and current levels are approximately 
277% of the RMM. The Group monitors its compliance with this and other tests on a monthly basis including forward-looking 
compliance using budgets and forecasts. 
The Group’s underwriting business will be required to comply with the European Union’s Solvency II Directive for insurance 
companies when it comes into force. Solvency II is a fundamental review of the capital adequacy regime for the European 
insurance industry which establishes a revised set of capital requirements and risk management standards with the aim of 
increasing protection for policyholders. The new regime applies to all insurance companies with gross premium income 
exceeding €5m or gross technical provisions in excess of €25m, and is expected to be effective from January 2016. The 
Group has been monitoring its ability to comply with the requirements of Solvency II when it comes into force and current 
calculations indicate comfortable margins using both the standard formula and the business’s internal model. 
The Group’s regulated insurance distribution businesses are based in the UK and regulated by the FCA. Due to the nature of 
these businesses, the capital requirements are less significant than the underwriting business but the Group is required to 
comply with the Adequate Resources requirements of Threshold Condition 4 of the FCA Handbook. The Group undertakes a 
rigorous assessment against the requirements of this Condition on an annual basis and, as a consequence of this, calculates 
and holds an appropriate amount of capital in respect of these businesses. 
The regulated Travel businesses are required to comply with two main tests covering liquidity and leverage. The Group monitors 
its compliance with these tests on a monthly basis including forward-looking compliance using budgets and forecasts, and is 
required to comply with agreed covenants on the last day of each quarter in respect of these tests. 
The Group treats all cash and other financial assets held within its regulated businesses as restricted and not therefore available 
to be used by the Group for any purposes outside of those of the relevant restricted business. The Group enters into regular 
open communication with its regulators and any distribution of capital from those businesses to the Group is agreed in advance. 
During the year, the Group has granted a number of different equity-based awards to employees and customers which it has 
determined to be share-based payments:
These share options were granted to certain Directors and employees at the time of the IPO in recognition for their service 
leading up to Saga plc’s listing on the London Stock Exchange. Options over 13,132,410 shares of Saga plc were issued 
with no exercise price and have no service or performance vesting conditions. 
The fair value of these options is calculated as the fair value of the shares at the date of the grant. There are no cash 
settlement alternatives. 
  
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
161 
31 Capital management 
32 Share-based payments 
 
a. Share options granted at the time of the IPO 
161
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
Share options over 2,162,162 shares of Saga plc were issued to the Group Chief Executive Officer on 29 May 2014. Vesting 
occurs 25% on the third anniversary of the IPO, 25% on the fourth anniversary of the IPO and 50% on the fifth anniversary of 
the IPO. The Group Chief Executive Officer must remain in the employment of Saga plc during this time in order for the share 
options to vest. 
This award will be equity settled and has no cash alternative. The exercise price of the share options is £1.85. 
Under the offer made in the prospectus for the IPO, eligible customers and employees who acquired their shares under the 
customer or employee offers will receive one free share for every 20 shares they acquired at the IPO and hold continuously for 
one year to 29 May 2015. 
As these are free shares, there is no exercise price and there is also no cash alternative settlement. The fair value of the potential 
free shares is equal to the fair value at the Admission date. 
The LTIP is a discretionary executive share plan. Under the LTIP, the Board may, within certain limits and subject to applicable 
performance conditions, grant options over shares in Saga plc. These options have a non-market vesting condition (50%) and 
a market vesting condition (50%). The fair value of the options has been calculated using a Black-Scholes valuation. 
During the year, share options over 4,015,508 shares were issued to certain Directors and employees on 30 June 2014 and on 
2 December 2014, both of which vest and become exercisable on the third anniversary of the grant date and are 50% linked to 
EPS performance and 50% linked to TSR performance. 
 
The expense recognised for share-based payments during the year is shown in the following table: 
 
The table below summarises the movements in the number of share options outstanding for the Group and their weighted 
average exercise price: 
  
 
2015
£’m
Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions 41.8
Expense arising from cash-settled share-based payment transactions –
Total expense arising from share-based payment transactions 41.8
 IPO Options CEO Options LTIP Total
Outstanding at 1 February 2014  –  –   –   – 
Granted during the year  13,132,410 2,162,162   4,015,508  19,310,080 
Forfeited during the year – – (130,642) (130,642) 
Exercised during the year (539,320) – –  (539,320) 
Outstanding at 31 January 2015 12,593,090 2,162,162  3,884,866  18,640,118 
   
Exercise price  £nil  £1.85  £nil   £0.62 
   
Exercisable at 31 January 2015 12,593,090 –  –  12,593,090 
   
Average remaining contractual life 9.3 years 3.6 years 2.4 years 7.2 years
   
Average fair value at grant  £1.85  £0.39   £1.74   £1.50 
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
162 
32 Share-based payments continued 
b. Share options granted to the Group Chief Executive Officer at the time of the IPO 
c. Free shares offer granted to customers and employees at the time of the IPO 
d. Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
162
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The following information is relevant in the determination of the fair value of options granted during the year under the share-
based remuneration schemes operated by the Group: 
As historical data for the Group’s share price is not available, the Group has estimated the Company’s share price volatility as an 
average of the volatilities of its TSR comparator group over a historical period commensurate with the expected life of the award 
immediately prior to the date of the grant. 
For future valuations, at a date when sufficient Saga share price data becomes available, the Group intends to estimate the 
Company volatility directly from this data. 
The total amount charged to the income statement in the year ended 31 January 2015 is £41.8m. This has been charged to 
administrative and selling expenses (£1.0m) and exceptional expenses (£40.8m) (note 4b). 
The Group did not enter into any share-based payment transactions with parties other than employees and customers during 
the year. 
  
 CEO Options LTIP – EPS tranche LTIP – TSR tranche
Model used Black-Scholes Black-Scholes Monte-Carlo
Dividend yield (%) 2.63% n/a n/a
Risk-free interest rate (%) 3 years: 1.2% p.a.
4 years: 1.5% p.a.
5 years: 1.8% p.a.
1.4% p.a. 1.4% p.a.
Expected life of share option (years) 3/4/5 years based 
on tranche of the 
award
3 years 3 years
Share price (£) £1.85 £1.74 £1.74
Share price volatility 3 years: 31.8%
4 years: 31.1%
5 years: 32.0%
31.8% 31.8%
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
163 
163
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
 Note 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Operating activities   
Profit before tax from continuing operations  113.8 171.3
Loss before tax from discontinued operations  (222.4) (22.1)
(Loss)/profit before tax   (108.6) 149.2
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 16 20.1 28.3
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 14 22.1 29.3
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 16 – 1.6
Share-based payment expense 32 41.8 –
Loss on re-measurement of disposal group held for sale 35 209.5 –
Finance costs 6 35.1 10.6
Finance income 7 (2.9) (0.1)
Share of post-tax profits of joint venture  (1.2) –
Interest income from investments 5 (13.9) (12.7)
Movement in reinsurance assets  (0.9) (18.2)
Movement in inventories  (0.5) 1.6
Movement in trade and other receivables  15.8 33.3
Movement in prepayments  (4.3) 6.4
Movement in retirement benefit scheme obligations  (4.5) (4.5)
Movement in gross insurance contract liabilities  (23.6) 7.0
Movement in provisions  (0.2) (0.2)
Movement in other liabilities   16.1 (7.5)
Movement in trade and other payables  (1.6) (5.6)
  198.3 218.5
Interest received  8.9 12.6
Interest paid  (19.7) –
Debt issue costs  (22.6) –
Interest on finance lease agreements  – (0.1)
Income tax paid  (9.6) (56.9)
Net cash flows from operating activities  155.3 174.1
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain land and buildings and plant and machinery. There are no restrictions 
placed upon the Group by entering into these leases. 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 January are as follows: 
 
  
 Land and Buildings Plant and Machinery
 
2015
£’m
2014 
£’m 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Within one year 2.1 3.8 0.3 0.5
Between one and five years 6.2 7.2 1.8 0.3
After five years 7.2 15.9 – –
 15.5 26.9 2.1 0.8
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
164 
33 Cash flow from operating activities 
34 Commitments and contingencies 
a. Operating lease commitments — Group as lessee 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
164
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The Group has finance leases and hire purchase contracts for various items of plant and machinery. These leases have terms of 
renewal and no purchase options. Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease. Future minimum lease 
payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts together with the present values of the net minimum lease 
payments are as follows: 
Capital amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements amounted to £nil (2014: £nil). 
On 28 January 2015, the Group announced its commitment to acquire Bennetts, the UK’s premier motorbike insurance 
specialist, from BGL Group Limited, for a total consideration of £26.3m. The acquisition is subject to FCA and other regulatory 
approvals and certain other contractual requirements and is required to be completed by 5 August 2015, although it is both 
parties’ intention to complete the purchase earlier than that. 
At 31 January 2015, the Group had secured £31.0m (2014: £nil) of financial bonds and other guarantees on a revolving credit 
facility provided to Saga Mid Co Limited. If these bonds were called, the facility would be treated as drawn and recognised as a 
liability on the Group’s balance sheet. The revolving credit facility is secured by a floating charge over the Group’s assets.  
The Association of British Travel Agents regulates the Group’s UK tour operating business and requires the Group to put 
in place bonds to provide customer protection. These bonds are included within the financial bonds described above. 
On 15 January 2015, the Group announced its decision to divest the local authority section of its Healthcare business, Allied 
Healthcare. As at 31 January 2015, the requirements of IFRS 5 were met and accordingly Allied Healthcare has been classified 
as a disposal group held for sale in the statement of financial position and as a discontinued operation in the income statement. 
The sale of the business is expected to be completed by 31 January 2016.  
The loss after tax in the income statement in respect of the discontinued operation is comprised as follows: 
The impact of the discontinued operation on the reported earnings per share was as follows: 
 
  
 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Within one year  0.1 0.5
Between one and five years  0.1 0.1
After five years  – –
Total minimum lease payments 0.2 0.6
Less amounts representing finance charge  – –
Present value of minimum lease payments 0.2 0.6
 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
(Loss)/profit after tax, before amortisation and impairment (0.3) 0.3
Amortisation of associated intangible assets (10.4) (14.9)
Impairment of associated intangible assets – (3.7)
Loss on re-measurement of disposal group to fair value (209.5) –
 (220.2) (18.3)
 2015 2014
Basic and diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations (21.9p) (2.4p)
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
165 
b. Finance lease and hire purchase commitments 
c. Commitments 
d. Contingent liabilities 
35 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale 
165
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The exceptional costs of £8.4m (2014: £7.9m) relate to an ongoing programme of restructuring within the business. 
During the year, the Group charged amortisation on the intangible assets acquired with the Allied Healthcare business to the 
income statement totalling £10.4m (2014: £14.9m amortisation, £3.7m impairment). 
The assets and liabilities of Allied Healthcare classified as held for sale as at 31 January 2015 are as follows: 
Following the classification of Allied Healthcare as a discontinued operation, a write-down of £209.5m was recognised on 
31 January 2015 to reduce the carrying amount of the net assets in the disposal group to £nil.  
  
 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Revenue 283.2 313.8
Cost of sales (199.8) (224.7)
Gross profit 83.4 89.1
Administrative and selling expenses (74.4) (81.6)
Trading EBITDA 9.0 7.5
Depreciation (2.8) (2.6)
Exceptional expenses (8.4) (7.9)
Net finance expense on retirement benefit schemes (0.3) (0.5)
Loss before tax (2.5) (3.5)
Tax expense 2.2 3.8
(Loss)/profit for the year from discontinued operations (0.3) 0.3
   
Attributable to:   
Equity holders of the parent  (0.7) (0.8)
Non-controlling interests  0.4 1.1
  (0.3) 0.3
 
Book value 
£’m 
Measurement 
to fair value
£’m
Assets  
Goodwill 177.8 –
Intangible assets 19.9 –
Property, plant and equipment 6.1 –
Deferred tax assets 5.4 3.0
Trade and other receivables 40.4 40.4
Cash and short-term deposits 4.3 4.3
 253.9 47.7
Liabilities  
Trade and other payables 17.8 17.8
Financial liabilities 0.3 0.3
Deferred tax liabilities 4.1 –
Retirement benefit scheme obligations 14.7 14.7
Provisions 3.1 3.1
Other liabilities 4.4 4.4
Provision for loss/costs of disposal – 7.4
 44.4 47.7
Net assets directly associated with disposal group 209.5 –
Loss on re-measurement to fair value (209.5) 
Fair value of disposal group – 
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
166 
35 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale continued 
a. Results of Allied Healthcare for the year 
b. Amortisation of associated intangible assets 
c. Loss on re-measurement 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
166
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The fair value of the business was determined by considering the current asset and liability position, the future profit cash flows 
and associated capital investment set out within the five year plan for the business, the risks attaching to the various cash flows, 
and the expected costs of disposing of the business. In determining the fair value, reference was made to other market 
transactions, and standard valuation techniques were adopted. 
Having determined the fair value of £nil, the write-down was allocated first to the non-current assets with a provision created 
of £7.4m for the costs of disposal and any associated loss.  
 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Operating 3.6 7.3
Investing (3.5) (2.8)
Financing – –
Net cash inflow 0.1 4.5
The principal operating subsidiary undertakings of Saga plc, all of which are wholly owned, are listed below. All of the principal 
subsidiary undertakings of Saga plc are indirectly held by the Company, with the exception of Saga Mid Co Limited which is 
directly held. 
All subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements. 
 
  
Name Country of registration Nature of business 
Saga Mid Co Limited England Holding company 
Saga Leisure Limited England Holding company 
Saga Group Limited England Holding company 
Saga Services Limited England Financial services 
Direct Choice Insurance Services Limited England Insurance services 
Acromas Financial Services Limited England Regulated investment products 
Acromas Holidays Limited England Tour operating 
Acromas Shipping Limited England Cruising 
Destinology Limited England Tour operating 
Saga Publishing Limited England Publishing 
MetroMail Limited England Mailing house 
CHMC Limited England Motor accident management 
Acromas Insurance Company Limited Gibraltar Insurance underwriting 
Nestor Healthcare Group Limited England Holding company 
Nestor Primecare Services Limited England Primary and social care 
Allied Healthcare Group Holdings Limited England Holding company 
Allied Healthcare Holdings Limited England Holding company 
Allied Healthcare Group Limited England Primary and social care 
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
167 
d. Net cash flows of Allied Healthcare during the year 
36 Subsidiaries 
167
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The following table provides the total value of transactions with related parties during the year: 
On 26 June 2014, the Acromas group sold its entire shareholding in the AA group and the Group’s related party relationship 
ceased with it on that date. 
C N C Sherwood, a Non-Executive Director of Saga plc, is also a Partner of Permira Advisers, where he serves on the firm’s 
holding company board and investment committee. Mr Sherwood also serves as Non-Executive Director on the boards of a 
number of Permira’s investments and as a Non-Executive Director of Acromas Holdings Limited, the ultimate controlling party 
of Saga plc. The ultimate controlling parties of Acromas Holdings Limited include funds advised by Permira Advisers. 
Acromas Financial Services Limited, an indirectly held subsidiary of Saga plc, traded with Just Retirement Group plc during the 
year, acting as agent in respect of the latter’s care funding annuity and equity release products, earning commission and fixed 
contributions. Permira Advisers are the ultimate controlling party of Just Retirement Group plc.  
During the year ended 31 January 2015, Acromas Financial Services Limited earned commission and fixed contributions relating 
to Just Retirement Group plc’s care funding and equity release products of £1.3m. As at 31 January 2015, amounts invoiced 
and owed to Acromas Financial Services Limited by Just Retirement Group plc were £0.4m.  
In January 2015, Acromas Financial Services Limited entered in to a joint venture with Tilney Bestinvest to provide investment 
products to Saga’s customers. Permira Advisers are the ultimate controlling party of Tilney Bestinvest. During the year ended 
31 January 2015, no commission or revenue was received by Acromas Financial Services Limited from Tilney Bestinvest. As 
at 31 January 2015, amounts invoiced and owed to Acromas Financial Services Limited by Tilney Bestinvest were £nil.  
G Williams, an independent Non-Executive Director of Saga plc, serves on the board of WNS (Holdings) Limited, a company 
which Acromas Insurance Company Limited, an indirectly held subsidiary of Saga plc, traded with during the year. WNS 
(Holdings) Limited provides claims handling management services to Acromas Insurance Company Limited and during the year 
ended 31 January 2015 earned fees of £5.8m (2014: £6.0m); further payments to WNS (Holdings) Limited in respect of repair 
costs on claims handled by them totalled £41.9m (2014: £45.5m). As at 31 January 2015, amounts owing to WNS (Holdings) 
Limited for fees and repair costs were £3.7m (2014: £2.6m). 
The immediate parent undertaking is Acromas Bid Co Limited, a company which is registered in England and Wales. 
The financial statements of the Company are consolidated in the group financial statements of Acromas Holdings Limited 
(the ultimate parent undertaking), which is registered in England and Wales. 
The Directors considers the ultimate controlling party to be funds advised by Charterhouse General Partners, CVC Capital 
Partners and Permira Advisers acting in concert. 
 
2015 
£’m 
2014
£’m
Sales to the AA group  
Insurance underwriting related 18.3 52.7
Non insurance underwriting related 2.7 10.4
  
Purchases from the AA group  
Insurance underwriting related 7.0 14.8
Non insurance underwriting related 0.3 0.8
  
Reinsurance transactions with the AA group  
Reinsurance premium payments  0.2 0.8
Reinsurance claims receipts 0.2 0.3
  
Receipts from/(payments to) related parties   
Parent undertaking 774.9 814.7
Related group undertaking (4.1) (1,262.2)
Saga plc
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued 
168 
37 Related party transactions 
a. Other transactions during the year 
38 Ultimate parent undertaking 
39 Ultimate controlling party 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
168
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
 
The notes on pages 170-173 form an integral part of these financial statements. 
Signed for and on behalf of the Board on 29 April 2015 by 
 
Group Chief Executive Officer    Group Chief Financial Officer 
 
 
 
 Note 
31 January 
2015
£’m
2 May
2014
£’m
Fixed assets  
Investment in subsidiaries 2 2,099.2 3,539.6
  2,099.2 3,539.6
Current assets  
Debtors 3 0.2 –
  0.2 –
  
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year 4 33.8 –
Net current liabilities  (33.6) –
  
Net assets  2,065.6 3,539.6
  
  
Capital and reserves  
Called up share capital 5 11.1 8.0
Share premium account 6 519.4 –
Profit and loss reserve 6 1,494.3 3,531.6
Other reserves 6 40.8 –
Shareholders’ funds  2,065.6 3,539.6
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
Company financial statements  
of Saga plc  
Balance sheet 
169 
L H L Batchelor    S M Howard  
Company financial statements 
of Saga plc 
Balance sheet
169
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting 
standards as defined in section 464 of the Companies Act 2006.  
The Company has not presented its own profit and loss account as permitted by section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006. 
The loss included in the financial statements of the Company, determined in accordance with the Act, was £768.8m.  
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ and has not reported 
transactions with fellow Group undertakings. 
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at the lower of cost and net realisable value and are reviewed for impairment 
when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under FRS 1 ‘Cash Flow Statements’ from the requirement 
to prepare a cash flow statement as a consolidated cash flow statement has been presented in the consolidated financial 
statements of the Group.  
Investments in Group undertakings are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date 
where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or right to pay less or to 
receive more, tax. Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the years 
in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider it is more likely than not that there will be 
suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted. 
The Company provides benefits to employees (including Directors) of Saga plc and its subsidiary undertakings, in the form of 
share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services as consideration for equity instruments (‘equity-settled 
transactions’). The cost of equity-settled transactions is measured by reference to the fair value on the grant date and is 
recognised as an expense over the relevant vesting period, ending on the date on which the employee becomes fully entitled 
to the award.  
Fair values of share-based payment transactions are calculated using Black-Scholes modelling techniques. In valuing equity-
settled transactions, assessment is made of any vesting conditions to categorise these into market performance conditions, 
non-market performance conditions and service conditions. 
Where the equity-settled transactions have market performance conditions (that is, performance which is directly or indirectly 
linked to the share price), the fair value of the award is assessed at the time of grant and is not changed, regardless of the actual 
level of vesting achieved, except where the employee ceases to be employed prior to the vesting date. 
For service conditions and non-market performance conditions, the fair value of the award is assessed at the time of grant and 
is reassessed at each reporting date to reflect updated expectations for the level of vesting. No expense is recognised for 
awards that ultimately do not vest. 
At each reporting date prior to vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period 
has expired and, in the case of non-market conditions, the best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately 
vest or, in the case of instruments subject to market conditions, the fair value on grant adjusted only for leavers. The movement 
in the cumulative expense since the previous reporting date is recognised in the Profit and loss account, with the corresponding 
increase in share-based payments reserve. 
Upon vesting of an equity instrument, the cumulative cost in the share-based payments reserve is reclassified to reserves. 
  
Saga plc
Notes to the Company  
financial statements 
170 
1 Accounting policies  
a. Accounting convention 
b. Cash flow statement 
c. Investments 
d. Deferred tax 
e. Share-based payments 
Notes to the Company 
financial statements
170
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
On 4 March 2014, the Company acquired a 100% holding in the shares of Saga Mid Co Limited for a total cost of £3,539.6m 
via a share-for-share exchange. In settlement of this transaction, the Company issued two shares with a nominal value of £1 
each to Acromas Bid Co Limited.  
Following the Company’s admission to the London Stock Exchange, on 29 May 2014, the Company invested a further £544.8m 
in Saga Mid Co Limited to facilitate the repayment of £550.0m of the Saga Group’s bank debt. 
As part of the corporate restructuring (see note 30 to the consolidated financial statements), Saga plc’s immediate subsidiary 
undertaking, Saga Mid Co Limited, made a £2,063.0m distribution to Saga plc’s immediate parent undertaking, Acromas Bid 
Co Limited. This distribution led to a reduction in the net assets of Saga Mid Co Limited resulting in an impairment of Saga plc’s 
investment in Saga Mid Co Limited of £2,026.4m. 
All amounts above are due in less than one year. 
 
  
 £’m
Cost: 
Additions 3,539.6
At 2 May 2014 3,539.6
Additions 544.8
Capital contributions arising from share-based payments 41.2
At 31 January 4,125.6
 
Amounts provided for: 
Amounts provided in the period 2,026.4
At 31 January 2,026.4
 
Net book value: 
At 31 January 2015 2,099.2
At 2 May 2014 3,539.6
 
31 January 
2015
£’m
2 May
2014
£’m
Deferred tax asset 0.1 –
Other debtors 0.1 –
 0.2 –
 
31 January 
2015
£’m
2 May
2014
£’m
Amounts owed to group undertakings 31.1 –
Other creditors 2.7 –
 33.8 –
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
171 
2 Investment in subsidiaries 
a. Impairment 
3 Debtors 
4 Creditors – amounts falling due in less than one year 
171
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
On incorporation, 5 December 2013, the Company issued a single share with a nominal value of £1 to its parent company, 
Acromas Bid Co Limited. The amount due was settled through an intercompany receivable. 
On 4 March 2014, the Company issued to its parent company, Acromas Bid Co Limited, two ordinary shares with a 
nominal value of £1 each as payment for its acquisition of Saga Mid Co Limited. The share premium arising on this 
transaction was £3,539.6m. 
On 1 May 2014, the Company capitalised £7,999,997 from its share premium account and issued 7,999,997 ordinary shares of 
£1 each by way of a bonus issue. The issued share capital of 8,000,000 ordinary shares of £1 each was then sub-divided into 
800,000,000 ordinary shares of £0.01 each. This removed all of the existing share premium account. 
On 29 May 2014, Saga plc was admitted to the London Stock Exchange, issuing 310,705,405 £0.01 shares, raising £550m 
of funds to clear existing bank debt (note 28 to the consolidated financial statements). The share premium arising on this 
transaction was £547.0m. 
The issues of ordinary shares on 5 December 2013 and 4 March 2014, and the bonus issue of shares on 1 May 2014 are 
discussed in note 5. 
On 1 May 2014, the Company capitalised £7,999,997 from its share premium account and issued 7,999,997 ordinary shares 
of £1 each by way of a bonus issue. The remaining share premium account was cancelled through a capital reduction for the 
purpose of creating distributable profit and loss reserves. As a result the entire profit and loss reserve at the balance sheet date 
is distributable. 
  
 
 Ordinary shares
 Number 
Nominal value 
£  
Nominal value 
£ 
Value
£’m
Allotted, called up and fully paid   
On incorporation – 5 December 2013 1 1.00  –  –
Issue of shares – 4 March 2014 2 1.00  –  –
Bonus issue allotment – 1 May 2014 7,999,997 1.00  –  8.0
 8,000,000 1.00  –  8.0
Sub-division of shares – 1 May 2014 (8,000,000) 1.00  (8.0)
Sub-division of shares – 1 May 2014 800,000,000 0.01 8.0
As at 2 May 2014 800,000,000 0.01 8.0
Issue of share capital on flotation 310,705,405 0.01 3.1
As at 31 January 2015 1,110,705,405  0.01 11.1
 
Called up share 
capital
£’m
Share premium 
account
£’m
Profit and loss 
reserve
£’m
Share-based 
payment reserve 
 
Total shareholders’ 
funds
£’m
Ordinary shares issued on incorporation – 5 December 
2013 – – – – –
Share premium on issue of ordinary shares issued 
on 4 March 2014  – 3,539.6 – – 3,539.6
Bonus issue of ordinary shares on 1 May 2014  8.0 (8.0) – – –
Capital reduction of ordinary shares on 1 May 2014 – (3,531.6) 3,531.6 – –
At 2 May 2014 8.0 – 3,531.6 – 3,539.6
Issue of share capital on flotation 3.0 547.0 – – 550.0
Costs associated with issue of share capital – (27.6) – – (27.6)
Issue of treasury shares 0.1 – – – 0.1
Loss for the period – – (768.8) – (768.8)
Dividends paid – – (1,269.5) – (1,269.5)
Share-based payment charge – – – 41.8 41.8
Exercise of share options – – 1.0 (1.0) –
At 31 January 2015 11.1 519.4 1,494.3 40.8 2,065.6
Saga plc
Notes to the Company  
financial statements continued 
172 
5 Called up share capital 
6 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds 
Notes to the Company 
financial statements continued
172
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual report and accounts 2015
 
The immediate parent undertaking is Acromas Bid Co Limited, a company which is registered in England and Wales. 
The financial statements of the Company are consolidated in the group financial statements of Acromas Holdings Limited 
(the ultimate parent undertaking), which is registered in England and Wales. 
The Directors consider the ultimate controlling party to be funds advised by Charterhouse General Partners, CVC Capital 
Partners and Permira Advisers acting in concert. 
Saga plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Additional information Financial statements
 
173 
7 Ultimate parent undertaking 
8 Ultimate controlling party 
173
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015 174
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
Shareholder information
Advisers 
Corporate brokers and financial advisers
Bank of America Merrill Lynch  
2 King Edward Street  
London EC1A 1HQ 
Goldman Sachs  
Peterborough Court  
133 Fleet Street  
London EC4A 2BB
Media relations advisers
FTI Consulting  
200 Aldersgate  
Aldersgate Street  
London EC1A 4HD
Independent auditors
Ernst & Young LLP  
1 More London Riverside  
London SE1 2AF 
Legal advisers
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP  
65 Fleet Street 
London EC4Y 1HT 
Information for investors 
Information for investors is provided on the internet as part  
of the Group’s corporate website which can be found at  
http://corporate.saga.co.uk/
Investor enquiries 
Enquiries can be directed via our website or by contacting:
Tel: Freephone 0800 015 5429 
Email: enquiries@sagashareholder.co.uk
Registrars 
Capita Asset Services  
The Registry  
34 Beckenham Road  
Beckenham 
Kent BR3 4TU
www.capitaassetservices.com/contact-us.cshtml 
Tel: 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network 
extras). From outside the UK: +44 (0) 208 639 3399. 
Lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday. 
Registered office
Saga Plc
Enbrook Park
Sandgate
Folkestone
Kent CT20 3SE
Corporate websites 
Information made available on the Group’s websites does not, 
and is not intended to, form part of these Results. 
Financial calendar
2015 Annual General Meeting – 23 June 2015
Dividend dates 
Announcement date – 30 April 2015
Ex-dividend date – 4 June 2015 
Record date – 5 June 2015 
Payment date – 30 June 2015
Shareholder information online 
Saga plc is able to notify shareholders when shareholder 
information is made available on the website. A letter or 
email will be sent to you when information such as the 
company’s interim and full year results are on the website 
and you will then be able to read and print these documents 
at your own convenience. The method of communication 
is dependent upon your chosen communication 
preference and by registering on the Saga Shareholder 
Services Portal www.sagashareholder.co.uk, which is 
provided by the Company’s registrars, Capita Asset Services, 
you can change this preference. In order to register on the 
shareholder portal you require your 11-digit investor code, 
which is shown on your share certificate or nominee statement. 
The Saga Shareholder Services Portal allows you to easily 
and securely manage your shares and by providing your 
bank account details dividends can be paid directly to 
your account.
Shareholder fraud 
Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited 
advice or offers, whether over the telephone, through the 
post or by email. If any such unsolicited communication is 
received please check the company or person contacting 
you is properly authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(‘FCA’) before getting involved. Fraudsters use persuasive 
and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams. 
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or 
non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for 
an upfront payment. While high profits are promised, if you 
buy or sell shares in this way you may potentially lose your 
money. 5,000 people contact the FCA about share fraud each 
year, with victims losing an average of £20,000. For more 
information, or if you are approached by fraudsters, please 
visit the FCA website www.fca.org.uk/consumers/scams, 
where you can report and find out more about investment 
scams. You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 
0800 111 6768. If you have already paid money to share 
fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.  175
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
Glossary
ABC1 households social grading based on a system of 
demographic classification used in the UK, as defined by 
Experian Mosaic data
Accident year the financial year in which an insurance 
loss occurs
Active customer a customer that has purchased an 
insurance policy in the last twelve months, or a holiday in the 
last three years, or has a live personal finance product or 
Saga Magazine subscription
Add-on an insurance policy that is actively marketed and sold 
as an addition to a core policy 
AGM Annual General Meeting
AICL Acromas Insurance Co Limited
Available operating cash flow net cash flow from operating 
activities after capital expenditure but before tax and interest 
paid and exceptional expenses, which is available to be used 
by the Group as it chooses and is not subject to regulatory 
restriction
Average number of products held the average number of 
Saga products held by each active customer as at a certain 
date. Active customers include those customers who hold an 
insurance product, have taken a holiday in the last three years 
or have a live personal finance or Saga Magazine product
Board Saga plc Board of Directors
Claims frequency the number of claims incurred divided by 
the number of policies earned in a given period
Claims reserves accounting provisions that have been set 
to meet outstanding insurance claims, IBNR and associated 
claims handling costs
Code the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the 
UK Financial Reporting Council from time to time setting out 
guidance in the form of principles and provisions to address 
the principal aspects of corporate governance
Combined operating ratio the ratio of the claims costs 
and expenses incurred in selling and administering insurance 
underwritten (numerator) to the net earned premium 
(denominator) in a given period. Can otherwise be calculated 
as the sum of the loss ratio and expense ratio
Companies Act the UK Companies Act 2006, as amended 
from time to time
Company Saga plc
Contactable households the number of households that 
are recorded on the proprietary Group Marketing Database, 
with a household being defined as a single person or couple 
living at the same address
Contactable people the number of people that are recorded 
on the Group’s proprietary marketing database that have not 
opted out of all marketing preferences
Continuing operations operations that are not classified as 
discontinued
Core policy an insurance policy that is actively marketed and 
sold on its own
DBP Deferred Annual Bonus Plan
Discontinued operations operations divested or those that 
have been classified as held for sale whose trading activities 
relate to a separate line of business or geographical area
DTR (Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules) rules 
published by the UK Financial Conduct Authority relating to 
the disclosure of information by a company listed in the UK
Earned premium insurance premiums that are recognised 
in the income statement over the period of cover to which 
the premiums relate, deferred on a 365ths basis
Earnings per share from continuing operations (basic) 
profit after tax from continuing operations attributable to 
ordinary shareholders divided by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period
Expense ratio the ratio of expenses incurred in selling and 
administering insurance underwritten (numerator) to the net 
earned premium (denominator) in a given period
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) the independent UK 
body that regulates the financial services industry, which 
includes general insurance
FTE (Full Time Equivalent) the number of full-time and 
part-time employees expressed as an equivalent number 
of full-time employees
GHG Protocol a global standard for how to measure, 
manage, and report greenhouse gas emissions
Gross revenue statutory accounting revenue plus any net 
premiums paid to third party insurers who underwrite 
insurance sold by the Group
Gross written premiums the total premium charged to 
customers for an insurance product, excluding Insurance 
Premium Tax but before the deduction of any outward 
reinsurance premiums, measured with reference to the 
cover start date of the policy
Group the Saga plc group
Holidays passengers the number of passengers that 
have travelled on a Saga, Titan or Destinology holiday in 
a given period
IASB International Accounting Standards Board
IBNR (incurred but not reported) a claims reserve 
provided to meet the estimated cost of claims that have 
occured, but have not yet been reported to the insurer
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards 
IPO (Initial Public Offering) the first sale of shares by 
a previously unlisted company to investors on a securities 
exchange
Leverage ratio the ratio of net debt to Trading EBITDA
LIBOR London inter-bank offered rate 176
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
Like-for-like profit before tax profit from continuing 
operations shown before tax, one-off costs associated with 
the IPO and the issuance of the Group’s own debt facilities, 
interest and service costs associated with this debt for which 
there is no comparative cost, and net fair value gains and 
losses on derivatives
Liquidated damages payments received in respect of the 
early termination of management and franchise contracts, 
where applicable
Load factor in relation to cruise ships, the number of 
passenger days travelled divided by the maximum number of 
passenger days that could be travelled, in a given period
Loss ratio a ratio of the claims costs (numerator) to the net 
earned premium (denominator) in a given period
LR (Listing Rules) a set of mandatory regulations set from 
time to time by the UK Financial Conduct Authority and 
applicable to a company listed in the UK
LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan
Malus an arrangement that permits the forfeiture of unvested 
remuneration awards, in circumstances the Company 
considers appropriate
M&A Mergers and Acquisitions
Net claims the cost of claims incurred in the period less any 
claims costs recovered under reinsurance contracts and after 
the release of any claims reserves
Net debt bank debt and borrowings, excluding any overdrafts 
held by restricted trading subsidiaries, net of available cash
Net earned premium earned premium net of any outward 
earned reinsurance premium paid
Net interest expense finance costs less finance income
Ogden discount rate the discount rate set by the relevant 
government bodies, the Lord Chancellor and Scottish 
Ministers, and used to calculate lump sum awards in bodily 
injury cases
Operating EPS (earnings per share) earnings per share 
that is presented to exclude items which are not considered 
to be part of the Group’s operating performance. This is 
achieved by removing the impact of non-recurring exceptional 
items, and by measuring prior to net fair value gains and 
losses on derivatives not designated as hedges under IAS 39 
as these movements arise and reverse across financial 
periods and are not representative of the actual effectiveness 
of the Group’s economic hedging activities
Operating profit profit before interest payable, tax, 
exceptional expenses and fair value gains and losses on 
derivative financial instruments
PBT profit before tax
PMI Private Medical Insurance
Policies sold the number of core and add-on insurance 
policies sold to customers in a given period, measured by 
reference to the cover start date of the policy
PPO (Periodical payment order) claims payments as 
awarded under the Courts Act 2003. PPOs are used to settle 
large personal injury claims, and they generally provide 
claimants who require long-term care with a lump sum award 
plus inflation-linked annual payments
Pro forma Operating EPS operating EPS that has been 
adjusted for pro forma interest charges, plc costs and 
underlying adjustments to allow a like-for-like comparison 
between periods
RDR 1 and RDR 2 residence, domicile and the remittance 
basis UK tax rules
Reinsurance contractual arrangements where an insurer 
transfers part or all of the insurance risk written to another 
insurer, in exchange for a share of the customer premium
RMM (required minimum margin) a measure used to 
assess the minimum level of solvency capital an insurance 
underwriter must retain
RPI Retail Price Index
Ship passenger days the total number of days passengers 
have travelled on a ship, or ships, in a given period
SIP Share Incentive Plan
Solvency capital/Solvency II insurance regulations 
designed to harmonise European Union insurance regulation. 
Primarily this concerns the amount of capital that European 
insurance companies must hold under a measure of capital 
and risk. Solvency II is due to become effective from 
1 January 2016
TBI Tilney Bestinvest
tCO
2
e Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent, which is a 
measure that allows comparison of the emissions of other 
greenhouse gases relative to one unit of CO
2
Trading EBITDA earnings before interest payable, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation, exceptional expenses and 
fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments
TSR (Total Shareholder Return) the theoretical growth 
in value of a shareholding over a period, by reference to 
the beginning and ending share price, and assuming that 
dividends, including special dividends, are reinvested to 
purchase additional units of the equity
Underlying adjustment an adjustment made to the income 
statement of a prior accounting period to remove the effect of 
material one-off transactions that are not indicative of normal 
and continuing trading activities or that would have been 
recognised in different accounting periods with hindsight 
Unearned premium an amount of insurance premium that 
has been written but not yet earned
UW underwriting
Glossary continued Designed and produced by Luminous
www.luminous.co.uk Saga plc
Enbrook Park
Sandgate
Folkestone
Kent 
CT20 3SE
