 UNLOCKING  
POTENTIAL
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Scapa Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Scapa is a leading global manufacturer of 
bonding products and adhesive components 
for applications in the Healthcare and 
Industrial markets.
At Scapa, we base our approach on a deep 
understanding of our core markets. This 
understanding allows us to anticipate tomorrow’s 
customer needs. Scapa works closely with leading 
global partners in its target markets, developing 
specialised adhesive tape bonding solutions for 
OEMs, distributors and consumers.
Strategic Report
01 Financial Highlights
02 At a Glance
04 Chairman’s Letter
06 Chief Executive’s Strategic Review 
08 The Scapa Business Model and Strategy
 – Strategy in Action
10 Key Performance Indicators 
12 Risk and Risk Management 
18 Business Review: Healthcare
20 Business Review: Industrial 
22 Business Review: Electronics 
23 Finance Director’s Review 
26 Sustainability Report 
Corporate Governance
30  Chairman’s Introduction to  
Corporate Governance 
32 Board of Directors and Company Secretary 
34 Corporate Governance 
39 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee 
42 Report of the Nominations Committee 
44 Report of the Remuneration Committee
46 Directors’ Remuneration Policy
51 Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report
57 Directors’ Report 
Financial Statements
59 Directors’ Responsibilities
60 Independent Auditor’s Report 
64 Consolidated Income Statement 
64  Consolidated Statement of  
Comprehensive Income
65 Consolidated Balance Sheet 
66 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
67 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
68 Group Accounting Policies 
75 Notes on the Accounts 
107 Five Year Summaries
108 Parent Company Financial Statements
109 Company Balance Sheet
110 Statement of Accounting Policies
112 Notes on the Accounts
Company Information
120 Company Information
Scapa
Scapa has a true global footprint, with production sites in Asia, Europe and the US. 
Our service and supply chain capabilities place us in an excellent position to partner 
with global customers. 
 
www.scapa.com
Scapa Healthcare
Scapa recently announced the launch of its new Healthcare focused website.
The new site has extensive content dedicated to the Healthcare market place, including 
information on our range of Scapa Soft-Pro
®
 skin friendly adhesives, Bioflex
®
 Performance 
Materials, and MEDIFIX Solutions™ wearable medical device fixation along with the 
Company’s broad manufacturing capabilities.
 
www.scapahealthcare.com Revenue
£236.0m
2013 2014 2015 2012 2011
236.0
208.8
226.1
195.6
192.3
Proﬁt before tax
£13.7m
2013 2014 2015 2012 2011
13.7
9.6
11.2
10.5
6.1
Trading proﬁt*
£18.6m
2013 2014 2015 2012 2011
18.6
13.7
15.5
10.7
8.0
Underlying earnings per share**
9.1p
2013 2014 2015 2012 2011
9.1
6.0
7.2
4.8
3.9
ROBUST RESULTS  
ACROSS THE BUSINESS
Financial Highlights
• Outstanding results against continuing negative  
macroeconomic conditions
• Group revenue increased 8.3%
†
 with growth across all markets  
and regions on a constant currency basis
• Group trading profits increased 27 .4%
†
 with growth in margins  
in each of our segments
• Healthcare delivered another good performance establishing itself  
as the strategic outsourcing partner for our global healthcare customers
• Industrial delivered revenue growth, additional profit and better margins  
through improved operating leverage
† 
Stated at constant exchange rates
*  Operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets, 
exceptional items and pension administration costs
** Adjusted for exceptional items, amortisation of intangible 
assets, pension administration costs, non-cash interest, 
and the tax thereon
1
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information   
  
  
Revenue by division £m
Healthcare 73.8
Industrial 147.8
Electronics 14.4
Trading proﬁt by division £m
  
  
  
Healthcare 11.1
Industrial 8.9
Electronics 1.1
  
  
  
Geography £m
Asia 16.0
Europe 102.5
North America 117.5
FOCUSED ON GLOBAL  
SCALE AND OPERATIONS
At a Glance
Our locations
Strong R&D 
We continue to invest and 
enhance our portfolio; the 
acquisition of First Water 
Limited significantly 
improves our innovation  
and R&D capabilities. 
Growing markets 
Scapa Group has a global 
footprint and this year has 
seen Scapa grow across  
all markets and regions.
†
Global footprint 
Our global team work 
together to deliver leading 
product technology and 
expertise to solve our global 
customers’ challenges.
Unlocking potential  
in Europe
The changes to our Industrial 
footprint have improved our 
focus and performance 
resulting in a better service  
to our customers. 
Unlocking potential  
in North America
Our range of facilities, 
capabilities and technology 
enables us to meet the 
challenges our customers 
ask of us.
Unlocking potential in Asia
We have our manufacturing 
sites in Korea with a broad 
representation across the 
region through offices in  
four countries.
2
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Read more p18 Read more p20 Read more p22
Market snapshot 
• Consolidation within the Healthcare market 
has expanded the markets for the end 
products that Scapa produces
• Core markets in which we operate are; 
advanced wound care, medical device, 
consumer wellness and drug delivery
• The outsourcing trend in the Healthcare 
industry continues to help drive our growth 
and future opportunities
Market snapshot 
• Industrial business operates across a wide 
range of market segments and geographies
• Scapa Industrial focuses on the sectors where 
we have critical mass; automotive, cable, 
construction and specialty products
• Global automotive industry continued to 
improve in 2014 led by a strong recovery in the 
North American market
• The market in Europe remains uncertain albeit 
we have seen modest growth through market 
share gains
Market snapshot 
• Market conditions in recent times have been 
difficult but we have continued to make good 
progress
• The global market for consumer electronics is 
driven by continued development and short 
life-cycle products
• We have positioned ourselves to take 
advantage of this trend and are maintaining 
our strategy of focusing on major OEMs
Healthcare Industrial Electronics
Scapa is a global manufacturer of bonding products and 
adhesive components for applications in the Healthcare and 
Industrial markets.
Scapa Healthcare is a leading global 
developer and manufacturer of innovative 
life-enhancing healthcare technologies. 
We offer Skin Friendly T urn-Key solutions 
to meet our customers’ needs.
Highlights 
• Increase in revenue of 7 .9%
†
 to £73.8m
• Trading profit increased 1 1.0%
†
 to £11.1m
• Acquisition of First Water Limited
• Launch of MEDIFIX Solutions™
• Increased strategic engagement and 
strengthened global sales channels
• Launch of Turn-Key product for one of the world’s 
largest healthcare suppliers
Scapa accommodates the diverse 
requirements of our market segments, 
from construction to aerospace. Our 
global footprint delivers on our customers’ 
demands – we can build true partnerships 
by making technology accessible where 
the customer is located.
Highlights 
• Increase in revenue of 6.6%
†
 to £147.8m
• Trading profit increased 21.9%
†
 to £8.9m
• Positive growth in Europe in the face of difficult 
economic conditions
†
• North America upswing with the tailwind of the 
US recovery
• Introduction of a strategic pricing team
In our Asian operations we have 
experience of engaging with electronics 
manufacturers in the development stages 
of a product. Our products are application-
specific and incorporate functionalities 
beyond tape and bonding.
Highlights 
• Increase in revenue of 32. 1 %
†
 to £14.4m
• Trading profit increased to £1. 1m
• Launch of new product for consumer electronics 
across Asia region
†
 Stated at constant exchange rates
3
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information ANOTHER STRONG YEAR WITH  
CONTINUING INVESTMENT,  
DELIVERING VALUE TO SHAREHOLDERS
Chairman’s Letter
Dear Shareholder 
The actions we have taken to rebuild Scapa in 
recent years are delivering results and have laid 
the foundations for continued growth. This year 
we delivered strong results against a backdrop 
of continuing negative macroeconomic 
conditions and currency movements. Despite 
these headwinds our performance and market 
share gains resulted in both revenue and profit 
growth across all our markets and regions. 
Healthcare delivered another good performance 
establishing itself as a strategic outsourcing 
partner for our global healthcare customers. 
Our business model continues to evolve with the 
changing needs of our customers as they further 
adopt outsourcing as a part of their manufacturing 
strategy. We are continuing to invest to ensure that 
we stay ahead of our customers’ expectations 
and potential competitors. During the year, we 
have significantly invested in quality, marketing 
and sales as we further develop our full turn-key 
offering. Furthermore, to strengthen our innovation 
and development capabilities, we acquired 
First Water Limited, a high-quality healthcare 
business specialising in innovation, design and 
manufacture of a wide range of hydrogels. 
Based in the UK, First Water Limited has a strong 
track record of delivering proven proprietary 
innovations and technologies. Combining Scapa’s 
strengths in material coating, converting and 
packaging with First Water Limited’s R&D and 
innovation capabilities will enable us to provide 
a unique one-stop solution to our customers.
Industrial performed strongly across all regions 
and markets including Europe and construction. 
Our focused and customer centric approach 
enabled us to respond quickly to changing market 
conditions and gain market share. Incremental 
revenue delivers additional profit and better 
margins through improved operating leverage 
and we will continue to focus on asset allocation 
to maximise the Return on Capital Employed 
(ROCE) of our Industrial business. Whilst we have 
successfully executed many self-help initiatives to 
improve the margin there remain significant further 
opportunities and as our market and geographic 
focus is clarified so is our manufacturing strategy. 
In the coming years, we will implement our 
strategy to further optimise and utilise our assets 
through consolidation around strategic technology. 
The first step was taken last year with the 
consolidation of our facilities in France, which will 
be completed during fiscal year 2016. In addition 
we have recently initiated consultation with our 
employees in Rorschach, Switzerland, as we 
“The actions we have taken to 
rebuild Scapa are delivering results 
and have laid the foundations for 
continued growth.”
4
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 explore a number of opportunities to optimise the 
Group’s manufacturing footprint. We believe that 
successful execution of our strategy will deliver 
margins comparable to our competitors in the 
Industrial market. 
Electronics grew an exceptional 28.6% 
achieving a margin of 7 .6% despite difficult market 
conditions. Our investment is yielding profitable 
growth as new products are delivered to the 
market across Asia. The continuing growth 
will require additional investment to meet the 
increasing demand. From fiscal year 2016, the 
results for Electronics will be consolidated within 
Industrial, widening the capabilities of the 
Industrial segment.
Group revenue increased 4.4% to £236.0m 
(2014: £226. 1m) and trading profit increased 20% 
to £18.6m (2014: £15.5m). On a constant currency 
basis, revenue and trading profit grew 8.3% and 
27 .4% respectively, a significant improvement on 
the prior year. Underlying earnings per share 
increased 26.4% to 9. 1p (2014: 7 .2p) and basic 
earnings per share was 6.5p (2014: 4.6p loss). 
Strong cash flow and a management focus on 
working capital ensured that the Group ended 
the year with net debt of £3.4m (2014: £5.4m net 
cash) after the acquisition of First Water Limited 
for £11.2m.
Given the continuing progress and improved 
performance the Board is proposing to increase 
the final dividend by 50% to 1.5p (2014: 1.0p). 
Subject to approval of shareholders at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting the dividend 
will be paid on 21 August 2015 to shareholders 
on the register on 24 July 2015. The ex-dividend 
date is 23 July 2015. 
I am delighted to welcome Martin Sawkins to the 
Board of Scapa as a Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Martin, 
who is currently the Group HR Director of Rentokil 
Initial and a Non-Executive Director at Wincanton 
plc, joined the Board on 1 January 2015. Martin 
brings a blend of leadership credentials and a 
developed commercial awareness to Scapa and I 
am sure he will make a positive contribution to 
the Board’s governance.
A strong governance structure is important to 
support the continued growth of our business. 
The Board remains focused on ensuring its 
effectiveness and that of governance processes 
throughout the Group. The corporate governance 
section on pages 30 to 58 of this report sets out 
the detail of our compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
We believe that Scapa’s strongest competitive 
advantage is our people and culture. The ”Scapa 
Way”, defined by our guiding principles, binds 
us across regions and businesses. We celebrate 
entrepreneurship that creates value for our 
shareholders and we will continue to invest in 
our people to drive the development of a high 
performing culture. The success of the Company 
is down to the continuing hard work, passion and 
dedication of our people in delivering our strategy 
and I want to thank the employees of Scapa 
whose efforts have helped us achieve so much 
as we lay the foundations for future growth. 
Scapa continues to make good progress. As we 
look forward to the new financial year our strategy 
is clear and we have a team with a strong track 
record of delivery. This combination gives me 
confidence that we are well positioned to exploit 
the opportunities that exist for the business. 
I anticipate we will continue to make progress and 
deliver value to our shareholders over the coming 
year and beyond.
J A S Wallace
Chairman
27 May 2015
ANOTHER STRONG YEAR WITH  
CONTINUING INVESTMENT,  
DELIVERING VALUE TO SHAREHOLDERS
5
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information A STRATEGY TO DELIVER LONG-TERM 
PROFITABLE GROWTH
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
“We enter the current year with two 
strong and distinct businesses, each 
with a specific strategy.”
Overview
The Group delivered a record performance this 
year with strong revenue, profit growth and 
improved margins across each of our markets. 
Healthcare continues to execute its strategy 
of moving up the value chain by expanding its 
offerings and capabilities. We continue to develop 
new customers and to further build and convert 
the pipeline of programmes. We also completed 
the acquisition of First Water Limited during the 
year to further support the Healthcare strategy. 
Industrial’s focused and customer centric 
approach enabled us to respond quickly to 
challenging market conditions and gain market 
share. As a result, our performance across all 
regions was well ahead of the market and 
GDP growth.  
We enter the current year with two strong and 
distinct businesses, each with specific strategy 
and requirements. Healthcare is evolving as the 
market leader in outsourcing for our chosen 
healthcare markets, and we will continue to invest 
in developing our proposition as the full turn-key 
outsourcing partner of choice for our global 
healthcare customers. Industrial is demonstrating 
its potential to further maximise ROCE as we focus 
on key markets and deliver our manufacturing 
strategy. To ensure that each business is driven 
accordingly, we have reorganised the Company 
from a market-based matrix organisation into 
two stand-alone business units supported by 
a strategic corporate function.
Our performance in 2014/15
The Group delivered an excellent performance 
this year with Group revenue increasing to 
£236.0m or 8.3% on a constant currency basis. 
Healthcare revenue increased to £73.8m, growing 
7 .9% at constant exchange rates, and reflected the 
successful launch of a new product in the second 
half of the prior year for one of our major global 
wound care customers. Industrial revenue 
increased to £147 .8m, growing 6.6% at constant 
currency, driven by market share gain and 
improved share of our customers’ spend as 
we responded to changing market conditions 
throughout the year. Electronics finished the year 
strongly despite difficult market conditions in 
Asia. The success was driven following a new 
product launch across the region. The Electronics 
segment will be reported within Industrial from next 
year and we will continue to invest in opportunities 
that will drive growth and improve our return on 
invested capital. 
Group trading profit increased to £18.6m, growing 
27 .4% at constant exchange rates, and margins 
increased to 7 .9%. We continue to improve our 
customer engagement to better demonstrate our 
value proposition while adopting a progressive and 
more strategic approach to pricing; the effect has 
been margin improvement across all our segments. 
Cash generation was in line with expectations and 
we ended the year with net debt of £3.4m after the 
acquisition of First Water Limited for £1 1.2m.
Strategic progress during the year
At the start of the last financial year we identified 
a series of key goals and priorities for the year.
Healthcare: Continue to move up the value 
chain by expanding our offerings and 
capabilities: During the year, we made significant 
investments to further develop our full turn-key 
offerings. We launched MEDIFIX Solutions™ to 
address the wearable market; upgraded quality 
capabilities to meet pharmaceutical standards; 
and acquired First Water Limited to strengthen our 
innovation and development capabilities. As a 
result, we further developed our relationship 
with Johnson & Johnson as part of its “Supplier 
Enabled Innovation” initiative.
Industrial: Automotive and Cable – focus on 
developing strategic partnerships where we 
have critical mass and position on which to 
leverage, accelerating the shift from product 
to solution selling: Automotive made good 
progress, growing at double digit rates. Through a 
dedicated global resource we will continue to work 
6
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 on new projects and products to ensure that they 
are specified in the next generation platforms.
Industrial: Construction and Specialty 
Products – leverage our brands and market 
position to grow our market share through 
expansion of both point of sales and product 
range. Continue to lower the cost to serve 
through technology and further focusing 
our sales strategy: We continue to improve our 
performance with high single digit growth across 
both sectors. Our market share is growing through 
increased point of sales and customer expansion. 
Margins are improving as we maintain a tight 
control of the cost base. Our European business, 
which is focused on construction markets, grew 
3.5% in a declining market.
Acquisitions remain part of the Group’s 
strategy and will help support growth 
through adding capabilities, product 
offerings and services as well as 
geographies or channels to the current 
portfolio: During the year we successfully 
completed the acquisition of First Water Limited, 
a high-quality healthcare business specialising in 
innovation, design and manufacturing of a wide 
range of hydrogels. The business improves 
our capabilities in Healthcare, broadens our 
technology portfolio and customer base and 
improves our manufacturing infrastructure with 
its dedicated Healthcare facility.
Continue to improve our margins by 
maintaining the process of self-help and 
good cost control: We have delivered good 
operating leverage through maintaining control 
of cost while increasing our volume throughput. 
In addition we continue to invest in further 
self-help initiatives and last year we commenced 
the consolidation of our facilities in France with 
a view to improving utilisation and optimising our 
asset base. 
Culture: Instill an entrepreneurial culture 
to align 1,200+ people across 11 countries 
to achieve common objectives: We remain 
committed to developing the culture of Scapa in 
line with our stated aims of value creation through 
fostering entrepreneurship. During the year, we 
launched the “Scapa Way” defined by our guiding 
principles which binds us across regions and 
businesses. We celebrate entrepreneurship that 
creates sustainable shareholder value.
2015/16 strategic goals and priorities
Looking into the 2015/16 financial year, the strategic 
emphasis will be on:
• Healthcare: Continue to build on our successes 
and invest in developing our proposition as the 
full turn-key solution partner of choice for our 
global healthcare customers.
• Industrial: Increase ROCE through optimising 
the asset base focus on capital asset 
allocation by consolidating around strategic 
technology clusters aligned to focused markets 
and customers. 
• Simplify and enhance our operating model  
to allow for better allocation of resources  
and permit the Group to invest in growth 
opportunities that provide the best  
financial returns. 
• Acquisitions that supplement organic growth: 
We will continue to look for acquisitions that 
complement our portfolio of businesses and 
support our growth with the aim of improving 
access to our customers’ supply chain 
through adding new capabilities, product 
offerings, technologies, customers, geographies 
or channels. 
• Continue to improve our margins by maintaining 
the process of self-help and good cost control. 
• Drive cultural transformation: Continue to invest 
in our people and further embed the culture 
programme underpinned by a framework of 
entrepreneurship and clear guiding principles.
Outlook
The Group continues to make good progress 
which is reflected in our financial performance. 
We remain confident in our strategy but will remain 
agile in response to market conditions. While it 
is early in the new financial year we expect to 
continue the momentum and believe the Group 
is well positioned to make continued progress 
in the coming year.
H R Chae
Group Chief Executive
27 May 2015
Leadership Team
From left to right:
Clare Douglas – Group HR Director
Chris Carter – Chief Operating Officer
Heejae Chae – Group Chief Executive
Rebecca Smith – Group General Counsel and 
Company Secretary
Paul Edwards – Group Finance Director
Sayoung Jung – Director of Strategy and 
Corporate Development 
Joe Davin – Group President, Healthcare
James Neuling – Managing Director, Industrial
A full biography of the Leadership Team 
members can be found on our website:  
 
www.scapa.com 
7
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Read more p30 Read more p12 Read more p46
VALUE
CREATION
Customer partnerships
ONE STOP
SOLUTION
PRODUCT
DEVELOPMENT
SUPPLY
CHAIN
CHANNELS/
PARTNERS
RESPONSIBLE
BEHAVIOUR
GLOBAL
FOOTPRINT
EASE OF 
ENGAGEMENT
People and culture
Acquisitions
Operations
OUR MODEL IS TO CREATE VALUE  
THROUGH MUTUALLY PROFITABLE  
CUSTOMER PARTNERSHIPS
The Scapa Business Model and Strategy
Corporate governance
The Board is committed to maintaining the highest 
standards of corporate governance and ensuring 
values and behaviours are consistent across the 
business. The policy of the Board is to manage 
the affairs of the Company in accordance with the 
principles of corporate governance contained in 
the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
Risk management
The Leadership Team, Audit and Risk Committee 
and Board review risks which affect the Group 
throughout the year. Risk and issue tracking 
systems are reviewed by our Group Risk & 
Assurance team on a regular basis to ensure that 
the framework is in line with good practice in risk 
management and that agreed mitigation plans are 
adhered to.
Directors’ remuneration
The main principles of the senior executive 
remuneration policy are to encourage a strong 
performance culture and support both the 
near-term and long-term success of the Group 
to create sustainable long-term shareholder value. 
The Remuneration Committee is committed to 
seeking shareholder approval when changes are 
made to remuneration policy. 
8
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGY IN ACTION
At the start of the last financial year we identified 
a series of key goals and priorities for the year:
• Continue to move up the value chain by expanding 
our offerings and capabilities in Healthcare
• Focus on developing strategic partnerships 
in our Automotive and Cable markets where 
we have critical mass and position on which 
to leverage, accelerating the shift from product 
to solution selling
• Leverage our brands and market position to 
expand market share through expansion of both 
point of sales and product range in our Industrial 
operations. Continue to lower the cost to serve 
through technology and further focusing 
sales strategy
• Support growth through continued acquisition, 
adding capabilities, product offerings and 
services as well as geographies or channels 
to the current portfolio
• Continue to improve our margins by maintaining 
the process of self-help and good cost control
• Instill an entrepreneurial culture to align 1,200+ 
people across 11 countries to achieve 
common objectives Unlocking potential 
by investing in 
our people
We employ more than 1,200 people in 11 countries. We look 
to attract the best, because we know that it is their skills, 
knowledge and contribution that drive the business forward. 
And in order to enable our diverse workforce to achieve our 
common objectives, we are developing a common culture 
based on clear business principles and the encouragement 
of entrepreneurship as a way of creating value.
Our focus is on providing employees with challenging and 
engaging jobs, as well as opportunities to achieve their 
full potential through learning and career development.
Thus the promotion of cultural togetherness and 
employee development and growth are key elements 
of our business strategy. Sammy Nghiem 
Group Assistant 
Management Accountant
I have a first class degree in Accounting & Finance. 
As an ACCA trainee at Scapa, I am always learning 
something new which keeps me motivated and 
challenged. Studying for my exams is hard work 
but rewarding – and since many of my colleagues 
are qualified accountants themselves, there is 
always someone on hand to help. I hope to gain 
my ACCA qualification over the next 18 months 
and look forward to a successful career 
with Scapa. ¨
®
Unlocking potential 
by leveraging 
our brands and 
know-how
We have strong brands, the technical know-how 
to continually enhance our product range and a 
strong position in many markets. 
By increasing our points of sale and reducing 
the cost to serve through technology and tight 
control of the cost base, we have been able to 
grow the number of customers, increase our 
market share and improve our margins even 
in low  or no-growth markets. Kevin Jewell
Global Channel Manager, Industrial
I’ve been in this industry for 15 years, in both 
distribution and manufacturing. Over the past 
few years I’ve focused on North America, being 
increasingly more selective about which distribution 
partners we work with, and ensuring that end 
customers get the best possible service. This 
has resulted in higher sales and a better mix 
of products with improved margins. Now we’re 
following the same approach in Europe, and 
results are positive. Unlocking potential 
by always serving 
customers better
Scapa puts customers at the centre of its 
business decisions.
We understand our markets and promote strong 
customer relationships. We take the time to 
understand and address our customers’ needs, 
showing them how they can get the best from 
the products and services we offer. And not just 
off the shelf – but through innovative solutions 
tailored to their requirements. 
We also know that customers benefit most when 
we improve our own efficiency through self-help, 
cost control and asset optimisation.  Stefan Schmitt 
Customer Care Co-ordinator, 
Industrial
As an experienced customer care co-ordinator, 
I really feel that I know what customer care is 
about. Joining Scapa two years ago was a great 
opportunity for me to change the way in which we 
interact with customers. I’ve been given a dynamic 
region comprising five countries with three 
languages. I get to visit customers and have the 
opportunity to cover for the sales team; customers 
have even made visits to Scapa to see me. I want 
to grow my career, and believe that Scapa offers 
more than enough opportunity for me to do that. Our people are vital to the long-term success of the Group and the 
1,200+ people we employ across 20 locations in 11 countries are 
aligned to achieve the strategic objectives of the Group. We look 
to attract the best people and rely on their ability, skills and aptitude  
to work together with each other and our customers to create value 
for all our stakeholders. Our people are motivated to work for 
a company that promotes and supports them through a culture 
of entrepreneurship which encourages them to develop and grow 
and also helps us to attract and retain the best talent.
For more information visit our website
 
www.scapa.com People and culture
Our people are vital to the long-term 
success of the Group and the 1,200+ 
people we employ across 20 locations 
in 11 countries are aligned to achieve 
the strategic objectives of the Group. 
We look to attract the best people and 
rely on their ability, skills and aptitude  
to work with each other and our 
customers together to create value for 
all our stakeholders. Our people are 
motivated to work for a company that 
promotes and supports them through 
a culture of entrepreneurship which 
encourages them to develop and grow 
and also helps us to attract and retain 
the best talent.
Operations
The way we manufacture our products 
and deliver services to customers is 
fundamental to our success. How we 
engage and collaborate with customers 
and our ability to develop strong 
relationships are and will continue  
to be crucial to driving growth and 
sustainable returns and impact our 
ability to create long-term value.  
In a competitive market, efficient and 
responsible manufacturing is critical  
to our economic and environmental 
performance and we seek to 
continually improve and optimise our 
operations to reduce costs, minimise 
resources and reduce our impact on 
the environment by ensuring that we 
continue to invest and deploy our 
capital where the maximum return  
can be achieved.
Acquisitions
Acquisitions remain part of the 
Group’s strategy and will help support 
growth through adding capabilities, 
product offerings and services as well 
as geographies or channels to the 
current portfolio. Through organic and 
acquisitive growth we will look to meet 
changing customers’ requirements by 
providing a one stop solution for our 
customers. This will help us to 
integrate further into our customers’ 
supply chain and develop deeper 
relationships and long-term  
customer partnerships.
Our business model is designed to create value 
by delivering sustainable and profitable growth. 
The customer is at the core of our model and 
we strive to develop and grow mutually profitable 
partnerships with our customers by becoming  
their trusted supply chain solution provider . At Scapa, 
we understand that our customers look for us to 
help them solve a problem whether it is new and 
innovative materials, process improvement, supply 
chain simplification or, simply, ease of engagement. 
Customer partnerships
Our customers approach us to solve a broader 
underlying problem more than just a need for a 
product. Usually, our products make up a small 
part of the total solution for the customer’s problem. 
We must move away from offering just a stand-alone 
product to understanding and defining their 
underlying problem. And then we present the 
solution which can be product, service, support, 
logistic or something else entirely.
One stop solution. To provide a one stop 
solution for our customers, we look to meet 
changing customers’ requirements through 
acquisitions as well as organic development. 
Product development. We recognise that 
every customer’s problems are unique. We 
have a broad portfolio of products and solutions 
accumulated over our 88 years that can address 
many requirements. However, we also have 
significant development capabilities to work with 
our customers to create tailor-made solutions.
Supply chain. Our customers are global leaders 
who are looking for partners who can support 
them in fast-changing markets. We have the 
expertise and agility to provide an effective and 
efficient solution to their ever-changing supply 
chain. We strive to become an extension of their 
operation and development to ensure their success.
Global footprint. With 20 locations across 1 1 
countries, we can support our global customers 
anywhere in the world. As our customers grow 
and enter new emerging markets, we are well 
positioned to support them.
Ease of engagement. We strive to offer our 
customers seamless and consistent service 
anywhere in the world. Regardless of which of 
the 20 locations across the world our customers 
are dealing with, they should expect consistent 
service that works as an extension of their 
business. We strive to provide transparency and 
information flows to best serve the customer.
Channels/partners. We have an extensive global 
network of partners that we leverage to provide the 
most effective solution to our customers.
Responsible behaviour. We conduct all affairs 
with integrity. We strive for unqualified compliance 
with all laws and regulations by all of our 
employees all of the time.
Scapa strategy
Our strategy is to deliver profitable growth and 
create value by exceeding the expectations of 
our customers. 
We will focus on two key segments of Healthcare 
and Industrial where we have critical mass and 
leverageable position. 
Our objective is to leverage the relationship with 
the customer to address a greater share of their 
spend. The goal is to become trusted supply chain 
partners by providing solutions to their problems.
Achieving sustained value creation 
The Group’s strategy and business model 
recognise the need to continue to develop 
our capabilities and products to create real, 
sustainable and superior value for our customers, 
shareholders and all other stakeholders within the 
business. Profitable growth is therefore the basis 
of sustained value creation. 
Profitable growth will continue to be delivered 
by producing products and providing services 
that our customers value more highly than the 
alternatives available and that exceed their 
expectations. We will continue to focus where we 
have critical mass and a strong position. These 
continue to be our core segments of Healthcare 
and Industrial (which includes the markets of 
Automotive, Cable, Construction and Specialty 
Products). Our objective is to become a trusted 
supply chain partner by providing innovative 
solutions to our customers.
Protecting the value we create
We seek to protect this value by ensuring that 
we operate within an entrepreneurial culture, 
where integrity and operating safely and with 
legal compliance is not negotiable. We conduct 
this within a risk framework where key risks 
to the business are identified and measures 
are taken to manage and address these risks. 
Our risk management framework and the 
measures we take are identified and discussed 
on pages 12 to 17 of this report.
9
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Lost time injury frequency rate
1.2
2013 2014 2015
1.2
1.3
1.8
Underlying earnings per share
9.1P
2013 2014 2015
9.1
6.0
7.2
Return on sales
7.9%
2013 2014 2015
7.9
6.6
6.9
Capital expenditure
£7.5M
2013 2014 2015
7.5
4.2
4.9
Customer satisfaction per order
97.6%
2013 2014 2015
97.6 97.5 97.7
MEASURING OUR PROGRESS
Key Performance Indicators
Key performance indicators 
Our key performance indicators  
(KPIs), which include financial and 
non-financial measures, enable the 
Board to monitor performance.
They have been selected as being 
important to the success of the Group  
in delivering its strategic objectives.
Definition
The number of lost time accidents which occurred in the 
year across all European and North American sites per 
200,000 hours worked.
Commentary
We maintain that zero accidents/incidents is the ultimate 
goal in Environmental, Health & Safety (EHS) excellence 
and we will continue to strive for this in both lost time 
accidents and lost days. As a manufacturing business a 
significant proportion of our employees work in production. 
This measure indicates the Group performance in 
reducing accidents and improving health and safety for 
our employees. The year 2013/14 included our Knoxville 
site for the first time. As the site had not previously 
reported accidents in a consistent manner, their inclusion 
increased the prior year metric.
Why we measure
Protecting our people and acting responsibly is a must.
Definition 
Earnings per share (EPS) is calculated using the weighted 
average number of shares in issue and the profit for the 
year adjusted for exceptional items, amortisation charges 
and pension finance and administration costs and the tax 
thereon.
Commentary
By delivering our strategy we will create value and 
increase profits. Underlying EPS is the measure used by 
the Board to assess the overall profitability of the Group.
Why we measure
Track value generation for the Group’s shareholders.
Definition 
Return on sales is trading profit as a percentage  
of revenue.
Commentary
Return on sales is used to measure the underlying 
profitability of our operations and monitor the 
improvement against previous years.
Why we measure
Assess whether growth is sustainable and profitable.
Definition 
Capital expenditure in the year on property, plant and 
equipment and excluding acquisitions.
Commentary
To enable the Group to continue to grow and improve 
customer satisfaction, Scapa invests in maintaining and 
improving our existing plants and facilities. Capital 
expenditure is an indicator of investment in production 
capacity and development. In 2014/15 the Group’s capital 
expenditure was £7 .5m (2013/14: £4.9m), significantly up 
on the prior year owing to the cost associated with the 
consolidation of our French facilities.
Why we measure
Investment is vital to maintain our position and create 
future value.
Definition 
Customer satisfaction measured by the percentage of the 
orders during the year that do not lead to a complaint.
Commentary
The number of complaints is an indicator of customer 
satisfaction.
Why we measure
Track the performance in customer relationships.
10
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Underlying cash ﬂow 
from operations
£18.3M
2013 2014 2015
18.3
13.0
10.1
Revenue growth
4.4%
2013 2014 2015
4.4
6.8
8.3
Market and geographical 
diversiﬁcation
62.6%
2013
Segment concentration ratio
Geographic concentration ratio
2014 2015
47.2
46.5
62.6
64.4
43.5
67.4
Underlying return on capital 
employed (ROCE)
14.3%
2013 2014 2015
14.3
10.9
14.7
Capacity utilisation
61.6%
2013 2014 2015
61.6
54.8
61.2
Service performance
88.3%
2013 2014 2015
88.3
85.9
84.3
Definition 
Underlying cash flow is calculated using the cash from 
operations and adjusting for exceptional items.
Commentary
Generating sufficient levels of cash to ensure that the 
Group is able to pursue its strategic goals. Underlying 
cash flow is an indicator of the Group’s efficiency in 
generating cash from the trading profits of the business.
Why we measure
Track the ongoing availability of cash for investment back 
into the Group.
Definition 
Revenue growth measures the change in revenue 
achieved against prior year.
Commentary
Revenue growth is monitored at both consistent and 
actual exchange rates (see also segmental reporting)  
as a measure of the growth of the Group. The metric  
used by the Group is actual exchange rates as  
shown above.
Why we measure
Track the relative performance of our growth.
Definition 
The proportion of the largest customer location by market 
and geography as a percentage of total revenue.
Commentary
An indicator for diversifying our portfolio and reducing the 
relative exposure to one segment or geographic region. In 
2014/15 we have reduced our concentration on Industrial 
to 62.6% of turnover.
Why we measure
To track our progress to a diversified, sustainable portfolio.
Definition 
ROCE is defined as the underlying trading profit divided 
by the capital employed (equity plus long-term liabilities).
Commentary
By delivering our strategy it is important to increase 
shareholder value. Underlying ROCE is used together 
with the profit measures to monitor the efficient use of 
Group assets.
Why we measure
Monitor value created from investments.
Definition 
Hours booked to production as a percentage of total 
possible, based on running 24 hours a day 5 days  
a week.
Commentary
Managing capacity allows us to be responsive to 
customer needs by balancing cost efficiency and  
flexibility of production. We can simplify engagement  
with our customers by offering a balanced portfolio  
of available capacity across the globe.
Why we measure
To ensure that a balance is struck between cost  
efficiency and flexible production.
Definition 
Service performance and ease of engagement measured 
as the number of times the requested delivery date is met 
as a percentage of the total orders
Commentary
To build partnerships and ease engagement it is essential 
to meet customer needs and requests.
Why we measure
Measure service provided to our channels/partners
11
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information EMBEDDED RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 
HAVE SUPPORTED THE GROUP IN PURSUING 
ITS STRATEGY FOR GROWTH
Risk and Risk Management
Risk management
Risk is an inherent part of doing business.  
A successful risk management process balances 
risk and reward and is underpinned by sound 
judgement of their impact and likelihood. The Group 
Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that 
Scapa has an effective risk management framework, 
which is aligned to our objectives. 
The Leadership Team, Audit and Risk 
Committee and Board review risks which could 
affect the Group throughout the year. Risk and 
issue tracking systems are reviewed by our Group 
Risk & Assurance team on a regular basis to 
ensure that the framework is in line with good 
practice in risk management and that agreed 
mitigation plans are being adhered to.
We take the view that the policies, procedures and 
monitoring systems that are in place are sufficient 
to effectively manage the risks faced by our business.
Scapa’s approach to  
risk management
Scapa adopts both a Top Down and Bottom 
Up approach to risk to manage risk exposure 
across the Group to enable the effective 
pursuit of strategic objectives. The approach 
is summarised in the diagram below
Risk identification
Risks exist within all areas of our business and  
it is important for us to identify and understand  
the degree to which their impact and likelihood  
of occurrence will affect the delivery of our  
key objectives.
The recording of risks at Scapa is achieved 
through our risk management model. Their 
identification is achieved through day-to-day 
working practices including horizon scanning 
for legislative changes, professional body alerts, 
strategic planning, operational reviews, accident 
and incident reporting, project governance 
procedures and independent systems audits.
In addition to ongoing risk identification, the 
Group’s risk universe is reviewed on an annual 
basis. This exercise relies on risk intelligence being 
gathered from:
• Top down – through participation from the 
Leadership Team, senior management and 
departmental experts (including Quality, Health 
& Safety, Supply Chain and Research & 
Development) and giving consideration to the 
Group’s strategy, related objectives and any 
barriers to the achievement of these objectives.
• Bottom up – by engaging with our people, 
listening to their views and recognising their 
contribution (e.g. through schemes like ‘ideas 
that stick’). In addition, we have a robust and 
effective whistleblowing procedure to highlight 
issues such as potential wrongdoing or risks 
that are not being managed.
Integrated approach to risk management
Effective pursuit of strategic objectives
Managing risk from the top down
Managing risk from the bottom up
12
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Top Down 
Strategic risk management
Bottom Up  
Operational risk management
• Provision of guidance on the Group’s approach to 
risk management and establishing parameters for 
risk appetite and associated decision-making
• Identification, review and management  
of identified Group strategic risks and  
associated actions
• Ongoing consideration of environmental risks
• Setting the risk appetite of the Group
Board and  
Audit and Risk  
Committee
• Assessing the effectiveness of the risk 
management processes adopted across  
the Group
• Challenging the content of the strategic risk 
registers to facilitate the documentation of 
comprehensive and balanced assessment of risk
• Reporting on the principle risks and uncertainties 
of the Group
• Directing delivery of the Group’s identified actions 
associated with managing risk
• Identification and monitoring of the key  
risk indicators and taking timely action  
where appropriate
Executive  
Board and  
Leadership  
Team
• Responsible for reviewing the completeness and 
consistency of the operational risk registers 
across business units and the Group
• Challenging the appropriateness and adequacy of 
proposed action plans to mitigate risk
• Analysing and giving consideration to the 
aggregation of risk across the Group
• Provision of cross functional/business unit resource 
to effectively mitigate risk where appropriate
• Execution of the delivery of the Group’s identified 
actions associated with managing risk
• Timely reporting on the implementation and 
progress of agreed action plans
• Provision of key risk indicator updates
Business Units
• Identification and reporting of strategic risks to  
the Board
• Provision of reports and data relating to significant 
emerging risks to the Group (internal and external)
• Implementation of a risk management approach 
which promotes the ongoing identification, 
evaluation, prioritisation, mitigation and 
monitoring of operational risk
• Identification, evaluation, prioritisation, mitigation 
and monitoring of operational risks which are the 
responsibility of each subsidiary company; and 
• Identification of strategic risks which are reported 
to the Group Monitor
Identify
Assess
Address
Corporate governance 
Risk 
management 
process
Identify 
risks
Identify 
inherent risks 
(likelihood x 
impact)
Assess the 
suitability and 
effectiveness of 
existing controls
Score mitigated 
risks (likelihood x 
impact)
Assign Executive 
level sponsor 
Develop 
action plans (treat, 
transfer, tolerate, 
terminate)
Monitor delivery 
of action plans 
and risk universe 
In determining the relative importance of risks in 
our risk universe, we use a scoring mechanism to 
identify the likelihood of a risk crystallising and the 
impact this would have on the achievement of our 
strategic objectives, assuming that no controls are 
in place (inherent risk score).
Assessment
After identifying Scapa’s inherent risk exposure, we 
assess the suitability and effectiveness of existing 
controls and mitigating factors to ascertain the 
Group’s net exposure (mitigated risk score).
This process includes mapping the sources and 
reliability of assurances over the effectiveness of 
controls provided to the Leadership Team, Audit 
and Risk Committee and Board.
Addressing risks
An assessment of whether additional actions are 
required to reduce our exposure to risk:
• Treat – Develop an action plan to implement 
additional controls, or provide additional 
assurance over the adequacy and effectiveness 
of existing controls
• Transfer – Use third party expertise to mitigate 
against risk
• Tolerate – Determine that the risk is within 
appetite, when compared with the cost and 
resources required to reduce the risk
• Terminate – Exit the activity
Monitoring and reporting
The process used by the Audit and Risk 
Committee to review the effectiveness of risk 
management includes:
• six-monthly review of the Group’s risk profile to 
assess potential risk areas and progress against 
action plans
• review of internal and external audit plans to 
minimise duplication of assurance provision
• quarterly review of the implementation of internal 
audit recommendations
• six-monthly review of the status of management 
actions associated with the issues
Internal control
The Group’s approach to internal control is based 
on the 2013 COSO Internal Control – Integrated 
Framework.
Internal control is an ongoing process which is 
engrained in Scapa’s activities and operations.  
The aim of our internal control framework is to 
provide reasonable assurance to the Board over 
the following areas:
• the effectiveness and efficiency of operations
• the reliability of financial reporting
• compliance with relevant laws and regulations
Scapa’s internal control framework consists of the 
following key components:
Control environment – The ‘tone at the top’  
of Scapa and the foundation upon which all other 
components of the framework rest. We have tried 
to capture the attributes, integrity, values and 
competencies that Scapa employees display 
within our Code of Conduct.
Risk assessment – Our awareness of the risks 
we face and the actions we take to address and 
mitigate the risks identified. 
Control activities – The policies and procedures 
that help ensure that actions and directives 
required by management are carried out. 
Information and communication – The ability 
for Scapa’s people to capture and exchange the 
information needed to conduct, manage and 
control our operations. Employees’ understanding 
of their own role in the internal control framework. 
Monitoring activities – Continuous review and 
improvement where necessary to allow the system 
to react dynamically and change as needed.
Site based teams operate against mandated 
minimum control standards which are issued by 
the Group Finance Director. Annual assessments 
of compliance are completed by site teams as part 
of a controls self-assessment process introduced 
during 2012/13. Each site team is subject to 
regular internal audit, with the objective of 
assessing the extent of compliance with these 
standards and to assess the accuracy of the 
controls self-assessment.
Financial reporting follows generally accepted 
accounting practice in all areas. Central review 
and approval procedures are in place in respect 
of major areas of risk such as acquisitions and 
disposals, major contracts, capital expenditure, 
litigation, treasury management, taxation and 
environmental issues. Compliance with legislation 
is closely monitored and reviewed regularly 
to ensure that any new legislation is taken 
into account, including compliance with 
environmental legislation. High standards 
and defined targets are set for safety, health 
and environmental performance.
Risk and control reporting structure
Our internal control structures are designed to 
provide assurance that the Group is on track in 
delivering against its strategic objectives.
Scapa has a clear structure for ensuring that 
accurate and reliable information on the adequacy 
and effectiveness of internal controls is presented 
to the Leadership Team, Audit and Risk 
Committee and Board.
We operate ‘three lines of defence’:
• First line – established and embedded policies 
and procedures
• Second line – direction and policy set at Group 
level to enforce consistency. Oversight functions 
sit at Group level
• Third line – independent challenge and 
assurance
13
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Risk and Risk Management continued
Principal risks and uncertainties
The table below outlines the principal risks and uncertainties which the Group faces together with relevant key controls and mitigating factors. The list does not 
constitute a list of all risks faced by the Group and are not presented in priority order.
Risk
Accountable 
Executive Key controls and mitigating factors
Risk  
movement
Strategic
Business strategy 
The Board develops the wrong business strategy  
or fails to implement its strategy effectively.
Impact
Negative impact on long-term growth prospects.
Heejae Chae 
Group Chief 
Executive
• Clear strategy in place which is reviewed by the Board  
on a regular basis
• Progress against the strategy is monitored by senior 
management and the Board on an ongoing basis
• Risks relating to the achievement of the Group’s strategy 
are reviewed regularly by the Audit and Risk Committee 
and the Board
Acquisitions and disposals
Poor decision-making on organisational restructuring.
Impact
Adversely affects the Group’s results, weakening 
shareholder value.
Heejae Chae 
Group Chief 
Executive
• Significant internal and external due diligence processes
• Acquisitions and disposals approved by the Board
• Monitoring of business portfolio and structure at senior 
management and Board level
• Integration planning for acquisitions across Finance, 
Operations, HR and Commercial
Financial
Financial and treasury
Unavailability and cost of funding and foreign 
exchange rates.
Impact
The Company does not have access to sufficient 
funds to permit trading as a going concern.
Paul Edwards 
Group Finance 
Director
• Access to committed facility of £40m with an additional 
uncommitted £20m accordion
• All treasury policies are approved at Board level
• Committed facility providing sufficient headroom  
and capability
• The Group uses simple products to hedge exposure  
with no speculative currency transactions
Pensions
Liabilities increase due to increasing life expectancy, 
inflation, poor performance in investments 
compounded by fluctuations in the discount rate.
Impact
The pension liabilities and associated cash 
requirements have a material adverse impact  
on the Group’s profits and cash flows.
Paul Edwards 
Group Finance 
Director
• No final salary pension schemes are open at the Group
• The UK scheme has been closed to new members and 
future accruals since 2007
• Active and ongoing liability management programme, 
including long-term funding agreements in place
14
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risk
Accountable 
Executive Key controls and mitigating factors
Risk  
movement
Market
Customers
Over-reliance on specific markets or customers.
Impact
Places pressure on pricing, margins and profitability.
Heejae Chae 
Group Chief 
Executive
• Diverse range of customers with no specific weight towards 
one customer
• Our business strategy is tailored to reduce reliance on one 
particular market
• Winning new long-term contracts in healthcare helps 
spread risk and encourage growth
• Credit limits set based on Group policy, with limits 
monitored regularly and customers put on ‘stop’  
as appropriate 
• Credit insurance for worldwide turnover of North America 
and Europe (subject to policy limits and excesses)
Operations
Raw material pricing
Excessively high raw materials prices.
Impact
Reduced competitiveness as a result of reducing 
margins and profitability.
Chris Carter 
Chief 
Operating 
Officer
• Global supply chain function in place with clear cost 
reduction targets
• Commodity prices are reviewed on a monthly basis  
by the supply chain team
• Contracts with suppliers are being renegotiated to further 
reduce our exposure to price changes
• Formula based on open-book costing
• Dual sourcing incorporating regional alternatives
• Material substitution programme
Human resources
Failure to attract and retain people with the right 
virtues and talents to sustain and grow our 
business.
Impact
• Inability to achieve our business objectives  
of sustainable growth
• Loss of skills, knowledge and experience
Clare Douglas 
Group HR 
Director
• Global performance management system in place for the 
top 350 roles globally
• Performance related incentive schemes are in place across 
the business 
• Global Reward, Compensation and Benefits Manager 
recruited with specific focus on global reward and incentive 
programmes linked to overall business growth strategy
• Roll-out of talent and succession programme for top 300 
roles globally
 Risk remains the same
 Risk increased
 Risk decreased
15
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Risk and Risk Management continued
Risk
Accountable 
Executive Key controls and mitigating factors
Risk  
movement
ICT system infrastructure
ICT systems and infrastructure failure  
and/or interruption.
Impact
Significant disruption to direct manufacturing  
and support processes.
Paul Edwards 
Group Finance 
Director
• Group and site based business continuity and disaster 
recovery processes in place
• Annual test of disaster recovery for core systems
• Multi-site and remote device backup of electronic data
• Fallover and standby solutions built into system architecture 
for core systems providing additional resilience 
• Security and segregation built into system architecture  
for e-commerce systems to ensure minimum exposure 
from transactions 
• We have implemented a rigorous IT governance model 
(covering IT Service Management and IT Portfolio 
Management), in line with industry best practice, to provide 
enhanced assurance for both our existing IT services and 
the delivery of new solutions
Regulatory and compliance
Product quality
Products are not up to the required quality and 
health and safety standards.
Impact
Poor financial performance due to customer 
returns, product liability claims, ultimately affecting 
customer trust in Scapa as a supplier.
Joe Davin 
Group 
President, 
Healthcare
Chris Carter 
Chief 
Operating 
Officer
• Third party International Quality Systems accreditation:
 – Ashton, Valence, Ghislarengo and Renfrew are 3rd party 
accredited to TS 16949 and ISO 9001. Ashton and 
Valence are also accredited to ISO 14001
 – Dunstable, Inglewood, Knoxville and Windsor are 
accredited to ISO 13485 and ISO 9001
 – Rorschach, Syracuse and Seoul are accredited  
to ISO 9001 
• Internal quality audit processes are in place with issue 
resolution tracking 
• Known problems have been addressed with rigorous root 
cause analysis and corrective action to ensure that they  
do not reoccur
• Customer quality requirements are clearly identified 
• In-process and final product quality checks are performed 
to ensure compliance
• Inglewood, Knoxville and Renfrew are registered as medical 
device manufacturers under 21CFR820 with oversight from 
US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
16
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risk
Accountable 
Executive Key controls and mitigating factors
Risk  
movement
Health & Safety
Failure to ensure safe working practices.
Impact
• Significant injury or loss of life
• Reputational damage associated with accidents 
and injuries resulting in customer disassociation 
with Scapa
Heejae Chae 
Group Chief 
Executive
• Lost time accident frequency rate of 1.2 compared to last 
year of 1.8
• We continue to develop our policies and training 
programmes in line with our risk profile
• Our safety management system is continually being 
developed, added to and improved
• We conduct regular audits and work with external accredited 
agencies to standards such as ISO 14001 & 18001 globally
• We actively use our risk mapping mechanisms to influence 
our EHS capital expenditure to proactively manage  
our risks
Environment
Failure to mitigate environmental impacts.
Impact
• Reputational damage
• Financial loss associated with clean-up,  
fines and sanctions
Chris Carter 
Chief 
Operating 
Officer
• ISO 14001 in most sites, with a plan to certify the remaining 
significant sites over the next 36 months
• Conduct regular internal reviews of environmental aspects 
and impacts
• Training provided to site management and employees
• Enforcement and surveillance visits by third parties
New
 Risk remains the same
 Risk increased
 Risk decreased
17
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Revenue
£73.8M
2013 2014 2015 2012 2011
73.8
57.4
69.2
39.5
33.8
Trading proﬁt
£11.1M
2013 2014 2015 2012 2011
11.1
8.4
10.2
5.5
4.3
HEALTHCARE:  
ENHANCING PROPOSITION THROUGH 
STRATEGIC CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT
Business Review
Market trends and overview
The key driver for the Healthcare industry is the 
delivery of the highest possible quality products 
and care to the maximum number of people at the 
lowest possible cost. The markets in advanced 
wound care, medical device, consumer wellness 
and drug delivery have responded to this and 
continue to embrace the need to outsource with 
chosen partners across the whole supply chain 
to remain efficient and competitive. The trends 
which we have highlighted in the past continue 
and as the market evolves new opportunities 
are developing.
As major global Healthcare companies concentrate 
on their core competencies of research and 
development, marketing and product distribution, 
they are increasingly outsourcing manufacturing, 
especially where production can be obtained 
through partnerships with suppliers, significantly 
reducing their need for investment in infrastructure. 
These Healthcare market leaders are looking for 
trusted partners with expertise to enhance their 
product development process, while at the same 
time looking to significantly improve their processes 
from conception to production, maintaining strict 
adherence to quality, design and cost control and 
improving their speed to market to enhance their 
competitive position.
Consolidation within the Healthcare market has 
both expanded the markets for the end products 
that Scapa produces and opened partnerships 
with market leaders. Consolidation has also opened 
up opportunity for smaller market participants which 
have innovative technologies with the potential for 
rapid growth but which typically do not have the 
specialised materials and manufacturing capabilities 
provided within Scapa’s Skin Friendly Turn-Key 
solution supply chain. Through our internal strategic 
development and more latterly the acquisition of 
First Water Limited, we have been able to take 
advantage of this trend and commence development 
projects leading to production with several of these 
emerging companies. 
Scapa Healthcare’s innovation strategy is 
seeing us build a pipeline of both research and 
development innovations and new customer 
development projects that will continue to drive 
the business forward. 
This year saw the launch of MEDIFIX Solutions™ 
as a complete Turn-Key solution for wearable 
mobile device applications. This enables us to 
offer efficient custom development and scalable 
production across the diverse and growing 
spectrum of wearable applications, including 
remote patient monitoring, continuous glucose 
monitoring and catheter securement for drug 
delivery. The technical demands on the 
manufacturer in this niche market are 
considerable as there is a need for the solution 
to address not only the physical properties of the 
wearable device itself, but also factors such as 
the skin type and age of the patient population, 
whether the device will be exposed to moisture, 
whether it is a long- or short-wear application, 
and many others. 
To assist in promoting the brand and raising 
awareness of our capabilities and service 
we launched our new Healthcare website  
 
(www.scapahealthcare.com) in November 
2014. It has extensive content dedicated to  
the healthcare market place and our products 
and manufacturing capabilities.
Strategy and business model
Our strategic focus continues to be on the 
provision of Skin Friendly Turn-Key solutions in the 
four global sectors in which we operate; advanced 
wound care, medical device, consumer wellness 
and drug delivery. 
Scapa Healthcare’s predominant strategy is to 
remain as a B2B partner to our global Healthcare 
customers, supporting them in launching new 
products for the healthcare market. Along with 
our Turn-Key capabilities this has enabled Scapa 
Healthcare to continue to build long-term trusted 
relationships with our customers which is supported 
by long-term contracts that provide visible and 
secure streams of income for the business. 
To enhance our proposition we constantly look 
to increase strategic engagement with our 
customers. This can be through development 
contracts and structured programmes while 
expanding our technology and product portfolio, 
sales channels, manufacturing capacity and quality 
systems to ensure we improve our relevance to our 
customers and increase our share of the customer 
total spend. We aim to be our customers’ strategic 
outsourcing partner of choice which requires us 
to focus on the full supply chain and complete 
production process from the design and selection 
of raw materials, through converting and packaging, 
to sterilisation and logistics.
Quality remains at the heart of everything we 
do and is the basis of our trusted customer 
relationships. With dedicated global Healthcare 
quality teams working across all of our operating 
sites, all product development and production is 
subject to rigorous quality control procedures. 
We continue to invest in our quality systems, 
resources and manufacturing infrastructure to 
meet the highest industry standards within 
the sector.
We will continue to expand and strengthen our 
current capabilities and also to monitor the gaps in 
our value chain. We will invest and acquire as and 
where necessary to support customers, explore 
new platforms and adjacent markets and provide a 
foundation for future growth.
18
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2014/15 performance 
Healthcare continued to make good progress 
this  year, increasing revenue by 7 .9% at constant 
exchange rates in line with guidance at the interim 
results. As a large successful product launch for 
one of our major wound care customers filled the 
supply chain, growth was slower in the second 
half of the year. Margins increased to 15.0% and 
trading profit growth was 11.0% at constant 
exchange rates. With good visibility of revenue 
and a growing pipeline we have continued to 
invest in strategic engagement and quality 
systems to support the anticipated future 
growth of the business. 
First Water Limited
In February 2015 we acquired First Water Limited 
– a high-quality healthcare innovation, design and 
manufacturing company based in the UK.
First Water Limited makes a wide range of 
hydrogels, based on ionic polymer systems which 
are super-absorbent and electrically conductive. 
They can be used to manufacture high 
performance hydrogel dressings for use in wound 
care and consumer wellness. First Water Limited 
has Intellectual Property in the formulation and 
manufacture of these polymers, and also in several 
product platforms which combine these systems 
with other widely used materials, for example 
PU films, gelling fibres and PU foams. This is an 
exciting and fast developing portfolio for the 
advanced wound care and consumer 
wellness markets.
The acquisition fits our business to business 
model and further enhances our growth 
opportunities by broadening our technology 
portfolio and customer base. In addition First 
Water Limited strengthens our global 
manufacturing infrastructure with its Healthcare 
dedicated facility generating additional Turn-Key 
manufacturing capacity in Europe thus meeting 
several of our key strategic objectives.
Our initial priority is to execute the projects that 
are already on hand and integrate the business into 
the Scapa Healthcare family before adding new 
strategic projects to the pipeline, with the ambition 
to significantly grow and develop the business 
further. This ambition will benefit from First Water 
Limited’s highly experienced management team 
remaining within the enlarged Group.
Outlook
Our strategy is working. Our Turn-Key value 
proposition resonates with customers and as 
our brand and reputation continue to expand, the 
pipeline of development projects and opportunities 
continues to grow. We are actively engaged with 
major Healthcare companies at every level in the 
value chain, most importantly strategically as we 
work ever closer with our customers on future 
opportunities. We will continue to invest in the 
business to develop the tools, infrastructure and 
talent to deliver the service that leading global 
healthcare providers require from their partners.
We remain very positive about the future for 
Scapa Healthcare.
“The outsourcing trend in the 
Healthcare industry continues 
to help drive our growth and 
future opportunities.”
Case study
Healthcare: Continue to move up the value 
chain by expanding our offerings and 
capabilities. 
Having worked with a customer for a number 
of years in supplying application specific 
products/components for further conversion 
and use in branded products we looked to 
engage further with our customer but at a more 
strategic level to deepen the partnership and 
move up their value chain.
Challenge – The customer wanted to launch a 
new product which was an extension of a 
current brand. They had internal capability to 
do this but wanted to explore the possibility of 
an external turn-key contract to enhance their 
innovation and speed to market.
Outcome – Working with the customer’s 
multi-disciplinary development team the initial 
concept meeting was held in January 2014. 
The process was headed by their President 
of Consumer Healthcare Division and we 
were given a window of 1 1 months to partner 
in design, manufacture, qualify and obtain 
product approval for launch of the new 
product. Following the initial concept meeting 
the product was approved in January 2015 
just 9 months into the 1 1 month window. 
The process showcased our core 
competencies and demonstrated our 
competitive advantage of speed to market as 
well as our deep understanding of the client’s 
and market requirements. In addition to this 
launch, collectively, we are actively working on 
new programmes. Currently, we have two 
additional programmes under development, 
and have shared a strategic vision to further 
complement a long-term portfolio of products.
19
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Revenue
£147.8M
2013 2014 2015 2012 2011
147.8
140.7
145.7 145.9 145.6
Trading proﬁt
£8.9M
2013 2014 2015 2012 2011
8.9
7.2
7.9
7.2
4.3
Business Review
INDUSTRIAL:  
CUSTOMER CENTRIC APPROACH 
GAINING MARKET SHARE
Market trends and overview
The Industrial business operates across a wide 
range of market segments and geographies. 
Our market focus is on Automotive, Cable, 
Construction and Specialty Products where we 
have critical mass and leverageable positions. Our 
strategy is to grow by continuing the progress to 
date of customer partnership through strategic 
engagement, and maintaining a clear and focused 
customer centric philosophy. This continues to pay 
dividends as we have gained market share and 
delivered growth above general economic growth 
in the markets we participate in.
Global automotive industry production volumes 
continue to improve and increased to a record 
number of units in 2014/15. The growth has been 
led by a strong recovery in the North American 
market with Europe also growing, albeit at a more 
modest level. Our core products are bonding 
solutions used in wiring harness for electrical 
distribution, seat heating systems and assembly 
applications. The trend in car design is positive 
for Scapa as the focus in fuel efficiency and 
increasing electronics drives greater application 
of our products.
Our cable products are primarily used in power 
transmission (high voltage, submarine) and 
communication (fibre optics) and act as a 
protective layer over the transmission cable. Our 
products require high reliability; the performance 
and quality of our products are valued by our 
customers as deficiency in application carries 
significant costs for failure. Typical end use 
applications are in oil and gas platforms, wind 
turbines, fibre optic networks and infrastructure 
related projects. While opportunities for future 
growth remain in this market the downturn in oil 
prices this year has resulted in a postponement 
of energy projects with our key clients. 
Our construction related business operates across 
a broad range of end markets and geographies 
and performance generally trends with the 
macroeconomic environment of the regions in 
which we participate. The outlook for the 
construction market across the world is positive 
with broader macroeconomic recoveries being 
seen across our markets, albeit at varying rates. 
The North American market is particularly strong 
and was reflected in our double digit growth this 
year. We see a slower recovery in Europe 
particularly in France where we have a strong 
market position. Our products are sold to both 
trade and retail markets but through different 
channels. In North America, we sell primarily 
through our distribution network to the trade 
market and in Europe we market our products 
under our Barnier
®
 brand which is predominantly 
sold through builders’ merchants and distributors. 
In general we are seeing increasing usage of our 
products as their performance improvements and 
advantages are displacing the more traditional 
fixation methods of using nails and mechanical 
fixings. Additionally, higher environmental and 
energy requirements are driving the demand for 
products with higher specifications such as ours.
In addition to our broad industrial products we 
also participate in end markets where we have 
niche positions. As examples we are market 
leaders in hockey tapes in North America which 
are sold through most major retailers in Canada 
and Northern US; we also have a strong market 
position in protective laminates for the ski market 
and we are a leading supplier in the smart card 
market where our products are used to adhere 
the chip to the card in a significant number of the 
world’s credit cards. 
Strategy and business model
The Industrial business has grown and 
developed into a market focused business 
separated into four key segments of Automotive, 
Cable, Construction and Specialty Products. With 
a global footprint we have the capability to address 
each of these segments and customers who have 
a global supply chain, through a network of 
manufacturing and product conversion facilities. 
We have successfully expanded our presence in 
developing markets to further enhance our global 
proposition and develop a presence in those 
markets that have good growth potential.
Whilst the growth of revenue has increased 
profitability we also look to continue to drive 
efficiency and improve returns, which has seen 
margins increase every year over the last five years. 
There remains significant opportunity to further 
develop this agenda. As our market focus has 
clarified so has our manufacturing strategy 
which will focus on optimal asset allocation and 
improvement of ROCE. We will look to improve 
returns through optimising our marginal profit by 
loading existing assets and improving utilisation. 
Following the consolidation of our facilities in 
France, over the coming years we plan to continue 
to further optimise our manufacturing footprint. 
To complement this and drive further growth and 
margin expansion we will continue to invest in and 
develop a more holistic approach to our pricing 
strategy to ensure our pricing better reflects the 
Group’s strategic objectives and utilises a market 
based approach to optimise pricing and profitability.
The majority of our products are application 
specific where we look to apply our technologies 
to solve our customers’ problems. We have strong 
expertise in a wide range of coating technologies 
and build upon this by engaging with our 
customers in the design process, to better 
20
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 understand their requirements and ensure we 
provide our customers with the solutions they 
need to succeed. 
• Our Automotive products are specified by 
numerous global manufacturers and we seek 
to maximise market share by positioning the 
business to capture orders regardless of the 
geographical location of the customer . We have 
a global approach and dedicated resources to 
ensure that our products are specified in the next 
generation platforms
• Cable is a market with a small number of suppliers 
and is project based with a long sales cycle. We 
sell through a dedicated organisation and we look 
to adopt a strategic partnership by integrating 
ourselves within the customer supply chain to 
ensure that we participate in new developments 
and projects
• In Construction, our strategy is to gain market 
share through increasing the points of sale, 
expanding into new geographies and 
developing our portfolio through extension 
beyond the core products
• Specialty Products – we have demonstrated 
that we have the ability to adapt to market 
trends, gain market share, drive operational 
efficiency and improve returns through a 
customer centric approach and focused 
portfolio management
2014/15 performance
This has been a year of good progress in Industrial 
with revenue of £147 .8m, representing growth of 
6.6% at constant exchange rates. Trading profit 
increased to £8.9m or by 21.9% at constant 
exchange rates and margin improved to 6.0% from 
5.4% in the prior year. The performance benefitted 
from double digit growth in North America with 
strong performances across all our end sectors. 
This partly reflected the continued improvement 
in the market but more importantly our ability 
to gain market share and a greater share of our 
customers’ spend. Europe grew more modestly 
but saw a very positive performance given the 
uncertainty and currency headwinds throughout 
the year. Key to our success was the ability to 
react quickly to the shifting market conditions and 
currency fluctuations, specifically in Switzerland 
where we saw a significant appreciation of the 
Swiss Franc towards the end of the year.
Outlook
With the progress the Industrial business has 
made in the last few years it is well placed to 
benefit from structural growth as well as the 
opportunities it has to improve the ROCE through 
optimising the asset utilisation and capital 
allocation. Future prospects remain positive.
“The Industrial business operates 
across a wide range of market 
segments and geographies.  
Our market focus is on Automotive,  
Cable, Construction and Specialty 
Products where we have critical  
mass and leverageable positions.”
Case study
Scapa has recently entered into a strategic 
partnership with a leading manufacturer of 
nonwoven, breathable, insulation materials to 
provide custom branded sheathing tape that 
meets the rigid specifications of their house 
wrap barrier system’s function and guarantee. 
The Industrial business has a strong presence 
in the North American construction market, 
partnering with prominent manufacturers of 
insulation materials used in housing starts and 
renovations. Scapa’s portfolio of sheathing 
tapes and product development capabilities 
are industry renowned for use in the seaming 
of cloth-like house wrap materials, used across 
the continent, to provide weather-proofing and 
breathability in residential insulation systems. 
We worked together on a major product that 
was launched in Q1 of 2015. Relying on our 
quality, extensive testing capabilities, and 
agility, we were able to respond quickly to the 
customer’s specific requirements and strict 
timelines, helping us secure the business. 
Scapa will continue to support our existing 
partners and cultivate new relationships in the 
construction market and insulation channel 
with the highest quality products that meet, and 
exceed, industry and customer specifications.
21
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Revenue
£14.4M
2013 2014 2015 2012 2011
14.4
10.7
11.2
10.2
12.9
Trading proﬁt
£1.1M
2013 2014 2015 2012 2011
1.1
(0.3)
(0.2)
(0.8)
0.4
ELECTRONICS  
Market trends and overview
While the general market in Asia has been 
particularly difficult this year, the global market for 
consumer electronics continues to be driven by 
rising consumer demand aided by continued 
development and shorter product life-cycles. We 
have positioned ourselves to take advantage of this 
trend and are maintaining our strategy of building 
our expertise within defined segments to improve 
our capabilities and knowledge. In particular we 
continue to focus on mobile phone and 
touchscreen applications supplemented by 
opportunities in broader areas of the market.
Strategy
Our ability to respond quickly to customer needs 
and develop products and solutions that solve their 
problems is intended to ensure that we deepen 
our relationships and obtain a greater share of our 
customers’ spend. This year saw the hard work 
and strategic direction begin to yield dividends.
The overwhelming majority of growth this year 
was delivered through mobile phone touchscreen 
applications, using our AFT (acrylic foam tape) 
and was focused on South Korea and China. 
Our Korean manufacturing plant’s capacity is 
now highly utilised and we are evaluating future 
investments to expand capacity and improve 
our technology in line with market demand.
2014/15 performance
Electronics revenue increased 28.6% to £14.4m 
(2014: £1 1.2m); trading profit increased to £1. 1m 
(2014: loss of £0.2m), delivering a margin of 7 .6%. 
The significant improvement in performance 
follows a period of development in our Asia 
business and investment in products and 
applications for the consumer electronics 
and wider markets. 
 
Outlook
This has, in some ways, been a breakthrough 
year for our Electronics business. However, it 
still represents only a small percentage of Group 
revenue and needs to achieve further critical mass. 
We will maintain our investment and develop the 
market going forward. From fiscal year 2016 the 
results for Electronics will be consolidated within 
Industrial, widening the capabilities of the 
Industrial segment.
The protective film market is significantly 
growing in line with the rapid growth of the 
smart phone market. Our customer had good 
capability for Si coating and converting but they 
needed to develop UV adhesive between glass 
and Si liner.
Late 2013 our customer visited Scapa Korea to 
test their product structure. Scapa Korea was 
uniquely positioned to assist in the innovation 
and development of a new product. The results 
of direct coating on their patterned film were 
validated as being superior to Optical Clear 
Adhesives (OCA) lamination on film. 
Our closed process ensures we can control the 
contamination on resin, with no clean and a 
significantly more cost effective process which 
delivers significant benefits to the customer.
• Better performance and quality
• Scapa Korea’s unique formulation is 
specially developed for deco glass 
application and easily tuned for 
different requirements
• Cost structure is much better than OCA
• Price competitiveness
Production commenced in May 2014 and 
revenue progressed as demand grew through 
the year.
Case study
Business Review
22
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 RECORD PROFIT AND INCREASED RATE OF 
DIVIDEND GROWTH REFLECT SCAPA’S 
RESILIENCE
Finance Director’s Review
“The Group delivered another record 
year for trading profit, which 
increased by 20%.”
Overview
2015 was an excellent year for the Group as we 
continued to make progress and deliver another 
set of strong results. We have seen growth in 
revenue and profits and increased our margins in 
each of our three markets. Good cash generation 
supports our increased dividend and the Group’s 
financial position remains strong.
Record revenue and profits
Group revenue increased by 4.4% to £236.0m 
(2014: £226. 1m); on a constant currency basis 
growth was 8.3%. Healthcare revenue was 
£73.8m (2014: £69.2m), an increase of 6.6% or 
7 .9% on a constant currency basis. Industrial 
revenue was £147 .8m (2014: £145.7m), an increase 
of 1.4% or 6.6% on a constant currency basis. 
Electronics revenue grew 28.6% to £14.4m 
(2014: £11.2m).
The Group delivered another record year for 
trading profit, which increased by 20.0% to 
£18.6m (2014: £15.5m), up 27 .4% on a constant 
currency basis. Trading profit margin improved to 
7 .9% (2014: 6.9%). Healthcare contributed £1 1. 1m 
(2014: £10.2m) improving the margin to 15.0% 
(2014: 14.7%). Industrial contributed trading profit 
of £8.9m (2014: £7 .9m) with an improved margin 
of 6.0% (2014: 5.4%). Total Group operating profit 
was £16.0m (2014: £13.4m) after charging pension 
administration costs of £0.7m (2014: £0.8m), 
intangible amortisation costs of £1.4m (2014: 
£1.5m) and exceptional acquisition costs for First 
Water Limited of £0.5m (2014: £0.2m credit). 
Trading profit has been adjusted for these items 
to give better clarity of the underlying performance 
of the Group.
Net finance costs
There was a small increase in net finance costs 
to £2.3m (2014: £2.2m). Net cash interest payable 
of £0.7m (2014: £0.6m) relates to the Group’s 
committed £40m facility which is competitively 
priced and matures in June 2018. The Group has 
further access at short notice to an additional 
£20m uncommitted “Accordion” facility. Notional 
interest remained unchanged at £1.6m (2014: 
£1.6m) and relates to the Group legacy defined 
benefit pension plans. 
Taxation
The Group has operating subsidiaries in many 
countries. The Group’s effective tax rate is a 
blend of the different national rates applied to 
locally generated profits. Our tax arrangements 
are driven by commercial transactions, managed 
in a responsible manner based on compliance, 
transparency and co-operation with tax authorities.
23
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Finance Director’s Review continued
The Group’s tax charge of £4.2m (2014: £17 .9m) 
includes a £4.5m charge (2014: £4.4m) on trading 
activities, and a £0.3m credit (2014: £0.4m charge) 
on exceptional items.
The underlying effective rate excluding adjusted 
items and the change in rate of UK corporation 
tax has decreased to 25. 1% (2014: 29.5%). This 
underlying rate is higher than the UK standard rate 
because the national rates applied to local profits 
are generally higher than the UK standard rate 
of 21.0%.
The Group’s cash tax payment in the year was 
£3.9m (2014: £2.7m), or 21.8% of underlying profit 
before tax. Despite the one-off capital gains tax 
paid on the sale of our French facility in Branly, 
cash tax remains below the effective tax rate as 
the Group utilises the significant brought forward 
losses. As the Group continues to increase its 
profitability cash tax payments will increase in line 
with the effective tax rate as brought forward 
losses are utilised.
Acquisition activity
Acquisitions are an important part of our operating 
model, ensuring that the Group can sustain growth 
by adding new capabilities, products and services. 
At the end of February 2015 we acquired 100% of 
the share capital of First Water Limited, a healthcare 
business specialising in innovation, design and 
manufacture of a wide range of hydrogels for the 
Healthcare market, for £1 1.2m. Under the earn-out 
terms of the deal a further £4.0m may become 
payable dependent upon attainment of future 
profit. This could bring the total cost to £15.2m. 
Under IFRS rules the future payments will be 
treated as post combination services as the former 
owners of First Water Limited are expected to 
continue to operate the business. Any earn-out 
payments will not be reported in trading profit but 
will be separated out and reported as exceptional 
items in future accounts.
Improvement in underlying  
earnings per share
Underlying earnings per share was 9. 1p (2014: 
7 .2p) and basic earnings per share was 6.5p 
(2014: 4.6p loss).
Cash flow and net debt
The Group continued to see healthy cash 
generation and closing net debt was £3.4m (2014: 
£5.4m net cash) despite the acquisition of First 
Water Limited for £1 1.2m.
Net cash generated from operating activities 
was £17 .6m (2014: £10.3m) which represented 
1 10.0% of operating profit. Net cash interest paid 
was £0.6m (2014: £0.5m); borrowing levels have 
remained relatively low and consistent year over 
year. Income tax paid was £3.9m (2014: £2.7m) 
with the increase being partly from enhanced 
profits, but mainly from capital gains tax paid in 
France on the sale of the Branly site. The sale 
proceeds of Branly continue to be reinvested in 
our site in Palissy, France. The project accounts 
for £2.6m of the total capital expenditure of £7 .5m 
this  year (2014: £4.9m) and includes the costs of 
vacating the old premises and building and refitting 
the new site.
Net cash outflow relating to acquisitions was 
£1 1.0m (2014: £2.2m) being entirely related to the 
purchase of First Water Limited in February 2015.
Cash flow
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net cash flow from operating activities 17.6 10.3
Net capital expenditure (7.5) (4.9)
Net tax and interest (4.5) (3.2)
Free cash flow 5.6 2.2
Land sale – 4.3
Dividend paid (1.5) (0.7)
Repayment of borrowings (1.2) –
Exchange and other non-cash movements (0.7) (0.4)
Increase in net cash 2.2 5.4
Opening net cash 5.4 2.2
Acquisition – borrowings acquired (2.2) –
Acquisition – consideration (8.8) (2.2)
Closing net (debt)/cash (3.4) 5.4
Net debt to EBITDA 
We use debt to help fund our growth and we review our funding needs and the structure of borrowing 
regularly. The Group entered into a £40m revolving credit facility in January 2014 with an additional £20m 
uncommitted “accordion” facility which can be accessed with short notice. This facility is considered 
appropriate for our current needs. 
At the year end net debt was £3.4m (2014: £5.4m net cash). The ratio of net debt to EBITDA was 
0. 14 times, giving significant headroom against our facility covenant of 3 times. The Group continues 
to operate well within its banking covenants with significant headroom under each ratio at year end.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Trading profit 18.6 15.5
Depreciation  5.2 5.2
EBITDA 23.8 20.7
Net debt to EBITDA 0.14x –
24
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Dividends and capital allocation
The Board is recommending a 50% increase in the 
full year dividend with a final dividend of 1.5p (2014: 
1.0p). This proposed dividend reflects both our 
cash performance in the period and our underlying 
confidence in our business. Dividend cover (being 
the ratio of earnings per share before exceptional 
items, amortisation of intangible assets and legacy 
pension items) is 6. 1 times. If approved at the 
Annual General Meeting the final dividend will be 
paid on 21 August 2015 to shareholders on the 
register on 24 July 2015.
Our objective is to maximise long-term shareholder 
returns through a disciplined deployment of cash. 
To support this we have adopted a cash allocation 
policy that allows for: investment in capital projects 
that support growth, regular returns to shareholders 
from our free cash flow, acquisitions to supplement 
our existing portfolio of business and an efficient 
Balance Sheet appropriate to the Company’s 
investment requirements.
Continued progression on  
post-retirement benefits
The Group does not have any material defined 
benefit schemes in operation. The majority of the 
post-retirement benefit schemes for qualifying 
employees are defined contribution. The pension 
deficits carried on the Group’s Balance Sheet 
relate to schemes that have been closed to both 
new members and future accrual for many years, 
and some very small overseas arrangements that 
are technically classed as defined benefit. 
The principal pension deficit under the closed 
schemes is based in the UK. Addressing the 
cost and volatility of the UK legacy pension deficit 
remains the Group’s primary pension objective. 
Over recent years we have completed several 
significant projects aimed at achieving this goal. 
In the current year we implemented a flexible 
retirement option project for a sub-set of pensioners; 
the effect was to eliminate £6.2m from liabilities in 
the UK scheme as at 31 March 2015. The project 
progressed beyond the year end and concluded 
with over 100 members leaving the scheme and 
so reducing future volatility and the UK liabilities by 
approximately 7%. We have a pipeline of similar 
pension projects and will continue to execute 
projects into the future that provide the right 
balance of member and Company benefits.
It is the scheme’s ongoing actuarial valuation 
base that determines the cash payments into the 
UK plans and we continue to make deficit repair 
contributions as agreed with the trustees. In the 
current year we made contributions of £3.5m 
(2014: £3.5m) under the CAR arrangement that was 
put in place in 2012. We expect this contribution  
to continue and we have the objective of buying 
out the pension scheme within the next 10 years. 
Overseas cash contributions were £0.8m  
(2014: £0.8m). Expenses of £0.7m (2014: £0.8m)  
in relation to the pension schemes are reported 
through operating profit under IAS 19 (revised).
During the year the fair value of the scheme assets 
increased by £19.5m which was slightly higher 
than the increase in total liabilities of £19.3m. 
The increase in liabilities was almost entirely driven 
by a decrease in the rate used to discount the 
liabilities, being 3.4% (2014: 4.4%). The scheme’s 
investment strategy includes a portfolio of assets 
that are matched to the duration of the member 
liabilities. This strategy hedges the deficit from 
changes in bond yields that affect the discount 
rate and is reflected in the asset and liability 
movements in the current year. The overall deficit 
in the scheme is £39.8m (2014: £40.0m).
Shareholders’ funds
Shareholders’ funds increased by £14. 1m to 
£61.8m (2014: £47 .7m). Profit after tax was £9.5m 
(2014: £6.7m loss). The pension loss in the period 
was £2.2m (2014: £2.2m). Movements in equity 
relating to share issues, share options and share 
dividends netted to nil (2014: £0. 1m). Favourable 
currency impact on overseas asset values was 
£4.8m (2014: £7 . 1m unfavourable) and tax credits 
booked directly to reserves were £0. 1m (2014: 
£2. 1m charge).
Risk management and  
the year ahead
Risk is managed closely and is spread across our 
businesses and managed to individual materiality. 
Our key risks have been referenced in this annual 
report primarily on pages 12 to 17 , in the Chief 
Executive’s review and in the Audit and Risk 
Committee report on pages 39 to 41. We have 
a code of conduct which is adopted internationally 
and reflects our ethical approach to business. 
The Board has considered all of the above factors 
in its review of going concern as described 
on page 57 and has been able to conclude the 
review satisfactorily.
We choose key performance indicators that 
reflect our strategic priorities of investment, 
growth and profit. These KPIs are part of our 
day-to-day management of the business and 
in the year ahead we will focus on growth and 
value creation and the integration of our recent 
acquisition. In this way we aim to deliver 
continued value to shareholders.
P Edwards
Group Finance Director
27 May 2015
25
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information   
  
Main Board
Male 6
Female 0
  
  
Leadership Team
Male 5
Female 3
  
  
Senior Management Team
Male 18
Female 7
  
  
Total Employees
Male 875 (68%)
Female 412 (32%)
Gender ratios
At Scapa, we believe our employees’ contribution 
is a key driver in the Group’s success. We currently 
have over 1,200 employees in 20 locations 
globally, meaning the Group benefits from  
a wealth of experience, talent and skills to drive 
towards achieving our plans for growth.
Building the foundations of a value 
creation culture
We recognise that our culture is a key element in 
supporting the plans we have for our future. In May 
2014, we launched a new framework on which to 
develop a high performing workforce, beginning 
with the introduction of a new set of principles 
detailing the behaviours expected of our 
employees and building the shared values  
that guide their actions. 
Communications and engagement
The launch was supported by a Group-wide 
campaign to communicate to and engage all 
employees, including a dedicated conference for 
the Leadership Team and new internal culture 
branding across our global locations. A dedicated 
intranet site was launched, introducing the  
key elements of the framework and providing  
a knowledge base for training and information 
resources. A key addition to support knowledge-
sharing across the business was the introduction 
of a new internal social media platform to allow 
comments, questions and feedback to be posted 
and shared across all sites in real time. A newly 
introduced employee survey allows the business  
to proactively measure engagement amongst 
management teams and effectively action plan.
Since the launch, work has been conducted  
on embedding the framework into our internal 
processes, programmes and documentation, 
closely linking the HR strategy to the overall 
business goals, across performance management, 
recruitment, reward and recognition and  
talent development.
Performance management
The first integration phase involved the introduction 
of a new performance management tool to redefine 
how we set expectations against aligned functional 
visions and measure an individual’s performance 
against their responsibilities within the business. 
Our online performance management system, 
used by c.350 employees in management and 
technical roles, was redesigned in-house to adopt 
the tool. Further work is ongoing to cascade the 
tool throughout the rest of the business, with the 
approach adopted into our operations performance 
management process.
Recruiting excellence programme
Our plans for growth require attracting the highest 
talent to the right roles. As we continue to develop, 
it is increasingly important that we are recruiting  
to support our plans for the future. 
A high focus this year has been on our approach 
to recruitment. In October 2014 we launched our 
Recruiting Excellence Programme. As part of this 
programme, an online toolkit was launched, providing 
a full suite of tools and information to assist 
managers as they plan and conduct recruitment 
activity. In addition, a full training programme was 
delivered to provide the information required to use 
the tools effectively.
Using the most appropriate selection tools for the 
role, managers can now ensure that they have 
assessed the skills and knowledge, and virtues 
and talents relevant to the position. 
The training will continue to be delivered throughout 
2015 to fully embed the programme.
“We recognise that our culture is a 
key element in supporting the plans 
we have for our future.”
CREATING VALUE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS, 
EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITIES
Sustainability Report
26
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Employee reward and recognition
We continue to reward employees based on their 
performance and the value created for the business. 
Our annual, global awards scheme, endorsed by 
our CEO, was developed to align our new culture 
framework, allowing employees from all levels 
across the business a chance to be rewarded for 
projects that have had a high impact for the Group, 
both locally and globally. 
This year we also introduced a new, global 
recognition scheme which aims to recognise  
and reward employees who have demonstrated 
examples of our guiding principles.
Talent development
Our in-house talent programme has been aligned 
to our new culture framework, with the aim to drive 
a high performing culture and develop individuals. 
We offer a range of development programmes to 
employees across the business. Our Leadership 
Team attended a Corporate Strategy Programme 
at Harvard Business School in December 2014, 
the learnings of which are being developed  
into key business objectives for the coming year.  
In addition we have further developed the Harvard 
ManageMentor
®
 Programme to employees 
identified as future leaders within the business; this 
programme is supported by a Harvard network 
which allows the sharing of best practice and 
knowledge as well as offering practical advice  
and support.
Throughout 2014 we have enhanced our training 
offerings for employees, delivering integrated 
training on the key elements of the culture 
framework, performance assessment and 
recruitment programme. Employees also benefit 
from personal development plans and we have 
identified a talent pipeline through our succession 
planning process.
This year we launched a new internship programme 
for Manchester Business School MBA students, 
taking on nine students to work on a number of 
projects throughout our corporate headquarters. 
Following the success of the first year, we intend  
to run the scheme again in 2015. 
Community investments
In line with our commitment to supporting local 
communities, employees continue to participate  
in charity activities across the Group. 
A Head Office charity committee has been  
established, enabling the business to reach out to 
other organisations in the local area and develop a 
pipeline of activity to support communities. 
The Group continues to support The Christie, 
running our annual Christmas appeal in December 
2014 where we donated over 100 presents for 
children and young adults spending Christmas  
in hospital. This work was recently recognised 
through the Dedicated to The Christie Silver 
Award, given to the Group for its continued 
support over the past five years.
This year we are also supporting The Donkey 
Sanctuary in Abbey Hey Gorton. The organisation 
provides a very valuable service to children and 
young adults with additional needs and disabilities 
in our local community by offering donkey  
assisted therapy which helps improve confidence, 
self-esteem, major and minor motor skills,  
core balance and gives children a real sense  
of achievement. The charity also takes donkeys  
to visit nursing homes and hospices. They care  
for 21 donkeys and work with 30 local schools 
thanks to over 100 volunteers. 
The Group also continues to support the Hallé 
Orchestra and The Bridgewater Hall in Manchester. 
The Hallé has a rich history and ambitious vision 
for the future, allowing our local, national and 
international communities to benefit from the 
wide-ranging programmes it offers. 
We continually improve our community  
investment framework. 
In North America, the Group has provided support 
for two new charities in the year: 
• In Canada, the Renfrew Victoria Hospital 
foundation has recently embarked on a 
fundraising campaign in support of its 
expansion and redevelopment. In response 
to this campaign, the Group has agreed to 
a matching policy against the amount the 
employees raise in support of this cause.
• In the United States the Group made a donation 
to the Boston Children’s Hospital, to support 
the department of neurosurgery and help them 
continue with their ground breaking work.
The Leadership Team attended the 
Corporate Strategy Programme at Harvard 
in December 2014
From left to right:
Chris Carter – Chief Operating Officer
Clare Douglas – Group HR Director
Rebecca Smith – Group General Counsel and 
Company Secretary
Paul Edwards – Group Finance Director
Joe Davin – Group President, Healthcare
Sayoung Jung – Director of Strategy and 
Corporate Development 
James Neuling – Managing Director, Industrial
A full biography of the Leadership Team 
members can be found on our website:  
 
www.scapa.com 
27
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information LTIFR
(per 200,000)
2013 2014 2015 2012
1.2
1.3
1.8
1.4
Environment, Health and Safety
Scapa’s overriding commitment in the workplace 
continues to be the health, safety and welfare of its 
employees and all those who visit the Company’s 
operations. This commitment extends to those 
who carry out work on our behalf.
Identifying and complying with all applicable 
legislation underpins all our health and safety 
activities and improvement initiatives.
The Board provides environmental, health and 
safety leadership and the Chief Executive has 
primary responsibility for setting the principal 
objectives within which the detailed policies 
operate. The Chief Operating Officer, supported 
by the Group Head of EHS, ensures adequate 
resource is available to successfully deploy 
and measure operational health, safety and 
environmental improvement plans.
Headline Achievements
• 1.2 Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate against 
prior year of 1.8
• 29% increase in identified safety 
improvement opportunities
• Invested over £0.5m of capital in 
machine safeguarding and other safety 
improvement initiatives
• Improved the resource planning and review 
process of the site level annual Safety Health 
Improvement Plan (SHIP) to improve and sustain 
adherence to plan
• Achieved one year and over without a Lost Time  
Accident at our Renfrew, Rorschach, 
Ghislarengo and Korea operations
• Established and communicated our three-year 
vision and improvement plan, with the emphasis 
on pro-active initiatives 
• Certified to ISO 14001 at our Ashton, Ghislarengo 
and Rorschach operations
• The recruitment and development of key  
EH&S personnel to support our philosophy  
of EH&S continuous improvement
• Improved and deployed the new Scapa Safety 
Management & Audit System (SSMAS) across 
all global locations
• Completed four governance and compliance 
audits against the SSMAS system
Environment
Scapa recognises the importance of world class 
environmental stewardship. To help us deliver on 
this expectation, we apply a structured approach 
to assessing, maintaining and reducing our 
environmental impact by:
• Implementing and maintaining environmental 
and energy management systems based on 
international standards
• Measuring and monitoring consumption  
and emissions, and setting targets to  
improve performance
• Conducting environmental impact assessments 
and developing site improvement plans
• Providing training to employees, and engaging 
with customers and suppliers to raise 
environmental awareness
• Identifying and complying with all relevant 
environmental laws and regulations
Given the diversity of Scapa’s international 
operations, local management drives environmental 
performance in accordance with Group policy. 
Specific site-level objectives are established  
to ensure compliance with local legislative and 
external management system requirements.
Environmental Performance
Scapa uses a variety of indicators to monitor 
environmental performance, but the following core 
impacts are identified for the Group as a whole:
• Greenhouse gas emissions from energy use, 
including electricity, natural gas and heating fuel
• Use of resources
• Generation and disposal of waste
The following assumptions, methodology, definitions 
and data validation processes have been used to 
report the Group’s key environmental performance 
indicators in 2014. The reported data complies 
with the Companies Act, for the Mandatory 
Reporting of Greenhouse Gases.
• Boundary scope: Data from all locations over 
which the Company has operational control  
is collected and measured
• Primary data sources: These include billing, 
invoices and other systems provided by the 
supplier of the energy to communicate  
energy consumption
• Secondary data sources: These include the 
Company’s internal systems used to record  
and report the above consumption data
• Internal data validation: The process used  
to review and compare primary data with 
secondary data
• Conversion factors: The 2013 Government  
GHG Conversion Factors for Company 
Reporting, published by the UK Department  
for Environmental Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA) 
are used when converting gross emissions. The 
applicable country conversion factors published 
in this guidance have been applied to operations 
outside of the UK
• Intensity metric: Total carbon emissions per £m 
of revenue are used to calculate the Company’s 
intensity metric
Safety Performance
Tonnes of CO
2
e (gross) 2015 2014
Scope 1 13,407 –
Scope 2 18,715 –
Total gross emissions 32,122 28,730
Total carbon emissions per £m revenue 136 127
Sustainability Report continued
28
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Continuous Improvement
To support Scapa’s philosophy of continuous 
improvement the following headline objectives 
have been established for 2015/2016:
• Execute in full, capital and revenue improvement 
projects valued at £0.7m
• Achieve certification to ISO 50001 at two sites
• Achieve certification to OSHAS 18001 at 
one site
• Comply with the UK Energy Saving Opportunity 
Scheme (ESOS)
• Achieve certification to ISO 50001 at both Ashton 
and Dunstable
• Reduce our accident rate by a minimum of 25% 
against prior year
• Improve the identification and closure of safety 
improvement opportunities by 50%
• Complete seven governance and  
compliance audits 
• Deliver site level SHIPs to a minimum of 97% 
adherence to plan
Supply chain corporate responsibility
We have a robust framework of corporate 
responsibility policies, including our Human  
Rights policy, our Code of Conduct and 
sustainability approach. 
Human rights
We define human rights as basic rights that allow 
individuals the freedom to lead a dignified life, free 
from fear or want, and free to express independent 
beliefs. We acknowledge the responsibility of 
businesses to respect human rights, by acting with 
due diligence to avoid infringing on the rights of 
others and to address any adverse impacts in 
which they are involved, in line with the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights (the 
Ruggie Framework).
Our aim is to ensure that we adhere to international 
human rights standards, both through our own 
actions and by association with business partners 
and suppliers, by providing a framework of 
fundamental principles of human rights by which 
Scapa will be guided in the conduct of its business. 
Scapa sources materials (including fabrics, paper, 
rubber, films and chemicals) from a wide variety  
of suppliers around the world that range from  
large international organisations to specialist  
local companies. 
Code of Conduct and  
sustainability approach
Scapa aims to act with integrity and professionalism 
with all suppliers and to support them to help 
achieve a responsible and sustainable approach 
across the supply chain. We recognise that some 
smaller suppliers may find it challenging to adopt 
the practices expected. In such cases, Scapa will 
adopt a risk based approach to ensure that their 
contribution to its responsibility and sustainability 
agenda progresses in line with their capabilities.
Our supply chain corporate responsibility policy 
statement is founded upon this belief. For suppliers, 
Scapa will look to ensure that:
• suppliers’ products comply both with their own 
product legislation and that of any countries for 
which the product is ultimately destined
• human rights responsibilities in line with the UN 
Ruggie Framework are conformed to 
• employee working conditions of our suppliers 
are safe and hygienic, with working hours  
that are not excessive, and at least the legal 
minimum wage is paid for the location
• employees are not subject to harassment  
or discrimination
• materials used during the manufacturing process 
do not create any adverse environmental impacts
• materials purchased by suppliers are sourced 
from responsible producers, with appropriate 
traceability systems
• products supplied to Scapa do not lead to any 
adverse impacts on the health of any users  
in the supply chain
• consideration is given to the environmental 
impacts of the products supplied (including 
packaging and transport to Scapa 
manufacturing locations)
• suppliers have ethical business practices in 
place, including those relating to the avoidance 
of bribery or corruption
For supply chain management, Scapa will  
ensure that:
• procurement teams segment their suppliers 
based on spend and by responsibility and 
sustainability risk
• suppliers receive, complete and return the 
self-assessment responsibility and sustainability 
questionnaire, together with copies of Scapa’s 
Code of Conduct and anti-bribery guidance
• responsibility and sustainability development 
plans will be agreed with larger suppliers, 
identifying mutual benefits
• training on responsibility and sustainability 
matters will be provided to each  
procurement team
This Strategic Report is approved.
By order of the Board
R L Smith
Company Secretary
27 May 2015
29
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information COMMITTED TO HIGH STANDARDS  
OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Chairman’s Introduction to Corporate Governance
“The Board recognises that good 
corporate governance is fundamental 
to sustainable profitable growth and 
is committed to high standards of 
corporate governance throughout 
the Group.”
Ensuring the Board has a diverse balance of skills, 
experience and knowledge is fundamental to good 
corporate governance. Board succession planning 
is an important element of our corporate governance 
regime. During the year under review, we 
strengthened the Board through the appointment 
of Martin Sawkins after an extensive search using 
an international executive search firm. Martin brings 
considerable experience in HR and operational 
matters. Martin is currently HR Director of Rentokil 
Initial plc and a non-executive director of Wincanton 
plc, and has operated within both the UK public 
company and private equity environments, having 
previously held positions as Group HR Director at 
HomeServe plc; Group HR Director at The AA Ltd 
and HR Director at Centrica Home and Road 
Services. Prior to this Martin held a number of 
senior positions in HR and Operations at UEF Ltd, 
Bridon plc, British Aerospace and United Biscuits 
after graduating with a BSc (Hons) in Physics from 
Southampton University. 
Richard Perry, Senior Independent Director, has 
indicated a willingness to remain on the Board for  
a further term subject to shareholder approval. 
Richard has recently retired as finance director  
of Fenner plc and will have more time available to 
commit to Scapa. He has a wealth of experience 
of the Group and is a highly valued member of 
the Board. The Board wholeheartedly supports 
Richard Perry’s continued tenure. Scapa’s Annual 
General Meeting will be held on 21 July 2015 and 
at that meeting, Martin Sawkins (Non-Executive 
Director) will offer himself for election, and Heejae 
Chae (Chief Executive) and Richard Perry (Senior 
Independent Director) will offer themselves for 
re-election. Biographies of all Directors are set out 
on pages 32 and 33. 
The statement of corporate governance practices 
set out on pages 30 to 58, including the reports of 
Board Committees, and information incorporated 
by reference, constitutes the Corporate Governance 
Report of Scapa Group plc.
Dear Shareholder
The Board recognises that good corporate 
governance is fundamental to sustainable profitable 
growth and is committed to high standards of 
corporate governance throughout the Group.  
The Board supports the principles laid down in  
the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) 
and continues to review its systems, policies and 
procedures that support the Group’s sustainability 
and governance practices.
It is the Board’s responsibility to lead the Group 
effectively and to ensure that all aspects of the 
business are conducted with integrity and meet 
the highest standards of governance demanded 
by the Board. 
30
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 High standards of corporate governance 
extend throughout the Group, with systems, 
policies and procedures set by the Board and 
cascaded through the Leadership Team to senior 
managers and beyond. The Group holds biannual 
conferences at which key messages on corporate 
governance and culture are delivered to the top 
50 managers in the Group, who are tasked with 
ensuring these messages are relayed and 
implemented throughout the business. Integrity 
and compliance are key to the Group’s success. 
During the year, each member of the Leadership 
Team travels throughout the Group to reinforce to 
all employees the expectations of employees in 
adhering to good corporate governance. 
As part of our strategy to grow by acquisition as 
well as organically, in February 2015 we acquired 
First Water Limited, a private business that develops, 
manufactures and sells hydrogels to the healthcare 
sector. The cost of £1 1 .2m was funded in part by 
draw down against our £40m bank facility. As part 
of the integration of that business into Scapa 
Healthcare, training on corporate governance was 
delivered to all employees of First Water Limited. 
I met with several major investors during the 
course of the year to discuss Board composition, 
remuneration, corporate governance and 
shareholder relations. Feedback from these 
shareholder meetings, which are held separately 
from the investor relations meetings conducted by 
the Executive Directors, was positive and 
supportive of the business and management. 
Details of the Annual General Meeting to be held  
in 2015 are enclosed with this report. My fellow 
Board members and I look forward to meeting 
shareholders in July.
J A S Wallace
Chairman
27 May 2015
32  Board of Directors and  
Company Secretary 
34 Corporate Governance 
39  Report of the Audit and Risk 
Committee 
42 Report of the Nominations Committee 
44  Report of the Remuneration 
Committee
46 Directors’ Remuneration Policy
51  D i r e ct o r s ’ A n n u a l  
Remuneration Report
57 Directors’ Report 
What’s in this section
31
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information THE RIGHT MIX OF SKILLS  
AND EXPERIENCE
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
J A S Wallace
Chairman
Appointment to the Board
James Wallace joined the Board in August 2007 
and became Chairman in October 2007 .
Experience
An accountant by qualification, James spent the 
majority of his executive career at Pifco Holdings 
PLC until 2001. James has held various Non-
Executive Director positions and was Chairman of 
Bodycote plc from January 2002 until April 2008. 
Currently James is a Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee of Manchester 
Airport Holdings Ltd.
Committee membership
Nominations Committee (Chairman)
Audit and Risk Committee
Remuneration Committee
H R Chae
Group Chief Executive
Appointment to the Board
Heejae Chae joined the Board as Executive Director 
in September 2009 and subsequently became 
Group Chief Executive in November 2009. 
Experience 
Prior to joining Scapa, Heejae was Group Chief 
Executive of Volex Group plc. He was previously 
the Group General Manager, Radio Frequency 
Worldwide, for Amphenol Corporation. He spent 
the early part of his career in finance at The 
Blackstone Group and Credit Suisse First Boston 
before moving into industry. Heejae is currently a 
Non-Executive Director of the Hallé Concerts Society. 
P Edwards
Group Finance Director
Appointment to the Board
Paul Edwards joined the Board in September 2010 
as Group Finance Director. 
Experience
Prior to joining Scapa, Paul was Group Finance 
Director of NCC Group plc. Paul is a Chartered 
Management Accountant and MBA and spent  
the earlier part of his career in manufacturing, 
logistics and services sectors. Paul is currently 
Chairman of the Trustees of the Hallé Retirement 
Benefit Scheme.
M C Buzzacott
Non-Executive Director
Appointment to the Board
Mike Buzzacott joined the Board in March 2008.
Experience
Mike spent 35 years with BP , holding senior  
roles in both Finance and the Chemicals  
business, before retiring as Group Vice President 
Petrochemicals in 2004. Mike has extensive 
experience of the global chemicals industry.  
He is currently Non-Executive Director at Genus 
PLC and a former Director of Croda International 
Plc and Rexam PLC. Mike is a Chartered  
Certified Accountant.
Committee membership
Audit and Risk Committee (Chairman)
Remuneration Committee
Nominations Committee
M T Sawkins
Non-Executive Director
Appointment to the Board
Martin Sawkins joined the Board on 1 January 2015.
Experience 
Martin is currently the Group HR Director of 
Rentokil Initial Plc and a Non-Executive Director 
for Wincanton plc. Martin has operated within both 
the plc and private equity environment and is a 
former HR Director of HomeServe plc, The AA Ltd 
and Centrica Home and Road Services. Prior to 
this Martin held a number of senior positions in HR 
and Operations after graduating with a BSc (Hons) 
in Physics from Southampton University.
Committee membership 
Remuneration Committee (Chairman)
Audit and Risk Committee
Nominations Committee
32
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015   
  
  
Board composition
Executive 2
Non-Executive 4
R J Perry
Non-Executive Director
Appointment to the Board
Richard Perry joined the Scapa Board in June 
2005 and was appointed Senior Independent 
Director in July 2006.
Experience
Richard was Group Finance Director at Fenner plc 
from 1994 until his retirement in March 2015.  
He was formerly a senior audit partner with  
Price Waterhouse.
Committee membership
Audit and Risk Committee 
Nominations Committee
Remuneration Committee
R L Smith
Group General Counsel 
and Company Secretary
Appointment to the Board
Rebecca Smith joined Scapa in 2012 as Group 
General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Experience
Rebecca is a UK qualified solicitor and spent the 
early part of her career as a solicitor at a leading 
UK law firm, before moving into industry. Rebecca 
has a background in international corporate and 
commercial law and business, including six years 
with an international technology commercialisation 
business. Prior to joining Scapa, Rebecca was 
Group Legal Counsel and Company Secretary 
at K3 Business Technology PLC.
Length of tenure of Directors
Directors No.
Less than one year 1
One to three years 0
Three to six years 2
More than six years 3
33
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information   
  
Main Board
Male 6
Female 0
  
  
Leadership Team
Male 5
Female 3
  
  
  
Senior Management Team
Male 18
Female 7
  
  
  
Total Employees
Male 875 (68%)
Female 412 (32%)
Corporate Governance
Board Committees
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee is responsible for 
Board recruitment and succession planning,  
to ensure that the right skill sets are present  
in the Boardroom.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible  
for determining all elements of remuneration  
for the Executive Directors and for reviewing the 
appropriateness and relevance of the Group’s 
remuneration policy.
Audit and Risk Committee
The Audit and Risk Committee’s main responsibilities 
are to monitor the integrity of the Group’s financial 
statements, to review internal and external audit 
activity and to monitor the effectiveness of risk 
management and internal controls.
Compliance statement
A detailed review of the Company’s 
compliance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council 
(FRC) in September 2012 (the ‘Code’) has been 
undertaken. The review took into account the FRC 
Guidance on Board Effectiveness issued in March 
201 1, the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees 
issued in September 2012 and the FRC Guidance 
Gender ratios
on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related 
Financial and Business Reporting issued in 
September 2014. The Company has complied 
with all relevant provisions of the Code throughout 
the year ended 31 March 2015 and through to the 
date of this report.
Leadership
The role of the Board
The Board is responsible for the long-term 
success of the Group and is ultimately accountable 
for the Group’s strategy, risk management and 
performance. The Board’s primary roles are to 
provide entrepreneurial leadership to the Group 
within a framework of prudent and effective control 
which enables risk to be assessed and managed, 
and to set the Group’s strategic objectives and  
to ensure that the necessary resources are made 
available so that those objectives can be met. 
The Board also sets the Group’s values and 
standards and is responsible for ensuring that 
its obligations to its shareholders and other 
stakeholders including employees, suppliers, 
customers and the community, are understood 
and met.
The Board comprises two Executive Directors, a 
Non-Executive Chairman and three Non-Executive 
Directors. The names, biographical details and 
Committee memberships of the Board are set 
out on pages 32 and 33 of this report. 
Division of responsibilities of the 
Chairman and Chief Executive
There is a clear division of responsibilities 
between the Chairman and the Chief Executive. 
Each role has its own formal written description 
of specific responsibilities.
The Chairman’s principal responsibility is to lead 
the Board in the determination of its strategy and 
the achievement of its objectives. The Chairman  
is responsible for organising the business of the 
Board, ensuring its effectiveness by facilitating full 
and constructive contributions to the development 
and determination of the Group’s strategy and its 
overall commercial objectives from each member 
of the Board. The Chairman is responsible for 
promoting the highest standards of integrity, 
probity and corporate governance throughout the 
Group. The Chairman manages the relationship 
with shareholders in relation to governance matters 
and regularly considers the composition and skill 
set of the Board through evaluation. The Chairman 
sets the Board agenda and, with the Company 
Secretary, ensures that the Directors receive 
accurate, clear, comprehensive and timely 
information so that the Board is properly informed 
prior to each meeting in order that there can be 
34
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Heejae Chae
Group Chief Executive
 
Paul Edwards
Group Finance
Director
 
Rebecca Smith
Group General
Counsel and
Company
Secretary
Chris Carter
Chief Operating 
Ofﬁcer
Clare Douglas
Group HR Director
Joe Davin
Group President,
Healthcare
James Neuling
Managing Director,
Industrial
Sayoung Jung
Director of Strategy
and Corporate
Development
Operation of the Board
The Board held six formal meetings during the 
2015 fiscal year, all of which were attended by all 
then current Board members. In addition, there 
were six telephone update calls and ad hoc 
conference calls during the year to deal with matters 
as required, which were attended by all then 
current Board members. The Company Secretary 
was in attendance at all Board meetings as well  
as at all telephone update and conference calls. 
The Board held its annual strategy meeting at the 
Group’s Knoxville facility in September 2014. 
The provision of relevant, up-to-date information is 
fundamental to the effective leadership delivered 
by the Board. Reports from the Executive Directors, 
which focus on major operational matters, are 
circulated in advance of each Board meeting and 
focus on major operational matters. Reports are 
also produced by the Leadership Team on key 
business areas for each Board meeting. To ensure 
that the Directors are kept fully informed on the 
status of the business, presentations from across 
the Group’s divisions and functions are made to 
the Board on a regular basis. During the year, 
overviews were presented by each member of the 
Leadership Team. During the year, the Board also 
received presentations from senior managers on 
Commercial, EHS and risks affecting the Group. 
Other matters undertaken by the Board during the 
year include review of the culture programme 
implemented throughout the Group to promote 
entrepreneurship and value creation; approval of 
the acquisition of First Water Limited; approval of 
the annual budget; review of governance issues 
affecting the Company; review of the corporate 
structure of the Group; review of the manufacturing 
footprint of the Group; and assessment of the 
corporate risk map. Where appropriate, certain 
matters were delegated to a committee of the Board.
appropriately thorough consideration and debate 
of the issues at Board and Committee meetings.
The Chief Executive is directly responsible for all 
executive management matters affecting the Group. 
His principal responsibility is ensuring achievement 
of the agreed strategic objectives and leadership  
of the business on a day-to-day basis. The Chief 
Executive is accountable to the Board for the financial 
and operational performance of the Group. The 
management structure of the business under the 
Chief Executive’s leadership is set out below. 
The role of the Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors bring independence 
and a wide range of experience to the Board. Their 
role is to help develop strategy and to promote 
constructive debate and challenge in Board 
discussions. Richard Perry is currently Senior 
Independent Director. The Senior Independent 
Director provides a sounding board for the 
Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the 
other Directors as necessary, as well as carrying 
out the evaluation of the Chairman. He also acts  
as a line of contact for shareholders if they have 
concerns which are not appropriate for discussions 
through the Chairman, Chief Executive or Group 
Finance Director.
The role of the Company Secretary 
The Company Secretary advises the Board 
through the Chairman on all governance matters. 
All Directors have access to the services of the 
Company Secretary and may take independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense  
in conducting their duties. In accordance with  
the Company’s Articles of Association and the 
schedule of matters reserved for the Board,  
the appointment and removal of the Company 
Secretary is a matter for the whole Board.
Governance across the Group
All areas of the Group are required to meet high 
standards of governance and controls. The 
Group’s operations are reviewed by the Leadership 
Team through regular reports, meetings and 
presentations. The Group’s Risk & Assurance 
team performs regular audits of governance and 
control standards, reporting its findings to the 
Audit and Risk Committee of the Board.
Board Committees
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities  
to the following Board Committees:
• the Audit and Risk Committee
• the Nominations Committee
• the Remuneration Committee
The reports of the Audit and Risk Committee, 
Nominations Committee and Remuneration 
Committee are set out on pages 39 to 45. Each 
Committee operates under clearly defined Terms 
of Reference which are reviewed annually and any 
proposed changes to those terms are referred to 
the Board for approval. Each Committee reports to 
the Board via the Chairman of the Committee. The 
Board has provided its Committees with sufficient 
resources to undertake their duties, including 
access to the Company Secretary and external 
advisers, where appropriate.
Leadership Team structure
The Group Chief Executive is supported by the Group’s Leadership Team, whose structure is set out below:
Leadership Team structure
35
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Corporate Governance continued
The Board delegates matters not reserved for the 
Board concerning the management of the Group’s 
business to the Leadership Team. 
Board effectiveness
Composition and independence  
of the Board
The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, 
three Non-Executive Directors and two Executive 
Directors. The Code requires that at least one-half 
of the Board should be independent Non-Executive 
Directors and this requirement has been met 
throughout the year. All Non-Executive Directors 
are considered by the Board to be independent 
and free from any relationship or circumstance  
that could affect independent judgement. 
The skills and experience of the Non-Executive 
Directors are wide and varied and they provide 
constructive challenge in the boardroom.  
The composition of the Board is intended to 
ensure that its membership represents a mix  
of backgrounds and experience that will optimise 
the quality of deliberations and decision making. 
We consider diversity in the composition to be an 
important factor in the effectiveness of the Board 
and, in searching for prospective Directors, we 
take into account the existing skill set of the Board 
and areas we have identified for development to 
meet future needs and address succession planning.
Board diversity
The Board recognises the importance of gender 
diversity throughout the Group and is committed 
to supporting women in achieving positions in 
senior management. Our Leadership Team, details 
of which are set out on page 35, comprises eight 
positions, three of which are held by women. 
Further information on the total female representation 
in our workforce is set out in the Sustainability 
Report on page 26.
We also recognise the importance of a Board 
diverse in all respects and our Board comprises 
members with a wide range of experience and 
backgrounds. The Board published a statement 
on Board diversity, which is set out on page 43 of 
this report and also in the Corporate Governance 
section of our website 
 
(www.scapa.com/en/
CorporateGovernance). Further information on our 
HR policies is set out on page 58. 
Subject to the Company’s Articles of Association, 
the Companies Act 2006 and satisfactory 
performance, Non-Executive Directors are 
appointed for an initial term of three years. Before 
the third and sixth anniversaries of appointment, 
the Director discusses with the Board whether it is 
appropriate for him or her to serve a further term 
of three years. The appointment of any Director 
who has served more than nine years is subject 
to annual review by the Board. The letters of 
appointment for the Non-Executive Directors set 
out the number of days expected to be required to 
perform their duties. Additional time commitments 
are expected from those Non-Executive Directors 
who individually serve as the Chairman of any 
Committee of the Board.
Matters reserved for the Board
In accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, there is a formal schedule of 
matters reserved for the Board’s decision which 
is monitored by the Company Secretary and 
reviewed annually by the Board. Specific matters 
reserved for the Board’s consideration include: 
• setting the Group’s strategy
• approving the Group’s annual operating plan
• reviewing operational and financial 
performance
• approving major acquisitions, divestments 
and capital expenditure
• approving changes to governance and 
business policies
• reviewing material contracts and contracts  
not in the ordinary course of business
• setting dividend policy and recommending 
dividend payments
• appointing the Group’s external and  
internal auditors 
• reviewing the Group’s systems of risk 
management and financial controls,  
including effectiveness of internal audit
• ensuring that appropriate management 
development and succession plans  
are in place
• reviewing the environmental, health and  
safety performance of the Group
• reviewing the effectiveness of the Board  
and its Committees
• appointing and removing the  
Company Secretary
Attendance at meetings
The following table sets out attendance of each Director at Board meetings held during the year:
Board
Audit and 
Risk Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Number of meetings 6 4 4 4
James Wallace (Chairman) 6 4 4 4
Heejae Chae (Group Chief Executive) 6 4 3 3
Paul Edwards (Group Finance Director) 6 4 2 –
Richard Perry (Senior Independent Director) 6 4 4 4
Michael Buzzacott (Non-Executive Director) 6 4 4 4
Martin Sawkins (Non-Executive Director)* 2 1 1 2
* Appointed 1 January 2015 
Although not members of the Committees, Mr Chae and Mr Edwards attend meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations 
Committee as invited attendees, when appropriate.
36
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Board has specifically considered the other 
appointments of the Directors, details of which are 
included in their biographies on pages 32 and 33, 
and has confirmed that each Director is able to 
devote sufficient time to fulfil the duties required  
of them under the terms of their contracts or  
letters of appointment.
Board evaluation
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, the Board has established a formal process 
for the rigorous evaluation of the performance of 
the Board, its Committees and individual Directors 
on an annual basis. This year the evaluation was 
conducted by Mr Sawkins, supported by the 
Company Secretary. Each Director is required to 
complete a detailed questionnaire on a range of 
matters including the balance of skills and experience 
of the Board, independence of Directors, diversity 
and relations between the Executive Directors  
and Non-Executive Directors. Mr Sawkins held 
interviews with each Director to develop feedback 
on the questionnaires.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the 
performance of the Executive Directors.  
The Chairman reviews the performance of the 
Non-Executive Directors and Board Committees, 
with the exception of Committees chaired by the 
Chairman. The Senior Independent Director reviews 
the performance of the Chairman and Committees 
chaired by the Chairman.
During the year, the Chairman met with the 
independent Non-Executive Directors without  
the Executive Directors present, and the Senior 
Independent Director met with the other Non-
Executive Directors without the Chairman present.
Induction and training
On appointment, each Director takes part in an 
induction programme through which they are 
provided with comprehensive and up-to-date 
information about the Group and its business, the 
role of the Board and the matters reserved for its 
decision, the Terms of Reference and membership 
of the Board and Committees, and the powers 
delegated to those Committees. The programme 
includes meetings with other Directors, the 
Leadership Team and senior management 
members. In addition, each new Director is 
provided with guidance from the Company 
Secretary on the Group’s corporate governance 
practices and procedures, regulatory obligations 
applicable to the Board and briefings on wider 
responsibilities on areas such as Directors’ duties. 
The induction programme is supplemented by 
visits to key locations and meetings with key 
Senior Executives. 
Scapa recognises that Non-Executive Directors 
have other business interests outside the Company 
and that other directorships bring benefits to the 
Board. All existing directorships are included in the 
biographical details of the Directors on pages 32 
and 33. Non-Executive Directors are required to 
obtain approval from the Chairman before accepting 
any further appointments.
The Non-Executive Directors meet formally without 
the Executive Directors at least once a year, and 
also meet informally on other occasions.
Re-election
Martin Sawkins (Non-Executive Director) was 
appointed to the Board on 1 January 2015 and his 
appointment will be subject to formal approval by 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be 
held on 21 July 2015. Directors retire every three 
years at the Annual General Meeting and may offer 
themselves for re-election by the shareholders.  
At the Annual General Meeting in July 2015, 
Heejae Chae (Chief Executive) and Richard Perry 
(Senior Independent Director) will retire and offer 
themselves for re-election.
Richard Perry recently retired from his executive 
role as finance director of Fenner plc, which allows 
him to commit additional time to Scapa. He has a 
wealth of experience of the Company and makes a 
significant contribution to the Board. In June 2015, 
Mr Perry will have held office with the Company  
for ten years. The Board considers that Mr Perry 
continues to be independent, notwithstanding the 
duration of his tenure as a Non-Executive Director 
of the Company. In reaching its conclusion, the 
Board has taken into account all relevant matters, 
as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
which fall to be considered when determining 
whether a Director is independent of character  
and judgement. 
Further information on the appointment and 
replacement of Directors is given in the Directors’ 
Report on page 58.
Conflicts of interest
Under the Companies Act 2006, a Director must 
avoid a situation where a direct or indirect conflict 
of interest may occur. The Company has in place 
procedures to deal with any situation where  
a conflict may be perceived.
The Nominations Committee annually reviews  
and considers the interests and other external 
appointments held by the members of the Board. 
The Directors have a continuing duty to inform the 
Board of any potential conflicts immediately so that 
they may be considered. There is a formal register 
of conflicts in which any authorised conflicts of 
interest would be recorded. During the year,  
none of the Directors declared a conflict of interest. 
Throughout their period in office, the Directors are 
updated on the Group’s business, the competitive 
environment, corporate social responsibility matters 
and other changes affecting the Group and the 
industrial sectors in which the Group operates.  
The Board tries to visit different Group operations 
each year to help extend the breadth and depth of 
the Non-Executive Directors’ understanding of the 
Group’s business.
Training is provided to the Directors, to ensure that 
they are kept up to date with corporate governance 
best practice as well as legal and regulatory 
matters affecting the Group.
Information and support
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring the 
Directors receive accurate, timely and clear 
information. Under direction from the Chairman, 
the Company Secretary ensures good information 
flow which includes executive commentaries from 
the Leadership Team, in addition to the reports 
from the Executive Directors and Company 
Secretary which are provided in advance of each 
Board meeting. The reports explain issues 
affecting the Group and how the Group’s strategy 
is being implemented through current and future 
activities. The Board is provided with sufficient 
management information and reports on a timely 
basis and receives briefings by members of the 
Leadership Team and senior management 
regularly to ensure that the Board is fully up to 
date with key issues concerning the Group. 
We continue to use the electronic delivery system 
adopted in fiscal year 201 4 for Board documentation 
to be delivered direct to the Directors’ electronic 
devices, which facilitates timely and efficient 
delivery of information and Board packs to the 
Directors. This approach also reduces the amount 
of paper used by the Board and is in line with our 
move to use electronic communications with 
shareholders which we implemented following the 
relevant approvals at the Annual General Meeting 
held in July 2013. 
Indemnification of Directors
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions, as 
defined in section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, 
are in force for the benefit of Directors who held 
office during the year. The Company maintains 
Directors and Officers liability insurance for the 
Group’s Directors and officers.
37
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Corporate Governance continued
Accountability
Financial and business reporting
The Board is responsible for presenting a fair, 
balanced and understandable assessment of the 
Group’s position and prospects. The statement 
setting out the reasons why the Board continues 
to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the 
financial statements is included in the Directors’ 
Report on page 57 .
Internal control system 
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing 
process for identifying, evaluating and managing 
the significant risks to the achievement of Scapa’s 
strategic objectives and this process was in place 
throughout the year under review and up to the 
date on which the Accounts were approved. The 
process accords with the Code and is regularly 
reviewed by the Board, through the Audit and Risk 
Committee, whose review of the effectiveness of 
the Group’s risk management and internal controls 
systems includes:
• a formal review of the Group’s Risk Profile  
at least once every six months to assess 
potential risk areas and action plans to  
address these risks
• review of the strategic and annual internal  
audit plan
• review of the external audit strategy and plan
• quarterly review of the implementation of internal 
audit recommendations
• review of declared financial and operational 
control self-assessments against minimum 
control standards across all locations 
• review, on an annual basis, of Group policies  
in relation to whistleblowing, anti-bribery and 
corruption, and prevention of fraud
The Board, supported by the Audit and Risk 
Committee, is responsible for determining the 
nature and extent of the significant risks the Group 
is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives 
and for maintaining sound risk management and 
internal control procedures. 
The Group’s internal control system is designed  
to manage the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives, rather than to eliminate that risk. Such 
systems can only provide reasonable, and not 
absolute, assurance against material misstatement 
or loss. 
During the year there have been no significant 
failings, weaknesses, or any material internal 
control failures that have been identified and  
which require reporting in the 2014/15 Annual 
Report and Accounts.
Communications with shareholders
At the Company’s Annual General Meetings, all 
Directors are available to respond to questions 
from shareholders present. The Annual General 
Meeting provides a forum for constructive 
communication between the Board and 
shareholders. Throughout the year, the Executive 
Directors, and separately the Chairman, meet  
with investors to discuss matters relevant to  
the Company. 
R L Smith
Company Secretary
27 May 2015
38
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee
Others who are invited to attend meetings of  
the Committee:
• External audit – Deloitte LLP
• Head of Group Risk & Assurance
• Group Chief Executive
• Group Finance Director
• Group Financial Controller
The Audit and Risk Committee’s full Terms of 
Reference can be found in the Group Corporate 
Governance section of the Company’s website  
 
(www.scapa.com/en/CorporateGovernance). 
The Committee’s Terms of Reference are reviewed 
annually. This year’s review was conducted in line 
with the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and 
Administrators (ICSA) guidance to reflect the UK 
Governance Code. 
In summary, the Audit and Risk Committee  
is required to:
• oversee and advise the Board on the current 
risk exposures of the Company and related 
future risk strategies
• oversee the activities of internal audit
• review internal control policies and procedures 
for the identification, assessment and reporting 
of material financial and non-financial risks
• review reports on any material breaches of risk 
limits and the adequacy of proposed actions
• review the Group’s procedures for detecting fraud
• review the Group’s procedures for the prevention 
of bribery and corruption
• review the Group’s procedures for ensuring  
that appropriate arrangements are in place to 
enable employees to raise matters of possible 
impropriety in confidence
• review the effectiveness of the Group’s 
financial reporting
Dear Shareholder
The Audit and Risk Committee report for the year 
ended 31 March 2015 is set out on the following 
pages 39 to 41. Overall it has been a busy year 
for the Committee which delivered its business 
as usual work, reviewed and challenged a number 
of one-off accounting items and considered 
regulatory guidance issued in final form, or in 
draft, during the year. 
From a business as usual perspective, there is 
nothing to bring to your attention as a highlight.  
In summary, the Committee considers that it has 
delivered what it set out to do and has a clear 
plan for 2015/16. The Chairman of the Committee 
will be available at the Annual General Meeting to 
respond to any questions shareholders may raise 
on any of the Committee’s activities.
Aims and objectives
The overall aim of the Committee is to monitor 
the integrity of the Group’s financial statements 
and announcements, its accounting processes,  
and the effectiveness of internal controls and risk 
management. The Committee assists the Board 
in fulfilling its responsibility to ensure that the 
Group’s financial systems provide accurate and 
up-to-date information on its financial position, 
and supports the Board in its consideration as to 
whether the Group’s published financial statements 
are fair, balanced and understandable. 
Composition
The Board nominated Richard Perry as 
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee in 
June 2005 and he rotated from the position on 
1 January 2015. Subsequent to this date, Mike 
Buzzacott was appointed to the role. Mike is an 
experienced non-executive director and audit 
and risk committee chair, having held non-
executive directorships at Croda International Plc 
and Rexam PLC and is a current non-executive 
director at Genus PLC.
James Wallace, Richard Perry and our newly 
appointed Non-Executive Director , Martin Sawkins, 
make up the Audit and Risk Committee’s 
membership. Both James Wallace and Richard 
Perry are qualified accountants and each has 
substantial experience of risk management, 
governance and internal control in manufacturing 
organisations, having held executive and 
non-executive directorships in manufacturing 
organisations. 
Martin Sawkins is a new member of the Audit 
and Risk Committee and is the Global HR 
Director for Rentokil initial Plc, with substantial 
experience in both HR and business operations 
across the manufacturing and services 
industries, including The AA Limited, British 
Aerospace and United Biscuits. His experience 
has included significant contribution into pension 
management, process improvement, controls 
transformation, risk management and internal 
audit. Martin also holds a non-executive 
directorship at Wincanton plc, where he 
is also a member of their audit committee. 
This relevant experience allows the members to: 
• understand the risks facing a global 
manufacturing company and approaches  
to managing its risks
• undertake strategic financial management  
in a global manufacturing company
• provide constructive challenge to the reports 
and assurances given by management, and 
guide the design and implementation of  
a suitable assurance framework
• ensure overall external audit efficiency, including 
capturing control improvement and minimising 
duplication of assurance work 
• provide practical insights on the Group’s 
approach to corporate governance
The Company Secretary acts as the secretary  
to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Meeting frequency and attendance
The Audit and Risk Committee is required to meet 
formally at least three times per year.
Member 
No. of  
meetings 
attended
R J Perry 4/4
J A S Wallace 4/4
M C Buzzacott 4/4
M T Sawkins* 1/1
*Appointed 1 January 2015
39
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Corporate Governance continued
Audit and Risk Committee activities
Audit and Risk Committee activities
In order to discharge its responsibilities, during the year , the Committee has undertaken the following activities:
Financial statements and reports
• Reviewed and discussed changes to the UK 
Corporate Governance framework and its 
impact on reporting requirements 
• Reviewed and approved the external audit 
fees for 2014/15
• Reviewed the interim accounts and related 
statements and discussed:
 – key accounting judgements
 – income statement for the half year , specifically 
revenue, trading profit and foreign exchange
 – significant judgements on self-insurance
• Reviewed and considered the significant issues 
in relation to the financial statements and how 
these have been addressed, including:
 – Deferred tax assets – Deferred tax 
assets are held in a number of jurisdictions. 
A number of judgements are involved in 
calculating the right amount of deferred 
tax to be carried on the Balance Sheet and 
the future recoverability of these assets. 
The Committee reviews the level of tax 
assets held at the half year and the full year, 
and discusses recoverability with senior 
management as well as the auditors
 – Pension liabilities. – The Group has a 
material defined benefit pension scheme 
deficit in the UK and smaller schemes in 
the US and Europe. Small changes to the 
assumptions used to value the retirement 
benefits obligations can have a significant 
impact on the financial position of the Group. 
The Committee reviews the assumptions put 
forward by the actuaries and reviews their 
reasonableness. The Committee reviews 
the assumptions by comparison to external 
benchmark data and also considers the 
adequacy of disclosures in respect of the 
sensitivity of the deficit to changes in these 
key assumptions 
 – Inventory valuation – Inventory is a 
significant item on the Balance Sheet and 
therefore exposes the Group to risks around 
valuation and existence. The Committee 
reviews the year end reports on inventory with 
particular focus on the level of provisioning 
and the results from the annual stock-takes. 
The Committee reviews the analysis of stock 
write-offs throughout the year
 – Acquisition and fair value accounting 
– Valuing and assessing the assets procured 
as part of the acquisition of First Water 
Limited involves assumptions around the 
values and cash flows of both tangible and 
intangible assets. The Committee reviewed 
the fair value assumptions and discussed 
the reasonableness of the conclusions with 
senior management and the auditors
• Reviewed the year end accounts and related 
statements and auditor’s report for 2014/15  
to ensure that the report is fair, balanced  
and understandable
External audit
• Monitored and ensured the independence 
and objectivity of the external auditor 
• Approved all non-audit service work  
over £10,000
• Reviewed and approved the scope and 
methodology of the external audit strategy  
for 2014/15
• Reviewed the performance of the external 
auditor and considered the reappointment  
of Deloitte LLP as auditor for 2015/16 and 
recommended the appointment to the Board
Internal audit
• Evaluated the adequacy of the strategic and 
annual internal audit plan
• Reviewed and followed up, where appropriate, 
management responses to internal audit 
findings and recommendations raised during 
the year
• Reviewed and approved the Risk & Assurance 
team resourcing including the co-source 
provision and associated costs
• Reviewed the performance of internal audit
• Performed an ongoing review of compliance 
with the Group’s processes to prevent and 
detect bribery and corruption
Risk management
• Reviewed the key risks (financial and operational) 
facing the Group and the ongoing development 
and implementation of action plans to mitigate 
these risks
• Reviewed and approved the updated Group 
Authority Matrix
• Reviewed the updated Group Whistleblowing 
policy and procedure to enable anonymous 
reporting of complaints
• Reported to the Board on how it has discharged 
its responsibilities
To assess the effectiveness of our external auditor, 
a formal performance review is undertaken on an 
annual basis to identify the adequacy of their 
approach to:
Resource quality – it is important that the 
external auditor has achieved the right balance  
of audit team resource. While they should be 
providing team continuity and knowledge, they 
should also be providing a fresh perspective 
through new team members at all levels to enable 
the current audit processes and accounting 
policies to be challenged.
Effective communication – is key to obtaining 
the highest quality audit service from our external 
auditor and includes:
• key audit judgements are communicated  
at the earliest opportunity to promote discussion 
and challenge between themselves and 
management
• informing Scapa of audit issues as they arise, so 
that these can be dealt with in a timely manner
• in-year communication regarding good practice, 
changes to reporting requirements and 
accounting standards to enable Scapa to be 
prepared prior to year end
• timely provision of Audit and Risk Committee 
papers to enable adequate management review 
and feedback
• quality of the reports and publications provided 
by the external auditor in terms of content, 
relevance and presentation
40
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Scoping and planning – specifically relating to 
the year end audit work:
• consultation with stakeholders including Group 
and local Finance teams, local warehouse 
teams, Group Risk & Assurance and the Audit 
and Risk Committee
• timely provision of the external audit strategy 
and timetable to stakeholders
• transparency in the communication and 
management of changes to the external audit 
plan and related timings
Fees – are transparent and communicated prior  
to the commencement of any work undertaken. 
Where variations occur, these are informed at  
the earliest opportunity to enable dialogue and 
negotiation to be undertaken.
Internal audit
Internal audit at Scapa is managed and 
delivered by the Group Risk & Assurance 
team. Against an agreed mandate, this function 
performs independent internal audit and facilitates 
standardised and structured risk assessment 
across the Group. Specialist internal audits are 
conducted by experts (in-house and outsourced) 
under the direction and management of the 
Head of Group Risk & Assurance. 
In line with the Group’s Internal Audit Charter,  
a three-year internal audit strategy and an annual 
internal audit plan are approved by the Audit and 
Risk Committee each year. These target the most 
significant areas of risk to provide assurance  
that key controls are effectively designed and 
consistently operated. Audit reports are produced 
to convey the extent of control assurance derived 
from the formal testing of controls. In providing 
independent good practice guidance, the Group 
Risk & Assurance team assists the business in the 
continuous improvement of controls and procedures. 
Quarterly summary reports are presented by the 
Group Risk & Assurance team to the Audit and 
Risk Committee to convey:
• an up-to-date view of the Group’s risk profile
• details of internal audits undertaken during  
the period
• an overall assessment of the Group’s  
control environment
• the status of management actions arising  
from the risk management and internal 
assurance processes
The Head of Group Risk & Assurance is accountable 
to the Audit and Risk Committee and has access 
to the Committee and its Chairman at any time 
during the year. As a matter of course, the Head of 
Group Risk & Assurance meets with the Chairman 
of the Audit and Risk Committee independently  
of management.
The Group Risk & Assurance team has no 
operational responsibility or authority over any  
of the activities it has reviewed during the year,  
nor has the team designed the control frameworks 
in place. The Group Risk & Assurance team 
members do not hold shares in the Company.  
This ensures that the team is sufficiently objective 
and independent of the areas under review to avoid 
prejudice and conflicts of interest.
External audit
Auditor independence
The Committee continues to monitor the external 
auditor’s compliance with applicable ethical 
guidance and guidelines and considers the 
independence and objectivity of the external 
auditor as part of the Committee’s duties. The 
Committee received and reviewed written 
confirmation from the external auditor on all 
relationships that, in their judgement, may bear  
on their independence. The external auditor has 
also confirmed that they consider themselves 
independent within the meaning of UK regulatory 
and professional requirements.
In all services purchased, the Group selects the 
provider best placed to deliver the work in terms of 
quality and cost. As a general principle the external 
auditor is excluded from consultancy work and 
other non-audit work. However, there may be 
occasions when it is appropriate to use our 
external auditor for non-audit services and this  
will be reviewed on an individual basis and 
allocated according to merit.
The external auditor may be appointed to provide 
non-audit services where it is in the Group’s best 
interests to do so, provided a number of criteria are 
met. These are that the external auditor does not:
• audit their own work
• make management decisions for the Group
• create a conflict of interest
• find themselves in the role of an advocate  
for the Group
Non-audit services for up to £10,000 (which comply 
with the above criteria) may be provided by the 
external auditor with authorisation in advance by 
the Group Finance Director. 
All projects where forecasted expenditure 
exceeded £10,000 were approved by the Audit 
and Risk Committee.
Services undertaken included tax advisory work 
and due diligence on the acquisition of First Water 
Limited, where knowledge of the Group placed 
Deloitte well for delivering best value.
Tendering policy and review  
of auditor effectiveness
The current contract of service grants a three-year 
contract with the option to extend for a further two 
years. An extension to the contract was granted  
for two years at the end of financial year 2013/14 
subsequent to a service review. Therefore we will 
have the option to review service quality and 
market test at the end of 2015/16. 
Deloitte LLP was appointed as the Group’s external 
auditor in 201 1 after a competitive tendering 
exercise. Deloitte LLP has been the Group’s 
external auditor for four financial years and the 
engagement partner has completed four of their 
five years as audit partner. Therefore, to aid in the 
smooth transition of engagement partner in 2016/17 , 
Deloitte will commence the introduction and 
orientation of a new engagement partner to the 
external audit team.
Following the positive outcome of a performance 
and effectiveness evaluation undertaken by the 
management, the Audit and Risk Committee 
concluded that it was appropriate to recommend 
to the Board the reappointment of Deloitte LLP  
as the Group’s external auditor for the next 
financial year.
M C Buzzacott
Chairman of the Audit  
and Risk Committee
27 May 2015
41
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Corporate Governance continued
Report of the Nominations Committee
Succession planning
In line with the responsibilities of the Committee 
to make recommendations on succession 
planning, the decision was taken to recruit a further 
Non-Executive Director to the Board to complement 
the skill set of the current Board members. The 
Committee undertook an extensive selection 
process to find a suitable candidate, taking into 
account the Board’s Diversity Policy, and a formal 
recruitment exercise was commissioned with an 
independent executive search firm which has no 
other connection with the Company. After due 
process the Committee recommended the 
appointment of Martin Sawkins to the Board. 
With effect from his appointment on 1 January 
2015, Martin Sawkins assumed the role of 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and 
also joined the Nominations Committee and 
Audit and Risk Committee. On 1 January 2015, 
Mike Buzzacott (who previously chaired the 
Remuneration Committee) assumed the role of 
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and 
Richard Perry (who previously chaired the Audit 
and Risk Committee) continues to hold the 
position of Senior Independent Director.
In accordance with the Articles of the 
Company, Martin Sawkins will stand for election 
as a Director of the Company at the forthcoming 
2015 AGM. Martin’s biographical details can be 
found on page 32 of this Report and also on 
the Company’s website 
 
www.scapa.com. 
Martin brings considerable experience in HR and 
operational matters; we welcome Martin to Scapa 
and look forward to his contribution to the Board 
and its Committees.
In the coming year the Committee will continue  
to monitor the composition and effectiveness  
of the Board and Committees of the Company, 
and keep abreast of developments in corporate 
governance to ensure that we act in the spirit  
of good governance practice. 
Dear Shareholder
The Report of the Nominations Committee for 
the year ended 31 March 2015 is set out below.
Aims and objectives
The aims and objectives of the Nominations 
Committee are set out in the Nominations 
Committee’s full Terms of Reference which  
can be found in the Corporate Governance 
section on the Company’s website  
 
(www.scapa.com/en/CorporateGovernance).
In summary, the role of the Nominations Committee 
is to:
• review the Board structure, size and 
composition, and make recommendations to 
the Board with regard to potential changes
• seek the appointment of Directors with the 
appropriate mix of skills, knowledge and 
experience that the Board requires to ensure 
that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities 
• review its own performance, constitution  
and Terms of Reference to ensure that it  
is operating at maximum effectiveness
• review the re-election of Directors at the 
Annual General Meeting
• meet at least twice yearly and on an ad hoc 
basis as required and is responsible for 
nomination, for approval by the Board, of 
candidates for appointment to the Board  
and for succession planning 
Composition
The Nominations Committee comprises the  
four Non-Executive Directors of the Company: 
James Wallace (Chairman), Richard Perry  
(Senior Independent Director), Mike Buzzacott 
(Independent Director) and Martin Sawkins 
(Independent Director) who became a member 
of the Committee upon his appointment to the 
Board on 1 January 2015 (see ‘Succession 
planning’ below). James Wallace acts as 
Chairman of the Committee and the Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Biographical details of all Committee members 
can be found on pages 32 and 33 of this  
Report and also on the Company’s website  
 
www.scapa.com.
The Terms and Conditions of appointment  
of the Directors, including the expected time 
commitment, can be inspected at the 
Company’s registered office during normal 
working hours.
Meeting frequency and 
attendance
The Nominations Committee meets formally at 
least twice each year, with other meetings taking 
place on an ad hoc basis as required. Only 
members of the Committee have the right to 
attend Committee meetings; however, other 
individuals such as the Chief Executive, the 
Finance Director and external advisers may be 
invited to attend for all or any part of the meeting 
as and when appropriate. The Committee met 
formally four times during the year with Martin 
Sawkins attending the two meetings which 
have taken place since his appointment. 
Non-Committee members of the Board 
were also invited to attend.
Member 
No. of  
meetings 
attended
J A S Wallace 4/4
R J Perry 4/4
M C Buzzacott 4/4
M T Sawkins* 2/2
* Appointed 1 January 2015
42
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Nominations Committee activities
Board Diversity Policy
The Board recognises the importance of diversity 
in its broadest sense in the boardroom as an 
essential element in maintaining Board effectiveness 
and a competitive advantage.
Diversity of skills, background, knowledge, 
international and industry experience, and gender 
will be taken into consideration when seeking  
to make new appointments to the Board and its 
Committees. All appointments will be made on 
merit, taking into account suitability for the role, 
composition and balance of the Board to ensure 
that the Company has the appropriate mix of skills, 
experience, independence and knowledge. 
The Board will consider suitably qualified 
applicants for Non-Executive Director roles  
from as wide a range as possible, with no 
restrictions on age, gender, creed, ethnic 
background or current executive employment,  
but whose competencies and knowledge will 
enhance the Board. Independence and the ability 
to fulfil time commitments required will also be 
taken into account.
The Board will ensure that procedures are  
in place for orderly succession to the Board  
so as to maintain the correct balance and to 
ensure ongoing progression.
J A S Wallace
Chairman of the  
Nominations Committee
27 May 2015
Nominations Committee activities
As described above, the main focus of the Committee this year has been succession planning which 
resulted in the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director to the Board and rotation of the Chairmanship 
of the Remuneration Committee and Audit and Risk Committee. The Nominations Committee has also 
undertaken the following activities during the year:
• Review of the annual evaluation of the  
Board’s effectiveness 
• Reviewed letters of appointment for the 
Non-Executive Directors with regard to 
extension of their contracts, which were 
approved for recommendation to the  
Board of Directors
• Reviewed Board rotation for re-election at  
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting  
in accordance with the Company’s Articles  
of Association and the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
• Reviewed and approved the Nominations 
Committee’s Terms of Reference. These 
remain in line with current guidelines from 
ICSA and will be reviewed in the event of  
any changes in best practice or legislation
• Reviewed and reaffirmed the Board Diversity 
Policy (see below) which was adopted by the 
Board in January 2014. The Policy can also  
be found in the Group Corporate Governance 
section on the Company’s website 
 
 
(www.scapa.com/en/CorporateGovernance)
43
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN  
OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE,  
MARTIN SAWKINS
Report of the Remuneration Committee
“Our remuneration strategy 
aligns executive reward with the 
Group’s strategic objectives and 
both short and long term financial 
performance to incentivise 
sustainable profitable growth and 
maximise shareholder returns.”
The target was met and the Executive Directors  
will receive an annual bonus equivalent to 100%  
of salary for 2015.
In 2010, the Committee introduced a Share Price 
Incentive Plan as a one-off bonus scheme in lieu  
of performance share plan awards at a time 
when the Company was constrained from making 
meaningful share-based awards as a result of the 
low share price and insufficient headroom within 
share allotment authorities. Under the terms of the 
Share Price Incentive Plan, if the Company’s share 
price equals or exceeds £1.00 for 30 consecutive 
days during the period 1 July 2010 to 30 June 
2015, the Executive Directors and certain Senior 
Executives are entitled to a bonus set as a 
percentage of salary and a further bonus set as a 
percentage of salary if the mid-market price of the 
Company’s shares equals or exceeds £1.50 for 
30 days during that same period. The share price 
has remained above £1.00 since 9 December 
2013 and a payment of the first tier of bonus 
was paid out in the prior year. In the year ended 
31 March 2015, the mid-market price of the 
Company’s shares did not exceed £1.50 for 
30 consecutive days and no payment was 
made under the bonus scheme during the year. 
However, since the year end, the Company’s 
mid-market share price has exceeded £1.50 for 
a period of 30 consecutive days and at the date 
of this report is £1.86. In the financial year ending 
31 March 2016, the Executive Directors will receive 
a bonus under this scheme equivalent to 100% 
of salary.
The Committee has also reviewed the 
Company’s EPS growth over the three-year period 
ended 31 March 2015 to establish whether the 
performance criteria for vesting of awards made 
under the Company’s Performance Share Plan in 
2012 had been achieved. The underlying EPS 
This report sets out the activities of the 
Remuneration Committee for the year ended 
31 March 2015. The report sets out the 
remuneration policy and remuneration details for 
Scapa’s Executive and Non-Executive Directors, 
and has been prepared in accordance with 
Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 as amended in August 2013.
The information provided in this part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year 
ended 31 March 2015.
Our strategy
Our continued success has been shaped by the 
strategy to create a balanced portfolio of businesses 
in our chosen markets of Healthcare, Automotive, 
Cable, Construction and Speciality Products, 
increase customer intimacy and integration, make 
earnings-enhancing acquisitions and maintain our 
process of self-help and good cost control.
Rewarding performance
In 2014, shareholders approved the Remuneration 
Policy which is clearly focused on rewarding 
superior and sustained performance. We believe 
that Executives should be rewarded on the basis 
of their individual performance and the value 
created for shareholders. Variable elements of pay 
are therefore focused on simple and transparent 
measures of key strategic objectives, operating 
profit and EPS growth. Bonus and long-term 
incentive scheme targets are purposely designed 
to be challenging and drive the long-term success 
of the Group. We value a strong entrepreneurial 
culture at Scapa and have recently implemented 
a new organisation and culture programme across 
the Group to support this. Strong leadership of 
this culture programme is a key bonus target for 
those Senior Executives who report to the Chief 
Executive, along with achievement of individual 
objectives and the Group’s financial performance. 
Remuneration outcomes of 2015
Full details of the remuneration decisions for 2015 
are set out in the Directors’ Annual Remuneration 
Report on pages 51 to 56. The Group reported 
very pleasing results, achieving £18.6m underlying 
trading profit on revenue of £236.0m, and 
continuing year on year growth since 2010 under 
the direction of Heejae Chae, Paul Edwards and 
the Leadership Team. Trading profit margin 
improved to 7 .9% and underlying EPS increased 
to 9. 1 pence.
The annual bonus target for the Executive 
Directors and Leadership Team was set by the 
Committee at the beginning of the financial year.  
44
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 growth over the three-year performance 
measurement period was above the target 
threshold and on the EPS target alone the awards 
will vest as to 83%. The Committee reviewed the 
Company’s total shareholder returns (TSR) over 
the three-year measurement period compared 
with the FTSE AIM All Share index over the 
same period, as shown in the graph below. 
TSR is defined as share price growth plus 
dividends reinvested. The Committee noted the 
Company’s TSR outperformance compared with 
the FTSE AIM All Share Index and was asked to 
consider that the Company had delivered record 
production, successive rises in revenue and 
profitability and therefore to consider increasing 
the vesting of the awards to 100%.
Total Shareholder Return
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Apr-12 Apr-13 Apr-14 Apr-15
Scapa AIM AllShare
The Company’s share price over the three-year 
measurement period rose from 63.5p to 144p 
and market capitalisation grew from £91.6m to 
£212.0m, with £2.2m returned to shareholders by 
way of dividend. The Committee determined that 
the Performance Share Plan awards made in 2012 
should vest in full, in recognition of the contribution 
made by the Management Team to the value 
created for shareholders.
Transparency in disclosure
The Committee seeks to operate in a clear and 
transparent manner and to demonstrate good 
practice in executive remuneration.
The Committee’s report comprises three  
sections, namely:
• This statement, which sets out a summary  
of and explains the major decisions on 
Directors’ remuneration
• The Directors’ Remuneration Policy, as approved 
at the last Annual General Meeting
• The Annual Report on Remuneration, which 
provides details on how the Policy will operate  
in the forthcoming year and states the 
remuneration earned by the Directors in  
the year to 31 March 2015
At the Annual General Meeting on 21 July 2015, 
the Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject 
to an advisory vote by shareholders. 
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy was approved 
at the 2014 Annual General Meeting and will be 
subject to a binding vote every three years, or 
sooner if any changes are made to the Policy.
Remuneration Policy for the 
forthcoming year
The Committee reviews the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy on a regular basis to ensure that it promotes 
motivation and retention of high quality executives 
who are key to delivering continued sustainable 
profitable growth and value creation for shareholders. 
The Committee believes the Policy, as approved in 
general meeting in 201 4, continues to be appropriate 
and that it should operate for the forthcoming year 
without amendment.
Engagement with Shareholders
During the year, the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee engaged with shareholders on the 
issues of executive reward. Feedback was positive 
and supportive and we are pleased with the level 
of support we have from shareholders, with 
98.94% approval for the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy at the last Annual General Meeting. 
M T Sawkins
Chairman of the  
Remuneration Committee
27 May 2015
Remuneration Committee activities
During the year under review, the Committee 
met formally on four occasions and all then 
current members were present at each 
meeting. I joined the Committee on 1 January 
2015 and was present at the meeting held 
since that date. The key activities of the 
Committee during the year were:
• Consideration of the outcome of the 
shareholder vote on the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy
• Review of the Directors’ Remuneration  
Policy to ensure it remains appropriate
• Consideration of the levels of pay and 
benefits for the Executive Directors and 
Senior Leaders
• Review of corporate governance 
developments in the area of executive 
remuneration
• Assessment of performance targets and 
outcome against annual bonus and LTIP 
targets for the Executive Directors and 
Senior Executives
45
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy was approved 
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 
22 July 2014.
Remuneration principles for 
Executive Directors
The main principles of the senior executive 
remuneration policy are set out below:
• Attract and retain high calibre executives  
in a competitive international market, and 
remunerate executives fairly and responsibly
• Motivate delivery of our key business strategies 
and encourage a strong performance- 
oriented culture
• Reward achievement of stretching targets over 
the short and long term
• Support both near-term and long-term success 
and sustainable shareholder value
• Align the business strategy and achievement  
of planned business objectives
• Be compatible with the Company’s risk policies 
and systems
• Ensure that a significant proportion of 
remuneration is performance related
• Link maximum payout to outstanding 
performance
• Take into consideration the views of 
shareholders and best practice guidelines
Fixed remuneration comprises salary, pension  
and benefits. Variable pay includes annual bonus 
and LTIP awards. Together, fixed and variable 
remuneration comprise total remuneration for the 
Executive Directors. The Committee recognises 
that it may be necessary on occasion to use 
its discretion to make remuneration decisions 
outside the standard remuneration policy, such 
as agreeing a sign-on payment, to attract and 
retain particular individuals. 
Components of remuneration
The table below sets out the remuneration policy approved by shareholders on 22 July 2014 (the date of the AGM at which the policy was put to a binding 
shareholder vote) and which applies from that date:
Purpose Operation Maximum opportunity
Performance 
measures
Salary
Attract and retain the right calibre 
of senior executive required to 
support the long-term success  
of the business.
Provide the basis for a competitive 
remuneration package.
Determined by reference to market data.
Reflects individual experience, skills  
and role.
Paid monthly.
Reviewed annually by the Remuneration 
Committee, with any changes becoming 
effective on 1 January for the Chief 
Executive and 1 June for the Group 
Finance Director.
Increases will be made at the discretion of 
the Committee to take account of individual 
circumstances such as:
• increase in responsibility
• development and performance in the role
• alignment to market level
None, although overall 
performance of the 
individual is considered 
by the Committee 
when setting  
and reviewing  
salaries annually.
Pension
Provide a market competitive level 
of pension provision and allow 
Executive Directors to build 
long-term retirement savings.
Defined contribution based on a 
percentage of salary. The rate of 
contribution for Executive Directors 
exceeds the rates for the broader 
employee population; this reflects  
market practice for senior executives.
The rate of contribution for any new 
Executive Director is benchmarked  
at the date of appointment. 
Directors may elect to take part of their 
pension contribution as salary.
Chief Executive – 20% of salary.
Group Finance Director – 20% of salary.
No element other than salary  
is pensionable.
None. Pension 
contribution is set at 
commencement of an 
individual’s contract.
Benefits
Protect against risks and provide 
other benefits reflecting the 
international aspects of Executive 
Directors’ roles.
Car allowance paid monthly, private 
medical insurance in the UK, permanent 
health insurance and life assurance cover.
The Chief Executive participates  
in a US contributory private medical 
insurance plan.
Set at a level which the Remuneration 
Committee considers is appropriate taking 
into account comparable roles in companies 
of a similar size and complexity, and provides 
a sufficient level of benefit based on the role.
The value of benefits in 2015 was £26,931 
for the Chief Executive and £1 1,777 for the 
Group Finance Director.
None.
46
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Purpose Operation Maximum opportunity
Performance 
measures
Annual bonus
Provide a direct link between 
measurable individual performance 
and rewards. Encourage the 
achievement of outstanding 
results aligned to the business 
strategy and achievement of 
planned business objectives.
Individual bonus decisions are based on 
Executive Directors’ performance during 
the year, measured against Group and 
personal objectives. 
Performance measures are both 
quantitative and qualitative, and both 
financial and non-financial.
Bonus awards are made by the Committee 
following discussions with the Chairman 
(for the Chief Executive’s bonus) and the 
Chief Executive (for the Group Finance 
Director’s bonus).
Bonus awards are paid in cash or at the 
discretion of the Committee, a combination 
of cash and shares, after the results of 
the Group are audited. The Committee 
may elect to satisfy a part of the bonus in 
shares and match the number of shares 
received. Any shares issued in satisfaction 
of bonus shall be held for a minimum 
period as the Remuneration  
Committee specifies.
The value of any annual bonus is limited  
to a percentage of salary. 
The current maximum percentage  
is 150% for both the Chief Executive and  
the Group Finance Director if exceptional 
outperformance of targets is achieved.
Performance is 
assessed using 
specific metrics set  
by the Remuneration 
Committee, including 
Group Operating  
Profit improvement. 
The measures and 
targets are set by the 
Committee each year. 
The measures that will 
apply for financial year 
2016 are set out in  
the Directors’ Annual 
Remuneration Report. 
Measures for future 
years will be described 
in the Directors’ Annual 
Remuneration Report 
for the relevant year. 
Long Term Incentive Plan award
Reward execution of Scapa’s 
strategy and growth in 
shareholder value over  
a multiple-year period.
Long-term performance 
measurement discourages 
excessive risk taking and 
inappropriate short-term 
behaviours, and encourages 
Executive Directors and Senior 
Executives to take a long-term 
view by aligning their interests  
with those of shareholders.
The LTIP is designed to retain 
Executive Directors and Senior 
Executives over the performance 
period of the awards.
LTIP awards are made by the Committee 
following discussion of recommendations 
made by the Chairman (for the Chief 
Executive’s award) and the Chief Executive 
(for the Group Finance Director’s and 
Senior Executives’ awards).
Achievement of stretching performance 
measures determines whether and to 
what extent LTIP awards will vest.
Awards vest three years after the date  
of the award, subject to achievement of 
performance criteria. At vesting, the LTIP 
awards are satisfied in Scapa shares.
Awards will typically lapse on termination 
of employment, although the Committee 
may determine that awards may vest 
after termination of employment, in 
accordance with the plan rules and 
taking into account performance during 
the date of grant and date of termination 
of employment.
In the event of a change of control  
of the Company, awards shall vest  
and be exercisable.
Awards are made as a percentage of salary 
up to a maximum of 200%. In the absence 
of exceptional circumstances which the 
Committee considers warrant additional 
levels of award, the PSP awards will be 
granted at not more than 100% of salary 
each year.
Performance is 
assessed against 
delivery of long-term 
financial performance. 
Existing awards vest 
against growth in  
EPS. Alternative or 
additional criteria may 
be used to determine 
future rewards.
47
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
Purpose Operation Maximum opportunity
Performance 
measures
SAYE scheme
Reward execution of Scapa’s 
strategy and growth in 
shareholder value over  
a multiple-year period.
All UK employees are eligible to join this 
savings related share option scheme, 
which is approved by HM Revenue and 
Customs. The Company grants each 
participant an option to subscribe for 
Scapa shares at an option price per 
share which is set at the commencement 
of the scheme. The option price is at a 
discount to the market price on the date 
of grant.
On a change of control of the Company, 
options shall be exercisable.
Participation limits are set by HM Revenue 
and Customs. Although the participation limit 
on SAYE schemes has been increased to 
£500 per month, the limit applicable to the 
current SAYE scheme is £250 per month. 
None.
Share Price Incentive Plan 2010
Reward the Executive Directors 
and other Senior Executives  
hired prior to December 2010 to 
achieve outstanding, challenging 
and sustainable increase in 
shareholder value during a 
specific five-year period.
At the date the scheme was 
introduced, Scapa’s share  
price was 14.5 pence.
One-off incentive scheme created when 
the share price was 14.5p in lieu of awards 
under the PSPs during a period when the 
Company’s ability to issue awards under 
the PSPs was restricted by the low  
share price.
Limited to the Executive Directors  
and Senior Executives hired before 
December 2010.
Bonus awards triggered by Scapa’s 
share price equalling or exceeding  
£1.00 and £1.50 are paid in cash or,  
at the discretion of the Committee, a 
combination of cash and shares. The 
Committee may elect to satisfy a part  
of the bonus in shares and match the 
number of shares received. Any shares 
issued in satisfaction of bonus shall be 
held for such minimum period as the 
Remuneration Committee specifies.
Subject to achievement of performance 
criteria, participants may receive an  
amount equal to 200%, 150% or 100%  
of annual salary. 
Subject to the 
mid-market price  
of Scapa’s shares 
equalling or exceeding 
£1.00 for 30 
consecutive days in 
the five-year period 
commencing 1 July 
2010, the Executive 
Directors and certain 
Senior Executives will 
be rewarded with a 
payment equal to up  
to 12 months’ salary.
Subject to the 
mid-market price  
of Scapa’s shares 
equalling or exceeding 
£1.50 for 30 
consecutive days in 
the five-year period 
commencing 1 July 
2010, the Executive 
Directors and certain 
Senior Executives  
will be rewarded  
with a further payment 
equal to up to  
12 months’ salary.
48
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Purpose Operation Maximum opportunity
Performance 
measures
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees
Provide an appropriate reward  
to attract and retain high  
calibre individuals.
Neither the Chairman nor any  
of the Non-Executive Directors  
are entitled to a bonus or  
benefits and their fees are not 
performance related.
The fee for the Chairman reflects the level 
of commitment and responsibility of the 
role. The fee is paid monthly in cash and 
is inclusive of all committee roles. 
Non-Executive Directors’ fees are set at a 
level that ensures the Company can attract 
and retain individuals with the required 
skills, experience and knowledge to 
enable the Board effectively to carry  
out its duties. Non-Executive Directors’ 
remuneration comprises a base fee 
together with an additional fee for chairing 
one or more Board committees and  
a further fee for the role of Senior 
Independent Director. 
Set at a level which reflects the commitment 
and contribution expected from the 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors,  
and is appropriately positioned against 
comparable roles in companies of a similar 
size and complexity.
Actual fee levels are disclosed in the Directors’ 
Annual Remuneration Report for the relevant 
financial year.
Benchmarked 
externally from time  
to time as appropriate.
Recruitment remuneration 
arrangements
When recruiting a new Executive Director, 
whether from within the organisation or externally, 
the Committee will take into consideration all 
relevant factors to ensure that remuneration 
arrangements are in the best interests of the 
Company and its shareholders without paying 
more than is necessary to recruit an executive of 
the required calibre. The Committee will seek to 
align the remuneration package offered with the 
remuneration policy outlined above, but retains 
discretion to make proposals on hiring which are 
outside the standard policy. The Committee may 
make awards on appointing an Executive Director 
to compensate for remuneration arrangements 
forfeited on leaving the previous employer. In doing 
so, the Committee will consider all factors relevant 
to the forfeited arrangements, such as the nature 
of the remuneration forfeited, any performance 
conditions and time periods over which they  
would have vested, and any compensatory  
awards will be on a comparable basis.
Illustrations of application of 
remuneration policy
The following table shows the different levels of 
remuneration payable to the Executive Directors at 
different levels of performance, namely minimum, 
on target and maximum. The scenarios below  
do not take into account share price appreciation 
or dividends.
On target is assumed to be an annual bonus equal 
to 67% of maximum and LTIP award of 75% of 
maximum. The maximum scenario is assumed to 
be the full payout of annual bonus of 150% of base 
salary and maximum vesting of LTIP award,  
i.e. 100% of base salary.
Director shareholding guidelines
All Executive Directors are expected to build up 
over a reasonable period from appointment, and 
hold, a minimum level of shareholding in the 
Company equal to one year’s salary. Non-Executive 
Directors are expected to build up and hold a 
material level of shareholding within a reasonable 
period of appointment. This is considered an 
effective way to align the interests of the Directors 
and shareholders over the long term. 
Reward scenarios
Maximum On target Minimum
£1.53m
£1.23m
£0.52m
100% 42%
33%
25%
33%
100% 42%
33%
25%
33%
40%
27%
40%
27%
Maximum On target Minimum
£0.72m
£0.90m
£0.30m
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director
Fixed
Annual variable
Long-term incentive
49
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
Executive Director service contracts 
and termination payments
Scapa’s Executive Director service contracts entitle 
the Executive Directors to the fixed elements  
of remuneration and to consideration for variable 
remuneration each year. The contracts have  
a rolling one-year term and are terminable by  
the Company on 12 months’ written notice. The 
Company may terminate an Executive Director’s 
contract immediately with payments in lieu  
of notice equivalent to 12 months’ salary plus 
contractual entitlements. There are no express 
provisions for compensation payable on early 
termination of an Executive Director’s contract  
as at the date of termination other than as set out 
above. The Committee will seek to mitigate the 
cost to the Company while dealing fairly with each 
individual case. The Company may contribute to 
the reasonable legal fees of a Director in relation  
to any agreement to cease employment.
It is the policy of the Company that all executive 
appointments to the Board will have contract 
notice periods no longer than 12 months. 
External appointments
It is the policy of the Company, which is reflected in 
the contract of employment, that no Executive 
Director may accept any non-executive directorships 
or other appointments without the prior approval  
of the Board. Any outside appointments are 
considered by the Nominations Committee or the 
Board to ensure that they would not give rise to a 
conflict of interest. It is the Company’s policy that 
remuneration earned from any such appointment 
may be retained by the individual Executive Director.
Remuneration policy for the 
Chairman and Non-Executive 
Directors 
The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors 
are appointed under a letter of appointment for  
an initial term of three years, subject to earlier 
termination by either party upon written notice.  
In each case, the letter of appointment may be 
extended by mutual consent. The Chairman and 
the Non-Executive Directors are not contractually 
entitled to termination payments. The letters of 
appointment cover such matters as duties, time 
commitment and other business interests. 
The Remuneration Committee determines the 
remuneration for the Chairman and Non-Executive 
Directors within the limits set in the Company’s 
Articles of Association. The fee for the Chairman’s 
role takes into account the time commitment 
required for the role, the skills and experience of 
the individual and market practice in comparable 
companies. The Chairman’s fee is currently set at 
£100,000 per annum.
The Non-Executive Director fees policy is to pay 
a basic fee for membership of the Board, with 
additional fees for the Senior Independent Director 
and chairmanship of a Committee to take into 
account the additional responsibilities and time 
commitments of these roles. The Non-Executive 
Directors’ fee structure was reviewed during the 
year by the Board. The fee structure, with effect 
from 1 May 2015, is as follows:
• Basic fee – £40,000
• Committee Chairman fee – £5,000
• Senior Independent Director fee – £2,000
50
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report
Where indicated, the information provided in the following pages of this report has been audited by Deloitte LLP .
Single figure for total remuneration (audited information)
The following table sets out the single figure for total remuneration for Directors for the financial years ended 31 March 2014 and 2015.
Salary/fees 
£
Benefits
1
 
£
Bonus
2
 
£
Share Price 
Incentive bonus 
£
PSP awards
£
Pension 
£
Total 
£
Total 
£
Director 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Executive 
Directors
H R Chae 376,250 347,500 26,931 31,293 376,250 350,711 – 370,000 – – 75,250 69,500 854,681 1, 169,004
P Edwards 224,890 209,200 11,777 15,419 228,028 211,101 – 209,200 – – 44,978 41,840 509,673 686,760
Non-Executive 
Directors
J A S Wallace 100,000 100,000 – – – – – – – – – – 100,000 100,000
R J Perry
3
45,333 42,000 – – – – – – – – – – 45,333 42,000
M C Buzzacott 44,583 40,000 – – – – – – – – – – 44,583 40,000
M T Sawkins 11,250 – – – – – – – – – – – 11,250 –
1
 Benefits include all tax assessable benefits arising from the individual’s employment, including car allowance, private healthcare and permanent health insurance.
2
 On occasions, bonus payments include amounts for previous period. For 2015 for H R Chae this includes £Nil (2014: £3,211) and for P Edwards this includes £Nil (2014: £1,901).
3
 Includes fees as Senior Independent Director.
Additional disclosures for single figure for total remuneration to 31 March 2015
Salary
The Chief Executive’s salary from 1 April to 31 December 2014 was £370,000 (on an annualised basis) and was increased by 6.75% to £395,000 per annum 
with effect from 1 January 2015, reflecting the continued success of the Group and his track record in the role. The Group Finance Director received an increase 
of 6% from 1 June 2015, to reflect his strong personal performance in the role and his leadership. The Committee believes that the increases awarded to the 
Executive Directors are fair and in line with the good performance of the Group in the year under review and the continuing strong performance and leadership 
of the individuals. 
Pension contributions
The Company pays contributions to the nominated personal pension plans of the Executive Directors at a rate equal to 20% of salary. 
Annual Performance Bonus
The 2015 bonus for the Executive Directors and Senior Executives was based on growth in the Group’s operating profit measured against prior year.  
The actual target range has not been disclosed, as the Board considers this to be commercially sensitive information. The actual bonuses awarded to  
each Executive Director and Senior Executive were up to 100% of maximum potential bonus for the year.
Long-term incentives
Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
The Company adopted a PSP in 2004, which was replaced in 201 1 by a new PSP adopted by the Company at the AGM. Mr Chae holds 400,000 vested and 
unexercised options under the 2004 PSP , having exercised his option over 100,000 shares in December 2012. All other awards under the 2004 PSP have 
lapsed. Since 201 1, all PSP awards have been made under the 201 1 PSP .
PSP is the main long-term incentive for executives and is designed to encourage participants to deliver sustained profitable growth and enhanced shareholder 
value. The policy of granting awards based on 100% of salary is expected to be applied to the awards to the Executive Directors and other Senior Executives  
in the financial year ending 31 March 2016. The single performance criterion used in the PSP is trading EPS, which the Committee believes is a fair and appropriate 
condition for rewarding Senior Executives as it aligns their interests with those of shareholders and, being measured over a three-year period, aligns the reward 
with the Company’s strategy for growth by encouraging longer-term profitable growth. When determining the trading EPS growth, the impact of material 
acquisitions, disposals and changes in the issued share capital will be disregarded to ensure that they do not artificially impact the EPS measurement.
51
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Awards granted in 2012 (audited information)
The PSP award in 2012 was based on EPS growth over the three-year period ending 31 March 2015. The table below sets out achievement against targets  
for the EPS measure:
EPS target 
(p)
Award vesting 
(%)
Underlying EPS achieved 
(p)
Resulting level of award  
(% of maximum opportunity)
7.0 25 – –
8.0 50 – –
8.7 75 – –
10.0 100 9.1 100%
Total shareholder returns (3 years)
Total Shareholder Return
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Apr-12 Apr-13 Apr-14 Apr-15
Scapa AIM AllShare
 
The Company’s share price over the three-year 
measurement period rose from 63.5p to 144p 
and market capitalisation grew from £91.6m to 
£212.0m, with £2.2m returned to shareholders by 
way of dividend. The Committee determined that 
the Performance Share Plan awards made in 2012 
should vest in full, in recognition of the contribution 
made by the Management Team to the value 
created for shareholders. 
Awards granted in 2015 (audited information)
The following PSP awards were made in the year to 31 March 2015:
Director
Number of  
shares awarded Vesting date
H R Chae 336,364 21 July 201 7
P Edwards 207,273 21 July 201 7
Notes:
No variations were made to the terms of the awards in the year.
The market price of a share on 22 July 2014, being the date on which the awards were made, was 130.75p.
Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report continued
52
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The performance criteria for awards currently in issue but not vested are as follows:
Adjusted EPS 
(p)
Award 2012 
vesting
Adjusted EPS* 
(p)
Award 2013* 
vesting
Adjusted EPS* 
(p)
Award 2014* 
vesting
7.0 25% RPI +25% 25% RPI +25% 25%
8.0 50%
8.7 75%
10.0 100% RPI +40% 100% RPI +40% 100%
Adjusted EPS at
31 March 
2015
31 March 
2016
31 March 
2017
* straight line vesting occurs between these points.
The value of the PSP awards, based on the market price of the Company’s shares on the day prior to the date of grant, does not exceed 100% of the base 
salary of the Executive Director or Senior Executive to whom the award has been made.
Dilution limits
The Company’s share plans are subject to dilution limits approved by shareholders at the Company’s 2009 AGM, that overall dilution under all plans should not 
exceed 10% over a 10-year period in relation to the Company’s issued share capital. On the assumption that all outstanding awards vest and will be exercised, 
and including all exercised awards as at 31 March 2015, the Company will have utilised 6.4% of the 10% in 10 years.
Share Price Incentive Plan 2010
In May 2010, the Company introduced a one-off share price based incentive scheme (‘the Scheme’) for the Executive Directors and Senior Executives in lieu of 
granting awards under the PSP during a period when the Company’s price was at a historical low of 14.5p and there was insufficient headroom to grant 
meaningful share-based incentives. At the date of this report, the Company’s share price is £1.86.
The performance criteria applicable to the Scheme are as follows:
• that the mid-market price of the Company’s shares exceeds £1.00 during 30 consecutive days during the five-year period commencing 1 July 2010
• that the mid-market price of the Company’s shares exceeds £1.50 during 30 consecutive days during the five-year period commencing 1 July 2010
The first performance criterion was met during the financial year ended 31 March 2014 and payments were made to the Executive Directors and certain Senior 
Executives. No payment under the Scheme was made during the year ended 31 March 2015, but since the year end the second performance criterion was 
met and bonus payments will be made to the Executive Directors and certain Senior Executives during the year ending 31 March 2016. 
SAYE scheme (audited information)
During the year, the following SAYE share options were held and exercised by the Executive Directors:
Director
Shares under 
option at 
31 March 2014
Granted during 
the year
Exercised during 
the year
Lapsed during 
the year
Shares under 
option at 
31 March 2015
H R Chae 21,126 – 21,126 – Nil
P Edwards 21,126 – 21,126 – Nil
Note: these options, granted under an all-employee share scheme, are not subject to performance conditions.
Change in remuneration of Chief Executive compared to Group employees
The table below sets out the increase in remuneration of the Chief Executive and that of the Senior Management Team, which comprises 25 employees 
(excluding new starters during the year).
Percentage change in remuneration in 2014 
compared with remuneration in 2015
Chief Executive Senior Management Team
Salary/fees 8.3% 4.3%
Benefits (13.9%) –
Annual bonus 7.3% (2.2%)
Total remuneration (26.9%) 2.7%
The Committee has selected the Senior Management Team as the most relevant comparator group, taking into account the structure of remuneration and 
ability of the Senior Management Team to earn a bonus in addition to receiving a base salary.
53
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
Total Shareholder Return
Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 Apr-13 Apr-14 Apr-15
Scapa AIM AllShare
Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report continued
Total shareholder returns (5 years)
The graph below shows the Company’s total shareholder returns (TSR) compared to the FTSE AIM All Share Index over the last five years. TSR is defined as 
share price growth plus reinvested dividends. The Directors consider the FTSE AIM All Share Index to be the most appropriate index against which the TSR of 
the Company should be measured because it is an index of similar size companies to Scapa Group plc.
Historical Chief Executive remuneration
The table below summarises the Chief Executive single figure for total remuneration outcomes over the last five years:
H R Chae 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Chief Executive single figure of remuneration (£) 521,973 598,288 993,945 1, 169,004 854,681
Annual bonus payout (% of maximum opportunity) 61% 66% 76% 100% 100%
LTIP vesting (% maximum opportunity) n/a n/a 100% 0% 0%
Directors’ service contracts
The following table sets out the details of the service contracts and letters of appointment for the Directors who were in office during the year under review:
Director
Effective date of service contract/
letter of appointment
Unexpired term at 
31 March 2015 Notice period
Executive Directors
H R Chae 7 September 2009 Rolling one-year basis 12 months
P Edwards 20 September 2010 Rolling one-year basis 12 months by Company
6 months by Mr Edwards
Non-Executive Directors
J A S Wallace 30 August 2007 3 years, 0 months 12 months
R J Perry 2 June 2005 1 year, 0 months 1 month
M C Buzzacott 1 March 2008 1 year, 1 1 months 3 months
M T Sawkins 1 January 2015 3 years, 4 months 3 months
54
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Statement of shareholder voting
The results of the vote on the Remuneration report at the Company’s 2014 AGM are set out in the table below:
Votes cast Votes for Votes against Votes withheld
Number Number % Number % Number
84,718,122 84,503,094 99.75% 215,028 0.25% 18, 188
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below sets out the actual expenditure of the Company and difference in spend in 2014 and 2015 on total pay costs of the Group’s employees, 
trading profit before income tax and distributions to shareholders:
For the year to 
31 March 2015 
£m
For the year to 
31 March 2014 
£m % change
Total employee pay 59.6 57.3 4.0
Trading profit 18.6 15.5 20.0
Dividend 1.5 0.7 100.0
Directors’ shareholdings and interests in shares
The following table sets out the shareholdings and beneficial interests of the Directors and their connected persons in Scapa’s shares as at 31 March 2015:
31 March 2015 31 March 2014
Shares SAYE Performance Share Plan Shares SAYE Performance Share Plan
H R Chae 536,835 Nil 2009/10 400,000 500,709 201 1/12 21,126 2009/10 400,000
2010/11 – 2010/1 1 –
2011/12 – 201 1/12 –
2012/13 1,000,000 2012/13 1,000,000
2013/14 425,000 2013/14 425,000
2014/15 336,364
P Edwards 296,679 Nil 2010/11 – 259,742 201 1/12 21,126 2010/1 1 –
2011/12 – 201 1/12 –
2012/13 570,543 2012/13 570,543
2013/14 262,500 2013/14 262,500
2014/15 207,273
J A S Wallace 870,000 840,000
R J Perry 350,000 350,000
M C Buzzacott 250,000 250,000
M T Sawkins 30,000 N/A
2,333,514 Nil 3,201,680 2,200,451 42,252 2,658,043
55
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report continued
Loss of office payments
Loss of office payments are made in line with a Director’s individual service contract. No loss of office payments were made during the year. No payments have 
been made to the Directors that are not included in the single figure of remuneration set out previously.
Movements in share price during the year
The mid-market price of the Company’s shares at the end of the financial year was £1.44 and the range of mid-market prices during the year was between 
£1.08 and £1.48.
Advice received by the Committee
The Committee has access to advice when it considers appropriate. In the year ended 31 March 2015, the Committee received material assistance and 
advice from the Group HR Director. The Committee also received executive remuneration market data from KPMG LLP and Towers Watson Data Services, 
who were paid £6,000 and £2,880 respectively for the data provided.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year
Components of remuneration
Effective from 1 January 2015, the salary of the Chief Executive is £395,000 and will be reviewed with effect from 1 January 2016. 
The salary of the Group Finance Director is £241,710 with effect from 1 June 2015. 
Pension and benefits are in line with policy. 
There was no change to the maximum opportunity under the Company’s annual bonus plan. The performance measures remain growth in Group trading 
profit. Targets are not disclosed, as the Board considers the nature of that information to be commercially sensitive. 
There was no change in the maximum PSP opportunity for the Executive Directors; awards of 100% of salary are expected to be made in 2015. Performance 
will be assessed against growth in EPS over the three-year period ending 31 March 2018, as follows:
EPS (p) Award 2015 vesting
RPI +25% 25%
RPI +40% 100%
31 March 2018
Note: Straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
Non-Executive Directors will be paid a base fee of £40,000 per annum plus £5,000 for chairing a Board Committee and £2,000 for the Senior Independent 
Director. The Chairman’s fee will remain at £100,000 per annum, which includes a fee for chairing the Nominations Committee.
This Remuneration Report was approved by a duly authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on 27 May 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
M T Sawkins
Chairman of the  
Remuneration Committee
27 May 2015
56
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors’ Report
Other disclosures
Pages 57 to 58 inclusive (together with sections  
of the Annual Report incorporated by reference) 
constitute a Directors’ Report that has been drawn 
up and presented in accordance with applicable 
English company law and the liabilities of the 
Directors in connection with that report are subject 
to the limitations and restrictions provided by  
that law.
Principal activities and business review
Scapa Group plc is the holding company for a global 
group of companies operating in the manufacture 
of bonding materials and solutions. A review of  
the performance and future development of the 
Group’s business is contained on pages 1 to 29 
and forms part of this report.
Results and dividends
Trading profit was £18.6m (2014: £15.5m), an 
increase of £3. 1m. Exceptional charges in  
the year were £0.5m (2014: £0.2m credit). No 
interim dividend was paid to shareholders (2014: 
£Nil). The Directors recommend payment of a final 
dividend of 1.5p (2014: 1.0p).
A profit before tax of £13.7m (2014: £1 1.2m)  
was recorded for the year ended 31 March 2015, 
with basic and diluted earnings per share of 6.5p 
and 6.2p respectively (2014: 4.6p and 4.4p 
loss respectively).
Going concern
In presenting the annual and interim financial 
statements, the Directors aim to present a balanced 
and understandable assessment of the Group’s 
position and prospects. After making enquiries,  
the Directors have a reasonable expectation that 
the Group has adequate resources to continue  
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
In arriving at this conclusion the Directors have 
considered the committed facility and assume  
that the facility can be operated as contracted for 
the foreseeable future because there is sufficient 
headroom in the facility covenants. In performing 
this analysis the Directors reviewed downside 
sensitivity analysis over the forecast period thereby 
taking into account the uncertainties arising from 
the current economic climate. The Group continues 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held on  
21 July 2015 at the Village Hotel, Pamir Drive, 
Ashton-under-Lyne, Tameside, Manchester  
OL7 0PG. Details of the business to be considered 
at the Annual General Meeting and the Notice of 
Meeting are included in a separate document.
Share capital
Details of the issued share capital, together with 
details of the movements in the Company’s issued 
share capital during the year are shown in notes 26 
and 27 to the Company financial statements on 
pages 100 to 101. The Company has one class of 
ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed 
income. Each ordinary share carries the right to 
one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of  
a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are 
both governed by the general provisions of the 
Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. 
The Directors are not aware of any agreements 
between holders of the Company’s shares that 
may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities 
or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control over 
the Company’s share capital and all issued shares 
are fully paid.
Subject to the provisions of the Company’s Articles 
of Association and the Companies Act 2006,  
at a General Meeting of the Company the Directors 
may request authority to allot shares and the power 
to disapply pre-emption rights and the authority for 
the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares 
in the market. The Board requests such authority 
at each Annual General Meeting. Details of the 
authorities to be sought at the Annual General 
Meeting on 21 July 2015 are set out in the Notice 
of Annual General Meeting.
Share options
Details of the Company’s share capital and options 
over the Company’s shares under the Company’s 
employee share plans are given in notes 26 and 27 
of the accounts.
Purchase of own shares
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting,  
the Directors will once again seek shareholders’ 
approval, by way of special resolution, for the grant 
of an authority for the Company to make market 
purchases of its own shares. The authority sought 
will relate to up to approximately 10% of the issued 
share capital and will continue until the Company’s 
next Annual General Meeting. The Directors 
consider that the grant of the power for the 
Company to make market purchases of the 
Company’s shares would be beneficial for the 
Company and accordingly they recommend this 
special resolution to shareholders. The Directors 
would only exercise the authority sought if they 
believed such purchase was likely to result in an 
increase in earnings per share and it would be in 
the interests of shareholders generally. The minimum 
price to be paid will be the shares’ nominal value  
of 5p and the maximum price will be no more  
than 5% above average middle market quotations 
for the shares on the five days before the shares 
are purchased.
Significant agreements:  
change of control 
All of the Company’s current share plans contain 
provisions relating to a change of control. On  
a change of control, outstanding awards would 
normally vest and become exercisable, subject  
to the satisfaction of any performance conditions 
at that time.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements 
between the Company and its Directors or 
employees that provide for compensation for  
loss of office on a change of control.
Takeover directive
The Company has only one class of ordinary share 
and these shares have equal voting rights. The 
nature of individual Directors’ holdings is disclosed 
on page 55. There are no other significant holdings 
of any individual.
57
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Board of Directors
The names of the present Directors and their 
biographical details are shown on pages 32  
and 33.
At the Annual General Meeting, to be held on  
21 July 2015, Heejae Chae (Group Chief Executive) 
and Richard Perry (Senior Independent Director) will 
offer themselves for re-election and Martin Sawkins 
(Non-Executive) will offer himself for election.
Appointment and replacement  
of Directors
With regard to the appointment and replacement 
of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles 
of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation. 
The Articles themselves may be amended  
by special resolution of the shareholders.  
The powers of Directors are described in the 
Articles of Association, which can be found at  
 
www.scapa.com/en/CorporateGovernance 
and the Corporate Governance Statement  
on page 34.
Employees and employment policies
Scapa is committed to the principle of equal 
opportunity in employment and to ensuring that  
no applicant or employee receives less favourable 
treatment on the grounds of gender, marital status, 
age, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national 
origin, religion, disability, sexuality or unrelated 
criminal convictions.
Scapa applies employment policies which are 
believed to be fair and equitable and which  
ensure that entry into, and progression within,  
the Company is determined solely by application  
of job criteria and personal ability and competency.
Scapa aims to give full and fair consideration to the 
possibility of employing disabled persons wherever 
suitable opportunities exist. Employees who become 
disabled are given every opportunity and assistance 
to continue in their positions or be trained for other 
suitable positions.
Scapa recognises the importance of good 
communications with employees and 
acknowledges that there should be clear  
channels of communication and opportunities  
for consultation and dialogue on issues which 
affect both business performance and employees’ 
working lives. As a global business, the mechanisms 
for achieving this aim vary between different 
countries and between different businesses within 
the Group but include in-house newsletters, bulletins 
and briefing sessions.
Scapa has a combination of unionised and 
non-unionised operations across the world and is 
committed to fostering positive employee relations 
at all of its locations. Training and links with the 
educational sector reinforce Scapa’s commitment 
to employee involvement and development.
The 2012 Sharesave three-year share option  
plan matured on 1 March 2015 and the 2012 
Sharesave five-year share option plan will  
mature on 1 March 2017 . At 31 March 2015,  
13 employees were members of the scheme with 
102,390 options over shares (none of these include 
the Executive Directors). 
A new three-year Sharesave share option scheme 
will be offered to all UK employees in the financial 
year ending 31 March 2016.
Business ethics
The Company requires compliance by its 
subsidiaries and employees with the laws and 
standards of conduct of the countries in which  
it does business. This includes legislation 
implementing anti-corruption and competition  
law compliance. Employees are required to avoid 
conflicts of interest regarding Company business, 
to act lawfully and ethically, and to be responsible 
for communicating in good faith any non-compliance 
issues of which they become aware.
The Company and all senior employees are 
formally subscribed to a Code of Conduct  
to document and confirm such compliance.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Information regarding the Company’s use of 
greenhouse gas emissions is described in the 
Sustainability Report on page 28.
Research and development
The Group’s spend on research and development 
is disclosed in note 3 of the accounts and is 
focused on developing new derivative product 
applications for addressing and resolving customer 
and market requirements.
Financial risk management
The Group’s approach to managing financial risk  
is covered in note 22 of the accounts.
Political donations
No political donations were made during the year 
(2014: £Nil).
Auditor
So far as each Director is aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
auditor is unaware. Each Director has taken all the 
steps that they ought to have taken as a Director  
in order to make themselves aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
The auditor, Deloitte LLP , has indicated its 
willingness to continue in office and a resolution 
that they be reappointed will be proposed at the 
Annual General Meeting.
UK Corporate Governance Code
The Company’s statement on Corporate 
Governance can be found in the Corporate 
Governance Report on pages 34 to 38. The 
Corporate Governance Report forms part of this 
Directors’ Report and is incorporated into it by 
cross-reference.
By order of the Board
R L Smith
Company Secretary
27 May 2015
Registered Office: 
Manchester Road 
Ashton-under-Lyne 
Greater Manchester OL7 0ED
Directors’ Report continued
58
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare 
such financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare 
the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the 
Parent Company financial statements in accordance 
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards and applicable law). Under company 
law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company and of the profit or loss of the Company 
for that period. In preparing the Parent Company 
financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then 
apply them consistently
• make judgements and accounting estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent
• state whether applicable UK Accounting 
Standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in  
the financial statements
• prepare the financial statements on the going 
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to 
presume that the Company will continue  
in business
In preparing the Group financial statements, IAS 1 
requires that Directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies
• present information, including accounting policies, 
in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, 
comparable and understandable information
• provide additional disclosures when compliance 
with the specific requirements in IFRSs are 
insufficient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the entity’s financial position 
and financial performance, and
• make an assessment of the Company’s ability 
to continue as a going concern
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are sufficient to 
show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and enable them 
to ensure that the financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance 
and integrity of the corporate and financial 
information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing  
the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in  
other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance 
with the relevant financial reporting framework, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of the 
Company and the undertakings included in  
the consolidation taken as a whole
• the strategic report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business 
and the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that they  
face, and
• the annual report and financial statements, 
taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 
understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model  
and strategy.
By order of the Board
H R Chae
Group Chief Executive
27 May 2015
P Edwards
Group Finance Director
27 May 2015
Directors’ Responsibilities
59
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members 
of Scapa Group plc
Opinion on financial statements of 
Scapa Group plc
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent 
Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union;
• the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash 
Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group and Parent Company 
Accounting Policies, the related Consolidated notes 1 to 31 and the Parent Company notes 1 to 15. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial 
statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is 
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
Going concern
We have reviewed the directors’ statement on page 57 that the Group is a going concern. We confirm that:
• we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation 
of the financial statements is appropriate; and
• we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability 
to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee 
as to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material 
misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect 
on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the 
engagement team:
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Inventory valuation
Inventory is a significant balance sheet caption with gross inventory 
balances of £27 .4 million (2014: £26.7 million) and provisions of £2.6 million 
(2014: £2.6 million) held by the Group at the year end.
There is a specific risk arising in relation to the existence of the goods and 
the valuation of inventory (both in terms of the gross cost and the 
provisions held against it) as disclosed in note 17 . The calculation to 
determine the standard cost of inventory is complex, in particular the 
estimates involved in the calculation of overhead absorption rates in work 
in progress and finished goods. Judgement is also needed to calculate 
the level of inventory provisions for aged, obsolete and/or damaged stock 
to ensure that the inventory held by the Group is held at the lower of cost 
and net realisable value in line with the requirements of IAS 2.
We have performed tests of detail to confirm that inventory is valued at 
the lower of cost and net realisable value, through testing of raw material 
costs, labour and overhead absorption into inventory and post period 
end sales values.
We have selected a sample of items in inventory at year-end and confirmed 
that they have been valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value 
by reference to post year end sales. In addition we have challenged the 
appropriateness of the Group’s inventory provisioning policy by assessing 
inventory ageing profiles and comparing the historical levels of write offs 
against the amounts provided. 
We also attend year end inventory counts, covering £25.8 million of the 
year end gross inventory balance. At the inventory counts, along with other 
procedures, we assess the condition of inventory to evaluate the adequacy 
of inventory provisions for obsolete and damaged goods.
60
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Deferred taxation
The tax risk concerns the judgements and estimates applied in the 
determination of the deferred tax balances, further details of which can be 
found in point 3 of the Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements on 
page 7 4. In particular this risk relates to the recognition of deferred tax 
assets for tax losses and timing differences across the Group which total 
£9. 1 million (2014: £8.0 million) as disclosed in note 9. This process is 
highly judgemental and is based on assumptions about future profitability, 
mainly in the UK and US.
In conjunction with our own tax audit specialists, we have:
• recalculated the deferred tax workings
• considered and challenged the appropriateness of management’s 
assumptions relating to future profitability in the relevant jurisdictions by 
evaluating trading forecasts compared with actual results in the current 
year; and
• considered estimates in relation to the likelihood of generating future 
taxable profits to support the recognition of deferred tax assets.
Retirement benefits
The Group has a net deficit on its retirement benefit scheme of 
£39.8 million (2014: £40.0 million). 
This risk concerns the appropriateness of actuarial assumptions in 
calculating the Group’s IAS 19 liability. The valuation of the Group’s IAS 19 
deficit involves significant judgement as described in note 25, in particular 
in relation to the discount rate, inflation and mortality assumptions. 
Further details of which can be found in point 2 of the Critical 
Accounting Estimates and Judgements on page 7 4.
We have considered the appropriateness of the disclosures and assumptions 
underpinning the valuation of pension scheme assets and liabilities provided by 
the Group’s actuary. Specifically we challenged the discount rate, inflation and 
mortality assumptions applied in calculating the scheme liabilities by using our 
internal pension specialists to assess and benchmark the assumptions applied 
against comparable third party data. We have assessed the competency of 
the Group’s actuary and assessed whether the requirements of IFRS are met 
in accounting for the pension scheme.
Carrying value of goodwill and investments in subsidiaries
The Group has £33.9 million (2014: £24. 1 million) of goodwill in relation to 
Acutek, Webtec and First Water Limited. The Group also holds intangible 
assets in relation to the acquisition of Webtec of £2.4 million (2014: £3.4 
million) and First Water Limited of £3.2 million (2014: £Nil).
The carrying value of the Parent Company’s investments at 31 March 
2015 is £134.8 million (2014: £151.5 million).
The impairment risk relates to the significant judgments and estimates 
required in calculating the discounted future cash flows of each of the 
relevant cash generating units which support the value of the goodwill 
balance as described in note 13 and the investments in subsidiaries in 
the Parent Company’s Balance Sheet as described in note 5 with 
particular attention to cash flow, growth rates, discount rates and 
sensitivity assumptions. 
We challenged the assumptions used in management’s impairment 
model for goodwill and investments. As part of our procedures we tested 
the clerical accuracy of the models and assessed whether they have been 
prepared on a consistent basis with the prior year. We also considered 
historical trading performance by comparing recent growth rates of both 
revenue and operating profit across the Group’s geographical and market 
segments, assessing the appropriateness of the assumptions concerning 
growth rates and inputs to the discount rate against latest market 
expectations. In performing our procedures we used internal valuation 
specialists and third party evidence to assess the appropriateness of 
the discount rates applied.
We have reviewed the disclosures in the financial statements around the 
goodwill impairment tests to assess whether they comply with IAS 36 
‘Impairment of assets’ in particular in related to the growth rates and 
discount rates used as part of the model.
Acquisition accounting
On 27 February 2015 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of First 
Water Limited for consideration of £8.8 million as disclosed in note 12. 
Therefore we have a new risk in the current year which concerns the 
judgement and estimates applied in determining:
• the fair value of the consideration paid including the deferred 
contingent consideration;
• the identification and valuation of intangibles assets; and
• the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired.
We have reviewed the sale purchase agreement to determine whether 
management’s calculation of the fair value of the consideration paid is 
reasonable and to assess whether the accounting treatment on the 
deferred contingent consideration is appropriate.
We have also reviewed the sale purchase agreement for evidence of any 
warranties or provisions so that we could challenge the assumptions 
underpinning any fair value adjustments made by management to the 
assets and liabilities acquired.
We have performed substantive testing on the opening Balance Sheet 
acquired and we have reviewed the disclosures in the annual report and 
accounts to ensure they comply with the requirements of IFRS 3.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit and Risk Committee discussed on page 40.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion 
on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not 
express an opinion on these individual matters.
61
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members 
of Scapa Group plc continued
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable 
that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. 
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £700,000 (£831,000), which is 5. 1% (2014 – 7 .4%) of 
pre-tax profit. We have changed the percentage applied to pre-tax profit to align more closely with 
comparable companies.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit 
differences in excess of £10,000 (2014 – £10,000), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our 
view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit and Risk Committee on 
disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
An overview of the scope 
of our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including 
Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. Based on that 
assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at nine locations.
The structure of the Group’s finance function is such that certain transactions are accounted for at the 
central European shared service centre based in the United Kingdom, where we centralised elements 
of our audit work, with the remainder accounted for in the operating units or at consolidation level. The 
Group audit team performed all work at the central European shared service centre, including where that 
work related to the full scope components not audited wholly by the Group team.
Given the nature of the Group’s corporate structure, where all evidence relating to each component is 
compiled at the Group’s the central European shared service centre, the Group audit team undertook all 
the audit work for the majority of significant components. In addition the Group audit team performed 
audit work for the US and Canadian locations and visited those components. The work on all these 
components was led by the senior statutory auditor.
Seven of these locations were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining two were subject to an audit of 
specified account balances where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement and of the materiality of the Group’s operations at those locations.
In terms of the two other significant components, we included the component audit teams in our team 
briefing, discussed their risk assessment and reviewed documentation of the findings from their work.
The locations which were subject to a full scope audit represent the principal business units and account 
for 92% (2014 – 94%) of the Group’s revenue, 96% (2014 – 91%) of the Group’s net assets and 96% 
(2014 – 108%) of the Group’s profit before tax. They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis 
for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above. The two 
locations subject to more limited audit procedures cover a further 4.0% (2014 – 2.8%) of the 
Group’s revenue.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical 
procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement 
of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit 
of specified account balances.
Our audit work at the nine locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual 
entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from £350,000 to £600,000 (2014 – 
£300,000 to £650,000).
Opinion on other matter prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year 
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required 
to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received 
and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate 
for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records 
and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
62
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors’ remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of 
directors’ remuneration have not been made. We have nothing to report arising from this matter.
Our duty to read other information 
in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, information in the annual report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group 
acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our 
knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report 
is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those 
matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee which we consider should have been 
disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Other matters
In our opinion the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 that would have applied 
were the company a quoted company.
Although not required to do so, the Directors have voluntarily chosen to make a corporate governance 
statement detailing the extent of their compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code. We 
reviewed the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance with 
ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review 
Respective responsibilities 
of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with 
the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. We also comply with International Standard 
on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality 
control procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and systems include our 
dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 
16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and/or those 
further matters we have expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and for no other 
purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for 
the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the 
financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements 
sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, 
whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the Group’s and the Parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; 
and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-
financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware 
of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Patrick Loftus (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
Manchester
27 May 2015
63
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information  
All on continuing operations 
 
note 
Year ended 
31 March 
2015 
£m 
Year ended 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Revenue 1 236.0 226.1 
 
Operating profit 1, 3 16.0 13.4 
 
Trading profit* 
 
18.6 15.5 
 
Amortisation of intangible assets 
 
(1.4) (1.5)
 
Exceptional items  4 (0.5) 0.2 
 
Pension administration costs 
 
(0.7) (0.8)
 
Operating profit 
 
16.0 13.4 
 
Finance costs 8 (2.3) (2.2)
 
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 
 
13.7 11.2 
 
Taxation on operating activities 
 
(4.5) (4.4)
 
Taxation on exceptional items and pension administration costs 
 
0.3 (0.4)
 
Exceptional deferred tax write off 
 
– (11.3)
 
Impact of change in tax rate on deferred tax 
 
– (1.8)
 
Taxation charge 9 (4.2) (17.9)
 
Profit/(loss) for the year 
 
9.5 (6.7)
 
Weighted average number of shares 10 146.8 146.4 
 
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (p) 10 6.5 (4.6)
 
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share (p) 10 6.2 (4.4)
 
Underlying earnings per share (p) 10 9.1 7.2 
 
 
 
The notes on pages 75 to 106 form part of these accounts. 
* Operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets, exceptional items and pension administration costs.
All on continuing operations note 
Year ended 
31 March 
2015 
£m 
Year ended 
31 March 
2014
£m 
Profit/(loss) for the year 
 
9.5 (6.7)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss: 
 
 
Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 
 
4.8 (7.1)
Actuarial loss 25 (2.2) (2.2)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss:  
Deferred tax on actuarial loss 
 
1.6 0.1 
Deferred tax through other comprehensive income 
 
0.1 (0.4)
Exceptional deferred tax through other comprehensive income 
 
– (1.5)
Effect of reduction in UK corporation tax rate on deferred tax 
 
– (0.2)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 
 
4.3 (11.3)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 
 
13.8 (18.0)
Consolidated Income Statement 
For the year ended 31 March 2015 
64 
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
For the year ended 31 March 2015 
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 31 March 2015
64
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
The notes on pages 75 to 106 form part of these accounts. These accounts were approved by the Directors on 27 May 2015. 
 
 
H R Chae 
Group Chief Executive  
P Edwards 
Group Finance Director Registered in England No. 826179 
 
 note 
31 March 
2015 
£m 
31 March 
2014
£m
Assets    
Non-current assets    
Goodwill 13 33.9 24.1 
Intangible assets 14 5.6 3.4 
Property, plant and equipment 15 42.0 35.7 
Deferred tax asset 9 9.1 8.0 
  90.6 71.2 
Current assets    
Assets classified as held for sale 16 – – 
Inventory 17 24.8 24.1 
Trade and other receivables 18 46.0 42.3 
Current tax asset  0.4 0.3 
Cash and cash equivalents 19 16.7 13.6 
  87.9 80.3 
Liabilities    
Current liabilities    
Financial liabilities:   
 Borrowings and other financial liabilities 21 (1.3) (0.1)
 Derivative financial instruments 22 – (0.1)
Trade and other payables 20 (44.8) (43.1)
Deferred consideration 12  (0.1) – 
Current tax liabilities  (0.9) (1.7)
Provisions 24 (1.0) (1.4)
  (48.1) (46.4)
    
Net current assets  39.8 33.9 
Non-current liabilities    
Financial liabilities:   
 Borrowings and other financial liabilities 21 (18.8) (8.1)
Trade and other payables 20 (0.2) (0.2)
Deferred consideration 12 (0.1) – 
Deferred tax liabilities 9 (6.5) (5.1)
Non-current tax liabilities  (1.8) (1.9)
Retirement benefit obligations 25 (39.8) (40.0)
Provisions 24 (1.4) (2.1)
  (68.6) (57.4)
  
Net assets  61.8 47.7 
Shareholders’ equity    
Ordinary shares 26 7.4 7.3 
Share premium  0.4 0.2 
Retained earnings  36.0 27.0 
Translation reserve  18.0 13.2 
Total shareholders’ equity  61.8 47.7 
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
As at March 2015 
65  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31 March 2015
65
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information  
 
Share
capital
£m 
Share 
premium 
£m 
Translation 
reserves  
£m  
Retained
earnings 
£m 
Total 
equity
£m 
Balance at 31 March 2013  7.3 0.2 20.3 37.8 65.6 
      
Employee share option scheme – value of employee services – – – 0.8 0.8 
Dividends to shareholders – – – (0.7) (0.7)
      
Currency translation differences  – – (7.1) – (7.1)
Actuarial loss on pension schemes  – – – (2.2) (2.2)
Deferred tax on actuarial loss – – – 0.1 0.1 
Deferred tax in other comprehensive income – – – (0.4) (0.4)
Exceptional deferred tax in other comprehensive income – – – (1.5) (1.5)
Effect of reduction in UK corporation rate on deferred tax – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Net expense recognised directly in equity  – – (7.1) (4.2) (11.3)
Loss for the period  – – – (6.7) (6.7)
Total comprehensive expense – – (7.1) (10.9) (18.0)
Balance at 31 March 2014 7.3 0.2 13.2 27.0 47.7 
      
Employee share option scheme – value of employee services – – – 1.5 1.5 
Dividends to shareholders – – – (1.5) (1.5)
Issue of shares 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3 
      
Currency translation differences  – – 4.8 – 4.8 
Actuarial loss on pension schemes  – – – (2.2) (2.2)
Deferred tax on actuarial loss – – – 1.6 1.6 
Deferred tax through other comprehensive income – – – 0.1 0.1 
Net income/(expense) recognised directly in equity  – – 4.8 (0.5) 4.3 
Profit for the period  – – – 9.5 9.5 
Total comprehensive income – – 4.8 9.0 13.8 
      
Balance at 31 March 2015 7.4 0.4 18.0 36.0 61.8 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
For the year ended 31 March 2015 
66  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 March 2015
66
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
 
All on continuing operations note 
Year ended 
31 March 
2015
£m 
Year ended 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
 
 
Cash flows from operating activities    
 
 
Net cash flow from operations 28 17.6 10.3 
 
 
Cash generated from operations before exceptional items 28 18.3 10.1 
 
 
Cash (outflows)/inflows from exceptional items 28 (0.7) 0.2 
 
 
Net cash flow from operations  17.6 10.3 
 
 
Net interest paid  (0.6) (0.5)
 
 
Income tax paid  (3.9) (2.7)
 
 
Net cash generated from operating activities  13.1 7.1 
 
 
Cash flows used in investing activities    
 
 
Acquisition of subsidiary 12 (8.8) (2.2)
 
 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (7.5) (4.9)
 
 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  – 4.3 
 
 
Net cash used in investing activities  (16.3) (2.8)
 
 
Cash flows generated from/(used in) financing activities   
 
 
Dividends  (1.5) (0.7)
 
 
Issue of shares  0.3 – 
 
 
Increase in borrowings  28.1 9.8 
 
 
Repayment of borrowings acquired 12 (2.2) – 
 
 
Repayment of borrowings  (18.7) (11.5)
 
 
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities  6.0 (2.4)
 
 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  2.8 1.9 
 
 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year  13.6 12.6 
 
 
Exchange gains/(losses) on cash and cash equivalents  0.3 (0.9)
 
 
Total cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 19 16.7 13.6 
 
 
Consolidated Income Statement 
For the year ended 31 March 2015 
67  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 March 2015
67
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Scapa Group plc (‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries (together ‘the Group’) manufacture bonding products and adhesive components for applications 
in the Healthcare and Industrial markets. The Group has manufacturing plants around the world and sells mainly in countries within Europe, North 
America and Asia.  
The Company is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in the UK. The address of its registered office is 997 Manchester Road, Ashton-
under-Lyne, Manchester OL7 0ED. The Company has its listing on the Alternative Investment Market.  
These consolidated financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 27 May 2015.  
A summary of the more important Group accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements is set out below.  
Basis of preparation  
The consolidated financial statements of Scapa Group plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU), IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting 
under IFRSs. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of financial 
assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through the Income Statement.  
Going concern  
The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt a going concern basis of accounting in preparing 
the financial statements. Further detail is contained in the Directors’ Report on page 57.  
Early adoption of Standards  
The Group has not early adopted any Standards.  
Adoption of new and revised Standards  
Standards affecting the reported results 
There have been no new IFRSs that have come into effect in the period that have had a material impact on the disclosures or amounts reported in 
these financial statements. 
Standards not affecting the reported results nor the financial position 
The following Standards and Interpretations have come into effect during the year. The adoption of these amendments has not had any material 
impact on the disclosures or amounts reported in these financial statements: 
IFRS 10 and 12 and IAS 27 (amendments) Investment Entities 
IAS 36 (amendments) Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets 
IAS 39 (amendments) Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting 
IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies 
IAS 32 (amendments) Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 
At the date of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in 
issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU). The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards 
and Interpretations listed below will have a material impact on the Group in future periods. 
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with customers 
IFRS 11 (amendments) Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations 
IAS 16 and IAS38 (amendments) Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation 
IAS 16 and IAS41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants 
IAS19 (amendments) Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions 
IAs 27 (amendments) Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements 
IFRS10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an investor and its associate or Joint Venture 
 
Group Accounting Policies 
68  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Group Accounting Policies
68
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Consolidation  
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) 
made up to 31 March each year. Control is achieved when the Company has power over the investee, is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns 
from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. 
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the 
elements listed above. 
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Company obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Company loses control of the 
subsidiary. Specifically, the results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from 
the date the Company gains control of the subsidiary or until the date when the Company ceases to control the subsidiary. 
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring accounting policies used into line with the Group’s 
accounting policies. All intra-Group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between Group companies 
are eliminated on consolidation. 
The Group has an interest in Scapa Scottish Limited Partnership, whose head office is located at 13 Queens Road, Aberdeen. The financial statements 
of the Group include the results and financial position of the Group’s interest in Scapa Scottish Limited Partnership. Accordingly advantage has been 
taken of the exemptions provided by Regulation 7 of the Partnership (Accounts) Regulations 2008 from the requirements for the preparation, delivery 
and publication of the partnership’s accounts. 
Segmental reporting  
IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires that the segments should be reported on the same basis as the internal reporting information that is provided to 
the chief operating decision maker. The Group adopts this policy and the chief operating decision maker has been identified as the Board of Directors. 
The Directors consider there to be three reportable segments, being the main customer groups which the Group serves in: Industrial, Healthcare and 
Electronics (business units).  
Internal reports reviewed regularly by the Board provide information to allow the chief operating decision maker to allocate resources and make 
decisions about the operations. The internal reporting focuses on these business units. The chief operating decision maker relies primarily on turnover 
and trading profit to assess the performance of the Group and make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment. Trading profit is 
reconciled to operating profit on the face of the Income Statement. 
Revenue recognition  
Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of goods, net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. 
Revenue is recognised as follows:  
(a) Sales of goods  
Sales of goods are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have been transferred to the buyer, and when the 
Group entity has no continuing managerial involvement nor effective control over the goods.  
Where items are sold with a right of return, accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for such returns at the time of sale.  
(b) Interest income  
Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be measured 
reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is 
the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount on 
initial recognition.  
Trading profit  
Trading profit is the profit the Group derives from its trading activities. Items which are both material, either qualitatively or quantitatively, and non-
recurring in nature are excluded from trading profit so that trading profit provides a better indication of the Group’s underlying business performance. 
Exceptional items  
Items which are both material, either qualitatively or quantitatively, and non-recurring in nature are presented as exceptional items so as to provide a 
better indication of the Group’s underlying business performance and are shown separately on the face of the Income Statement. Items classed as 
exceptional in the Income Statement are treated as exceptional in the cash flow until the items are fully unwound. 
Operating profit  
Operating profit is trading profit stated after charging all exceptional costs, pension administration costs and the amortisation of intangible assets, but 
before investment income and finance costs. 
 
69  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
69
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Leases  
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments 
made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the 
period of the lease.  
Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group are classified as finance leases. Finance leases are 
recognised as assets and liabilities in the Balance Sheet at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The interest rate implicit in the lease is 
used as the discount rate in calculating the present value of the cash outflows. Where the Group does not obtain ownership of the asset at the end of 
the lease period, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of its useful life and the lease term. Where ownership does pass to the Group at the end of 
the lease period, the policy for depreciating the asset is consistent with that for depreciable assets that are owned.  
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance charge is calculated 
based on the amount of borrowing outstanding, and is charged against profits over the primary lease period.  
Government grants  
Grants from the Government are recognised at their fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and the Group will 
comply with all attached conditions.  
Government grants relate to tangible fixed assets and are treated as deferred income, and are credited to the Income Statement over the expected 
useful lives of the assets concerned. 
Research and development expenditure 
Research expenditure is expensed as incurred. Costs associated with developing or enhancing existing product lines are recognised as an expense 
as incurred.  
Development costs are assessed as to whether they meet the IAS 38 criteria for capitalisation. An internally generated intangible asset is recognised 
only if all of the following conditions are met: 
 
Technical feasibility and intention to complete the intangible asset so that it is available for use 
 
An asset has been created that can be identified 
 
Ability to use or sell the asset 
 
It is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits 
 
The development cost of the asset can be measured reliably 
Foreign currency translation  
(a) Functional and presentation currency  
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in 
which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling.  
(b) Transactions and balances  
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the Income Statement, except when deferred in equity as 
qualifying net investment hedges.  
(c) Group companies  
The results and financial position of all the Group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) that have a functional 
currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:  
(i) assets and liabilities for each Balance Sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that Balance Sheet;  
(ii) income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable 
approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at 
the dates of the transactions).  
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of long-term borrowings that are 
considered to form part of that net investment, are taken to the translation reserve within shareholders’ equity. When a foreign operation is sold, such 
exchange differences are recognised in the Income Statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.  
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at 
the closing rate.  
Business combinations and goodwill  
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the 
aggregate of the fair values (at the date of exchange) of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in 
exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred, and are normally treated as exceptional. 
Group Accounting Policies continued 
70  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Group Accounting Policies continued
70
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Business combinations and goodwill continued 
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair 
value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interests in the acquiree (if any) over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed. 
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement,  
measured at its acquisition-date fair value. Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify 
as measurement period adjustments (see below). All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset 
or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs. Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are 
not recognised. 
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports 
provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period (see 
below), or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the 
acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date. 
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances 
that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year. 
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or when an indication of impairment is identified, and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. 
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.  
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. Each of those cash-generating units represents the Group’s 
investment in each site. 
Property, plant and equipment (including land and buildings)  
Land and buildings comprise mainly factories and offices. All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment. Historical cost includes expenditure directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.  
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future 
economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance 
are charged to the Income Statement when incurred. 
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to reduce their cost to their residual values over their 
estimated useful lives, as follows:  
 
Freehold buildings: 40 years  
 
Leasehold buildings: life of the lease  
 
Plant and machinery: 5–20 years  
 
Furniture, fittings and equipment: 5–20 years  
 
IT systems: 3–8 years  
Assets held in the course of construction are not depreciated until they are brought into use. 
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each Balance Sheet date. An asset’s carrying amount is 
written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.  
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These are included in the Income Statement within 
operating profit.  
Assets held for sale  
Assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. 
Assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale or transaction rather than through 
continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset (or disposal group) is available for immediate sale 
in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within 
one year from the date of classification. 
When the Group is committed to a sale plan involving loss of a subsidiary, all of the assets and liabilities of that subsidiary are classified as held for sale 
when the criteria described above are met, regardless of whether the Group will retain interest in its former subsidiary after the sale. 
Internally-generated intangible assets 
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred. Internally generated intangible assets arising from 
development is recognised only if all of the following conditions have been demonstrated: 
 
Technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use 
 
The intention to complete and use the asset 
 
How the asset will generate probable future economic benefit 
 
The availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use the asset 
 
The ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development 
 
71  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
71
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Internally-generated intangible assets continued 
The amount initially recognised for internally-generated intangible assets is the same as the expenditure incurred from the date when the asset first 
meets the recognition criteria listed above. Subsequent to initial recognition, internally-generated intangible assets are reported at cost less 
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment. 
Intangible assets  
All acquired intangible assets are measured at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. All of the Group’s 
intangible assets have finite lives, the lengths of which are disclosed separately under the notes in the accounts. 
Impairment of assets  
Assets, such as goodwill, that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and instead are tested annually for impairment. Assets 
that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable 
amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, 
assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units).  
Value in use is determined based on the estimated future cash inflows and outflows derived from the continued use of the asset and from its ultimate 
disposal. These forecasts form the basis of the Group’s annual budget, have been signed off by the Board and are the best estimates available to 
management in assessing future profitability. These cash flows are discounted using the Group’s pre-tax weighted average cost of capital of 10.0% 
(2014: 9.7%), adjusted to reflect any risks specific to the asset for which the estimated future cash flows have not already been adjusted (see note 13). 
Where the recoverable amount of assets (other than goodwill) subsequently materially increases, impairment losses recognised in previous periods will 
be reversed. 
Financial instruments  
The Group classifies its financial instruments in the following categories: financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and loans, 
receivables and payables. The classification depends on the purpose for which the instruments were acquired. Management determines the 
classification of its instruments at initial recognition and re-evaluates this at every reporting date.  
(a) Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss  
Financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value. Instruments in this category are classified as current if they are either held for trading or 
are expected to be realised within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date. Hedge accounting is only applied for net investment hedges, with 
changes in fair value being taken directly to the translation reserve where hedge accounting is achieved. 
(b) Loans, receivables and payables  
Loans, receivables and payables are non-derivative financial assets and liabilities with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in 
an active market. They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor or creditor with no intention of trading the 
receivable or payable. They are included in current assets or liabilities, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the Balance Sheet date. 
These are classified as non-current assets or liabilities. Loans and receivables are included in trade and other receivables or trade and other 
payables in the Balance Sheet. Loans, receivables and payables are measured at invoice or historic cost less any impairment.  
Inventories  
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The cost of finished 
goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads allocated on a systematic 
basis (based on normal operating capacity). It excludes borrowing costs. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of 
business, less applicable variable selling expenses. Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and defective inventory on a line by line basis, or by 
grouping similar or related items, by reference to accumulated experience.  
Trade receivables  
Trade receivables are recognised initially at invoice value, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established 
when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. The provision 
is recognised in the Income Statement as an operating charge.  
Insurance receivables 
Where some or all of the cost of a provision is reimbursed by another party, the Group recognises that reimbursement when it is virtually certain it will 
be received. 
Cash and cash equivalents  
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of 
three months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.  
Share capital  
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.  
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which the dividends 
are approved by the Company’s shareholders or in respect of interim dividends when approved by Directors.  
Group Accounting Policies continued 
72  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Group Accounting Policies continued
72
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Trade payables  
Trade payables are recognised at the invoice amount, which is equal to their fair value.  
Borrowings  
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred and subsequently stated at amortised cost. Interest charges are 
recognised in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings, using the effective interest method.  
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has a right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the 
Balance Sheet date.  
Taxation 
Taxation expense, comprising both UK and non-UK taxation, represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax. 
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on taxable profit for the period using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the 
Balance Sheet date, together with any adjustments in respect of previous years. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the Income Statement 
because it excludes items of income or expense that are not taxable or deductible or are taxable or deductible in other years. 
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, unless specifically exempt. Deferred tax assets are recognised 
only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax is 
calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised. The resulting charge or credit is 
recognised in the Income Statement except when it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case the charge or credit is also recognised 
directly in equity. 
Dividends 
Dividends proposed by the Board are recognised in the financial statements when they have been approved by shareholders at the AGM. Interim 
dividends are recognised when they are paid. 
Employee benefits  
(a) Pension obligations  
Group companies operate various pension schemes. The schemes are funded through payments to trustee-administered funds, determined by 
periodic actuarial calculations. The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that 
defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years 
of service and compensation.  
The liability recognised in the Balance Sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at 
the Balance Sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past service 
costs. The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the 
defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds 
that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related 
pension liability.  
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to 
shareholders’ equity.  
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the Income Statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees 
remaining in service for a specified period of time (the vesting period). In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis 
over the vesting period.  
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The Group has no legal or 
constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to 
employee service in the current and prior periods.  
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, 
contractual or voluntary basis. The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are 
recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.  
(b) Share-based compensation  
The Group operates an equity-settled, share-based compensation plan. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant 
of the options is calculated using appropriate valuation models and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period.  
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted. At each Balance Sheet 
date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.  
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the Income Statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity, over the 
remaining vesting period.  
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium when the 
options are exercised.  
 
73  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
73
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Employee benefits continued 
 (c) Holiday pay  
The Group recognises an asset or liability relating to holiday pay obligations at the Balance Sheet date. Movements in the period are taken to the 
Income Statement.  
(d) Bonus plans  
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses based on a pre-determined formula for key performance indicators. The Group 
recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where past practice has created a constructive obligation.  
(e) Share Price Incentive Plan  
The Group accounts for the Share Price Incentive Plan in line with IAS 19 as the basis of compensation is not an award of shares and therefore 
does not fall under the remit of IFRS 2. 
Provisions 
Provisions for environmental restoration, restructuring costs and legal claims are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount 
has been reliably estimated.  
Where the effect is material, provisions are discounted in line with IAS 37 using a pre-tax nominal discount rate. The discount rate does not reflect risks 
for which the estimated future outflows have already been adjusted. 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
The Group’s accounting policies have been set by management and approved by the Audit and Risk Committee. The application of these accounting 
policies to specific scenarios requires reasonable estimates and assumptions to be made concerning the future. These are continually evaluated 
based on historical experience and expectations of future events. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related 
actual results.  
Under IFRSs estimates or judgements are considered critical where they involve a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities from period to period. This may be because the estimate or judgement involves matters which are highly uncertain, 
or because different estimation methods or assumptions could reasonably have been used. 
Critical judgements and estimates have been made in the following areas when preparing the Group’s accounts:  
1. Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (see notes 13 and 15). The Group tests annually whether goodwill 
has suffered any impairment, and tests tangible assets where indication of impairment exists. For goodwill the recoverable amounts of cash-
generating units are determined on a value-in-use basis. Determining this value requires the use of estimates. The main estimates are around 
the forecast cash flows, which are based on approved budgets and growth rates of 3%–15% per annum in years 1–5 and no growth thereafter. 
The 3% growth rate is used for the majority of cash flows and the higher rate of 15% is used for a specific cash-generating unit. The assumptions 
used are considered the best available and reasonable. Any reasonable change in the assumptions would not result in any impairment.  
2. Retirement benefit liabilities – the key assumptions used to calculate the pensions deficit and the sensitivity of those assumptions to change is 
contained within note 25. The assumptions used are considered the best available and reasonable.  
3. Taxation (see note 9). The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgement is required in determining the 
worldwide provisions for income taxes and the recognition of deferred tax assets. The recognition of deferred tax is based on the availability of 
suitable future taxable profits of a specific business unit in a specific tax jurisdiction and satisfies the relevant recognition criteria. The assumptions 
used are considered the best available and reasonable. A significant deterioration in results would need to occur in order to result in an impairment 
of the deferred tax recognised. 
4. Valuation of acquired assets (see note 12). The Group acquired First Water Limited on 27 February 2015. The acquisition brought with it a number 
of significant benefits to the Group in terms of development, customer relationships and technology know-how as well as patents, tangible assets 
and liabilities. The total assets and liabilities acquired have been measured at their fair value for financial reporting purposes. Where available the 
Group have used third party qualified valuers to perform the valuations. Where third party valuations have not been used, the Group have relied on 
market data, discounted cash flows and management judgement to arrive at the valuations. Information about the valuation techniques and inputs 
are disclosed in notes 13 and 14. 
 
Group Accounting Policies continued 
74  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Group Accounting Policies continued
74
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
1. Segmental reporting 
Business unit segments 
The Group trades across three business units: Healthcare, Industrial and Electronics, and in three main geographical areas: Europe, North America 
and Asia. All inter-segment transactions are made on an arm’s-length basis. The Group has continued to focus more on business units than 
geographical areas for strategic planning of the Group. Geographical information is presented to provide supplementary information about the 
areas in which the Group operates for the benefit of investors. 
The chief operating decision maker relies primarily on turnover and trading profit to assess the performance of the Group and make decisions about 
resources to be allocated to the segment; assets and liabilities are looked at geographically. Trading profit is reconciled to operating profit on the face 
of the Income Statement. 
The Board reviews the performance of the business using information presented at consistent exchange rates. The prior year results have been 
restated as shown on the following page. 
Segment results 
The segment results for the year ended 31 March 2015 are as follows:  
 
Revenue is allocated based on the country in which the order is received. All revenue relates to the sale of goods. The revenue analysis based on the 
location of the customer is as follows: 
There are no single customers with greater than 10% share of the total external revenue of the Group. 
 
Healthcare
£m 
Industrial
£m 
Electronics 
£m 
Head office 
£m 
Group
£m 
External revenue 73.8 147.8 14.4 – 236.0 
Trading profit/(loss) 11.1 8.9 1.1 (2.5) 18.6 
Amortisation of intangible assets (1.4) – – – (1.4)
Exceptional items (0.5) – – – (0.5)
Pension administration costs – – – (0.7) (0.7)
Operating profit/(loss) 9.2 8.9 1.1 (3.2) 16.0 
Net finance costs     (2.3)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax     13.7 
Tax charge     (4.2)
Profit for the year     9.5 
 
Europe
£m 
N America
£m 
Asia 
£m 
Head office
£m 
Group
£m 
External revenue 102.5 117.5 16.0 – 236.0 
Trading profit/(loss) 7.1 13.4 0.6 (2.5) 18.6 
Amortisation of intangible assets (0.1) (1.3) – – (1.4)
Exceptional items (0.5) – – – (0.5)
Pension administration costs – – – (0.7) (0.7)
Operating profit/(loss) 6.5 12.1 0.6 (3.2) 16.0 
Net finance costs     (2.3)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax    13.7 
Tax charge     (4.2)
Profit for the year     9.5 
 
Europe
£m 
N America
£m 
Asia 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Group
£m 
External revenue 92.7 111.5 15.0 16.8 236.0 
Notes on the Accounts 
75  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes on the Accounts
75
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information  
1. Segmental reporting continued 
The segment results for the year ended 31 March 2014 are as follows:  
 
Revenue is allocated based on the country in which the order is received. All revenue relates to the sale of goods. The revenue analysis based on the 
location of the customer is as follows: 
 
 
 
Healthcare
£m 
Industrial 
£m 
Electronics 
£m 
Head office 
£m 
Group
£m 
External revenue 69.2 145.7 11.2 – 226.1 
Trading profit/(loss) 10.2 7.9 (0.2) (2.4) 15.5 
Amortisation of intangible assets (1.5) – – – (1.5)
Exceptional items 1.2 (0.7) – (0.3) 0.2 
Pension administration costs – (0.3) – (0.5) (0.8)
Operating profit/(loss) 9.9 6.9 (0.2) (3.2) 13.4 
Net finance costs     (2.2)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax     11.2 
Tax charge     (17.9)
Loss for the year     (6.7)
 
Europe
£m 
N America
£m 
Asia 
£m 
Head office 
£m 
Group
£m 
External revenue 103.1 110.5 12.5 – 226.1 
Trading profit/(loss) 6.7 11.8 (0.6) (2.4) 15.5 
Amortisation of intangible assets – (1.5) – – (1.5)
Exceptional items (0.5) 1.0 – (0.3) 0.2 
Pension administration costs (0.3) – – (0.5) (0.8)
Operating profit/(loss) 5.9 11.3 (0.6) (3.2) 13.4 
Net finance costs     (2.2)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax    11.2 
Tax charge     (17.9)
Loss for the year     (6.7)
 
Europe
£m 
N America
£m 
Asia 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Group
£m 
External revenue 94.5 105.1 12.1 14.4 226.1 
Notes on the Accounts continued 
76  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes on the Accounts continued
76
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
1. Segmental reporting continued 
The Board reviews the performance of the business using information presented at consistent exchange rates. The prior year results have been 
restated using this year’s exchange rates as follows: 
 
Geographical information 
The Group’s revenue from external customers, based upon the location where the sale occurred, and information about its segment assets  
(non-current assets excluding financial instruments, deferred tax assets and other financial assets) are detailed below: 
 
Revenue from 
external customers 
2015
£m 
Revenue from 
external customers 
2014
£m 
Non-current  
assets  
2015 
£m 
Non-current
assets 
2014
£m 
USA 92.0 89.2 40.7 37.8 
France 40.0 40.8 5.9 3.3 
UK 30.2 30.2 17.9 5.0 
Canada 25.5 21.3 6.2 6.4 
Other countries 48.3 44.6 10.8 10.7 
 236.0 226.1 81.5 63.2 
2. Segment assets and liabilities 
The chief operating decision maker does not review assets and liabilities by business unit but by geographical area. The assets and liabilities at 
31 March 2015 and capital expenditure for the year then ended can be analysed into geographical segments as follows:  
 
 
Healthcare 
£m 
Industrial
£m 
Electronics 
£m 
Head office 
£m 
Group
£m 
External revenue 69.2 145.7 11.2 – 226.1 
Foreign exchange (0.8) (7.0) (0.3) – (8.1)
Underlying external revenue 68.4 138.7 10.9 – 218.0 
Trading profit/(loss) 10.2 7.9 (0.2) (2.4) 15.5 
Foreign exchange (0.2) (0.6) (0.1) – (0.9)
Underlying trading profit/(loss) 10.0 7.3 (0.3) (2.4) 14.6 
 
Europe
£m 
N America 
£m 
Asia 
£m 
Head office 
£m 
Group
£m 
External revenue 103.1 110.5 12.5 – 226.1 
Foreign exchange (4.9) (2.9) (0.3) – (8.1)
Underlying external revenue 98.2 107.6 12.2 – 218.0 
Trading profit/(loss) 6.7 11.8 (0.6) (2.4) 15.5 
Foreign exchange (0.3) (0.5) (0.1) – (0.9)
Underlying trading profit/(loss) 6.4 11.3 (0.7) (2.4) 14.6 
 
Europe
£m 
N America
£m 
Asia 
£m 
Head office
£m 
Group
£m 
Inventory 11.5 11.0 2.3 – 24.8 
Trade receivables (net) 20.3 18.9 3.6 – 42.8 
Trade payables (18.4) (9.3) (0.9) (0.9) (29.5)
Cash  8.3 5.2 1.5 1.7 16.7 
Additions of property, plant and equipment 5.2 2.1 0.2 0.2 7.7 
 
77  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
77
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information  
2. Segment assets and liabilities continued 
The assets and liabilities at 31 March 2014 and capital expenditure for the year then ended were as follows:  
Unallocated head office items relate to assets and liabilities incurred in the normal course of business for the Parent Company. 
3. Operating profit 
The operating profit for the year is stated after (charging)/crediting:  
 
2015  
Total  
£m 
2014
Total 
£m 
Revenue  236.0 226.1 
Materials and overheads  (118.7) (115.0)
Factory costs (17.9) (16.7)
Outward freight costs (7.0) (7.1)
Directors’ and employees’ costs  (59.6) (57.3)
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets   
 owned assets  (5.1) (5.1)
 leased assets  (0.1) (0.1)
Operating lease rentals   
 land and buildings  (1.8) (2.0)
 plant, machinery and other  (0.9) (1.0)
Repairs and maintenance costs  (2.6) (2.4)
Research and development costs  (2.8) (2.5)
Amortisation of government grants received  – 0.2 
Movement in fair value of financial instruments  0.1 0.2 
Foreign exchange losses (0.1) (0.2)
Amortisation of intangible assets (1.4) (1.5)
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and other assets – 1.3 
Decrease in inventory provision 0.2 0.6 
Impairment loss recognised in trade receivables (0.6) (0.1)
Pension administration costs (0.7) (0.8)
 
 
Europe
£m 
N America
£m 
Asia 
£m 
Head office 
£m 
Group
£m 
Inventory 11.1 11.2 1.8 – 24.1 
Trade receivables (net) 21.4 15.6 2.4 – 39.4 
Trade payables (19.8) (9.3) (0.6) (0.9) (30.6)
Cash  6.7 4.5 1.8 0.6 13.6 
Additions of property, plant and equipment 2.2 2.5 0.3 0.2 5.2 
Notes On The Accounts continued 
78  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes on the Accounts continued
78
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
3. Operating profit continued 
The analysis of auditor’s remuneration is as follows:  
Total audit fees were £343,000 (2014: £285,000). Total non-audit fees were £203,000 (2014: £397,000). 
4. Exceptional items 
During the year the Group incurred £0.5m of costs associated with the acquisition of First Water Limited. In the prior year the Group incurred a number 
of exceptional gains and costs that are separated for transparency and to provide a better understanding of the underlying performance of the Group. 
The net result of the gains and costs in the prior year was an exceptional income of £0.2m. Further analysis on the prior year exceptional income and 
costs is provided below: 
Prior year exceptional operating income 
An exceptional gain of £2.2m was released as part of the accounting for the acquisition of Webtec. The final earn out based on trading  
to December 2013 resulted in a release of contingent consideration and brings the total cost of acquisition to US$40.4m versus total potential of 
US$43.8m. The Group disposed of the Branly site in Valence, France and demolished buildings at a second vacant site in France. The net profit 
less costs of demolition was £0.8m. The Group merged its UK pension schemes into a single new scheme resulting in a settlement gain of £0.2m.  
Prior year exceptional operating costs 
The Group incurred exceptional costs of £1.4m relating to a Group-wide reorganisation. Exceptional bonus costs of £0.8m were incurred relating to 
the one-off share price related incentive that has payout triggers when the share price reaches £1.00 and £1.50.  
Contract start-up costs of £0.5m related to the non-recurring cost of setting up 24/7 manufacturing at a key site by adding additional shifts.  
The Group spent £0.3m on costs associated with a potential acquisition. The purchase was aborted and the costs have been separated out. 
 
2015
Total 
£’000 
2014
Total 
£’000 
Audit fees – Parent Company 76 80 
Audit fees – subsidiary undertakings 267 205 
Taxation compliance services 35 58 
Taxation advisory services 43 101 
Other assurance services 1 8 
Corporate finance services 114 226 
Other non-audit services 10 4 
 546 682 
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Operating income:   
Building sale and demolition – 0.8 
Webtec deferred consideration adjustment – 2.2 
UK pension settlement gain – 0.2 
   
Operating expenses:   
Acquisition costs (0.5) – 
Contract start-up costs – (0.5)
Exceptional bonus payments – (0.8)
Reorganisation costs – (1.4)
Abortive acquisition costs – (0.3)
   
 (0.5) 0.2 
 
 
79  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
79
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information  
5. Employee benefit expense  
 
Average employee numbers 2015 2014 
Europe 629 620 
North America 516 499 
Asia 107 104 
 1,252 1,223 
6. Key management compensation and Directors’ remuneration 
Key management is considered by the Group to be the Leadership Team, which comprises certain senior employees. Information about the 
remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 56. 
The short-term employment benefits include wages and salaries, bonuses, social security contributions and non-monetary benefits.  
7. Related party transactions 
The Group has incurred £0.2m of property lease costs during the year payable to HPB Investments, a company owned in part by Randy Holmes. 
The lease, which expires in August 2019, has a current annual cost of £0.2m. Randy Holmes (Director of Global Development) left the Group on 
31 July 2014. 
The pension schemes are related parties to the Group. There were no contributions outstanding at the year end and full details of transactions within 
the pension schemes are detailed in note 25. 
8. Net finance costs 
 
2015  
£m 
2014
£m 
Wages, salaries and other benefits  49.0 47.4 
Social security costs 7.0 6.8 
Share options granted to Directors and employees  1.5 0.8 
Pension costs – defined contribution plans (note 25)  2.0 1.8 
Pension costs – defined benefit plans (note 25)  0.1 0.5 
 59.6 57.3 
Pension curtailments and service costs (note 4)  – (0.2)
 59.6 57.1 
 2015 2014
 
Executive 
Directors 
£m 
Non-
Executive 
Directors
£m 
Key 
management 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Executive 
Directors
£m 
Non-
Executive 
Directors 
£m 
Key 
management
£m 
Total
£m 
Short-term employment benefits 1.5 0.2 2.1 3.8 1.5 0.2 1.5 3.2 
Post-employment benefits 0.1 – 0.1 0.2 0.1 – 0.1 0.2 
Termination benefits – – – – – – 0.3 0.3 
Share-based payments  
(including share incentive plan) 1.2 – 0.7 1.9 1.2 – 0.3 1.5 
 2.8 0.2 2.9 5.9 2.8 0.2 2.2 5.2 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts  (0.7) (0.5)
Other finance charges – (0.1)
Expected return on pension scheme assets less interest on scheme liabilities (note 25) (1.6) (1.6)
Net finance costs  (2.3) (2.2)
Notes On The Accounts continued 
80  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes on the Accounts continued
80
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
9. Taxation 
Income tax charge 
The actual tax on the Group’s profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount using the UK corporation tax rate as follows:  
Tax on exceptional items and pension administration costs 
 
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Current tax:   
Tax on ordinary activities – current year (3.4) (4.0)
Tax on ordinary activities – prior year 0.2 0.3 
Tax on exceptional items 0.1 0.1 
 (3.1) (3.6)
Deferred tax:  
Tax on ordinary activities – current year  (0.8) (0.7)
Tax on ordinary activities – prior year  (0.5) – 
Effect of reduction in UK corporation tax rate in 2014 to 20% – (1.8)
Tax on exceptional items 0.2 (0.5)
Exceptional deferred tax write off – (11.3)
 (1.1) (14.3)
Tax charge for the year  (4.2) (17.9)
 
2015
£m 
2014
 £m 
Profit on ordinary activities before tax  13.7 11.2 
Theoretical tax charge at 21% (2014: 23%) (2.9) (2.6)
Effect of reduction in UK corporation tax rate in 2014 to 20%  – (1.8)
Movements to/(from) unprovided deferred tax  0.7 (11.7)
Income not taxable and other deductions  0.3 0.3 
Items not deductible for tax purposes and other taxable items  (0.3) (0.8)
Effect of overseas tax rates being higher than UK tax rate  (1.7) (1.6)
Adjustments in respect of prior years  (0.3) 0.3 
Actual tax charge for the year (4.2) (17.9)
2015 
Loss  
before tax 
£m 
Tax 
£m 
Loss 
after tax 
£m 
Acquisition costs (0.5) 0.1 (0.4)
Exceptional items  (0.5) 0.1 (0.4)
Pension administration costs (0.7) 0.2 (0.5)
Exceptional items including pension administration costs (1.2) 0.3 (0.9)
 
 
81  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
81
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information  
9. Taxation continued 
2014 
Profit/(loss)  
before tax 
£m 
Tax 
£m 
Profit/(loss) 
after tax 
£m 
Building sale and demolition 0.8 (0.2) 0.6 
Webtec deferred consideration adjustment 2.2 (0.8) 1.4 
UK pension settlement gain 0.2 – 0.2 
Contract start-up costs (0.5) 0.2 (0.3)
Exceptional bonus payments (0.8) – (0.8)
Reorganisation costs (1.4) 0.2 (1.2)
Abortive acquisition costs (0.3) – (0.3)
Exceptional items  0.2 (0.6) (0.4)
Pension administration costs (0.8) 0.2 (0.6)
Exceptional items including pension administration costs (0.6) (0.4) (1.0)
Deferred income tax 
During the prior year, the basis of recognising the deferred tax asset in the UK was reviewed. Due to the changes in the structure of inter-company 
loans and the Group’s focus to diversify its markets, it was deemed appropriate to write down the carrying value of the UK deferred tax asset to 
£1.5m. This resulted in a charge to the Income Statement in the prior year of £10.5m. In line with IAS 12, the Group believes it probable that sufficient 
taxable profits will be available against which the revised UK deferred tax asset can be utilised. 
For the purposes of consistency, the deferred tax recognition criteria throughout the Group have also been reviewed. This resulted in an additional 
deferred tax write off of £0.8m, bringing the total of deferred tax written off in the prior year to £11.3m. 
The deferred tax balances included in these accounts are attributable to the following: 
 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Deferred tax assets:    
 Losses 3.5 4.4 
 Provisions and other short-term timing differences  4.3 2.6 
 Retirement benefit liabilities  4.4 2.9 
 12.2 9.9 
Deferred tax liabilities:   
 Accelerated tax depreciation (3.3) (2.8)
 Other short-term timing differences (1.1) (0.3)
 Tax effect of intangibles (0.8) (0.2)
 Provision for potential tax liability (4.4) (3.7)
 (9.6) (7.0)
Notes On The Accounts continued 
82  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes on the Accounts continued
82
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
9. Taxation continued  
As required by IAS 12, deferred tax assets and liabilities may only be offset where they arise in the same jurisdictions and are therefore presented on 
the Balance Sheet as follows:  
Tax assets amounting to £14.3m (2014: £15.3m) have not been recognised due to the uncertainty over the utilisation of the underlying tax losses in 
each jurisdiction. 
Deferred tax is only recognised in respect of entities that made a trading profit in the current and preceding year.  
 
10. Earnings/(loss) per share 
Basic  
Basic earnings/(loss) per share is calculated by dividing the profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares in issue during the year. 
Diluted  
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all 
potentially dilutive ordinary shares 153,093,244 (2014: 151,411,376). Diluted earnings/(loss) per share has been calculated including share options in 
existence at 31 March 2015. 
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Deferred tax assets as above 12.2 9.9 
 Accelerated tax depreciation liabilities/assets in different countries (3.1) (1.9)
Deferred tax asset on the Balance Sheet 9.1 8.0 
Deferred tax liabilities as above  (9.6) (7.0)
 Accelerated tax depreciation liabilities in different countries  3.1 1.9 
Deferred tax liability on the Balance Sheet  (6.5) (5.1)
Movement in deferred tax  
2015
£m  
2014
£m 
Beginning of the year 2.9 19.2 
Income Statement charge (1.1) (12.5)
Effect of reduction in UK corporation tax rate to 20% – (1.8)
Acquisitions (0.8) – 
Deferred tax on actuarial loss 1.6 0.1 
Deferred tax through other comprehensive income 0.1 (0.4)
Exceptional deferred tax through other comprehensive income – (1.5)
Other comprehensive income effect of reduction in UK corporation tax rate to 20% – (0.2)
End of year  2.7 2.9 
Movement in unrecognised deferred tax  
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Beginning of the year 15.3 4.0 
Current year movement in income statement (0.7) 11.7 
Current year movement in other comprehensive income (0.2) 1.9 
Disposal of asset previously classified as held for resale – (2.2)
Foreign exchange (0.1) (0.1)
End of year  14.3 15.3 
 
 
83  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
83
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information  
10. Earnings/loss per share continued  
Underlying  
Underlying earnings per share is calculated by dividing the trading profit less cash interest less tax on operating activities by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. 
 2015 2014
Profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders of the Company (£m) 9.5 (6.7)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (m) 146.8 146.4 
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (p) 6.5 (4.6)
Weighted average number of shares in issue, including potentially dilutive shares (m) 153.1 151.4 
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share (p) 6.2 (4.4)
Underlying earnings per share (p) 9.1 7.2 
11. Dividend per share  
A final dividend of 1.5p per share is proposed for the year ended 31 March 2015 (2014: 1.0p).  
12. Acquisition of subsidiary 
On 27 February 2015 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of First Water Limited, obtaining control. First Water Limited is a healthcare 
business specialising in innovation, design and manufacture of a wide range of hydrogels for the healthcare market. First Water Limited was 
acquired to: 
 
strengthen the Group’s turn-key value proposition 
 
broaden the Healthcare technology portfolio with proprietary and patented products 
 
enhance innovation and development capabilities 
 
add new global customers and potential markets  
 
increase the opportunity to leverage global sales channels providing significant cross-selling opportunities and product development potential 
 
improve the global manufacturing infrastructure  
The amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are as set out in the table below: 
Immediately on acquisition, the Group settled debt to the former owners of First Water Limited with a value of £2.2m. This debt settlement brings the 
total cost of the acquisition to £11.2m, with £0.2m being deferred consideration. 
 
  
Fair value
£m 
Net assets acquired  
Separately identifiable intangible assets  3.2 
Land and buildings  2.2 
Property, plant and machinery  0.6 
Inventory  0.5 
Trade and other debtors  1.7 
Debt, cash and equivalents  (2.2)
Trade and other payables  (3.7)
  2.3 
Goodwill  6.7 
Total consideration  9.0 
Satisfied by cash  8.8 
Satisfied by deferred consideration  0.2 
Notes On The Accounts continued 
84  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes on the Accounts continued
84
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
12. Acquisition of subsidiary continued  
In addition to the above, the former owners of the business have the opportunity to earn an additional £4.0m in post combination remuneration based 
on the performance of First Water Limited. The former owners remain in employment of the Group and are important in the management of the 
company. The potential undiscounted future payments that the Group could be required to pay based on the performance of the business are £2.0m 
in 2016, and £1.0m in each of the years 2017 and 2018.  
The goodwill of £6.7m arising from the acquisition is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. Acquisition related costs (included within 
exceptionals) amount to £0.5m. First Water Limited contributed £0.6m of revenue and £0.1m to Group profit between the date of acquisition and the 
Balance Sheet date. If the acquisition of First Water Limited had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenues for the period 
would have been £242.2m and Group trading profit would have been £19.3m. 
13. Goodwill 
The carrying value of the Group’s goodwill is not subject to annual amortisation and was tested for impairment at March 2015. The recoverable 
amount has been determined on a value in use basis on each cash-generating unit using the management approved 12-month forecasts for each 
cash-generating unit. The base 12-month projection is inflated by 3.0% up to year 5, which management believes does not exceed the long-term 
average growth rate for the industry, and then kept constant for years 6 to 20. These cash flows are discounted at a pre-tax discount rate of 10% and 
adjusted for specific risk factors that take into account the sensitivities of the projection. Terminal values are not used in the calculations. The Group 
has conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment test. If the assumed growth rate in years 2–5 was reduced to 0%, the recoverable amount of 
all cash-generating units individually would remain greater than their carrying values. An increase in the pre-tax discount rate to 14% would result in 
positive headroom on the carrying value of goodwill for each cash-generating unit. 
The pre-tax discount rate used by the Group has increased from 9.7% in the prior year to 10.0% for the year ending 31 March 2015. This increase 
follows a change in risk rates used in calculating the discount rate. The introduction of net debt in the Group had a small impact. As a result, the overall 
pre-tax discount rate has increased to 10.0%.  
Goodwill relates to the Acutek Medical operation £13.1m (2014: £11.5m), Webtec £14.1m (2014: £12.6m) and the recently acquired First Water 
Limited £6.7m (2014: £Nil). 
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Cost   
1 April 44.0 49.6 
Additions 6.7 – 
Exchange differences 5.6 (5.6)
31 March 56.3 44.0 
Accumulated amortisation and impairment   
1 April (19.9) (23.2)
Exchange differences (2.5) 3.3 
31 March (22.4) (19.9)
Net book value at 31 March 33.9 24.1 
 
 
85  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
85
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information  
14. Other intangible assets 
The acquisition of First Water Limited in February 2015 brought significant benefit to the Group in terms of development, customer relationships and 
technology know-how. These benefits were valued under IFRS 3 using estimates of useful lives and discounted cash flows of expected income. The 
values are being amortised over useful economic lives of between three and four years. The brought forward intangible assets relate to the acquisition 
of Webtec in 2011. No value has been assigned to brand names, as Scapa companies are contract manufacturers and inherent brand value resides 
with customers rather than the manufacturer. 
 
Patents and
development 
costs 
£m 
Contracts in 
progress 
£m 
Customer 
relationships 
£m 
Customer lists and 
sales pipeline  
£m 
Technology and 
know-how 
£m 
Total
£m 
Cost  
1 April 2013 – 1.2 3.4 2.3 0.4 7.3 
Exchange differences – (0.1) (0.3) (0.2) – (0.6)
31 March 2014 and 1 April 2014 – 1.1 3.1 2.1 0.4 6.7 
Exchange differences – 0.1 0.4 0.3 0.1 0.9 
Acquisition of subsidiary  1.2 – 1.6 – 0.4 3.2 
31 March 2015 1.2 1.2 5.1 2.4 0.9 10.8 
Amortisation 
1 April 2013 – (0.5) (0.9) (0.5) (0.1) (2.0)
Exchange differences – – 0.1 0.1 – 0.2 
Charge for the year – (0.4) (0.7) (0.3) (0.1) (1.5)
31 March 2014 and 1 April 2014 – (0.9) (1.5) (0.7) (0.2) (3.3)
Exchange differences – (0.1) (0.3) (0.1) – (0.5)
Charge for the year – (0.2) (0.7) (0.4) (0.1) (1.4)
31 March 2015 – (1.2) (2.5) (1.2) (0.3) (5.2)
Carrying amount 
31 March 2015 1.2 – 2.6 1.2 0.6 5.6 
31 March 2014  – 0.2 1.6 1.4 0.2 3.4 
 
Remaining useful economic life (years) 2 - 4 – 1.5 - 3 2.75  2.75 - 4 
Notes On The Accounts continued 
86  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
     
      
      
      
 
Notes on the Accounts continued
86
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
15. Property, plant and equipment 
The Group has not revalued any item of property, plant and equipment. Impairment of property plant and equipment of £0.3m was reversed in the year 
following a review of the projected future cash flows relating to an Asian site. 
 
Freehold land 
and buildings  
£m 
Long leasehold 
buildings 
£m 
Plant and 
machinery 
£m 
Furniture, fittings 
and equipment 
£m 
IT  
systems 
£m 
Assets under 
construction
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost         
1 April 2013  16.6 8.4 93.0 5.4 18.6 1.2 143.2 
Exchange differences  (1.3) (0.1) (4.8) (0.2) (0.5) – (6.9)
Additions  0.2 0.3 3.4 0.1 0.2 1.0 5.2 
Disposals  – – (0.9) – (0.1) – (1.0)
Transfers – – 0.9 – – (0.9) – 
31 March 2014 and 1 April 2014 15.5 8.6 91.6 5.3 18.2 1.3 140.5 
Exchange differences  0.3 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.2 (0.3) 0.6 
Additions  0.6 0.1 2.3 0.1 0.1 4.5 7.7 
Acquisition of subsidiary 2.2 – 0.6 – – – 2.8 
Transfer to assets held for re-sale 
(note 16) (0.3) – – – – – (0.3)
Disposals  – (0.9) (3.1) (0.4) (0.5) – (4.9)
Transfers 0.1 – 0.7 – – (0.8) – 
31 March 2015  18.4 7.9 92.3 5.1 18.0 4.7 146.4 
Accumulated depreciation         
1 April 2013 (9.2) (4.7) (70.0) (4.7) (16.2) – (104.8)
Exchange differences  0.5 – 3.1 0.2 0.4 – 4.2 
Depreciation  (0.5) (0.2) (3.3) (0.2) (1.0) – (5.2)
Disposals – – 0.9 – 0.1 – 1.0 
31 March 2014 and 1 April 2014 (9.2) (4.9) (69.3) (4.7) (16.7) – (104.8)
Exchange differences  (0.1) (0.1) 0.3 0.1 (0.1) – 0.1 
Depreciation  (0.5) (0.2) (3.5) (0.2) (0.8) – (5.2)
Impairment reversal – – 0.3 – – – 0.3 
Transfer to assets held for re-sale 
(note 16) 0.3 – – – – – 0.3 
Disposals – 0.9 3.1 0.4 0.5 – 4.9 
31 March 2015 (9.5) (4.3) (69.1) (4.4) (17.1) – (104.4)
Carrying amount         
31 March 2015 8.9 3.6 23.2 0.7 0.9 4.7 42.0 
31 March 2014 6.3 3.7 22.3 0.6 1.5 1.3 35.7 
 
 
87  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
87
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information  
15. Property, plant and equipment continued 
Assets held under finance leases, capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment are as follows: 
During the year ending March 2015 there were no events or changes in circumstance that would indicate the carrying value of property, plant and 
equipment may not be recoverable.  
16. Assets classified as held for sale 
A dormant site in Bellegarde France is currently under offer from a potential buyer. Subject to certain conditions to be met over the forthcoming year 
the Group expect to dispose of the site during the second half of 2015/16. 
17. Inventory 
The material and overhead element of inventory recognised as an expense and included in the Income Statement amounted to £118.4m 
(2014: £115.0m). 
There is no material difference between the Balance Sheet value and the fair value less costs to sell. 
18. Trade and other receivables 
 
 
2015  
£m 
2014
£m 
Cost  0.6 1.1 
Accumulated depreciation  (0.1) (0.3)
Net book amount 0.5 0.8 
Assets classified as held for sale 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Bellegarde site cost 0.3 – 
Bellegarde site depreciation (0.3) – 
Carrying value at 31 March – – 
 
2015 
£m  
2014
£m 
Raw materials 9.4 8.8 
Work in progress 6.3 5.9 
Finished goods 9.1 9.4 
 24.8 24.1 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Amounts due within one year:   
Trade receivables 44.1 40.2 
Less: provisions for impairment (1.3) (0.8)
Trade receivables – net 42.8 39.4 
Other debtors 1.2 1.3 
Prepayments and accrued income 2.0 1.6 
Total amounts due within one year 46.0 42.3 
Notes On The Accounts continued 
88  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes on the Accounts continued
88
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
18. Trade and other receivables continued  
The carrying amounts of these receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 
All amounts due after more than one year are denominated in US Dollars. Management review individual receivables and provide for overdue 
amounts specifically. 
At the year end, the following trade receivables balances were overdue but not impaired: 
Overdue analysis includes impact of foreign exchange movements. Historically customer default is low. The credit quality of the year end receivables 
balance is considered high. As such all of the above amounts are considered recoverable. 
The movement in the impairment provision for trade receivables is as follows: 
Included in the impairment provision are individually impaired trade receivables with a gross balance of £1.3m (2014: £1.1m). The impairment 
recognised represents the difference between the carrying amount of these trade receivables and the present value of the expected proceeds. 
Ageing of impaired trade receivables: 
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Greater than 3 months 1.3 0.8 
 1.3 0.8 
19. Cash and cash equivalents  
Cash and bank overdrafts include the following for the purposes of the Cash Flow Statement:  
 
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Pounds Sterling  4.6 4.7 
US Dollars  20.0 16.1 
Euros  14.9 17.0 
Other  6.5 4.5 
 46.0 42.3 
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Less than 1 month 0.3 2.2 
Between 1 and 3 months – 0.6 
 0.3 2.8 
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Opening provision at 1 April 2014 0.8 0.8 
Charge for the year 0.6 0.1 
Receivables written off in the year (0.1) (0.1)
Closing provision at 31 March 2105 1.3 0.8 
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Cash and cash equivalents  16.7 13.6 
 
 
89  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
89
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information  
20. Trade and other payables 
The carrying amounts of these payables are denominated in the following currencies: 
 
Trade payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken for trade purchases 
is 79 days (2014: 85 days), stated using the non-labour element of cost of goods sold. The Group has financial risk management policies in place to 
ensure that all payables are paid within the pre-agreed credit terms. 
21. Borrowings 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Amounts due within one year:    
Trade payables and trade accruals 29.5 30.6 
Other taxes and social security 4.1 4.3 
Other creditors 11.2 8.2 
 44.8 43.1 
Amounts due after more than one year:   
Other creditors 0.2 0.2 
 0.2 0.2 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Amounts due within one year:   
Pounds Sterling 12.7 10.5 
US Dollars 11.2 12.0 
Euros 15.6 16.3 
Other 5.3 4.3 
 44.8 43.1 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Amounts due after more than one year:   
Pounds Sterling – 0.1 
US Dollars 0.1 0.1 
Euros 0.1 – 
 0.2 0.2 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Amounts due within one year:   
Finance leases 0.1 0.1 
Other loans 1.2 – 
 1.3 0.1 
Amounts due after more than one year:   
Bank loan 18.6 8.0 
Finance leases 0.2 0.1 
 18.8 8.1 
Total borrowings 20.1 8.2 
Notes On The Accounts continued 
90  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes on the Accounts continued
90
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
21. Borrowings continued  
In January 2014 the Group entered into a new committed multi-currency facility with a club of three UK banks. The principal features of the facility are: 
 
the committed value of the facility is £40m 
 
there is access to an uncommitted accordion of an additional £20m 
 
it is unsecured 
 
it is repayable in June 2018 
 
the interest payable on drawings under the loan is based on inter-bank interest plus a sliding scale margin determined by the Group’s leverage; 
the margin is currently 1.5% 
 
the facility has two covenants – the ratio of EBITDA to interest paid must be above 4:1, and the ratio of EBITDA to net debt must be less than 3, 
reducing to 2.5 over time 
The carrying value of borrowings is approximate to their fair value. The effective interest rates (including swap interest rates) at the Balance Sheet date 
were as follows: 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 
The total borrowings figure is presented net of unamortised debt issue costs of £0.4m (2014: £0.5m). 
Movements in forward currency contracts used to hedge against the exposure to exchange differences due to the timing of cash flows are taken 
through the Income Statement as it is not Group policy to hedge account for these instruments. At 31 March 2015 there were no assets or liabilities 
recognised in the Balance Sheet relating to the fair values of forward foreign exchange contracts in place (2014: asset £0.1m) (see note 22).  
The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities (this includes committed and uncommitted): 
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Bank loan (committed) 21.0 31.5 
Bank loan (‘Accordion’ uncommitted) 20.0 20.0 
Overdrafts 1.0 1.6 
22. Derivative financial instruments 
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk. The 
Group’s overall risk management procedures focus on the unpredictability of financial markets and seek to minimise potential adverse effects on the 
Group’s financial performance. Risk management is carried out by the Group finance department (in close co-operation with the operating units) under 
policies approved by the Board of Directors.  
– Foreign exchange risk  
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk, arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the  
US Dollar, the Canadian Dollar and the Euro. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and 
net investments in foreign operations. As the Group has certain investments in foreign operations, these net assets are exposed to foreign currency 
translation risk.  
To manage its foreign exchange risk the Group uses foreign currency bank balances, and makes some use of foreign currency forward contracts to 
avoid short-term fluctuations in currencies. In addition, purchases of large items of capital in foreign currency are covered by forward contracts at the 
point of authorisation.  
 
US and
 Canadian Dollars 
31 March 2015 – Bank loans and overdrafts 2.1% 
31 March 2014 – Bank loans and overdrafts 3.6% 
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Pounds Sterling  13.3 0.1 
US Dollars 6.8 8.1 
 20.1 8.2 
 
 
91  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
91
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information  
22. Derivative financial instruments continued  
The Group also enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to cover specific foreign currency payments and receipts. The contracts are primarily 
denominated in the currencies of the Group’s principal markets. At the year end the Group had no forward contracts in place. The fair value of 
contracts in place at 31 March 2015 is detailed below: 
 – Interest rate risk 
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as it has borrowings at floating rates. Interest rate risk is evaluated periodically to consider interest rate views 
and defined risk appetite; to seek to ensure that reasonable economic strategies are applied, by either positioning the Balance Sheet or protecting 
interest expense through different interest rate cycles. Deposit risk is managed by spreading deposits across high credit rated institutions, and capping 
the maximum deposit with an institution at one time.  
The Group entered into an interest rate swap instrument in January 2012. This instrument enabled the Group to mitigate interest rate fluctuation risk. 
Under interest rate swap contracts, the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated on 
agreed notional principal amounts. Such contracts enable the Group to mitigate the risk of changing the cash flow exposures on the issued variable 
rate debt held. The fair value of the interest rate swaps at the reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the curves at 
the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the contracts. The swap instrument matured in 2015 and no further swap has been entered into. 
The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of the interest rate swap contract that was outstanding at 
31 March 2014 and has since expired: 
The fair value of the interest rate swaps at 31 March 2015 was determined by discounting the future cash flows using yield curve data at the reporting 
date. The interest rate swaps settle on a quarterly basis. The Group will settle the difference between the fixed and floating interest rates on a net basis. 
Hedge accounting has not been applied to these derivative instruments.  
– Commodity price risk  
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk as it buys a number of commodity products that are vital to its production process. The Group 
mitigates this risk by fixing pricing with its suppliers where possible. The contracts entered into continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt of 
the commodity in accordance with the Group’s expected purchase or usage requirements. There is no intention to re-sell the commodities bought. 
– Liquidity risk  
The Group maintains a mixture of committed long-term and short-term facilities designed to ensure that the Group has sufficient cash funds available 
for operations and planned investment.  
Liquidity tables 
The following tables detail the Group’s contractual maturity for financial instruments. The tables are drawn up on the undiscounted cash flows of 
financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.  
 
 
Notional amount
2015
£m 
Fair value
2015
£m 
Notional amount 
2014 
£m 
Fair value
2014
£m 
Current    
Forward foreign exchange contracts – – 3.0 – 
 Trade date Effective date Termination date Currency 
Notional 
amount 
£m 
Fair value 
£m 
Fixed rate
% 
Outstanding receive fixed pay 
floating contracts  25 January 2012 8 March 2012 9 March 2015 USD 18.0 (0.1) 0.78 
 
Due within  
one year 
£m 
One to  
two years 
£m 
Two to
five years
£m 
2015    
Trade payables and trade accruals 29.5 – – 
Other taxes and social security 4.1 – – 
Other creditors 11.2 0.2 – 
Finance leases 0.1 0.2 – 
Loans and overdrafts 1.2 – 18.6 
 46.1 0.4 18.6 
Notes On The Accounts continued 
92  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes on the Accounts continued
92
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
22. Derivative financial instruments continued 
There are no items with a maturity greater than five years. The bank loans in the above tables are stated after any unamortised arrangement costs. 
The following tables detail the Group’s contractual maturity for financial assets. The tables are drawn up based on the undiscounted contracted 
maturities of those financial assets. 
 
In accordance with IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments, the Group’s financial instruments are considered to be classified as 
Level 2 instruments. Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than unadjusted quoted prices in active markets (Level 1 
categorisation) that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). 
– Credit risk  
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. It has policies in place to ensure that sales of products are made to customers with an 
appropriate credit history. Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are spread across a number of financial institutions. The European and 
North American businesses obtain third party credit insurance on worldwide sales, subject to specific exclusions, excesses and total policy limits. 
The credit risk position for our major customers is detailed below. This shows a fairly predictable level of credit utilisation across the regions and years, 
and highlights that there is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables.  
Europe  
The top five customers by balance at 31 March 2015 had a total receivable of £1.8m, versus their cumulative credit limit of £2.4m.  
The top five customers at 31 March 2014 had a total receivable of £1.9m, versus their cumulative credit limit of £3.7m.  
North America  
The top five customers by balance at 31 March 2015 had a total receivable of £9.5m, versus their cumulative credit limit of £19.1m.  
The top five customers at 31 March 2014 had a total receivable of £8.0m, versus their cumulative credit limit of £16.6m. 
Asia  
The top five customers by balance at 31 March 2015 had a total receivable of £1.6m, versus their cumulative credit limit of £1.6m.  
The top five customers at 31 March 2014 had a total receivable of £0.6m, versus their cumulative credit limit of £0.8m.  
 
Due within 
 one year 
£m 
One to 
two years
£m 
Two to 
five years
£m 
2014    
Trade payables 30.6 – – 
Other taxes and social security 4.3 – – 
Other creditors 8.2 0.2 – 
Finance leases 0.1 0.1 – 
Loans and overdrafts – – 8.0 
 43.2 0.3 8.0 
 
Due within 
one year 
£m 
One to 
two years 
£m 
Two to
 five years 
£m 
2015    
Receivables 46.0 – – 
Cash and cash equivalents 16.7 – – 
 62.7 – – 
2014    
Receivables 42.3 – – 
Cash and cash equivalents 13.6 – – 
 55.9 – – 
 
 
93  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
93
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information  
23. Capital risk 
The Group defines the capital that it manages as the Group’s total equity. The Group’s primary objective when managing capital is to safeguard the 
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders. The Group must ensure 
that sufficient capital resources are available for working capital requirements and meeting principal and interest payments as they fall due. In order to 
ensure that sufficient capital is available, the Group may adjust the amount of new shares issued, return capital to shareholders, alter its dividend policy 
or dispose of assets to reduce net debt. 
The Group monitors capital using the following main indicators: 
Gearing ratio 
2015 
 £m 
2014
 £m 
Total equity (£m) 61.8 47.7 
Total assets (£m) 178.5 151.5 
Equity % ratio 35% 31% 
  
Net debt to EBITDA comprises net debt divided by operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges. 
EBITDA interest cover comprises operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges divided by net interest payable on bank 
overdrafts and loans, other loans and bank deposits. 
The Group’s principal loan covenants are: EBITDA interest cover (EBITDA being at least 4 times the net interest payable); and net debt to EBITDA ratio 
(net debt being less than 3 times adjusted EBITDA, reducing over time to 2.5). 
24. Provisions 
 
Reorganisation 
and leasehold 
commitments 
Environmental 
£m 
Total
£m 
At 1 April 2014 2.8 0.7 3.5 
Exchange differences – (0.1) (0.1)
Additions in the year 0.2 0.4 0.6 
Release in year (0.3) – (0.3)
Utilised in the year (1.0) (0.3) (1.3)
At 31 March 2015 1.7 0.7 2.4 
Analysis of provisions:  
 
Current  0.4 0.6 1.0 
Non-current  1.3 0.1 1.4 
At 31 March 2015 1.7 0.7 2.4 
 
Net debt to EBITDA ratio 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Net debt (£m)  (3.4) – 
EBITDA (£m) 22.3 20.1 
Net debt to EBITDA ratio 0.15 Nil 
EBITDA interest cover 
2015 
£m 
2014
 £m 
EBITDA (£m) 22.3 20.1 
Net interest payable (£m) (0.7) (0.5)
Interest cover (times) 32 40 
Notes On The Accounts continued 
94  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes on the Accounts continued
94
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
24. Provisions continued 
   
Reorganisation  
and leasehold 
commitments 
£m 
Environmental
£m 
Total
£m 
At 1 April 2013    2.6 0.3 2.9 
Exchange differences   (0.1) – (0.1)
Additions in the year   0.7 0.6 1.3 
Release in year   – (0.1) (0.1)
Utilised in the year   (0.4) (0.1) (0.5)
At 31 March 2014   2.8 0.7 3.5 
Analysis of provisions:       
Current    0.8 0.6 1.4 
Non-current    2.0 0.1 2.1 
At 31 March 2014   2.8 0.7 3.5 
– Reorganisation and leasehold commitments  
The £1.7m (2014: £2.8m) reorganisation provision relates to dilapidations for leasehold property of £1.5m (2014: £1.5m) and £0.2m (2014: £0.6m) in 
relation to reorganisation costs. The prior year figure included a land value guarantee of £0.7m relating to a disposal in 2007, this was settled during 
the year. 
Whilst the timing of the economic benefits relating to the non-current provisions cannot be ascertained with any degree of certainty, the leasehold 
commitments are expected to take place within the next two to three years.  
– Environmental provisions  
Environmental provisions relate to expected costs required to clean up environmental contamination of a number of sites in both Europe of £0.6m 
(2014: £0.6m) and North America of £0.1m (2014: £0.1m). The Group expects the majority of the spend against the environmental provisions to be 
incurred over the next four years. 
25. Retirement benefit obligations  
– Defined contribution schemes  
The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes. Employer’s contributions are charged to the Income Statement as incurred. The total 
pension cost for the Group in respect of these schemes for the year ended 31 March 2015 was £1.8m (2014: £1.8m). The assets of these schemes 
are held in independently administered funds. 
– Defined benefit schemes  
The total amounts recognised in the Group financial statements for defined benefit schemes are summarised on pages 95 to 100. 
a) UK schemes  
By far the largest defined benefit scheme in the Group is in the Scapa Group plc Pension Scheme, which has all the assets and liabilities of the former 
UK employees. The scheme has been closed to new members and future accrual since 2007/08 and is wholly funded by the sponsoring employer. 
The assets of the scheme are held separately from the Company under Trust and both the assets and liabilities are held on a non-sectionalised basis. 
The scheme is managed by a professional trustee. 
The IAS 19 Retirement Benefits valuations have been updated from the prior year by the scheme actuaries using formal valuation calculations 
carried out as at 1 April 2014, in order to assess the liabilities of the schemes at 31 March 2015. Scheme assets are stated at their market value 
at 31 March 2015.  
 
 
95  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
95
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information  
25. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
– Funding arrangement 
On 11 March 2013 Scapa Group plc agreed an asset-backed funding arrangement with the Trustees of the UK Pension Funds to help address the UK 
pension funding deficit. The asset backed funding structure provides £3.75 million cash per annum to the UK Pension Funds. The present value of this 
funding stream is recognised as an investment of the UK Pension Funds and removes the funding deficit on actuarial valuation.  
The contributions under the asset backed structure are as follows: 
 
the arrangement provides a cash flow of £3.75m per year subject to RPI indexation  
 
the company pays £0.35m per year subject to RPI indexation, towards the administration costs of the scheme 
 
the company pays non-administration costs as agreed on a project by project basis with the trustee 
Total cash payments in the year were £4.2m (2014: £4.8m). The prior year payments included £0.6m of payments relating to the year 2012/13 that 
were paid in 2013/14. 
b) Overseas schemes  
The Group operates a number of pension schemes in different countries. There are several small defined benefit schemes and a number of defined 
contribution schemes. In addition, in certain countries, the Group must provide for various employee termination benefits. These are accounted for as 
if they were defined benefit pension schemes. The total defined benefit pension charge to operating profit for the Group in respect of overseas pension 
schemes for the year ended 31 March 2015 was £0.4m (2014: £0.4m). The forecast future contributions into these schemes are expected to be 
similar to the current year contributions, but are subject to the number and nature of leavers in any period. 
Details of the Group’s material overseas defined benefit schemes are as follows:  
– North America  
The Group operates three pension plans in North America, a funded defined benefit scheme and two unfunded pension plans. The defined benefit 
scheme was closed during the prior year and all three schemes are therefore now closed to new members and future accrual. The disclosures are 
based on the most recent actuarial valuations of liabilities and asset market values at 31 March 2015. 
– France 
The Group operates an unfunded statutory retirement benefit scheme in France (liabilities: £3.5m), with payments made to employees on retirement. 
– Italy  
There is an unfunded statutory termination indemnity plan in Italy, with payments made to employees on retirement or termination of service. The Italian 
scheme is closed to future accrual following changes in local legislation in 2013 (liabilities: £0.7m).  
– Switzerland  
The Group has an insured retirement fund in Switzerland that is accounted for under IAS 19. 
Set out below are the key financial assumptions used to calculate scheme liabilities under IAS 19. Given the relative size of the schemes, the age profile 
and sensitivities are only provided for the UK.  
The salary increase assumption is no longer relevant in the UK as all UK schemes are now closed to future accrual. All UK schemes include  
an allowance for administration expenses and PPF levy in the value of accrued benefits.  
 UK  North America France Italy Switzerland
 2015  2014  2015  2014 2015  2014 2015  2014  2015  2014 
Discount rate  3.40% 4.40% 4.67% 4.67% 1.35% 3.00% 1.75% 0.6% 2.60% 2.60% 
Salary rises  – – – – – – – – 1.85% 1.85% 
Price inflation (RPI) 2.95% 3.45% 3.00% 3.00% 2.00% 2.00% 2.25% 2.25% 1.40% 1.40% 
Price inflation (CPI) 1.95% 2.65% – – – – – – – – 
Pension rises  2.60% to 
3.35% 
2.80% to 
3.60% 
– – – – – – – – 
Deferred pension rises  1.95% 2.65% – – – – – – – – 
Notes On The Accounts continued 
96  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes on the Accounts continued
96
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
25. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
The expected investment returns have been calculated using the weighted average of the expected investment returns for the different asset classes. 
The expected return on investments for the UK schemes are set out in the table below; the expected return on investment for the overseas schemes 
is not a key judgement given the small asset values. 
The assumptions relating to UK longevity underlying the pension liabilities at the Balance Sheet date are based on standard actuarial mortality tables, 
with adjustments to reflect actual experience. For the year to 31 March 2015, the IAS 19 calculations have been performed using standard actuarial 
tables known as S2PA with an adjustment or loading to broadly reflect the membership profile of the scheme. The movement to a single loading 
for the scheme has had a small negative impact on the scheme compared with using multiple loadings for each scheme in the prior year. Future 
improvements in mortality have been allowed for using the core CMI 2013 model, with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per annum. For a 
male, currently aged 65, this equates to a life expectancy of 86.8 years and for a female, currently aged 65, a life expectancy of 89.6 years. A male 
and female reaching age 65 in 2030 would have a life expectancy at that time of 88.1 years and 91.1 years respectively. 
Actuarial assumption sensitivities  
The calculation of the schemes’ deficits is sensitive to changes in the underlying assumptions listed above. The following tables show the approximate 
effect of changes in the key assumptions on the UK scheme’s liabilities (and deficit) at the year end. These are approximate and only show the likely 
effect of an assumption being adjusted whilst all other assumptions remain the same. Note that sensitivities are not provided for the overseas schemes 
because the materiality of the results is not significant. 
The amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet are determined as follows: 
UK schemes 
2015
Expected 
rate of return 
2015  
Value  
£m 
2014
Expected 
rate of return 
2014
Value
 £m 
Equities  7.50% 41.4 7.50% 50.6 
Property 7.50% 2.9 7.50% 2.6 
Debt A and above 3.60% 48.9 3.10% 48.9 
Debt below A 4.40% 22.3 4.40% 9.8 
Debt unrated 4.40% 1.9 4.35% 0.7 
Cash 3.10% 6.3 3.10% 2.1 
Other 7.50% 14.4 7.50% 5.7 
Total market value of assets   138.1  120.4 
Present value of scheme liabilities  (169.0)  (155.9)
Net deficit in the schemes  (30.9)  (35.5)
 
UK
2015 
£m 
Rate of inflation 
Change in the year end liabilities from a 0.1% increase in the assumed rate of inflation  (1.2)
Change in the year end liabilities from a 0.1% decrease in the assumed rate of inflation 1.3 
Discount rate 
Change in the year end liabilities from a 0.1% increase in the assumed rate of discount (2.5)
Change in the year end liabilities from a 0.1% decrease in the assumed rate of discount 2.8 
Mortality 
Life expectancy of members increases by 1 year 7.5 
Life expectancy of members decreases by 1 year (7.4)
Rate of improvement in life expectancy increases by 0.25% per annum: 
 Life expectancy of both male and female currently aged 65 0.3 years 
 Life expectancy of male reaching age 65 in 2030 0.6 years 
 Life expectancy of female reaching age 65 in 2030  0.6 years 
 
 
97  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
 
 
 
97
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information  
25. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
 
 
Expected return on plan assets is 2.66% (2014: 2.66%). 
The amounts recognised in the Income Statement are as follows: 
 
French scheme  
2015 
Value 
 £m  
2014
Value
 £m 
Present value of scheme liabilities  (3.5)  (3.1)
Net deficit in the schemes  (3.5)  (3.1)
Italian scheme  
2015  
Value 
 £m  
2014
Value
 £m 
Present value of scheme liabilities  (0.7)  (0.8)
Net deficit in the scheme  (0.7)  (0.8)
 
Swiss scheme  
2015  
Value 
 £m  
2014
Value
 £m 
Total market value of assets  11.2  11.0 
Present value of scheme liabilities  (11.2)  (11.0)
Net deficit in the scheme  –  – 
North American schemes 
2015
Expected
 rate of return 
2015  
Value  
£m 
2014  
Expected  
rate of return 
2014
Value 
£m 
Equities  – – 7.0% 5.4 
Bonds  4.7% 5.6 3.0% 5.1 
Other  4.7% 7.3 3.0% 0.8 
Total market value of assets  12.9 11.3 
Present value of scheme liabilities  (17.6) (12.0)
Net deficit in the schemes  (4.7) (0.7)
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Current service cost  (0.4) (0.5)
Settlement 0.1 0.2 
Total included within staff costs (0.3) (0.3)
  
Expected return on scheme assets less interest on scheme liabilities (1.6) (1.6)
Total included within finance costs  (1.6) (1.6)
Total expenses charged through the Income Statement  (1.9) (1.9)
Notes On The Accounts continued 
98  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
 
 
 
Notes on the Accounts continued
98
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
25. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
The amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income are as follows: 
The amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet are as follows: 
Analysis of movements in scheme assets 
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Beginning of the year  142.7 143.7 
Exchange differences 1.4 (1.1)
Expected return on scheme assets  5.7 5.6 
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets  18.6 (0.8)
Contributions paid  4.3 5.1 
Benefits paid  (10.5) (9.8)
End of the year  162.2 142.7 
Analysis of movement in scheme liabilities  
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Beginning of the year  (182.7) (184.9)
Exchange differences (1.4) 1.3 
Current service cost (included within staff costs)  (0.4) (0.5)
Settlement (included within staff costs) 0.1 0.2 
Interest on scheme liabilities  (7.3) (7.2)
Experience (losses)/gains (2.7) 0.6 
Changes in assumptions  (18.1) (2.0)
Benefits paid  10.5 9.8 
End of the year  (202.0) (182.7)
 
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 18.6 (0.8)
Experience gains/(losses) arising on scheme liabilities (2.7) 0.6 
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities:  
 Demographic assumptions (1.9) (2.4)
 Financial assumptions (16.2) 0.4 
Total amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income  (2.2) (2.2)
 
 
99  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
99
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information  
25. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
Analysis of movement in Balance Sheet liability 
Cumulative actuarial losses on pension schemes recognised in reserves total £38.4m (2014: £36.2m).  
26. Share capital 
The movement in share capital relates to the exercise of share options (see below). The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no 
rights to fixed income. 
 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Beginning of the year  (40.0) (41.2)
Exchange differences  – 0.2 
Income Statement expense (1.9) (1.9)
Statement of Comprehensive Income items 15.9 (0.2)
Changes in assumptions (18.1) (2.0)
Contributions paid  4.3 5.1 
Net deficit in the schemes (39.8) (40.0)
 
2015 
IAS19 
(revised) 
£m 
2014 
IAS 19 
(revised) 
£m 
2013 
IAS 19  
(revised)  
£m 
2012 
IAS 19 
 
£m 
2011 
IAS 19 
 
£m 
Present value of defined benefit obligations (202.0) (182.7) (184.9) (172.3) (150.9)
Fair value of plan assets 162.2 142.7 143.7 133.4 115.9 
Deficit in the plan (39.8) (40.0) (41.2) (38.9) (35.0)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities (20.8) (1.4) (24.0) (24.3) 0.5 
 (10.3%) (0.8%) (13.0%) (14.1%) 0.3% 
Experience adjustments on plan assets 18.6 (0.8) 10.5 13.4 1.8 
 (11.5%) (0.6%) 7.3% 10.0% 1.6% 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Allotted, issued and fully paid   
147,239,801 (2014: 146,772,675) shares of 5p each 7.4 7.3 
Notes On The Accounts continued 
100  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes on the Accounts continued
100
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
27. Share options  
Potential issues of ordinary shares  
Certain senior managers and other staff hold options to subscribe for shares in the Company at prices ranging from nil pence per share to 42.6 pence 
per share under share option schemes approved by shareholders. The number of shares subject to options, the periods in which they were granted, 
and the periods in which they may be exercised are given below:  
During the year 467,126 options under the 2012 Sharesave option plan were exercised. All other movements from 2014 are expired or lapsed options 
and new grants.  
As at 31 March 2015, 400,000 of the options were exercisable under the 2009 performance share plan and 56,617 options were exercisable under 
the 2012 Sharesave option plan.  
The Group operates several share option schemes. Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Group’s shares 
on the date of grant. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group through resignation or dismissal before the options vest. 
Equity settled share options are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the date of grant is expensed on a straight-line 
basis over the vesting period, based upon the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest. 
There are no cash-settled share options. 
Fair value is measured by use of a Black Scholes model according to the relevant measures of performance. The models include adjustments, based 
upon management’s best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions, behavioural considerations and expected dividend payments. The option life 
is derived from models based upon these assumptions and other assumptions identified below. 
The Group recognised total expenses of £1.5m (2014: £0.8m) related to equity-settled share-based payments. This expense includes the charge for 
new options granted during the year net of release of charge for the options for which it has been concluded that vesting criteria will not be met. 
– Long-Term Incentive Plan  
The Company has a long-term incentive plan that operates based on the 2004 and 2011 Performance Share Plans.  
Options granted in 2009/10, and 2010/11 relate to the incentive plan known as the Scapa Group plc 2004 Performance Share Plan which was 
approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 22 July 2004. Awards under the plan take the form of either an annual allocation of 
ordinary shares or a grant of nil cost options over shares with a market value at the time of grant equivalent to a maximum of 100% of basic salary 
at that time with vesting taking place at the expiry of the three-year performance period of the plan, subject to attainment of the performance targets. 
Awards in the form of an allocation of ordinary shares lapse at the end of the three-year performance period to the extent that the performance 
conditions have not been met. Awards in the form of a nil cost option remain exercisable until their tenth anniversary of the date of grant, subject 
to achievement of the performance conditions, after which they lapse.  
Options granted in 2011/12, 2012/13, 2013/14 and 2014/15 relate to the 2011 incentive plan known as the Scapa Group plc 2011 Performance 
Share Plan, details of which can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report contained in these accounts. 
 
Scheme  Year of grant  
Average exercise 
price per share Exercise period  
Number of 
options 
2015 
Number of 
options 
2014 
Executive share option plan 2007 29.25p up to 20 August 2017 – 25,000 
Executive share option plan 2007 32.75p up to 10 December 2017 – 75,000 
Executive share option plan 2008 27.75p up to 7 July 2018 – 25,000 
Performance share plan 2009 nil pence per share up to 6 September 2019 400,000 400,000 
Performance share plan 2012 nil pence per share up to 3 September 2022  2,917,181 3,254,681 
Performance share plan 2013 nil pence per share up to 23 July 2023  1,780,000 1,905,000 
Performance share plan 2014 nil pence per share up to 24 July 2024  1,675,093 – 
Sharesave option plan 3 year 2012 42.60p up to 1 September 2015 56,617 517,052 
Sharesave option plan 5 year 2012 42.60p up to 1 September 2017 45,773 80,984 
    6,874,664 6,282,717 
 
 
101  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
101
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information  
27. Share options continued 
– Sharesave 
The Scapa Group 2011 Sharesave Scheme is an Inland Revenue approved Save-As-You-Earn (SAYE) share option scheme pursuant to which eligible 
employees (including Executive Directors) in the United Kingdom who have worked a minimum six-month qualifying period and agree to save a fixed 
amount for three or five years under an approved savings contract are granted options to subscribe for shares in the Company at a discounted 
exercise price. The maximum amount that can be saved by a participant is £250 per month. In normal circumstances options are exercisable for  
six-months following the completion of a savings contract using the proceeds from that contract. The exercise price is based on the market value 
of the shares as of the date of grant, less a discount of 20%. 
– Executive Share Option (2004 plan) 
The Company operates an Executive Share Option plan for Senior Executives in the UK and overseas, namely the Scapa Group plc 2004 Executive 
Share Option Plan which was approved by shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting on 22 July 2004. 
The 2004 Plan provides a potential reward in shares for improvement in Company performance reflected in the share price. The option provides the 
opportunity to purchase shares at a fixed exercise price dependent on achievement of predetermined performance targets. 
The 2004 Plan has two parts: an Unapproved Discretionary Share Option Plan (the ‘Unapproved Part’) and an addendum containing an Inland 
Revenue approved Discretionary Share Option Plan (the ‘Approved Part’). The Approved Part of the 2004 Plan can be used to grant options to 
UK residents with an aggregate value not exceeding £30,000. All other grants of options over and above the £30,000 threshold and those made 
to overseas employees are granted under the Unapproved Part of the 2004 Plan. Options only become exercisable, in normal circumstances, 
three years after the date of grant and then may only be exercised if certain performance criteria are met. Options remain exercisable until the 
tenth anniversary of their date of grant, after which they lapse. 
The ability to exercise the option is dependent upon the achievement of predetermined performance targets based on growth in adjusted earnings 
per share (EPS) over changes in the RPI. 
The following tables show the inputs to the model used to calculate the fair value of equity-settled share options granted during the years ended 
31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014 respectively: 
 
The expected volatility is based upon the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the expected life of the option. 
Year ended 31 March 2015 
Performance share
plan awarded 
22 Jul 2014 
Weighted average share price (p) 1.31 
Weighted average exercise price (p) Nil 
Weighted average fair value of options granted (p) 1.31 
Expected volatility (%) n/a 
Expected life (months) 36 
Risk free rate (%) n/a 
Year ended 31 March 2014 
Performance share
plan awarded 
23 Jul 2013 
Weighted average share price (p) 84.0 
Weighted average exercise price (p) Nil 
Weighted average fair value of options granted (p) 84.0 
Expected volatility (%) n/a 
Expected life (months) 36 
Risk free rate (%) n/a 
Notes On The Accounts continued 
102  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes on the Accounts continued
102
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
27. Share options continued 
The movement in total outstanding options is provided below: 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 140.9p. 
SAYE plan Performance share plan 
Number of 
shares 
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
Number of
shares 
Weighted
average
exercise price 
Outstanding at 1 April 2013 1,048,265 32.1p 5,584,681 1.1p 
Granted during the year – – 1,905,000 Nil 
Exercised during the year (387,507) 14.2p – – 
Forfeited and lapsed during the year (62,722) 42.6p (1,805,000) 1.0p 
Outstanding at 31 March 2014 598,036 42.6p 5,684,681 0.7p 
Granted during the year – – 1,675,093 Nil 
Exercised during the year (467,126) 42.6p – – 
Forfeited and lapsed during the year (28,520) 42.6p (587,500) 0.7p 
Outstanding at 31 March 2015 102,390 42.6p 6,772,274 Nil 
Weighted average contractual remaining life:     
31 March 2015  1.3 years  8.0 years 
31 March 2014  1.7 years  8.4 years 
 
 
103  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
 
 
103
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information  
28. Reconciliation of operating profit to operating cash flow, and reconciliation of net cash 
 
All on continuing operations 
Year ended 
31 March 
2015 
£m 
Year ended 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
 
Operating profit 16.0 13.4 
 
 
Adjustments for:   
 
 
Depreciation and amortisation 6.6 6.7 
 
 
Profit on disposal of fixed assets – (1.3)
 
 
Impairment reversal, tangible fixed assets (0.3) – 
 
 
Pensions payments in excess of charge (4.2) (4.6)
 
 
Pension curtailments and past service charges – (0.2)
 
 
Movement in fair value of financial instruments 0.1 (0.2)
 
 
Share options charge 1.5 0.8 
 
 
Grant income released – (0.2)
 
 
Changes in working capital:  
 
 
 Inventories 0.2 (2.2)
 
 
 Trade debtors (1.8) (3.9)
 
 
 Trade creditors (1.1) 4.2 
 
 
Changes in trading working capital (2.7) (1.9)
 
 
Other debtors (0.3) – 
 
 
Other creditors 2.0 (0.7)
 
 
Deferred consideration – (2.2)
 
 
Net movement in environmental provisions – 0.4 
 
Net movement in reorganisation provisions and leasehold commitments (0.2) 0.3 
 
 
Net movement in other provisions (0.9) – 
 
 
Cash generated from operations 17.6 10.3 
 
 
   
 
 
Cash generated from operations before exceptional items 18.3 10.1 
 
 
Cash (outflows)/inflows from exceptional items (0.7) 0.2 
 
 
Cash generated from operations 17.6 10.3 
 
 
Notes On The Accounts continued 
104  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes on the Accounts continued
104
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
28. Reconciliation of operating profit to operating cash flow, and reconciliation of net cash continued 
Analysis of cash and cash equivalents and borrowings  
 
At 1 April
2014
£m 
Cash 
flow
£m 
Acquisition
£m 
Other  
movements 
£m 
Exchange 
movement
£m 
At 31 March 
2015
£m 
Cash and cash equivalents 13.6 2.8 – – 0.3 16.7 
      
 13.6 2.8 – – 0.3 16.7 
Borrowings within one year (0.1) 1.2 (2.2) – (0.2) (1.3)
Borrowings after more than one year (8.1) (8.4) (1.4) (0.1) (0.8) (18.8)
 (8.2) (7.2) (3.6) (0.1) (1.0) (20.1)
Total 5.4 (4.4) (3.6) (0.1) (0.7) (3.4)
29. Commitments  
Capital commitments  
The amount contracted but not provided for in the accounts at 31 March 2015 was £2.1m (2014: £0.9m).  
At 31 March 2015 a total of £0.7m (2014: £3.2m) was authorised but not yet contracted.  
Operating lease commitments  
At 31 March 2015 the Group has lease agreements in respect of various assets for which payments extend as follows:  
30. Obligations under finance leases  
The present value of minimum lease payments is denominated in the following currencies:  
 
Commitments under leases: 
Property 
£m 
2015 
Vehicles, plant  
and equipment  
£m 
Property  
£m 
2014
Vehicles, plant 
 and equipment 
£m 
Within one year  1.7 0.6 1.9 0.6 
More than one year and less than five years  2.2 0.8 2.3 0.8 
After five years  0.2 – 0.1 – 
Total operating lease commitments  4.1 1.4 4.3 1.4 
 Minimum lease payments 
Present value of
minimum lease payments 
 
2015
£m 
2014 
£m 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Within one year  0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 
In the second to fifth years inclusive 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 
Present value of lease obligations 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.2 
 Minimum lease payments  
 
2015
£m 
2014 
£m   
Pounds Sterling 0.2 0.1   
US Dollar 0.1 0.1   
 0.3 0.2   
 
 
105  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
 
105
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information  
30. Obligations under finance leases continued 
It is Group policy to lease certain fixtures and equipment under finance leases. The Group has lease agreements in the USA with lease periods to 
2018 and average borrowing rates of 9.3% (2014: 9.4%). Interest rates are fixed at contract date. All leases are on fixed repayment terms and no 
arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments. The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates to their carrying 
amount. The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ rights over the related assets. 
31. Post Balance Sheet event 
On 9 April 2015 the Group announced that it was initiating a formal process of consultation with employees on the proposed closure of a manufacturing 
facility in Rorschach, Switzerland. The consultation process is still under way and at the Balance Sheet date it is not possible to estimate the financial 
impact of the closure given the range of options being considered. The announcement does not represent a situation that existed at the Balance Sheet 
date and accordingly no adjustments have been made. 
 
Notes On The Accounts continued 
106  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes on the Accounts continued
106
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Five Year Financial Summary (unaudited)  
The cumulative restatement arising from the adoption during the year of IAS19 (revised) is reflected in 2013 in the table. Years 2011 and 2012 have not 
been restated. 
Exchange rates (unaudited) 
 
 
2015
 
£m 
2014
restated
£m 
2013 
restated 
£m 
 2012
£m 
2011
£m 
Group revenue  236.0 226.1 208.8 195.6 192.3 
Group profits/(losses)       
Profit before taxation and exceptional items 14.2 11.0 8.5 9.1 6.1 
Exceptional items ((charges)/income) (0.5) 0.2 1.1 1.4 – 
Profit before taxation 13.7 11.2 9.6 10.5 6.1 
Taxation       
 Taxation on operating activities  (4.5) (4.4) (4.9) (3.4) (2.1)
 Taxation on exceptional items  0.3 (11.7) (3.2) – – 
 Impact of change in tax rate – (1.8) (0.3) (0.6) (0.5)
 (4.2) (17.9) (8.4) (4.0) (2.6)
Profit/(loss) after taxation 9.5 (6.7) 1.2 6.5 3.5 
Headline earnings/(loss) per share (p) 6.5 (4.6) 0.8 4.5 2.4 
Net cash equivalents (2.2) 5.4 2.2 7.0 12.5 
Shareholders’ funds – equity 61.8 47.7 65.6 66.1 68.6 
Net assets per share (p) 42.1 32.6 44.9 45.3 47.4 
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
US$      
 Closing 1.48 1.67 1.52 1.60 1.60 
 Average 1.61 1.59 1.58 1.60 1.56 
Canadian $      
 Closing 1.88 1.84 1.54 1.60 1.56 
 Average 1.84 1.68 1.59 1.59 1.58 
Euro   
 Closing 1.37 1.21 1.18 1.20 1.13 
 Average 1.28 1.19 1.22 1.16 1.17 
Five Year Summaries 
107  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Five Year Summaries
107
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information The separate financial statements of Scapa Group plc are presented on pages 109 to 119, as required by the Companies Act 2006 (‘the Act’).  
The Group has elected not to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards in the individual company accounts for the Parent Company and 
subsidiary undertakings, and accordingly these financial statements have been prepared under UK accounting standards and in accordance with  
the Act. They are therefore presented separately to the Group consolidated financial statements which have been prepared under International 
Financial Reporting Standards.
Scapa Group plc Parent Company Financial Statements 
 
 
  
 
108  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Scapa Group plc Parent Company Financial Statements
108
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
The notes on pages 110 to 119 form part of these accounts.  
The financial statements of Scapa Group plc, registered number 826179, were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue  
on 27 May 2015. They were signed on its behalf by:  
 
H R Chae 
Group Chief Executive  
P Edwards 
Group Finance Director  
 
 
 note  
31 March 
2015
 £m 
31 March 
2014
£m 
Fixed assets     
Tangible fixed assets 4 0.7 0.7 
Investments in subsidiary undertakings  5 134.8 151.5 
  135.5 152.2 
Current assets     
Debtors: amounts due within one year  6 12.6 5.3 
Cash and cash equivalents  1.7 0.6 
Debtors: amounts due after more than one year  6 133.8 91.6 
  148.1 97.5 
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year     
Creditors  9 (6.2) (5.3)
Net current assets   141.9 92.2 
Total assets less current liabilities   277.4 244.4 
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year     
Creditors  9 (102.2) (98.6)
Borrowings 8 (13.0) – 
  (115.2) (98.6)
Provisions for liabilities and charges  10 – (0.7)
Net assets excluding pension liability   162.2 145.1 
Net pension liability  13 – – 
Net assets   162.2 145.1 
Shareholders’ funds     
Called-up share capital  11 7.4 7.3 
Share premium 12 0.4 0.2 
Other reserves  12 10.1 10.1 
Profit and loss account  12 144.3 127.5 
Shareholders’ funds – equity   162.2 145.1 
Company Balance Sheet 
As at 31 March 2014 
109  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Company Balance Sheet
As at 31 March 2015
109
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Basis of accounting  
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by revaluation of certain 
financial instruments in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK accounting standards.  
A summary of the Company’s principal accounting policies is set out below. These have been applied consistently throughout the year and prior year.  
Going concern 
The Directors have at the time of approving the financial statements a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial 
statements. Further detail is contained in the Directors’ Report on page 57. 
Tangible fixed assets  
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less cumulative depreciation and impairment. Depreciation is provided on the basis of writing off the cost of the 
relevant assets over their expected useful lives. The Company applies the straight-line method. The effect is to reduce the cost of plant, machinery and 
fixtures to estimated residual value over a period of 5–20 years.  
Taxation  
Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been substantively enacted by the Balance 
Sheet date. 
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the Balance Sheet date where transactions or 
events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the Balance Sheet date. Timing 
differences are differences between the Company’s taxable profits and losses and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the 
inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.  
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only to the extent that, on the basis of all available evidence, it can 
be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can 
be deducted. 
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse 
based on tax rates and laws that have been substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date. Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis. 
Dividends 
Dividends proposed by the Board are recognised in the financial statements when they have been approved by shareholders at the AGM. Interim 
dividends are recognised when they are paid. 
Provisions  
Provisions are made in accordance with FRS 12 where an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount  
of obligation can be reliably estimated. Provision is made for vacant and sub-let leasehold properties to the extent that future rental payments are 
expected to exceed future rental income and for all other known liabilities which exist at the Balance Sheet date, based on management’s best 
estimate as to the cost of settling these liabilities.  
Pension costs  
For defined benefit schemes the amounts charged to operating profit are the current service costs and gains and losses on settlements and 
curtailments. They are included as part of staff costs. Past service costs are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account if the benefits have 
vested. If the benefits have not vested immediately, the costs are recognised over the period until vesting occurs. Actuarial gains and losses are 
recognised immediately in the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses. 
For defined benefit schemes, the Company recognises plan assets where they are separable, solely for payment to the fund or to fund employee 
benefits, not available to the Company’s creditors in bankruptcy and where the assets cannot be returned to the Company unless all employee benefit 
obligations are met. 
Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme held separately from those of the Group, in separate trustee-administered funds. 
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted at 
a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities. The actuarial 
valuations are obtained annually and are updated at each Balance Sheet date. The resulting defined benefit asset or liability, net of the related deferred 
tax, is presented separately after other net assets on the face of the Balance Sheet. 
For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits is 
the contributions payable in the year. Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either 
accruals or prepayments in the Balance Sheet. 
Fixed asset investments  
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost, less provision for any impairment in value. Where circumstances indicate that there may have been 
impairment in the carrying value of a tangible or intangible fixed asset, an impairment review is carried out using cash flows from approved forecasts 
and projections discounted at the Group’s weighted average cost of capital.  
Statement of Accounting Policies 
 
110  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Statement of Accounting Policies
110
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Share-based payments  
The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated using the appropriate valuation models in accordance with FRS 20 Share-Based Payments. 
The resulting cost is charged to the profit and loss account over the vesting period of the options. The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect 
expected and actual levels of options vesting. Where share options are granted to employees of subsidiary companies, the cost is debited to the 
carrying value of the subsidiary investments.  
Foreign currencies  
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange at the Balance Sheet date. Exchange differences on borrowings (including differences 
arising due to currency swaps) taken out to hedge overseas equity investments and on long-term loans which are considered equivalent to equity are 
taken to the translation reserve. All other differences are taken to the profit and loss account.  
Cash flow statement  
The Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Scapa Group plc and is included in the consolidated financial statements of Scapa Group plc which are 
publicly available. Consequently, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 
Cash Flow Statements (revised 1996).  
Consolidation 
Consolidated accounts for the Company are prepared under International Accounting Standards and as a result these financial statements present 
information about the Company only.  
Related parties  
The Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report can be found in the Annual Report on pages 51 to 56. The pension scheme is a related party to the 
Company; there were no contributions outstanding at the year end. There are no other related party transactions. The Company is exempt under the 
terms of FRS 8 from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are wholly owned subsidiaries.  
 
 
111  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
111
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 1. Profit and loss account  
The Company’s profit for the year is £16.8m (2014: £17.7m). As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 a separate profit and loss 
account has not been presented. Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation is stated after (charging)/crediting: 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets, owned  (0.3) (0.3)
Foreign exchange losses 0.1 0.2 
Directors’ and employee costs (8.1) (6.3)
2. Fees payable to the Company’s auditor  
For the year ended 31 March 2015 
Total audit fees were £76,000 (2014: £80,000). Total non-audit fees were £137,000 (2014: £275,000).  
3. Employee benefit expense 
 
 
 
2015  
£’000 
2014
£’000 
Auditor’s remuneration    
 Audit of the Company 76.0 80.0 
 Taxation advisory services 23.0 49.0 
 Corporate finance services 114.0 226.0 
 213.0 355.0 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Wages and salaries 5.9 4.7 
Social security costs  0.9 0.7 
Share options granted to directors and employees  1.0 0.6 
Pension costs – defined contribution plans 0.3 0.3 
 8.1 6.3 
 2015 2014
Average employee numbers 49 42 
Notes on the Accounts  
112  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes on the Accounts
112
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
4. Tangible fixed assets 
 
Plant, equipment, fixtures
and computer systems 
£m 
Cost  
At 1 April 2014 12.4
Additions 0.3
At 31 March 2015 12.7 
Depreciation  
At 1 April 2014 (11.7)
Depreciation  (0.3)
At 31 March 2015 (12.0)
Net book value at 31 March 2015 0.7 
Net book value at 31 March 2014 0.7 
5. Investments  
No further investment impairment was required at 31 March 2015. A non-trading subsidiary has been prepared for liquidation and disposal at March 
2015 resulting in movements on investment cost and impairments in the period. 
The recoverable amount has been determined on a value in use basis on each cash-generating unit using the management approved 12-month 
forecasts for each cash-generating unit. The base 12-month projection is inflated by 3.0% up to year 5, which management believes does not exceed 
the long-term average growth rate for the industry, and then kept constant for years 6 to 20. For one high-growth cash-generating unit growth rate of 
10% has been used to reflect the specific circumstances of that unit. These cash flows are discounted at a pre-tax discount rate of 10.0% and 
adjusted for specific risk factors that take into account the sensitivities of the projection. 
The Company’s principal subsidiaries are shown in note 15.  
 
Shares in Group 
undertakings 
£m 
Cost  
At 1 April 2014 175.6 
Capital contribution 0.5 
Acquisitions 8.7 
Movement prior to disposals (50.0)
 134.8 
Provision for impairment  
At 1 April 2014 (24.1)
Impairment reversal in the year 7.7 
Movement prior to disposals 16.4 
At 31 March 2015 – 
Net book value at 31 March 2015  134.8 
Net book value at 31 March 2014  151.5 
 
113  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
113
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 6. Debtors  
 
2015  
£m 
2014
£m 
Amounts due within one year:    
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings  11.6 4.0 
Group relief receivable  0.5 0.9 
Other debtors 0.1 0.1 
Prepayments and accrued income  0.4 0.3 
Total amounts due within one year 12.6 5.3 
Amounts due after more than one year:   
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 133.8 91.6 
Total amounts due after more than one year 133.8 91.6 
7. Deferred tax 
There is no deferred tax recognised in the Company. 
8. Bank loans and overdrafts  
In January 2014 the Company together with other members of the Group entered into a new committed multi-currency facility with a club of three  
UK banks. The principal features of the facility are: 
 
the committed value of the facility is £40.0m 
 
there is access to an uncommitted accordion of an additional £20.0m 
 
it is unsecured 
 
it is repayable in June 2018 
 
the interest payable on drawings under the loan is based on inter-bank interest plus a sliding scale margin determined by the Group’s leverage;  
the margin is currently 1.5% 
 
the facility has two covenants – the ratio of EBITDA to interest paid must be above 4:1, and the ratio of EBITDA to net debt must be less than 3, 
reducing to 2.5 over time. 
The borrowings of the Company under the facility at the Balance Sheet date were as follows:  
The effective interest rate at the Balance Sheet date was as follows:  
 
 
2015 
£m  
2014
£m 
Bank loans 13.0 – 
   
 % 
31 March 2015   
Bank loans 2.1% 
31 March 2014   
Bank loans 3.6% 
Notes on the Accounts continued 
114  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes on the Accounts continued
114
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
8. Bank loans and overdrafts continued 
The Company, along with other subsidiaries in the Group, has the following undrawn borrowing facilities, being the unused portion of the £40.0m 
committed facility:  
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Floating rate 21.0 31.5 
9. Creditors 
The terms of loans owed to subsidiary undertakings vary; expiry of these ranges from 2015–2020. 
10. Provisions 
 
 2015
£m
2014
£m 
At 1 April 
 
0.7 0.7 
Utilised in the year 
 
(0.5) – 
Released in the year 
 
(0.2) – 
At 31 March  
 
– 0.7 
11. Share capital  
The movement in share capital relates to share options (see note 27 of the Group accounts).  
Share options  
Potential issues of ordinary shares and share options for the Company are disclosed in note 27 of the Group accounts. 
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Bank loan drawdown 13.0 – 
   
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Amounts due within one year:    
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings  1.2 1.7 
Other creditors, including taxation and social security 5.0 3.6 
Total amounts due within one year 6.2 5.3 
Amounts due after more than one year:    
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings  102.2 98.6 
Total amounts due after more than one year 102.2 98.6 
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Allotted, issued and fully paid    
147,239,801 (2014: 146,772,675) shares of 5p each 7.4 7.3 
  Number of shares
March 2014 146,772,675 
SAYE options exercised in the year 467,126 
March 2015 147,239,801 
 
115  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
 
115
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 12. Reconciliation of shareholders’ funds  
Profit for the year includes dividends paid by Group companies of £43.5m (2014: £30.8m).  
The Board considers the other reserves to be non-distributable. 
13. Pension schemes  
The Company operates several defined benefit schemes and a defined contribution scheme for employees in the UK.  
UK Pension schemes  
(a) Defined contribution scheme  
The Company operates a defined contribution scheme in the UK. Employer’s contributions are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred. 
The total pension cost for the Company in respect of this scheme for the year ended 31 March 2015 was £0.3m (2014: £0.3m).  
(b) Defined benefit schemes  
The UK defined benefit schemes are closed to new members and future accrual and are therefore funded by contributions from members 
as defined in the scheme rules, and by the employing company at a rate assessed by the scheme actuary as sufficient to meet the balance 
of costs determined following the triennial fund reviews. The assets of the schemes are held separately from Company assets under Trust.  
The FRS 17 Retirement Benefits valuations have been updated by the scheme actuaries, in order to assess the liabilities of the schemes at 
31 March 2015. Scheme assets are stated at their market value at 31 March 2015. 
The actuarial assumptions and expected return on asset categories that affect the valuations of the schemes are the same as described under 
note 25 to the Group accounts. The sensitivity of the liability to these assumptions is proportionally the same as described under note 25 to the 
Group accounts. 
The UK pension schemes were merged on an unsectionalised basis in January 2014. As part of this merger, the orphaned liabilities of the old scheme 
were allocated to the sponsoring companies in the same proportions that would apply under a section 75 debt calculation. The allocation has been 
accounted for through benefits. As this basis of allocation is different to that used historically, this change resulted in a settlement loss of £6.6m in 
the Company. 
During the year ended 31 March 2013 an asset-backed funding arrangement was entered into as described under note 25 in the Group accounts. 
The Company committed to make a special contribution of £39.7m to the UK Pension Funds, which in turn invested this amount in a Scottish Limited 
Partnership called Scapa Scottish Limited Partnership. The special contribution is a plan asset in the pension scheme’s accounts. Applying FRS 17, 
the amount of the plan asset that can be recognised has been restricted to the value of the pension deficit. Of this special contribution, £20.7m (2014: 
£23.7m) has been recognised as a plan asset.  
The financial assumptions used to calculate scheme liabilities under FRS 17 for the UK defined benefit schemes are as follows:  
 
 
Share 
capital
£m 
Share
 premium
£m 
Other  
reserves 
£m 
Profit and loss
account
£m 
Total
£m 
Balance at 1 April 2014 7.3 0.2 10.1 127.5 145.1 
Profit for the year – – – 16.8 16.8 
Other movements 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3 
Share options – – – 1.5 1.5 
Dividends – – – (1.5) (1.5)
Balance at 31 March 2015 7.4 0.4 10.1 144.3 162.2 
2015 2014
Discount rate  3.40% 4.40% 
Price inflation per annum (RPI) 2.95% 3.45% 
Price inflation per annum (CPI) 1.95% 2.65% 
Increases to pensions in payment  2.60% - 3.35% 2.80% - 3.60% 
Increases to deferred pensions  1.95% 2.65% 
Notes on the Accounts continued 
116  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes on the Accounts continued
116
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
13. Pension schemes continued 
The market value of assets in the schemes at the Balance Sheet date, and the expected rates of return and the present value of the scheme liabilities 
at each Balance Sheet date are as follows: 
The expected investment returns have been calculated using the weighted average of the expected investment returns for the different asset classes. 
The following amounts have been recognised in the profit and loss account and Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses for the year ended 
31 March 2015 in respect of the Company’s defined benefit schemes: 
 
 At 31 March 2015 At 31 March 2014
 
Expected 
rate of return 
Market value
£m   
Expected 
rate of return 
Market value
£m 
Equities  7.50% 27.6   7.5% 33.7 
Property 7.50% 1.9   7.5% 1.7 
Debt A and above 3.60% 32.6   3.60% 32.6 
Debt below a 4.40% 14.9   4.40% 6.5 
Debt unrated 4.40% 1.2   4.40% 0.5 
Cash 3.10% 4.2   3.10% 1.4 
Special scheme asset (net of restriction)  20.7    23.7 
Other 7.50% 9.6   7.50% 3.8 
Total market value of assets   112.7    103.9 
Present value of scheme liabilities  (112.7)   (103.9)
Net deficit in the schemes  –    – 
Deferred tax asset  –    – 
Net pension deficit  –    – 
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Profit and loss account   
UK pension settlement gain/(loss) 0.1 (6.6)
Other finance costs:   
 Expected return on pension scheme assets 4.4 3.5 
 Interest on pension scheme liabilities (4.5) (3.5)
Net finance charge (0.1) – 
Total expenses charged through the profit and loss account – (6.6)
 
117  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
117
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 13. Pension schemes continued 
Five Year Summary 
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
2013  
£m 
2012  
£m 
2011
£m 
Present value of defined benefit obligations (112.7) (103.9) (80.2) (73.2) (69.6)
Fair value of plan assets 112.7 103.9 80.2 58.0 55.0 
Deficit in the plan – – – (15.2) (14.6)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities  (10.9) 0.4 (9.8) (4.9) 0.1 
Experience adjustments on plan assets 13.9 0.1 2.4 0.1 (0.2)
14. Dividend per share  
A final dividend of 1.5p per share is proposed for the year ended 31 March 2015 (2014: 1.0p).  
 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Analysis of movements in scheme assets    
Beginning of the year  103.9 80.2 
Expected return on scheme assets  4.4 3.5 
Actuarial gains 13.9 0.1 
Contributions  – 0.4 
Restriction of pension asset value to pension deficit amount (3.0) 5.7 
Benefits paid (6.5) 14.0 
End of year 112.7 103.9 
Analysis of movements in scheme liabilities    
Beginning of the year  (103.9) (80.2)
Interest on scheme liabilities  (4.5) (3.5)
Benefits paid  6.5 (14.0)
UK pension settlement gain/(loss) 0.1 (6.6)
Actuarial (losses)/ gains (10.9) 0.4 
End of year  (112.7) (103.9)
Notes on the Accounts continued 
118  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes on the Accounts continued
118
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Company Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements
15. Principal subsidiaries  
As at 31 March 2015 the principal subsidiaries of the Company were:  
All the shareholdings are ordinary shares. 
* Denotes the undertakings which are held directly by Scapa Group plc. All the subsidiaries listed are wholly owned and are incorporated in and operate from  
the countries named.  
Holding and management companies Country of incorporation  
Scapa Group Holdings GmbH Austria Holding company 
Porritts & Spencer Ltd* England Holding company 
Scapa Holdings GmbH Germany Holding company 
Scapa (HK) Holdings Ltd Hong Kong Holding company 
Scapa North America Inc USA Holding company 
 
 
Technical tapes companies   
Scapa Brasil Ltda Brazil  
Scapa Tapes North America Ltd Canada  
Scapa (Shanghai) International Trading Company Ltd China  
Scapa Tapes (Suzhou) Co. Ltd China  
Scapa UK Ltd England  
Groupe Scapa France SAS France  
First Water Ltd England  
Scapa Deutschland GmbH Germany  
Scapa Hong Kong Ltd Hong Kong  
Scapa Tapes India Private Ltd India  
Scapa Italia SpA Italy  
Scapa Korea Co. Ltd Korea  
Scapa Tapes Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia  
Scapa (Schweiz) AG Switzerland  
Scapa Tapes North America LLC USA  
 
119  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
119
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information Key dates 
 
Next Annual General Meeting 21 July 2015 
Next interim results 24 November 2015 
Next year end (to be reported) 31 March 2016 
Next preliminary announcement 24 May 2016 
Next Annual Report due June 2016 
 
 
 
Shareholder information 
 
Shareholder enquiries should be directed to the Company’s registrars, Capita Asset Services, at their Customer Support Centre, details as follows: 
By phone – UK – 0871 664 0300 (UK calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras).  
From overseas – +44 203 728 5000.  
Lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays. 
By email – ssd@capita.co.uk 
By post – Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU. 
 
Further information regarding the various services offered by Capita Asset Services, including the Share Portal and Share Dealing Service, can be 
obtained from the above or directly from Capita’s website
 
www.capitaassetservices.com 
 
Company Information 
 
120  
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
 
.
Company Information
120
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Design, consultancy and production by Luminous
www.luminous.co.uk Scapa Asia Scapa North America Scapa South America
T +852 2439 4330 T +1 860 688 8000 T +55 11 2589 6003
Scapa Europe
UK Switzerland France Italy
T +44 (0) 161 301 7400 T +41 71 844 5656 T +33 (0) 475 44 80 00 T +39 0161 867 311
Scapa 
Asia 
China, Hong Kong
China, Shanghai
China, Schenzhen
India, Chennai
Korea, Chungyang
Korea, Seoul
Malaysia, Shah Alam
Scapa 
Europe 
France, Valence
Italy, Ghislarengo
Switzerland, Rorschach
United Kingdom, Dunstable
United Kingdom, Manchester
United Kingdom, Luton
United Kingdom, Ramsbury
Scapa 
Americas 
Brazil, São Paulo
Canada, Renfrew
USA, Inglewood
USA, Knoxville
USA, Syracuse
USA, Windsor
Scapa Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Contact details
