 The 
Sofa Carpet 
Specialist
Annual Report 2015
Sofa Carpet Specialist  ScS Group plc  Annual Report 2015 See our website for 
more information  
www.scsplc.co.uk
The Sofa Carpet Specialist
ScS is one of the UK’s 
leading furniture and 
flooring retailers, 
operating from 96 stores.
Principally located in 
modern retail park locations 
and 30 House of Fraser 
concessions across the 
country – as far north  
as Dundee and as far south 
as Plymouth, offering a 
focused range of 
upholstered furniture  
and floorcoverings.
ScS has over 100 years 
of furniture retailing 
experience and our 
specialist staff are highly 
trained in their fields so that 
we can offer our customers 
the best service when they 
choose new sofas and 
flooring for their homes. 1 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
 Gross sales up 13.2% to £292.2 million  
(2014: £258.2 million)
 Revenue up 13.4% to £276.7 million  
(2014: £244.1 million)
 Like-for-like order intake for the year ended  
25 July 2015, up 5.0% 
	 Gross	profit	increased	12.5%	to	£127 .2	million	 
(2014: £1 13.0 million)
Adjusted EBITDA £1 1.3 million (2014: £13.7 million)
EBITDA £7 .6 million (2014: £10.8 million)
	 Operating	profit	before	exceptional	items	(relating	 
to the IPO) of £6.4 million (2014: £6.6 million)
Loss	per	share	5.56	pence	(2014:	earnings	14.78	pence)
	 Adjusted	earnings	per	share	13.75	pence	 
(2014:	17 .50	pence)
	 Strong	balance	sheet	with	cash	of	£21 . 1	million	and	no	debt
	 Recommended	final	dividend	of	1 1.2	pence	per	share,	
total	dividend	14.0	pence	per	share	in	line	with	the	
commitment	made	at	the	time	of	the	Company’s	 
IPO in January
Operational Highlights
	 House	of	Fraser	concession	launched	in	30	stores	in	
July	2014	with	gross	sales	of	£21.2	million	 
(2014: £3.4 million)
	 Three	new	stores	opened	in	Abbotsinch	in	Glasgow,	
Croydon	and	Slough	(total:	96	stores)
	 New	e-commerce	platform	for	ScS	trading	website	and	
bespoke	House	of	Fraser	‘For	Living’	website	launched
	 ScS	online	gross	sales	up	25.4%	to	£8.4	million	
(2014: £6.7	million)
Financial Highlights
£276.7m
+13.4%
Revenue
£1 27.2m
+12.5%
Gross Profit
£7.6m
-29.6%
EBITDA
5.56p
Loss per Share
13.75p
Adjusted Earnings  
per Share
£11.3m
-17.5%
Adjusted EBITDA
2015 Highlights
Strategic Report
1 2015 Highlights
2	 ScS	at	a	Glance
4 Our History
6	 Chairman’s	Statement
8	 Chief	Executive	Officer’s	Review
10 Our Business Model
12 Our Strategy
14	 Our	Strategy	in	Action
16	 Our	Markets	and	Competitors
18	 	 Financial	Review	and	Key	
Performance Indicators
20	 Principal	Risks	and	Uncertainties
22	 Corporate	Social	Responsibility
Corporate Governance
24	 Board	of	Directors
26	 Corporate	Governance	Statement
30	 Audit	Committee	Report
33	 Directors’	Remuneration	Report
42	 Directors’	Report
43	 Statement	of	Directors’	Responsibilities
Financial Statements
44	 	 Independent	Auditors’	Report	to	the	
Members	of	ScS	Group	plc
48	 	 Consolidated	Statement	 
of	Comprehensive	Income
49	 	 Consolidated	Statement	 
of	Changes	in	Equity	
50	 	 Consolidated	Statement	 
of	Financial	Position	
51	 Consolidated	Statement	of	Cash	Flows
52	 	 Notes	to	the	Consolidated	
Financial Statements
67	 	 Independent	Auditors’	Report	to	the	
Members	of	ScS	Group	plc
69	 Parent	Company	Information
IBC	 Company	Information 2 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Map key
S
ScS
H
House	of	Fraser	concession
D
Distribution	centres
ScS at a Glance
We trade from 96 stores and 30 House 
of Fraser department stores across the 
country – from Dundee to Plymouth.
96
Stores across the UK
10
Distribution centres
14,700 sq ft
Average store retail space
30
House of Fraser concessions
Our	target	is	to	open	two	or	three	new	 
stores	per	year	with	30	potential	new	store	
locations	identified.
Our	online	sales	grew	to	£8.4	million,	up	
from	just	£0.5	million	in	2009.	We	offer	 
our	full	in	store	ranges,	together	with	an	
additional	express	delivery	selection,	for	
customers	where	time	is	a	priority;	along	
with	a	dedicated	site	for	our	House	of	
Fraser	customers.
Key Products
 Upholstered furniture business
	 	 Represented	approximately	88%	of	
total operating Group revenues in the 
financial	year	ended	25	July	2015	and	
specialises	primarily	in	the	retail	of	
fabric	and	leather	sofas	and	chairs.
  The flooring business
	 	 Represented	approximately	12%	of	
total operating Group revenues in the 
financial	year	ended	25	July	2015	and	
focuses	on	the	retail	of	carpets,	as	well	
as	laminate	and	vinyl	flooring.
	 See	our	‘Markets	and	Competitors’	on	page	16. 3 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Key Strengths
ScS	has	a	number	of	key	strengths	that	
have	supported	the	growth	in	sales	and
profits	in	the	last	three	years	and	which	
provide	a	firm	base	for	further	growth.
   One of the largest retailers  
of sofas and flooring
	 	 	 ScS	is	one	of	the	largest	 
retailers	of	sofas	and	flooring.	
A	combination	that	give	us	
scope	to	develop	our	current	
customer	base,	provide	further	
‘sell-on’	opportunities	to	our	
current	customers	and	reach	
new	customers	through	the	
development of our House  
of	Fraser	concessions.
  Store portfolio
	 	 	 ScS	currently	operates	from	96	
stores	in	the	UK,	94	of	which	are	 
in	out	of	town	retail	park	locations.	
Investment in the store portfolio 
amounted	to	approximately	 
£3 million in the last four years to 
ensure	each	store	remains	well	
presented,	attractive	and	modern	
with	a	fashionable	look	and	feel.
  IT systems
   The Group has invested in IT 
systems	which	seek	to	support	
ScS’s	growth	by	offering	business	
insights	and	consistent	reporting	
data.	This	infrastructure	is	
supported	both	by	a	professional	
IT	team	and	support	contracts	that	
aim	to	ensure	that	ScS’s	stores,	
distribution	centres	and	head	office	
experience	minimal	disruption.
   Trained staff with a focus on 
customer service
	 	 	 ScS	places	emphasis	on	the	
provision of high levels of 
service	throughout	the	customer	
experience	from	the	point	of	sale	
through to delivery and providing 
appropriate	after	sales	service	if	
required.	Sales	staff	are	trained	
to operate to high standards, 
supported	by	in-house	training	 
and	external	materials	such	as	
videos	of	mystery	shopper	exercises.
   Experienced management team
	 	 	 Led	by	David	Knight,	ScS’s	Chief	
Executive	Officer,	the	senior	
management team has many years 
of	combined	experience	both	in	
their	respective	areas	of	expertise	
and	with	ScS’s	business.
  Growing online capability
	 	 	 Having	grown	online	sales	from	
approximately	£0.5	million	in	2009	
to	approximately	£8.4	million	in	the	
year	ended	25	July	2015,	the	website	
currently	generates	more	sales	than	
ScS’s	leading	store.	A	new	website	
was	launched	in	July	2014,	with	 
ScS	having	invested	approximately	 
£0.8	million	in	a	new	platform	this	
is	expected	to	underpin	further	
online	sales	growth	as	well	as	act	as	
a	marketing	tool	to	drive	customer	
in-store visits.
  Diverse and focused product range
	 	 	 ScS	seeks	to	offer	a	diverse	product	
and	brands	offering	at	a	range	of	
price	points	in	order	to	appeal	to	a	
wide	national	customer	base.	This	
seeks	to	provide	scope	for	growth	
as	well	as	greater	resilience	in	the	
event	of	an	economic	downturn.
   Negative working capital  
business model
   The Group operates a negative 
working	capital	business	
model	with	low	ongoing	capital	
expenditure	requirements.	The	
majority	of	product	suppliers	
are paid at the end of the month 
following	the	month	in	which	 
the	furniture	was	delivered	to	 
the	Group’s	distribution	centres.
From in-store…
Store portfolio
ScS	currently	operates	from	96	 
stores	in	the	UK,	94	of	which	are	 
in	out	of	town	retail	park	locations.
96
…to online
Growing online capability
Having	grown	online	sales	from	
approximately	£0.5	million	in	2009	 
to	approximately	£8.4	million	in	the	
year	ended	25	July	2015,	the	website	
currently	generates	more	sales	than	
ScS’s	leading	store.
8.4m 4 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Our History
The Group’s business commenced 
trading in Sunderland as a family-
owned general home furnishings store.
By	the	1980s,	the	business	
operated from eight stores in the 
North East of England under the 
ScS	name,	specialising	in	selling	
upholstered	furniture.	Following	 
a	management	buyout	in	1993,	
the	business	began	to	expand	
outside of the North East of 
England,	and	focused	on	
establishing	ScS	as	a	major	UK	
upholstered furniture retailer 
operating from larger and more 
modern	stores	in	out	of	town	
retail	park	locations.	
The	store	expansion	programme	
saw	the	store	estate	grow,	and,	 
by	2007 ,	the	store	estate	had	
increased	to	95	stores	supported	
by	nine	distribution	centres.	A	
number	of	operational	initiatives	
were	also	undertaken,	including	
upgrades	to	business	processes,	
management information and 
information	technology	systems.	
David	Knight	was	appointed	
Chief	Executive	Officer	in	2002,	
Kevin	Royal	was	appointed	Sales	
Director	in	2003	and	Ron	T urnbull	
was	appointed	Finance	Director	
in 2004.
2009
		 Transactional	online	
website	launched
		 La-Z-Boy,	the	first	third	
party	brand,	is	added	to	
the	ScS	product	range
2010
		 Occasional	tables,	lamps	and	
dining furniture added
		 G	Plan,	the	second	third	party	
brand	is	added
		 SiSi	Italia,	the	first	own	brand,	
is added	to	the	ScS	range
2011
		 Interest-free	credit	
offered	on	all	products	
in every store 5 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
2012
		 Flooring	added	to	ScS range
		 ScS	re-branded	as	the	 
Sofa	Carpet	Specialist
2013
		 Endurance,	the	second	
own	brand,	is	added	to	
the range
  Three store House  
of	Fraser pilots
2014
		 Parker	Knoll,	the	latest	third	party	brand	is	added	
to	the	ScS	range
		 New	website	launched	to	provide	enhanced	
online	shopping	experience
		 30	House	of	Fraser	Concession	stores	launched	
under	the	House	of	Fraser	‘For	Living’	brand
2015
		 In	January	we	listed	on	the	
London	Stock	Exchange
		 Three	new	store	openings 6 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Results
This	has	not	been	a	year	without	
challenges	but	the	business	has	made	 
good	progress	in	many	areas,	particularly	
in	pursuing	key	strategic	priorities,	
including:	continuing	to	broaden	its	sales	
base	in	new	categories	and	channels;	
driving	supply	chain	improvements	to	
reduce	costs	and	further	improve	customer	
service;	and	delivering	a	good	flow	of	 
new	store	openings.	However,	trading	
conditions	during	the	important	Easter	 
and May Bank Holiday periods this year 
proved	disappointing,	caused	primarily	 
by	a	particularly	warm	early	spring	and	the	
timing	of	the	general	election	campaign.	
As	expected,	a	normal	pattern	of	 
trading	resumed	towards	the	end	 
of	the	financial	year.	
Revenue	in	the	year	grew	by	13.4%	 
with	like-for-like	order	intake	up	5.0%	 
but	adjusted	EBITDA	for	the	2014/15	 
year	declined	to	£11.3	million	(from	 
£13.7 million in 2014) due to the initial 
losses	on	the	House	of	Fraser	concession	
agreement	and	the	period	of	weaker	trading.	
Further	details	of	the	trading	and	financial	
performance	of	the	business	during	the	
year	are	provided	in	the	Financial	Review	
section	of	this	report.
£276.7m 
+13.4%
Revenue
£127.2m 
+12.5%
Gross Profit
Chairman’s Statement
The Company’s IPO in January was an important milestone 
in its development. By welcoming a new institutional 
shareholder base and an expanded Board with the broader 
skills and experience that go with being a PLC, we have laid 
important foundations for the continued long-term growth 
and success of the business.
“ The business has 
made good progress 
in many areas, 
particularly in 
pursuing key  
strategic priorities.”
 Alan Smith
 Chairman 7 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Our Values
  Deliver an exceptional 
customer experience
	 	 	 	 We	place	emphasis	on	
providing high levels of 
service	throughout	our	
customers	journey	from	point	
of sale, though to delivery, 
and	after	sales	service.
 Extensive product range
	 	 	 We	aim	to	offer	our	
customers	the	best	choice	
and value in the market-
place,	through	our	range	 
of	famous	brands	and	own	
label	products.
 Knowledgeable team
	 	 	 	 We	train	our	staff	to	 
talk	accurately	about	our	
products	so	our	customers	
can	be	confident	they	are	
making	the	right	choice	for	
their home.
 Growth focused
	 	 	 Across	the	business	we	focus	
on	growing	sales	and	profits,	
by	growing	sales	densities,	
diversifying the range and 
the development of our 
branded	offering.
We	have	a	clear	strategy	for	growth	
underpinned	by	strong	cash	flows	and	the	
Board	remains	positive	about	the	Group’s	
long-term	prospects	for	the	business.	 
We	are	also	encouraged	by	a	strong	trading	
performance	in	the	first	nine	weeks	of	the	
current	financial	year.
Dividend
The	Board	is	recommending	an	 
aggregate dividend payout of £5.5 million, 
representing a dividend per share of  
14.0	pence,	which	reflects	the	Board’s	
confidence	in	the	Company’s	future	and	 
is	in	line	with	our	commitment	at	the	time	
of our IPO. This level of payout is the 
equivalent	of	a	dividend	yield	of	8%	at	 
the	IPO	issue	share	price	of	175	pence	 
per share. 
Governance and the Board
We	have	put	together	a	strong,	balanced	
Board	with	a	good	blend	of	skills	and	
relevant	experience.	David	Knight,	CEO,	 
and	Ron	Turnbull,	CFO,	were	joined	on	 
the	Board	by	myself	and	two	other	
independent	Non-Executive	Directors:	 
Ron	McMillan	at	the	time	of	the	IPO,	and	
George	Adams	more	recently.	Paul	Daccus	
continues	on	the	Board	as	a	non-
independent	Non-Executive	Director	
having	been	appointed	by	Sun	Capital	
Partners	Management	V,	LLC	in	their	
capacity	as	principal	shareholder.	
Ron	Turnbull	announced	in	early	August	
2015	that	he	intends	to	step	down	from	 
the	Board	once	a	successor	has	been	
identified.	We	are	very	grateful	to	Ron	for	
the	significant	contribution	he	has	made	to	
ScS	during	his	11	years	with	the	business	
and	wish	him	well	for	the	future.	
Ron	McMillan	is	the	senior	Non-Executive	
Director	and	Chair	of	the	Audit	Committee.	
George	Adams	is	Chair	of	the	
Remuneration	Committee.	They	each	
contribute	diverse,	thoughtful	and	
informed	perspectives	and	also	apply	
independent judgement and assiduous 
oversight to the operation of the Board.
Colleagues
Through	our	expansion	programme	in	 
new	stores	and,	concessions	in	House	of	
Fraser	stores,	I’m	delighted	that	we	have	
welcomed	150	new	colleagues	into	the	
business	this	year,	bringing	the	total	to	
over 1,700. 
On	behalf	of	the	Board	I	would	like	to	 
thank	everyone	in	ScS,	whether	they	work	
in	stores,	in	the	supply	chain	or	in	the	 
office	support	areas,	for	their	continued	
dedication	and	hard	work.	We	want	ScS	 
to	continue	to	be	a	great	place	to	work	 
and	to	shop,	because	only	through	the	
commitment	and	expertise	of	our	
colleagues	can	we	deliver	our	mission	 
to	provide	our	customers	with	excellent	
service,	value	and	quality.
Outlook
Improving	consumer	confidence	in	the	 
UK	and	a	robust	housing	market	supports	
our	belief	that	demand	for	high	ticket	
items,	and	in	particular	for	furniture	and	
floor	coverings,	will	continue	to	grow.	 
We	expect	to	benefit	from	this	trend	as	we	
continue	to	pursue	our	strategy	which	is	
tightly	focused	on	the	targeted	marketing	
of	our	range	of	branded	and	own	designed	
products	through	our	national	ScS	store	
portfolio,	our	House	of	Fraser	concessions	
and	our	rapidly	growing	online	channel.
Alan Smith
Chairman
14	October	2015 8 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Overview
This	has	been	a	challenging	first	year	with	
trading over the Easter and early summer 
period	being	behind	the	prior	year	and	our	
expectations.	However,	in	many	key	areas	
we	have	made	substantial	progress	on	our	
strategic	priorities.	The	growth	of	our	
flooring	business,	the	development	of	the	
House	of	Fraser	concession,	our	online	
sales	channel	and	our	broad	product	range	
allow	us	to	drive	sales	across	a	more	
diverse	range	of	customers,	keeping	
operating	expenses	tightly	controlled	 
and	thereby	building	the	adaptability	and	
resilience	of	the	business	to	changing	
economic	conditions.	
The	main	elements	of	this	strategy,	which	
were	laid	out	at	the	time	of	the	IPO,	remain	
the	same	and	we’re	pleased	to	report	that	
we	have	continued	to	make	good	progress,	
in	particular	with	attracting	a	wider	
customer	demographic.
Results
Our	results	for	the	financial	year	were	
adversely	affected	by	a	short,	sharp	dip	in	
trading momentum in April and early May, 
which	is	seasonally	a	very	important	period	
for	the	business.	This	downturn	in	trading	
was	caused	primarily	by	a	particularly	
warm	early	spring	and	the	timing	of	the	
general	election	campaign.	Our	analysis	
suggests	that	the	business	did	not	lose	
market share during this period. Whilst 
trading returned to a normal pattern 
through	the	summer	and	beyond,	the	
business	wasn’t	able	to	recover	the	impact	
from the loss of footfall and trade in our 
stores during this key period.
 
The Board and senior management are 
confident	that	this	was	no	more	than	a	
temporary	setback	as	demonstrated	by	the	
positive like for like order intake to the end 
£11.3m 
-17.5%
Adjusted EBITDA
13.75p
Adjusted Earnings  
per Share
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
We have a strong brand with broad consumer appeal,  
an excellent network of well-invested stores, modern 
infrastructure, a high returning and cash-generative 
business model and a long runway of opportunity to expand 
from our existing geographic footprint. Consequently I look 
forward to the year ahead and beyond with confidence.
“ The business has 
grown well in terms 
of revenues, market 
shares and cash 
generation.”
 David Knight
 Chief Executive Officer 9 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
of	the	financial	year	and	a	continuation	of	
that	trend	in	the	first	nine	weeks	of	the	
current	financial	year.	
Expansion
We	now	operate	from	96	stores	across	 
the	UK,	almost	all	of	which	are	in	modern	
out	of	town	retail	parks,	often	alongside	
competing	furniture	and	floorcoverings	
retailers - plus the 30 House of Fraser 
concession	units	which	we	opened	at	the	
start	of	the	last	financial	year.	
We	opened	three	new	stores	in	the	year	–	 
at	Abbotsinch	in	Glasgow,	Croydon	and	
Slough,	generating	combined	gross	sales	
of	£6.8	million	and	a	positive	contribution	
to	the	profitability	in	line	with	our	
expectations.	Our	first	full	year	operating	
the	House	of	Fraser	concession	has	proved	
challenging	for	us	as	we	have	learned	more	
about	the	customer	and	operating	as	a	
‘third	party’	but	it	did	generate	sales	of	
£21.2	million	in	its	first	full	year,	albeit	with	
a	negative	impact	on	our	result.	We	believe	
that	as	the	concession	matures,	it	will	make	
a	positive	contribution	to	the	Group’s	profits.
Given	the	nature	of	our	business	and	
particularly	the	high-ticket	character	of	
the	products	we	sell,	we	see	the	website	
primarily as a marketing tool and support 
for	customers	in	their	buying	decisions,	in	
conjunction	with	a	visit	to	a	store.	However,	
the	launch	of	our	new	website	has	made	
excellent	progress;	the	convenience	of	
ordering	online	continued	to	grow	during	
the	year	with	revenue	increasing	by	 
£1.7 million, or 25.4%, to £8.4 million. 
Current Trading and Outlook
We	are	encouraged	by	our	trading	
performance	since	the	start	of	the	current	
financial	year	and	we	are	in	line	with	our	
expectations.	However,	we	remain	mindful	
that	we	continue	to	face	strong	
comparatives	during	the	remainder	of	the	
first	half	of	the	year	and	that	a	number	of	
key trading periods are ahead of us.
With	a	strong	brand,	broad	product	range	
with	good	consumer	appeal,	an	excellent	
network	of	well-invested	stores	with	an	
opportunity	to	expand,	from	our	existing	
geographic	footprint,	and	growth	from	the	
continued	development	of	the	House	of	
Fraser	concession,	the	Group	has	a	clear	
growth	strategy.	We	look	forward	to	the	
year	ahead	and	beyond	with	confidence.	
Supported	by	our	highly	cash	generative	
business	model	and	strong	cash	position,	
the	Board	has	proposed	a	final	dividend	
payment of 11.2p making the total 
dividend	14.0p	for	the	year,	which	meets	
the	commitment	made	at	the	IPO.	
Strategy
We have developed and implemented a 
strategy	aimed	at	capitalising	on	the	core	
underlying	strengths	of	the	business.
The strategy is designed to drive sales 
across	a	more	diverse	range	of	customers,	
products	and	channels	whilst	limiting	
increases	in	operating	expenses	and	
thereby	also	building	the	adaptability	and	
resilience	of	the	business	to	changing	
economic conditions.
The main elements of the strategy to date 
have	been	as	follows	and	these	remain	the	
key	focus	for	the	whole	ScS	team:
• The	introduction	of	a	branded	range	 
of	furniture	products,	including	both	
third	party	and	ScS	private	label	brands;
• The	development	of	a	flooring	offering,	
principally	carpets,	but	including	
laminates	and	vinyl floorcoverings;
• The addition of a range of 
complementary	products,	including	
tables,	dining	furniture	and	accessories	
such	as	lamps	and	rugs;
• Extending	the	interest-free	consumer	
credit	offering	to	all	products;
• The development of our online 
capability	and	offer;	and
• The	introduction	of	a	furniture	and	
flooring	offer	through	a	concession	
agreement in 30 House of Fraser 
department stores. 
The	above	are	monitored	as	Management	
Performance	Indicators.
Our overall strategy and its main elements 
are	explained	in	more	detail	on	pages	12	
and 13 of this report. 
I’m	pleased	to	report	that	we	have	
continued	to	make	good	progress	in	all	 
of	these	areas.	I	would	particularly	draw	
shareholders’	attention	to	the	growth	 
of	our	flooring	business,	the	development	
within	House	of	Fraser,	attracting	a	wider	
customer	demographic	through	our	
branded	product	ranges	and	the	growth	we	
have	achieved	in	our	online	sales	channel.
Corporate Responsibility
At	ScS	we	see	our	core	purpose	as	helping	
customers	find	the	perfect	furniture	and	
flooring	for	their	home,	suiting	both	their	
personal	budget	and	their	personal	style.	
At	the	same	time	of	course,	we	recognise	
that	as	a	responsible	business	we	have	an	
obligation	to	operate	in	a	manner	that	is	
both	ethical	and	sustainable.
At	ScS,	Corporate	Social	Responsibility	
(CSR)	is	a	key	part	of	our	business	and	 
is integrated into the day-to-day 
management	of	the	Company.	It	is	
important to our reputation in the  
marketplace	and	to	our	customers	and	
colleagues,	as	well	as	wider	stakeholders	 
in	society	and	the	communities	we	serve.	
Our	CSR	programmes	are	focused	on	four	
key	priority	areas:	Environment,	where	our	
emphasis	is	on	recycling	waste,	reducing	
electricity	usage	and	improving	fuel	
efficiencies;	Health	&	Safety,	to	ensure	that	
our	staff	and	customers	can	work	and	shop	
in	a	safe	environment;	Colleagues,	where	
our	focus	is	on	seeking	to	ensure	that	ScS	 
is	a	great	place	to	work	and	develop;	and	
Community,	where	we	put	great	emphasis	
on	local	charitable	fundraising.
Further	details	of	our	CSR	programmes	 
and	commentary	on	progress	made	during	
the	year	are	provided	in	the	Corporate	
Responsibility	section	of	this	report,	
beginning	on	page	22.
David Knight
Chief Executive Officer 
14	October	2015
“ At ScS we see our core purpose as 
helping customers find the perfect 
furniture and flooring for their home.” 10 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Our Business Model
The ScS business model is all about offering a high quality, 
competitively priced range of upholstered furniture, 
flooring and related products to our customers with great 
service – supported by experienced expert staff, modern 
comfortable stores, an efficient supply chain and low 
overhead costs – resulting in a great value offer for  
our customers.
Convenience
Service
Price
Quality
Business 
Model 11 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Key elements of the ScS business model and how 
they combine to create value for customers and 
shareholders are:
Added value for 
customers and 
shareholders
An authoritative, 
competitively priced 
upholstery offer.
	We	are	sofa	specialists	
and	this	is	the	core	of	our	
customer	proposition	–	
offering	customers	a	wide	
range	of	styles,	fabrics,	
brands	and	value	for	money.	
An authoritative, 
competitively  
priced carpets and 
flooring offer. 
We	are	flooring	specialists	
and	offer	a	great	selection	of	
carpets	and	floorings.
Large, modern, 
comfortable stores. 
Our	customers	can	find	
all their home furnishing 
needs under one roof and 
our stores are designed to 
be	convenient,	welcoming	
and easy to shop in. Our 
online	channel	supports	and	
complements	our	stores.
Excellent customer 
service which really 
differentiates ScS. 
Our	experienced,	expert	
store	and	dedicated	service	
teams	help	our	customers	
make	the	right	choices	as	
well	as	provide	first	class	
after-sales	service.
Interest-free credit 
being available on  
all our products. 
As	a	retailer	of	higher	ticket	
furniture items this is another 
core	part	of	our	offer	for	
customers	–	particularly	
those	who	want	the	flexibility	
to	plan	their	purchases	and	
pay	by	instalments.
Our reliable supplier 
base ensures quality. 
We	source	from	a	small	
group	of	specialist	mainly	
UK-based	suppliers,	most	of	
which	we’ve	worked	with	for	
many years.
Our cost-efficient 
supply chain, 
infrastructure and 
central overhead 
means we stay 
competitive.
Customer	deliveries	are	
executed	by	our	own	
experienced	workforce,	which	
is	central	to	our	strategy	of	
providing	the	best	customer	
experience. 12 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Gross sales per square foot £209 
15 14 13
209
186
177
Advertising spend £19,164 (000) 
Advertising % of gross sales
15 14 13
14,156
15,264
19,164
5.8%
5.9%
6.6%
Our Strategy
Our strategy for growth has four main elements:
1
Increasing sales densities – 
by broadening the brand  
and product offer and  
raising brand awareness.
Sales	per	square	foot	in	existing	stores	
have	grown	by	74%	since	2009	against	a	
challenging	market	background	–	this	has	
driven	strong	market	share	growth	on	a	
store	base	that	has	grown	only	modestly.	
The	key	has	been	attracting	more	
customers	through	a	combination	of	
broadening	our	offers,	to	include	a	wider	
range	and	segmentation	of	branded	
upholstered	furniture	and	flooring;	 
a	step-change	to	our	advertising	spend	
taking	it	to	circa	6%	of	gross	sales	over	the	
last	three	years;	and	making	our	interest-
free	consumer	credit	offer	available	across	 
all	product categories.
 Read more on pages 16 and 17. 13 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
2
A new channel opportunity – 
concessions in House of Fraser.
Although	it	is	still	early	days	for	this	new	 
channel,	it	represents	an	exciting	long-term	 
sales	opportunity	for	ScS	–	to	further	broaden	 
the	appeal	of	our	brand	through	department	
store	concession	space	and	through	the	 
House	of	Fraser	website.
 Read more on page 15.
3
Filling in the white space – 
opening new stores. 
Management	has	identified	30	potential	new	
locations	within	the	UK.	We	have	a	lot	of	scope	 
to	extend	our	modern	network	across	the	UK,	in	
particular	we	are	under	represented	in	the	South	
East	of	England.	The	key	for	us	is	a	structured	and	
manageable	opening	programme,	ensuring	that	
we	get	the	very	best	location	for	our	new	stores.
 Read more on page 9.
4
The online trading opportunity.
Online	is	a	new	but	growing	business	for	us.	 
We	believe	the	in-store	experience	–	where	
customers	try	before	they	buy	–	will	always	be	 
key	to	the	purchase	decision	but	online	now	
represents 2.9% of sales. Online is not only 
complementary	to	our	stores,	it	also	gives	us	the	
opportunity	to	offer	exclusive	items	–	such	as	
fabric	ranges	–	and	also	faster	delivery	times.	
 Read more on page 14. 14 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
The	Group	launched	its	transactional	
website	in	April	2009.	Sales	and	profits	
from	the	website	have	grown	steadily,	
particularly	over	the	last	three	years,	from	
£0.5	million	in	2009	to	approximately	 
£8.4 million in the year ending 25 July 2015. 
For the year ended 26 July 2014 online 
gross sales represented 2.6% of gross 
sales,	this	grew	during	FY2015	to	2.9%.
The	Group’s	online	offering	is	not	only	
important	as	a	complimentary	sales	
channel,	it	provides	a	key	marketing	
channel	with	many	customers	choosing	 
to	view	and	research	products	before	
visiting	a	physical	store	location.	
The	Group’s	online	sales	performance	is	
reflective	of	the	fact	that	‘big	ticket’	
purchases	are	generally	sold	in	a	retail	
store environment rather than online. 
Whilst	the	Group	expects	to	see	a	
continued	sales	growth	online,	via	this	
channel,	the	prime	objective	of	the	online	
strategy	is	to	promote	ScS	to	potential	sofa	
and	carpet	customers	and	encourage	them	
to	visit	a	ScS	store.
 
As	part	of	the	Group’s	online	strategy,	its	
online	capability	has	been	supplemented	
by	the	investment	of	approximately	 
£0.6	million	to	develop	a	new	platform	and	
website	applying	cloud-based	technology.	
This	has	been	designed	in	order	to:
• Drive	store	footfall;
• Enable	customers	who	choose	not	to	
return to stores to enjoy an improved 
experience	when	buying	online;	and
• Support	customers	who	wish	to	make	a	
purchase	online	without	visiting	a	store.
The	products	available	on	the	Group’s	
website	generally	mirror	the	in-store	
offering	but	include	a	small	range	of	
additional	‘web	exclusive’	ranges	which	
typically	have	a	lower	price	point	and	faster	
delivery	time.	The	online	customer	
demographic	is	broadly	similar	to	that	of	
the	in-store	customer,	with	a	bias	towards	
a	younger	customer	demographic	as	well	
as	customers	located	in	more	rural	
locations.	The	online	offering	is	currently	
available	only	to	customers	within	the	UK	
and	utilises	ScS’s	existing	distribution	
network	to	deliver	customer	orders.	
The Group has made a significant investment in its online platform. As well  
as generating more sales than the Groups leading stores the website has also  
proved to be key in driving in store footfall.
CASE STUDY
BROADENING THE OFFER 
–
 ONLINE
Our Strategy in Action 15 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
The	agreement	with	House	of	Fraser	sees	
the	Group	pay	a	commission	to	House	of	
Fraser	which	is	directly	linked	to	the	sales	
performance	of	the	concessions.	
Following	a	very	successful	pilot	project	 
in three stores the rollout of 30 House  
of	Fraser	concessions	commenced	in	 
May	2014	and	was	completed	by	the	end	 
of	July	2014.	The	launch	of	the	‘For	Living’	
brand	was	supported	with	lifestyle-led	
television and press advertising. This 
supported	a	product	range	which	focuses	
on	a	small	number	of	key	brands	with	an	
emphasis	on	quality	and	design	but	
retaining	a	market	competitive	price	point.	
The	relationship	with	House	of	Fraser	also	
allows	the	products	to	be	retailed	via	House	
of	Fraser’s	online	store,	their	most	profitable	
and	award-winning	retail	channel.	
The	Group	were	able	to	introduce	Duresta	
branded	products	alongside	Parker	Knoll,	
G-Plan	and	La-Z-Boy	as	well	as	products	
from	the	house	brand	SiSi.	Following	the	
trial	the	Group	invested	approximately	 
£1.4	million	rolling	out	the	new	concessions.	
Sales	within	House	of	Fraser	are	on	a	 
‘made	to	order’	basis	and	are	delivered	
directly	to	customers	via	the	Group’s	
existing	distribution	network,	with	the	
customer	receiving	a	House	of	Fraser	
branded	delivery.	The	retail	team	are	
supported	by	a	Central	Administration	
team	and	a	Customer	Service	Team	with	
any	repairs	being	handled	by	the	Group’s	
highly	skilled	upholstery	technicians.
The	Group	has	also	been	contracted	to	
manage	House	of	Fraser’s	own	brand	 
range	of	furniture	in	the	30	stores	where	
concessions	are	established	plus	an	
additional	five	locations.	This	range	is	 
sold	under	House	of	Fraser’s	own	 
in-house	brands	and	is	sourced	by	a	ScS	
merchandising	team	acting	in	partnership	
with	House	of	Fraser.	
The	agreement	with	House	of	Fraser	offers	
the	Group	a	low	capital-intensive	way	of	
increasing	retail	selling	space	and	national	
coverage.	The	agreement	with	House	of	
Fraser	adds	approximately	123,060	square	
feet	of	retail	space	and	30	additional	retail	
spaces	which	sell	the	Group’s	products	to	
the	total	store	portfolio.	Retailing	within	
the House of Fraser department stores has 
allowed	ScS	to	move	into	new	markets	and	
target	new	customers	located	within	town	
centres,	away	from	the	Group’s	more	
traditional	focus	of	out	of	town	retail	parks.	
Given	the	predominantly	branded	offering,	
House	of	Fraser	produces	a	transaction	
value	23%	higher	when	compared	to	the	
Group’s	own	store	portfolio.	
Whilst	a	number	of	the	brands	offered	
within	House	of	Fraser	overlap	with	ScS’s	
own	store	offerings	there	has	not	been	a	
material	decrease	in	sales	in	the	Group’s	
stores	located	near	to	the	House	of	Fraser	
concessions.	During	this	start-up	phase,	 
the	project	as	expected	has	returned	a	loss	
during	the	FY2015	financial	year;	however,	
the	initial	results	are	encouraging	as	there	
is	no	apparent	cannibalisation	of	the	 
ScS	customer	base	and	a	growing	interest	
in	this	new	brand.
In March 2014, the Group entered into a concession agreement to develop  
a furniture and carpet offering in 30 House of Fraser Stores under the  
House of Fraser ‘For Living’ brand. This new partnership would allow the Group  
to establish a presence in new markets in the UK as well as the ability to target  
a different, more affluent customer base.
CASE STUDY
HOUSE OF FRASER 
–
 FOR LIVING 16 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Floorcoverings market share % 
	Carpetright	–	25.8%
	B&Q	–	9.7%
	United	Carpets	–	4.1%
	John	Lewis	–	4.0%
	Homebase	–	3.4%
	IKEA	–	2.5%
	ScS	–	2.1%
 Other –	48.3%
(including:		 Floors	2	Go,	 
Topps	Tiles,		 Wickes)
Upholstery market size £3,176.9m 
15 14 13
2,938.0
3,051.6
3,176.9
Floorcoverings market size £1,722.9m 
15 14 13
1,692.9
1,680.0
1,722.9
Upholstery market forecast 18.2%*
20 18 16
3,513
3,280
3,756
Floorcoverings market forecast 13.1%* 
20 18 16
1,843
1,754
1,948
Upholstery market share %
 DFS –	26.1%
	ScS	–	8.1%
 Homestyle –	6.9%
	Next	–	4.6%
 Furniture Village	–	4.4%
	Sofaworks	–	5.3%
	IKEA	–	3.8%
	John	Lewis	–	3.8%
 Other –	37.0%
(including:		 Argos,	Homebase,	 	 
Marks	&	Spencer,	Multiyork)
Our Markets and Competitors
The	upholstered	furniture	market	is	worth	
an	estimated	£3.2bn	sales	per	annum,	and	
in	which	ScS	is	one	of	the	leading	retailers	
with	a	share	of	8.1%.	ScS	is	also	becoming	 
a	major	participant	in	the	£1.7bn	sales	per	
annum	floorcoverings	market,	which	it	only	
entered	in	2012	and	where	it	now	has	a	 
2% share.
The signs are that the furniture and 
floorcoverings	markets	have	returned	to	
growth	after	a	very	challenging	few	years.	
The	overall	market	contracted	significantly	
as	a	result	of	the	global	financial	crisis	and	
the	prolonged	recession	that	followed	it.	
The value of the upholstered furniture 
segment of the market fell from almost 
£4bn	in	2007	to	an	estimated	£3.2bn	
in 2015.	
Looking	ahead,	the	conditions	necessary	
for	the	market	to	grow	sustainably	–	
improving	consumer	confidence	and	
disposable	income,	a	strengthening	level	 
of	housing	market	activity	and	availability	
of	affordable	consumer	credit	for	higher-
ticket	items	–	are	all	now	in	place.	
Consequently	Verdict	forecasts	that	ScS	
core	markets	are	now	set	to	resume	strong	
growth	–	with	3.4%	compound	growth	
anticipated	between	2015	and	2020	in	
upholstered furniture and 2.5% 
in floorcoverings.	
ScS operates in the UK retail market 
for upholstered furniture and floorings.
Competitors
Source:	Verdict.
*	Five-year	growth	rate	(%).
Our	business	mix	has	continued	to	evolve	
in	line	with	our	strategy	to	broaden	our	
appeal	by	offering	a	wider	range	of	brands	
–	including	third	party	brands	–	as	well	as	
flooring	and	accessories.	Flooring	now	
represents 11.8% of total gross sales. 17 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
From sofas…
Upholstered furniture business
Represented	approximately	88%	 
of	gross	sales	in	the	financial	year	
ended	25	July	2015	and	specialises	
primarily	in	the	retail	of	fabric	 
and	leather	sofas	and	chairs.
88%
Gross Sales
…to carpets
The flooring business
Represented	approximately	12%	 
of	gross	sales	in	the	financial	year	
ended	25	July	2015	and	focuses	on	
the	retail	of	carpets,	as	well	as	
laminate	and	vinyl	flooring.
12%
Gross Sales 18 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Financial Review and Key  
Performance Indicators
Gross Sales and Revenue
Gross	sales	increased	by	13.2%	on	the	
previous	financial	year	to	£292.2	million	
(2014: £258.2 million) as a result of:
• An	increase	in	upholstered	furniture	
gross	sales	in	ScS	stores	of	£6.4	million	
or	2.9%;
• An	increase	in	flooring	gross	sales	in	 
ScS	stores	of	£1.4	million	or	4.6%;
• An	increase	in	online	gross	sales	of	 
£1.7	million	or	25.4%;
• Three	new	stores,	contributing	gross	
sales	of	£6.8	million;	and
• Gross sales from the House of Fraser 
concession,	which	was	launched	in	 
30	sites	from	the	start	of	the	financial	
year (2014: three sites), of £21.2 million 
(2014: £3.4 million).
Revenue,	which	represents	gross	sales	 
less	charges	relating	to	interest-free	credit	
sales	(see	note	3	–	Segment	information),	
increased	by	13.4%	on	the	previous	
financial	year	to	£276.7	million	
(2014: £244.1	million).
Like-for-like	order	intake	for	the	financial	
year	ended	25	July	2015,	calculated	on	the	
basis	of	all	stores	opened	for	12	months	 
or	longer,	was	5.0%	up	on	the	previous	
financial	year.	
Gross Profit
Our	focus	on	generating	growth	has	
resulted	in	an	increase	in	gross	profit	of	
£14.2 million or 12.5% to £127.2 million 
(2014:	£113.0	million).	However,	gross	
margin	as	a	percentage	of	gross	sales	
reduced	by	30	basis	points	to	43.5%	
(2014: 43.8%)	reflecting	the	competitive	
promotions	throughout	the	financial	year,	
in	particular,	a	‘free	carpet’	offer	during	the	
autumn	(pre-Christmas)	sale	as	we	
continued	to	successfully	promote	and	
grow	the	flooring	business	as	well	as	
increasing	combined	sales	of	 
furniture/flooring.	
Operating Profit 
Costs,	whilst	carefully	controlled,	
increased	due	to	ongoing	investment	 
to	support	the	strategy	for	growth.
Distribution	costs	were	£14.0	million	
(2014: £12.3	million),	an	increase	of	
£1.7 million.	This	includes	the	impact	of	a	
new	distribution	centre	in	West	Thurrock,	
London	which	was	fully	operational	at	the	
beginning	of	the	financial	year,	to	provide	
capacity	for	certain	House	of	Fraser	sites	
and	the	two	ScS	stores	opened	during	the	
financial	year	in	that	region,	Croydon	and	
Slough.	This	also	provides	capacity	for	
future	growth	in	the	South	East	of	England.	
Distribution	costs	expressed	as	a	
percentage	of	revenue	were	5.1%	
(2014: 5.0%).
Administration	expenses	comprise	 
store	operating	costs,	advertising	and	
marketing-expenditure	and	the	cost	of	all	
head	office-based	functions	and	business	
support	costs	and	include	the	IPO-related	
costs	of	£3.7	million	(see	‘Exceptional	
items’	–	note	6).	Administration	expenses	
were	£110.3 million	(2014:	£94.1	million),	
an	increase	of	£16.2	million,	which,	in	
addition	to	the	exceptional	costs,	includes	
the	operating	costs	of	the	additional	27	 
House	of	Fraser	concession	sites	and	the	
new	ScS	stores	when	compared	to	prior	
year.	Administration	costs,	adjusted	 
to	add	back	the	IPO-related	costs	of	
£3.7 million	expressed	as	a	percentage	 
of	revenue	are	38.6%	(2014: 38.5%).
Operating	profit	before	exceptional	items	
was	£6.4	million	(2014:	£6.6	million).	
Although disappointing, relative to our 
expectations,	this	reflects	the	dip	in	trading	
momentum in April and early  
May	(referred	to	in	the	Chief	Executive	
Officers’ 	report).	
Net Finance (Costs)/Income
Net	finance	costs	comprised	principally	 
the	interest	payable	on	the	pre-IPO	
US$-denominated	debt	owed	to	the	
principal	shareholder	together	with	
movements	on	exchange	thereon,	which	is	
no	longer	payable	(see	‘Trade	and	other	
payables	–	current’	–	note	15).	Net	finance	
costs	were	£4.5	million	(2014:	net	finance	
income	£0.5 million)	and	include	
exceptional	items	of	£0.6	million	
(2014: £nil)	and	a	loss	on	exchange	of	
£2.8 million	(2014:	gain	on	exchange	
£2.5 million).	
Taxation
The	total	tax	charge	for	the	financial	 
year of £0.5 million (2014: £ 1.2 million) 
comprises	a	corporation	tax	charge	of	 
£1.5 million (2014: £1.1 million) and a 
deferred	tax	credit	of	£1.0	million	
(2014: charge	£0.1	million)	which	includes	
credits	of	£0.6	million	in	respect	of	prior	
years	(2014:	charges	£0.5	million).	The	tax	
charge	based	on	profit	before	tax,	adjusted	
for	IPO	costs	charged	as	exceptional	
operating	items,	is	an	effective	rate	of	
25.8%	(2014:	17 .4%)	which	is	higher	than	 
if	the	standard	rate	of	corporation	tax	had	
been	applied	due	to	charges/(credits)	 
not	deductible/(taxable)	for	tax	purposes,	
principally	foreign	exchange	losses/(gains).	
(Loss)/Profit After Tax  
and Earnings per Share
The	statutory	loss	after	tax	is	£2.2	million	
(2014:	profit	after	tax	£5.9	million)	and	
based	upon	the	number	of	shares	in	issue	
at	admission	the	basic	and	fully	diluted	loss	
per share is 5.56p (2014: earnings 14.78p). 
Earnings	per	share	based	upon	the	number	
of shares in issue at admission and the 
(loss)/profit	after	tax	adjusted	for	
exceptional/non-recurring	operating	costs	
and	non-recurring	net	finance	(costs)/
income	are	13.75p	(2014:	17.50p).	
Cash Flow and Cash Equivalents
At an operational level the Group remained 
strongly	cash	generative	with	net	cash	flow	
from operations, after adjusting for total 
IPO	costs	and	net	interest	paid,	of	
£12.6 million	(2014:	£16.9	million).
Total	investing	activities	of	£4.1	million	
(2014:	£3.1	million)	included	£2.5	million	
on	new	stores	(2014:	£nil),	refurbishment	
expenditure	£0.5	million	(2014:	£0.5 million)	
and	£0.2	million	(2014:	£0.6 million)	on	 
the	website.	
The	Group	reorganisation	pre-IPO	included	
a	small	repayment	of	Group	debt	of	
£0.8 million	(2014:	£6.6	million)	and	
capitalisation	of	the	Group	debt	
outstanding at that date.
The	Group’s	cash	and	cash	equivalents	at	
the	end	of	the	financial	year	are	very	strong	
at	£21.1	million	(2014:	£18.8	million),	whilst	
debt,	following	the	Group	reorganisation,	
is £nil (2014: £22.5 million). At IPO the 
Group	also	put	in	place	a	£12	million	
committed	revolving	credit	facility.
Dividend
An interim dividend of 2.8p per ordinary 
share	was	paid	in	May	2015.	With	
confidence	in	the	Group’s	future	growth	
prospects,	and	supported	by	strong	cash	
flow	dynamics,	robust	financial	position	
and	new	committed	banking	facilities,	it	is	
proposed	to	pay	a	final	dividend	of	11.2p	
per ordinary share, resulting in a total 
dividend	of	14.0p,	as	indicated	at	IPO.
Ron Turnbull
Chief Financial Officer
14	October	2015 19 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Adjusted EBITDA £11.3m 
15 14 13
11.3 13.7 11.9
Adjusted cash generated from operations £12.6m 
15 14 13
12.6 16.9 9.5
Adjusted earnings per share 13.75p 
15 14 13
13.75 17.5 13.75
Key Performance Indicators
The	Group’s	key	financial	performance	indicators	and	how	we	have	performed	against	
them	are	as	follows:
2015 2014 2013
(1)	Total	year-on-year	gross	sales	growth	% 13.2% 5.1% 17.9%
(2)	Like-for-like	order	intake	growth	% 5.0% 4.7% 13.3%
(3) Gross margin % of gross sales 43.5% 43.8% 43.7%
(4) Adjusted EBITDA
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Operating	profit 2.8 6.6 6.1
Depreciation	and	impairment 4.2 4.0 4.2
Amortisation 0.6 0.2 0.3
EBITDA 7.6 10.8 10.6
IPO	related	costs 3.7 – –
House	of	Fraser	roll	out	costs – 1.4 –
Management fees and other – 1.5 1.3
Total EBITDA adjustments 3.7 2.9 1.3
Adjusted EBITDA 11.3 13.7 11.9
(5)	Adjusted	cash	generated	from	operations
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Net	cash	from	operating	activities 8.2 13.8 8.1
EBITDA adjustments (4) 3.7 2.9 1.3
Net interest paid 0.7 0.2 0.1
Adjusted cash generated from operations 12.6 16.9 9.5
(6)	Adjusted	earnings	per	share	–	pence
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
(Loss)/Profit	after	tax (2.2) 5.9 2.6
EBITDA adjustments (4)* 3.7 2.3 1.0
Net	finance	costs/(income)* 4.0 (1.2) 1.9
Adjusted	profit	after	tax 5.5 7.0 5.5
Number	of	shares	in	issue 40,000,000 40,000,000 40,000,000
Adjusted earnings per share – pence 13.75p 17.50p 13.75p
*	 Net	of	tax. 20 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Key Risk Description Mitigation
BRAND & 
REPUTATION
The	Group	recognises	the	need	to	protect	its	brand	and	
reputation	–	failure	to	do	so	effectively	could	result	in	a	
loss	of	confidence	by	customers	and	or colleagues.
• The	Group	monitors	carefully	the	key	aspects	of	its	business	
activities	which	have	the	potential	to	impact	its	reputation.
• In	particular,	it	regularly	surveys	or	assesses	customer	service	
levels,	product	quality,	colleague	engagement	and	the	integrity	
of	its	product	sourcing.
• An	annual	pricing	plan	is	produced	to	ensure	that	promotions	
are	verified	against	current	guidelines.	
COMPETITION The	Group	operates	in	competitive	and	fragmented	
markets	and	against	a	wide	variety	of	retailers	and	
may	face	increased	competition	in	its	target	markets.	
Failure	to	be	aware	of	or	respond	to	key	changes	in	the	
competitive	environment	is	a	risk	to	our	future	success.
• Evolving, diversifying and developing our proposition for 
customers	is	a	key	element	of	the	Group’s	strategy.
• As	such	the	business	is	continually	responding	to	changing	
patterns	of	supply	and	demand	in	its	core	markets	–	broadening	
its	appeal	and	its	sales	base.
• Continuous	monitoring	of	results,	product	and	advertising	
performance	and	competitor	activity.
REGULATION & 
COMPLIANCE 
Many	of	the	Group’s	activities	are	regulated	by	
legislation	and	standards	including	trading,	advertising,	
product	quality,	health	&	safety,	the	environment,	
data	protection	and	the	Bribery	Act.	Failure	to	
comply	with	these	may	risk	incurring	financial	and/or	
reputational damage.
• We	monitor	compliance	actively	with	our	existing	obligations	
and	we	seek	to	adhere	to	internal	policies,	codes	and	standards	
where	appropriate.
• Colleagues	are	kept	informed	of	these	requirements	via	regular	
briefings	and	internal	communications.
• Operational	management	are	responsible	for	liaising	with	the	
compliance	function	and	external	advisers	where	appropriate	to	
ensure	that	new	legislation	is	prepared	for	and	managed.
• Suppliers	are	subject	to	regular	checks	and	independent	
product	testing	is	regularly	undertaken.
ECONOMIC 
ENVIRONMENT
A	reduction	in	consumer	confidence	or	activity	levels	
and	pricing	in	the	housing	market,	resulting	in	a	fall	
in	consumer	spending	on	discretionary	high	value	
items	such	as	furniture,	could	be	damaging	to	the	
performance	of	and	prospects	for	the	Group.
• We	offer	a	range	of	products	and	price	points	in	our	categories	
to	ensure	that	customers	can	trade	up	or	down.
• We	maintain	a	low	cost	business	model	so	that	we	stay	
competitive	in	our	markets.
• A	key	strand	of	our	strategy	has	been	to	broaden	and	thereby	
diversify	our	product	offering	into	categories	such	as	flooring	
and	third	party	brands.
CREDIT RISK & 
LIQUIDITY
The	Group’s	level	of	indebtedness,	its	exposure	to	
interest	rate	and	currency	rate	volatility,	the	availability	
of	supplier	credit	and	the	ability	of	suppliers	to	obtain	
credit	risk	insurance	could	have	material	adverse	
effects	on	the	Group’s	cash	position	and	overall	
financial condition.
• Developed	strong	relationship	and	credibility	with	credit	insurers	
though	regular	communication	and	information	sharing.
• Robust	forecasting	facilities	enable	early	discussion	of	possible	
issues	increasing	the	chances	of	positive	solutions.
• Revolving	credit	facility	of	£12.0	million	in	place.
• Suppliers	provide	regular	updates	on	their	Credit	
Insurance arrangements.	
CREDIT RISK – 
CUSTOMERS
The	Group’s	ability	to	offer	interest-free	credit	to	
customers	may	be	impaired	as	a	result	of	high	default	
levels,	higher	interest	rates	or	the	withdrawal	or	
uncompetitive	nature	of	consumer	credit	facilities	
provided	by	external	finance	companies	–	thereby	
reducing	the	competitiveness	of	a	key	part	of	the	
Group’s	customer	proposition.
• The	Group	maintains	a	relationship	with	two	credit	providers	to	
reduce	the	risk	of	the	facility	being	withdrawn.	
• The	Group	regularly	reviews	default	levels	and	meets	regularly	
with	the	suppliers	to	discuss	the	facility.
• The	Group	has	obtained	the	relevant	permissions	to	sell	
interest-free	credit	to	customers	from	the	FCA.
• Regular	training	is	provided	to	retail	staff	and	any	complaints	
regarding	regulated	activity	are	provided	to	the	Board.	
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
The following principal risks and uncertainties are those that the Board has identified as 
having a potential detrimental impact on our corporate reputation, the operation of our 
business or on our ability to execute our strategy. The business takes a variety of steps to 
mitigate these risks and these are reviewed regularly as part of the oversight by the Audit 
Committee of the system of internal controls and reported on to the Board and the executive 
management team, which are collectively responsible for overall risk management. 21 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Key Risk Description Mitigation
SEASONALITY/ 
EXTREME WEATHER
Furniture retailing is highly seasonal in nature. 
Prolonged	extreme	cold,	warm	or	unseasonal	weather	
conditions	may	reduce	footfall	in	our	stores,	resulting	
in	weak	sales,	leading	to	potentially	adverse	effects	
on profitability.
• The	Group	constantly	monitors	national,	divisional,	regional	and	
branch	results.
• This	close	monitoring	and	our	ability	to	flex	the	marketing	and	
advertising	spend	enables	the	Board	to	react	quickly	to	changes	
in	the	marketplace.
PROPERTY – 
AVAILABILITY/ 
LEASE COSTS
The	Group’s	business	requires	that	it	leases	substantial	
amounts	of	retail	space.	The	availability	and	cost	of	
suitable	leasehold	store	property	is	a	key	element	
of	the	Company’s	business	model	–	permitting	it	to	
compete	cost-effectively,	alter	the	size	and	position	
of	its	stores	when	necessary	and	also	expand	into	new	
locations	as	part	of	its	strategy	for	growth.	The	Group’s	
performance	and	prospects	could	be	adversely	affected	
were	the	availability	and	cost	of	suitable	property	to	
move unfavorably.
• Regular	reviews	with	agents	and	monitoring	of	opportunities	
is undertaken.
• Ensuring	we	have	current	information	from	landlords	asset	
management	and	are	aware	of	the	development	of	new	retail	sites.
• Work	closely	with	our	professional	advisors	to	monitor	progress	
and	changes	to	rental	evidence	to	predict	future	lease	costs.	
SUPPLY CHAIN/ 
INFRASTRUCTURE
A	large	proportion	of	the	Group’s	products	are	supplied	
by	a	small	number	of	key	manufacturers.	A	supplier	
which	ceases	to	trade	could	cause	disruption	to	the	
supply	of	products	to	customers.	
Approximately	34%	of	the	total	products	sold	by	the	
Group	are	manufactured	in	the	Far	East,	presenting	a	
difficulty	in	ensuring	supplier	compliance	and	an	ethical	
supply	chain.	
• The	Group	has	long-established	and	good	working	relationships	
with	its	key	suppliers.	These	working	relationships	help	provide	
early	indications	of	any	potential	problems.	
• When	sourcing	products	management	ensures	that	at	least	
two	factories	can	produce	each	product	providing	a	degree	
of resilience.	
• Market	intelligence	assists	in	identifying	any	early	signs	
of failure.	
• Service	level	agreements	are	in	place	with	all	suppliers.
• Whilst	the	Group	sources	some	product	from	overseas,	the	
contractual	relationship	is	with	long-standing	UK	businesses.	
KEY MANAGEMENT The	business	is	reliant	on	the	high	quality,	stability	and	
experience	in	its	senior	management	team	–	as	well	as	
strong operational management.
• The	key	senior	executives	and	management	are	appropriately	
rewarded	and	incentivised	through	bonus	and	LTIP	
arrangements	with	a	focus	on	retention	as	well	as	performance.
• The	Board	has	adopted	a	succession	plan	which	includes	
strategy	and	contingency	measures	should	key	individuals	not	
be	available.
• Key	man	cover	is	in	place	for	the	CEO	and	CFO	positions.	
PEOPLE Retaining	trained	and	engaged	colleagues	is	essential	
to	the	delivery	of	the	high	standard	of	customer	service,	
which	is	a	key	part	of	our	proposition.	Our	future	
success	is	at	risk	if	we	do	not	recruit	and	retain	high	
calibre people.
• Retention	rates	monitored	and	supported	by	an	exit	
interview process.
• The	Group	ensures	terms	and	conditions	of	employment	are	fair	
and	competitive	in	the	sector.	
• The	Group	works	to	maintain	its	brand	presence	and	aims	to	be	
seen	as	an	‘employer	of	choice’.
IT SYSTEMS/ 
CONTINUITY/  
CYBER RISK
The Group is reliant upon key IT systems and 
infrastructure	–	and	any	disruption	to	these	could	affect	
adversely	the	operation	of	the	business.	Data	protection	
failure	may	lead	to	potential	fine	and	or	prosecution	and	
a risk of reputational damage. 
• 24-hour	system	monitoring	is	in	place	for	business	critical	systems.
• A	disaster	recovery	site	is	available	and	a	full	disaster	recovery	
plan	is	in	place.
• Regular	system	backups	are	taken	and	stored	at	the	DR	site.	
• The	website	sits	behind	the	Demandware	(third	party)	firewall	
with	appropriate	resilience	built	in.	This	resilience	is	tested	and	
monitored	by	the	Group.	
PRODUCT  
LIABILITY CLAIMS
Failure	to	deliver	a	safe,	quality	product	in	line	with	
customer	expectations	risks	the	reputation	of	the	
Group,	resulting	in	loss	of	customer	confidence	and	
declining	sales	volumes.	
• All	suppliers	have	entered	into	a	service	level	agreement	with	
the Group. 
• Suppliers	are	required	to	provide	evidence	that	the	product	
supplied	is	complaint	with	all	current	regulations.
• The	Group	carry	out	regular	independent	testing	on	products	
supplied	to	ensure	ongoing	compliance	to	current	regulations.
• Product	performance	is	monitored	via	the	customer	service	
team	and	regular	meetings	are	held	with	suppliers	to	help	
eliminate	and	reduce	product	issues.	 22 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Corporate Social Responsibility
At ScS we see our core purpose as helping customers find the perfect furniture 
and flooring for their home, suiting both our customer’s budget and personal style. 
At the same time of course, we recognise that as a responsible business we have 
an obligation to operate in a manner that is both ethical and sustainable.
At	ScS,	Corporate	Social	Responsibility	
(CSR)	is	a	key	part	of	our	business;	it	is	
important to our reputation in the 
marketplace,	and	to	our	customers	and	
colleagues,	as	well	as	wider	stakeholders.	
Our	CSR	strategy	focuses	on	four	priority	
areas: the Environment, Health and Safety, 
our	Colleagues	and	our	Community.	
Environment
As	a	retailer	we	recognise	that	our	
operations	will	impact	the	environment,	
and	we	have	a	duty	to	ensure	that	both	now	
and	in	the	future	we	seek	to	minimise	this	
impact.	There	are	a	number	of	important	
areas	that	we	place	emphasis	on,	to	reduce	
the	environmental	impact	of	the	business.	
Our	focus	is	to	maximise	the	level	of	waste	
recycling,	reducing	our	electricity	usage	
and	improving	our	fuel	efficiencies.	
Waste Recycling
ScS	is	committed	to	reducing	waste.	All	 
of	our	waste	packaging,	principally	plastic	
and	cardboard,	generated	by	our	stores,	
distribution	centres	and	protecting	the	
product	we	deliver	directly	to	our	
customers,	is	collected	and	recycled.	Over	
the last 12 months our strategies have 
reduced	our	waste	volumes	by	30%	and	
92%	of	waste	materials	collected	are	now	
recycled	or	diverted	from	landfill.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reporting
We	aim	to	reduce	our	carbon	footprint.	 
All	ScS	sites	now	have	automatic	meter	
readers	(AMR)	fitted	for	recording	
electricity	usage	and	meter	loggers	for	
recording	gas	usage.	This	allows	greater	
control	of	costs	by	more	accurate	
recording	of	data	but	also	the	policing	of	
anomalies	as	these	are	highlighted	within	
24 hours. 
ScS	are	currently	trialling	a	building	energy	
management system (BEMs) at four sites. 
This	allows	automatic	computerised	
management of all energy usage, leading 
to	maximising	cost	efficiencies	and	
minimising	downtime	and	wastage.	Such	
systems	include	movement	sensors	to	
switch	off	equipment	when	it	is	not	being	
used, light sensors to moderate lighting  
on	signage	and	auto	controls	for	heating	
and cooling.
In	2014	ScS	installed	new	corporate	
signage	at	all	sites	incorporating	the	latest	
LED	illumination	technology.	This,	together	
with	a	progressive	change	to	energy	
efficient	lighting	inside	our	stores,	has	
produced	a	10%	reduction	in	electricity	
usage.	It	is	anticipated	that	this	figure	will	
increase	as	a	higher	proportion	of	sites	
benefit	in	time	from	the	new	technology.
In	2015	we	introduced	the	Paragon	system	
of	computerised	management	of	our	
logistics	operation.	This	allows	the	use	of	
delivery	vehicles	to	be	optimised	in	terms	
of load en route, minimising the mileage 
required	to	achieve	our	customer	
deliveries,	thus	reducing	fuel	consumption.	
Health and Safety
We	take	the	welfare	of	our	customers	and	
employees very seriously. We are therefore 
committed	to	ensuring	that	our	business	
has appropriate health and safety 
standards	across	out	store	portfolio	as	 
well	as	our	distribution	centres	and	our	
head	office.	We	want	to	ensure	that	our	
customers	and	employees	can	shop	and	
work	in	a	safe	environment.	The	Board	has	
the	ultimate	responsibility	for	ensuring	
health	and	safety	compliance.	The	
business	regularly	monitors	a	number	of	
KPI’s	including	the	number	of	accidents,	
particularly	those	that	are	required	to	be	
reported	to	the	Health	and	Safety	Executive.
 
In	FY2015	there	were	five	accidents	
reportable	to	the	Health	and	Safety	
Executive.	In	FY2014	there	were	12	
reportable	accidents.	
Our	Health	and	Safety	Policy	is	
communicated	throughout	the	business	
and	all	our	colleagues	receive	health	and	
safety training that is appropriate to their 
job	role.	Observance	of	policy	is	monitored	
through regular health and safety audits 
and	we	ensure	that	we	are	abreast	of	all	
current	statutory	requirements.	 23 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Colleagues
Our	people	are	core	to	our	business,	
whether	they	work	in	our	stores,	are	 
part	of	our	distribution	operation	or	are	 
a	member	of	our	support	teams.	ScS	is	a	
growing	business	and	in	the	last	12	months	
we	have	created	150	new	jobs	across	
our organisation.
 
We	are	an	equal	opportunities	employer	
and	we	strive	to	ensure	that	no	employee	 
is	discriminated	against	on	the	grounds	 
of	gender,	race,	religion,	disability,	sexual	
orientation	or	age.	We	want	ScS	to	be	a	
great	place	to	work	and	everyone	working	
in	it	has	an	equal	opportunity	to	progress	
within	the	business.
ScS	has	held	the	Investors	in	People	for	 
the	last	14	years,	and	we	undertake	regular	
culture	surveys	across	our	organisation	 
to ensure that every employee has the 
opportunity	to	provide	us	with	feedback	
about	our	workplace.
 
We	offer	apprentice	opportunities	 
within	our	business	and	in	2015,	25	new	
apprentices	joined	our	business.	Our	aim	 
is	always	to	offer	permanent	roles	to	
apprentices,	where	it	is	possible	to	do	so	 
on	completion	of	their	training.	An	open	
programme	of	NVQ	training	is	offered	to	
colleagues	across	the	business	and	in	2015	
48	NVQ’s	were	awarded.	 
Our	Time	to	Train	policy	gives	colleagues	
the	opportunity	to	engage	in	other	external	
training	opportunities,	and	if	the	course	
meets	relevant	business	criteria	the	
Company	offers	financial	support	towards	
this	and,	where	required,	a	flexible	work	
arrangement	to	allow	them	to	attend	their	
chosen	course.
 
We	reward	our	store	teams	through	
results-focused	bonus	and	commission	
schemes,	which	allow	our	retail	sales	 
teams	to	earn	rewards	commensurate	 
with	performance.	
In	May	2015,	we	launched	a	share	incentive	
plan	that	will	allow	all	employees	the	
opportunity	to	participate	in	the	future	
success	of	ScS.	
Community
ScS	recognises	its	broader	role	in	the	local	
community.	We	are	a	supporter	of	the	
Foundation	of	Light	Charity;	based	in	the	
North	East	this	charity	works	to	improve	
the	lives	of	children	across	the	region.	 
On	a	national	level	we	have	participated	in	
fundraising	events	for	Macmillan	Cancer	
Support,	Children	in	Need,	Comic	Relief	
and 52 Lives. We also make donations to 
other	local	and	national	charities	often	
those	recommended	by	colleagues.	
Caption: Left to right – Raising funds in store on Red Nose  
Day	|	Colleagues	running	the	Race	for	Life	|	Our	nationwide	
fundraiser	for	springboard	for	children	with	a	bookmark	
competition,	to	promote	children’s	literacy	|	ScS’	nationwide	
McMillan	Coffee	Morning.
“ Over the last 
12 months our 
strategies have 
reduced our 
waste volumes 
by 30% and 92% 
of waste materials 
collected are  
now recycled  
or diverted  
from landfill.” 24 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Board of Directors
Alan Smith David Knight Ron Turnbull Ron McMillan Paul Daccus George Adams
Non-Executive	Chairman Chief	Executive	Officer Chief	Financial	Officer Non-Executive	Director Non-Executive	Director Non-Executive	Director
Date of Appointment Date of Appointment
22	October	2014* 1 January 2002 23 June 2004 22	October	2014* 1	December	2014* 9 July 2015
Committee Membership Committee Membership
Chairman	of	the	Nomination	Committee
Audit	Committee
Remuneration	Committee
N/A N/A Chairman	of	the	Audit	Committee
Remuneration	Committee
Nomination	Committee
Remuneration	Committee
Nomination	Committee
Audit	Committee
Chairman	of	the	Remuneration	Committee
Audit	Committee
Nomination	Committee
Biography Biography
Alan	Smith	has	held	a	number	of	roles	for	retail	
companies	across	the	private	equity	and	quoted	 
sector	previously	including	Chairman	and	Chief	
Executive	Officer	of	Robert	Dyas,	Chief	Executive	
Officer	of	Somerfield,	Non-Executive	Director	of 	 
Flybe	Group	and	Managing	Director	of	B&Q	plc.
Alan	Smith	is	also	Chairman	of	the	Nomination	
Committee	and	a	member	of	the	Remuneration	 
and	Audit	Committee.
David	Knight	joined	ScS	in	1988	as	a	General	Manager	
from	Wades	Department	Stores,	which	he	joined	in	
1978.	He	progressed	to	become	the	Branch	Manager	
of	the	Group’s	flagship	store,	located	at	the	Metro	
Centre	in	Gateshead.	He	became	National	Sales	
Manager	in	October	1995	and	was	appointed	to	the	
Board	in	November	1997	as	Merchandising	Director.	 
In	October	1999	he	was	promoted	to	the	position	of	
Managing	Director,	then	to	Chief	Executive	Officer	 
in January 2002.
Ronald	(Ron)	Turnbull	joined	ScS	in	2004	as	Finance	
Director	and	Company	Secretary	from	Pubmaster	
Limited.	He	was	with	Pubmaster	for	12	years	where	 
he	held	various	financial	positions,	including	that	 
of	Finance	Director	from	March	1999	until	he	was	
appointed	Chief	Operating	Office	in	May	2003.	Mr	
Turnbull’s	early	career	comprised	13	years	with	KPMG	
where	he	qualified	as	a	Chartered	Accountant	and	
progressed	to	Audit	Manager	before	joining	Price	
Waterhouse as Senior Audit Manager in 1988.
Ronald	(Ron)	McMillan	is	the	Senior	Independent	
Director	and	Chairman	of	the	Audit	Committee	of	 
N	Brown	Group	plc	and	holds	Non-Executive	Director	
positions	at	888	Holdings	plc	and	B&M	European	Value	
Retail.	Mr	McMillan	spent	the	whole	of	his	career	with	
PricewaterhouseCoopers	where	he	was	a	partner	for	
28	years	until	his	retirement	on	31	March	2013.	In	
addition	to	acting	as	the	engagement	leader	on	a	
number	of	major	listed	companies,	Mr	McMillan	 
was	the	Global	Finance	Partner,	Northern	Regional	
Chairman	of	the	UK	firm	and	Deputy	Chairman	and	
Head	of	Assurance	for	the	Middle	East	firm.
Mr	McMillan	is	the	Chairman	of	the	Audit	Committee	
and	was	Chairman	of	the	Remuneration	Committee	
until	9	July	2015,	at	which	point	he	became	a	member	 
of	that	committee,	he	is	also	a	member	of	the	
Nomination	Committee.
Paul	Daccus	is	Managing	Director	of	Sun	European	
Partners,	LLP.	He	has	more	than	a	decade	of	experience	
in	mergers	and	acquisitions,	specialising	in	private	
equity	and	acquisition	finance.	Prior	to	joining	Sun	
European	Partners,	LLP	in	2005,	Mr	Daccus	served	as	 
a	Director	on	corporate	finance	teams	at	Deloitte	and	
Touche	LLP	and	Arthur	Andersen	LLC.	He	received	his	
Bachelor	of	Accountancy	degree	with	Honours	from	
Dundee	University.
Mr	Daccus	is	a	member	of	the	Remuneration,	
Nomination	and	Audit	Committees.
George	Adams	has	a	strong	commercial	and	
management	background,	with	over	30	years	of	
international	experience	across	Europe	and	Asia.	
George	spent	16	years	with	Kingfisher	plc,	in	roles	
which	included	CEO	of	Europe	Development,	Group	
Commercial	Director	and	Commercial	Managing	
Director	for	B&Q.	He	has	also	held	CEO	positions	at	
Spicers	Group	and	Maxeda	DIY	Group	and	has	both	 
plc	and	private	equity	experience	in	the	retail	and	
consumer	goods	sector.
Mr	Adams	is	Chairman	of	the	Remuneration	
Committee	and	a	member	of	the	Audit	and	 
Nomination	Committees.
External Appointments External Appointments
Displayplan Holdings Limited 
Displayplan Limited 
Fisher Outdoor Leisure Holdings Limited 
Fisher Outdoor Leisure Limited
Fisher	Outdoor	Leisure	Trustee	Company	Limited
NAAFI Trustees Limited
The	Navy,	Army	And	Air	Force	Institutes
The	Royal	Air	Force	Charitable	Trust	Enterprises
Brambledown	Aircraft	Hire
N	Brown	Group	plc	
888	Holdings	plc
B&M	European	Value	Retail	S.A.
Sun European Partners LLP
V&D	Group	Holdings	B.V.	(resigned	16	April	2015)
SAG Advisory 1 Ltd
Dreams	Holdco	Ltd
Dreams	Toco	Ltd
Zara	UK	Acquico	Ltd
Zara	UK	Topco	Ltd
Zara	UK	Midco	Ltd
Frontier	Economics	Ltd
Bagir	plc	(resigned	30	September	2015)
Whales	and	Dolphins	Conservation	Society
*		 The	letters	of	appointment	for	Mr	Smith	and	Mr	McMillan	are	each	dated	22	October	2014.	Mr	Daccus’	appointment	commenced	with	effect	from	1	December	2014	pursuant	 
to a letter of appointment dated 9 January 2015. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
25 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Alan Smith David Knight Ron Turnbull Ron McMillan Paul Daccus George Adams
Non-Executive	Chairman Chief	Executive	Officer Chief	Financial	Officer Non-Executive	Director Non-Executive	Director Non-Executive	Director
Date of Appointment Date of Appointment
22	October	2014* 1 January 2002 23 June 2004 22	October	2014* 1	December	2014* 9 July 2015
Committee Membership Committee Membership
Chairman	of	the	Nomination	Committee
Audit	Committee
Remuneration	Committee
N/A N/A Chairman	of	the	Audit	Committee
Remuneration	Committee
Nomination	Committee
Remuneration	Committee
Nomination	Committee
Audit	Committee
Chairman	of	the	Remuneration	Committee
Audit	Committee
Nomination	Committee
Biography Biography
Alan	Smith	has	held	a	number	of	roles	for	retail	
companies	across	the	private	equity	and	quoted	 
sector	previously	including	Chairman	and	Chief	
Executive	Officer	of	Robert	Dyas,	Chief	Executive	
Officer	of	Somerfield,	Non-Executive	Director	of 	 
Flybe	Group	and	Managing	Director	of	B&Q	plc.
Alan	Smith	is	also	Chairman	of	the	Nomination	
Committee	and	a	member	of	the	Remuneration	 
and	Audit	Committee.
David	Knight	joined	ScS	in	1988	as	a	General	Manager	
from	Wades	Department	Stores,	which	he	joined	in	
1978.	He	progressed	to	become	the	Branch	Manager	
of	the	Group’s	flagship	store,	located	at	the	Metro	
Centre	in	Gateshead.	He	became	National	Sales	
Manager	in	October	1995	and	was	appointed	to	the	
Board	in	November	1997	as	Merchandising	Director.	 
In	October	1999	he	was	promoted	to	the	position	of	
Managing	Director,	then	to	Chief	Executive	Officer	 
in January 2002.
Ronald	(Ron)	Turnbull	joined	ScS	in	2004	as	Finance	
Director	and	Company	Secretary	from	Pubmaster	
Limited.	He	was	with	Pubmaster	for	12	years	where	 
he	held	various	financial	positions,	including	that	 
of	Finance	Director	from	March	1999	until	he	was	
appointed	Chief	Operating	Office	in	May	2003.	Mr	
Turnbull’s	early	career	comprised	13	years	with	KPMG	
where	he	qualified	as	a	Chartered	Accountant	and	
progressed	to	Audit	Manager	before	joining	Price	
Waterhouse as Senior Audit Manager in 1988.
Ronald	(Ron)	McMillan	is	the	Senior	Independent	
Director	and	Chairman	of	the	Audit	Committee	of	 
N	Brown	Group	plc	and	holds	Non-Executive	Director	
positions	at	888	Holdings	plc	and	B&M	European	Value	
Retail.	Mr	McMillan	spent	the	whole	of	his	career	with	
PricewaterhouseCoopers	where	he	was	a	partner	for	
28	years	until	his	retirement	on	31	March	2013.	In	
addition	to	acting	as	the	engagement	leader	on	a	
number	of	major	listed	companies,	Mr	McMillan	 
was	the	Global	Finance	Partner,	Northern	Regional	
Chairman	of	the	UK	firm	and	Deputy	Chairman	and	
Head	of	Assurance	for	the	Middle	East	firm.
Mr	McMillan	is	the	Chairman	of	the	Audit	Committee	
and	was	Chairman	of	the	Remuneration	Committee	
until	9	July	2015,	at	which	point	he	became	a	member	 
of	that	committee,	he	is	also	a	member	of	the	
Nomination	Committee.
Paul	Daccus	is	Managing	Director	of	Sun	European	
Partners,	LLP.	He	has	more	than	a	decade	of	experience	
in	mergers	and	acquisitions,	specialising	in	private	
equity	and	acquisition	finance.	Prior	to	joining	Sun	
European	Partners,	LLP	in	2005,	Mr	Daccus	served	as	 
a	Director	on	corporate	finance	teams	at	Deloitte	and	
Touche	LLP	and	Arthur	Andersen	LLC.	He	received	his	
Bachelor	of	Accountancy	degree	with	Honours	from	
Dundee	University.
Mr	Daccus	is	a	member	of	the	Remuneration,	
Nomination	and	Audit	Committees.
George	Adams	has	a	strong	commercial	and	
management	background,	with	over	30	years	of	
international	experience	across	Europe	and	Asia.	
George	spent	16	years	with	Kingfisher	plc,	in	roles	
which	included	CEO	of	Europe	Development,	Group	
Commercial	Director	and	Commercial	Managing	
Director	for	B&Q.	He	has	also	held	CEO	positions	at	
Spicers	Group	and	Maxeda	DIY	Group	and	has	both	 
plc	and	private	equity	experience	in	the	retail	and	
consumer	goods	sector.
Mr	Adams	is	Chairman	of	the	Remuneration	
Committee	and	a	member	of	the	Audit	and	 
Nomination	Committees.
External Appointments External Appointments
Displayplan Holdings Limited 
Displayplan Limited 
Fisher Outdoor Leisure Holdings Limited 
Fisher Outdoor Leisure Limited
Fisher	Outdoor	Leisure	Trustee	Company	Limited
NAAFI Trustees Limited
The	Navy,	Army	And	Air	Force	Institutes
The	Royal	Air	Force	Charitable	Trust	Enterprises
Brambledown	Aircraft	Hire
N	Brown	Group	plc	
888	Holdings	plc
B&M	European	Value	Retail	S.A.
Sun European Partners LLP
V&D	Group	Holdings	B.V.	(resigned	16	April	2015)
SAG Advisory 1 Ltd
Dreams	Holdco	Ltd
Dreams	Toco	Ltd
Zara	UK	Acquico	Ltd
Zara	UK	Topco	Ltd
Zara	UK	Midco	Ltd
Frontier	Economics	Ltd
Bagir	plc	(resigned	30	September	2015)
Whales	and	Dolphins	Conservation	Society 26 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Group Board
Executive  
Directors
Committees
UK Retail  
& Distribution
Remuneration Audit Nomination
Corporate Governance Statement
Introduction
This	corporate	governance	statement	sets	out	the	main	elements	
of	the	Company’s	corporate	governance	structure	and	how	it	
complies	with	the	UK	Corporate	Governance	Code.	It	also	includes	
information	required	by	the	Listing	Rules	and	the	Disclosure	Rules	
and	Transparency	Rules.
Role of the Board
The	Board	is	committed	to	high	standards	of	corporate	
governance.	The	Company	has	complied	(except	where	otherwise	
stated	below)	and	intends	to	continue	to	comply	with	the	
requirements	of	the	UK	Corporate	Governance	Code.
The	Company	is	led	and	controlled	by	the	Board	which	is	
collectively	responsible	for	the	long-term	performance	of	the	
Group.	The	Board	focuses	on	the	strategy,	performance	and	
governance	of	the	Group.	The	Board	has	delegated	certain	
responsibilities	to	committees	to	assist	in	discharging	its	duties	
and	the	implementation	of	matters	approved	by	the	Board.	A	
summary	of	the	terms	of	reference	of	each	committee	is	set	out	 
on	page	28	and	reports	of	each	committee	are	set	out	on	 
pages 30-41.
Detailed	implementation	of	matters	approved	by	the	Board	and	
operational	day-to-day	matters	are	delegated	to	the	Executive	
Directors.	The	Executive	Directors	are	also	supported	by	
experienced	and	able	operational	senior	management.
Matters Reserved for the Board
A	formal	schedule	of	matters	is	reserved	for	the	Board	for	its	
approval,	which	includes:
• Approval	of	the	Group’s	strategic	aims	and	objectives,	
reviewing	performance	and	business	planning	and	oversight	 
of	the	Group’s	operations.	
• Approving	any	changes	to	the	capital	structure	of	the	Group.
• Approving	the	financial	reporting,	budgets,	dividend	policy	and	
any	significant	changes	in	accounting	policies	and	practices	of	
the Group. 
• Ensuring	maintenance	of	a	sound	system	of	internal	control	
and risk management.
• Approval	of	any	major	capital	projects	and	materially	
significant	contracts	for	the	Group.
• Ensuring	a	satisfactory	dialogue	with	shareholders	based	on	
the	mutual	understanding	of	objectives.
• Approval	of	the	structure,	size	and	composition	of	the	Board	
and	the	remuneration	policy	for	all	Directors	and	
Senior Executives.	
• Setting	the	division	of	responsibilities	between	the	Chairman,	
Chief	Executive	and	other	Executive	Directors.	
• Undertaking	a	formal	and	rigorous	review	of	the	Board	
performance	and	corporate	governance	matters.
• Approval	and	supervision	of	any	material	litigation,	insurance	
levels	of	the	Group	and	the	appointment	of	the	Group’s	
professional advisors.
There is a rolling programme of Board meetings throughout the 
year	and	there	are	six	Board	meetings	presently	scheduled	
for FY2016.
Structure Chart Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
27 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
All	Board	and	committee	members	receive	sets	of	Board	packs	 
in	advance	of	the	Board	and	committee	meetings.	For	Board	
meetings	this	includes	current	trading,	management	accounts	 
and	detailed	papers	on	other	matters	where	Board	approval	is	
required.	The	CEO	and	CFO	present	reports	to	the	Board	at	each	
meeting	on	trading,	financial	performance	and	operational	
matters,	along	with	updates	on	any	significant	health	and	safety,	
litigation or regulatory matters.
Composition of the Board
The	Board	comprises	the	Chairman,	two	Executive	Directors,	 
two	independent	Non-Executive	Directors	and	a	Non-Executive	
Director	appointed	by	Sun	Capital	Partners	Management	V,	LLC	 
in	their	capacity	as	the	principal	shareholder.
The	UK	Corporate	Governance	Code	recommends	that	smaller	
companies	have	at	least	two	independent	Non-Executive	
Directors	excluding	the	Chairman.	The	Company	has	met	this	
requirement	and	has	done	so	from	9	July	2015	to	the	date	of	 
this	report,	with	the	appointments	of	Ron	McMillan	(Senior	
Independent	Director),	appointed	22	October	2014;	and	George	
Adams,	appointed	9	July	2015.	The	Chairman,	Alan	Smith,	is	also	
considered	independent.	Each	of	them	is	considered	by	the	Board	
to	be	independent	in	character	and	judgement	and	free	from	
relationships	or	circumstances	which	may	affect,	or	could	appear	
to	affect	the	Director’s	judgement.	Independence	is	determined	 
by	ensuring	that	the	Non-Executive	Directors	do	not	have	any	
material	business	relationships	or	arrangements	(apart	from	their	
fees	for	acting	as	Non-Executive	Directors)	with	the	Group	or	its	
Directors	which	in	the	opinion	of	the	Board	could	affect	their	
independent judgement.
Paul	Daccus	is	not	regarded	as	independent	for	the	purpose	 
of	the	UK	Corporate	Governance	Code	in	view	of	his	position	 
as	a	Director	of	Sun	European	Partner	LLP	and	his	interests	in	 
Sun	Capital	Partners	Management	V,	LLC	which	hold	shares	in	
the Company.
On	22	October	2014,	Sun	Capital	Partners	Management	V,	LLC,	
entered	into	a	Relationship	Agreement	with	the	Company.	Under	
the	terms	of	that	agreement	Sun	Capital	Partners	Management	V,	
LLC	are	entitled	to	appoint	one	Non-Executive	Director	to	the	
Board for an initial period of three years. At the year ended 
25 July 2015,	Sun	Capital	Partners	Management	V,	LLC,	held	 
41.6%	of	the	total	issued	shares	in	the	Company.
The	Board	believe	that	the	terms	of	the	relationship	agreement	
referred	to	above	will	ensure	that	the	Company	and	other	
members	of	the	Group	are	capable	of	carrying	on	their	business	
independently	of	Sun	Capital	Partners	Management	V,	LLC	and	
that	transactions	and	relationships	between	those	parties	and	the	
Group	are	at	arm’s	length	on	normal	commercial	terms.
All	Directors	have	service	agreements	or	letters	of	appointment	 
in	place	and	the	details	of	the	terms	of	these	are	set	out	in	the	
Directors	Remuneration	Report	on	pages	33-41.
The	Nomination	Committee	will	review	on	an	annual	basis	the	
Board’s	composition,	experience	and	skills	to	ensure	the	effective	
working	of	the	Board	and	the	Standing	Committees	and	the	
commitment	of	their	members.	The	Chairman	has	met	with	each	
of	the	Non-Executive	Directors	during	the	year	on	a	one-to-one	
basis,	without	the	Executive	Directors	being	present,	to	discuss	
matters	relating	to	the	Board,	its	balance	and	the	monitoring	
powers	of	the	Executive	Directors.	
The	Chairman	believes	the	current	Board	and	Standing	
Committees	have	an	appropriate	balance	of	skills	and	experience	
to	enable	them	to	discharge	their	responsibilities	effectively.	
Where	Directors	have	external	appointments,	the	Board	is	
satisfied	that	they	do	not	impact	on	the	time	the	Director	needs	 
to	devote	to	the	Company.
Division of Responsibilities
The	positions	of	Chairman	and	CEO	are	occupied	by	different	
individuals.	There	is	a	clear	division	of	the	roles	and	responsibilities	
between	the	Chairman	and	the	CEO	and	no	individual	has	
unrestricted	powers	of	decision	making.
Alan	Smith,	as	Chairman	of	the	Board,	is	responsible	for	leading	
the	Board,	setting	its	agenda	and	overseeing	its	effectiveness.	 
The	Chairman	facilitates	the	contribution	of	the	Non-Executive	
Directors	and	constructive	relations	between	them	and	the	
Executive	Directors.
David	Knight	as	CEO,	together	with	Ron	Turnbull	as	CFO,	is	
responsible	for	the	day-to-day	management	of	the	Group	and	 
the	implementation	of	strategies	approved	by	the	Board	and	the	
implementation	of	other	Board	decisions.
Diversity
The	Group	is	satisfied	overall	with	its	record	on	diversity,	and	 
is	aware	of	the	need	to	monitor	and	review	its	level	of	diversity.	
Whilst	the	Group	would	have	preferred	to	appoint	a	female	
Non-Executive	Director	following	the	IPO,	appointments	will	
always	be	made	on	merit	as	opposed	to	on	the	basis	of	gender	
targets,	and	this	is	considered	in	the	best	interests	of	the	Group	
and	its shareholders.
Conflicts of Interest
Paul	Daccus	has	an	interest	in	the	shares	held	by	Sun	Capital	
Partners	Management	V,	LLC,	which	holds	41.6%	of	the	Ordinary	
Share	Capital	and	voting	rights	in	the	Company	as	a	result	of	 
his	Directorship	of	Sun	European	Partners	LLP.
Except	as	referred	to	above	there	are	no	potential	conflicts	of	
interest	between	any	of	the	Directors	or	senior	management	
within	the	Group	and	their	private	interests. 28 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Corporate Governance Statement Continued
There	is	an	established	process	of	the	Board	for	regularly	
reviewing	actual	or	potential	conflicts	of	interest.	In	particular,	
there	is	a	process	for	reviewing	transactions	proposed	to	be	
entered	into	by	related	parties	of	Directors	with	any	entities	in	the	
Group,	including	professional	advice	and	consideration	of	it	by	the	
Board	and	the	Company’s	corporate	brokers	on	the	application	of	
the	Listing	Rules,	the	applicability	and	the	appropriateness	of	any	
exemptions	in	respect	of	any	transactions	in	the	ordinary	course	 
of	business	and	reporting	to	general	meetings	of	shareholders	
under	England	and	Wales	Company	Law.	This	process	also	includes	
consideration	of	the	extent	to	which	the	Board	may	require	
external	and	any	other	reports	and	evaluations	to	be	presented	 
to	it	on	any	proposed	transactions.
Committees of the Board
The	Board	has	established	and	delegated	authority	to	an	 
Audit	Committee,	Remuneration	Committee	and	Nomination	
Committee.	A	summary	of	the	terms	of	reference	of	each	of	these	
committees	is	set	out	below.	The	full	terms	of	reference	of	each	 
of	the	committees	is	available	at	ScS	Group	plc	head	office.
Audit Committee
The	Audit	Committee	was	set	up	in	January	2015,	immediately	
prior	to	the	IPO	and	its	composition	includes	all	of	the	Non-
Executive	Directors	and	is	chaired	by	Ron	McMillan.	The	duties	 
of	the	Audit	Committee	as	delegated	by	the	Board	are	contained	 
in	the	terms	of	reference	available	at	ScS	Group	plc	head	office,	
which	in	summary	include:
• Monitoring	the	quality,	effectiveness	and	independence	 
of	the	external	auditors	approving	their	appointment,	 
re-appointment	and	fee	levels;
• Reviewing	and	monitoring	the	integrity	of	the	financial	
statements	and	any	other	price	sensitive	information	of	 
the	Group;	and
• Keeping	under	review	the	adequacy	and	effectiveness	of	the	
Group’s	internal	financial	controls	and	internal	control	and	 
risk management systems.
The	members	of	the	Audit	Committee	are	Ron	McMillan	(Chair),	
Alan	Smith,	George	Adams	and	Paul	Daccus.	Ron	McMillan	is	an	
ICAEW	chartered	accountant	and	his	experience	formally	as	an	
audit	partner	of	PwC	fulfils	the	requirement	under	the	UK	
Corporate	Governance	Code	that	one	member	of	the	Committee	
has	recent	and	relevant	financial	experience.	Save	for	George	
Adams	who	was	appointed	on	9	July	2015,	the	members	have	been	
on	the	Committee	since	its	inception	immediately	before	 
the	IPO,	and	all	four	remain	in	place	at	the	date	of	this report.
The	Audit	Committee	meets	not	less	than	three	times	a	year.	
Details	of	the	activities	of	the	Committee	in	the	last	financial	year	
are set out in pages 30-32.
Remuneration Committee
The	Remuneration	Committee	was	set	up	in	January	2015,	
immediately	prior	to	the	IPO.	It	comprises	all	of	the	Non-Executive	
Directors	and	is	chaired	by	George	Adams	following	his	
appointment on 9 July 2015. Prior to that date the Remuneration 
Committee	was	chaired	by	Ron	McMillan.	The	Remuneration	
Committee	sets	the	policy	for	the	Group	on	executive	
remuneration. It determines the level of remuneration of the 
Chairman	and	the	Executive	Directors	of	the	Company	and	makes	
recommendations	in	relation	to	other	senior	management.
In	accordance	with	its	terms	of	reference,	the	Committee	 
prepares	an	annual	Directors	Remuneration	Report	for	approval	 
by	shareholders	at	the	Annual	General	Meeting	of	the	Company.	
The	terms	of	reference	for	the	Remuneration	Committee	are	
available	at	ScS	Group	plc	head	office.
The	members	of	the	Remuneration	Committee	are	George	Adams	
(Chair),	Alan	Smith,	Ron	McMillan	and	Paul	Daccus.	Save	for	
George	Adams	who	was	appointed	on	9	July	2015,	the	members	
have	been	on	the	Committee	since	its	inception	immediately	
before	the	IPO,	and	all	remain	in	place	at	the	date	of	this	report.
The	Remuneration	Committee	meets	not	less	than	two	times	a	
year.	Details	of	the	activities	of	the	Committee	in	the	last	financial	
year are set out on pages 33-41.
Nomination Committee
The	Nomination	Committee	was	set	up	in	January	2015	
immediately	prior	to	the	IPO,	and	it	comprises	all	of	the	Non-
Executive	Directors.	It	is	chaired	by	Alan	Smith	and	its	other	
members	are	Ron	McMillan,	George	Adams	and	Paul	Daccus.
In	the	lead	up	to	the	IPO	the	Company	appointed	the	Non-
Executive	Directors,	save	for	George	Adams,	to	the	Board	before	
the	Committee	was	constituted.	The	CEO	met	with	each	of	them	
as	part	of	the	recruitment	process.	The	Non-Executive	Directors	
were	selected	based	on	a	range	of	criteria,	including	retail	and	
consumer	goods	sector	and	public	company	knowledge	
and experience.
The	duties	of	the	Nomination	Committee	as	delegated	to	it	by	 
the	Board	are	contained	in	the	terms	of	reference	available	at	 
ScS	Group	plc	head	office,	which	in	summary	include:
• Reviewing	the	structure,	size	and	composition	of	the	Board,	
including	the	balance	of	Executive	and	Non-Executive	
Directors;
• Putting	in	place	plans	for	the	orderly	succession	of	
appointments	to	the	Board	and	to	Senior	Management;	and
• Identifying	and	nominating	candidates	for	the	approval	of	the	
Board,	to	fill	Board	vacancies	when	they	arise.
During the period from the IPO to the date of this report the 
committee	have	met	once.	Going	forward	the	Committee	will	meet	
at	least	annually	from	the	beginning	of	the	current	financial	year.
During	the	2015	financial	year	the	Nomination	Committee	has	
reviewed	the	size,	structure	and	composition	of	the	Board,	with	
regard	to	the	experience	and	skills	represented	on	it	and	the	
balance	of	Executive	and	Non-Executive	Directors	represented	 
on	it.	The	Committee	has	also	formulated	a	succession	planning	
process	for	the	roles	of	CEO	and	CFO.
The	Committee	recommended	the	appointment	of	an	additional	
independent	Non-Executive	Director	to	ensure	that	the	Group	met	
Corporate	Governance	Code	recommendations.	This	resulted	in	
the appointment of George Adams to the Board in July 2015.
The	Committee	recognised	the	need	to	keep	under	review	certain	
areas	where	over	the	course	of	time,	appointments	may	be	
appropriate	to	consider.	The	Nomination	Committee	also	
recognises	the	need	to	monitor	and	review	diversity	in	relation	to	
how	the	Group	is	led	and	represented.	Appointments	will	always	
be	made	on	merit-based,	objective	criteria,	recognising	diversity	 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
29 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
policy	but	without	setting	gender	targets	and	this	is	considered	 
to	be	in	the	best	interests	of	the	Group	and	its	shareholders.	
Directors Attendance
The Board held four meetings from the IPO up to 25 July 2015 and 
the	attendance	at	the	meetings	was	as	follows:
Name
Board  
meetings
Remuneration 
Committee	 
meetings
Audit  
Committee	 
meetings
Nomination 
Committee	
meetings Total
Alan Smith 4 1 2 1 8
David	Knight 4 – – – 4
Ron	Turnbull 4 – – – 4
Ron	McMillan 4 1 2 1 8
Paul	Daccus 3 1 1 1 6
George Adams* 2 – 1 1 4
* Appointed 9 July 2015.
Further meetings of the Board, Audit and Remuneration 
Committees	have	also	been	held	since	the	year-end.
Board Performance Evaluation
Given	the	period	from	the	IPO	to	the	end	of	the	2015	financial	 
year	was	shorter	that	a	12-month	cycle	the	Board	has	not	yet	
undertaken	a	formal	evaluation	of	the	performance	of	the	Board	
as	a	whole,	the	Chairman,	individual	Directors	or	the	committees	
of	the	Board.	A	formal	evaluation	will	be	undertaken	during	the	
2016	financial	year	following	a	full-year’s	cycle	of	the	Board	
following	the	IPO.	This	will	be	repeated	on	an	annual	basis	going	
forward,	and	at	least	once	every	three	years	with	an	external	
consultant	to	assist	in	the	process	are	required	by	the	 
UK	Corporate	Governance	Code.
Re-Election of Directors
Whilst	performance	reviews	are	being	undertaken	in	the	2016	
financial	year,	based	on	the	initial	review	by	the	Nomination	
Committee	of	the	size,	structure	and	composition	of	the	Board	
with	regard	to	the	experience	and	skills	represented	on	it,	the	
Nomination	Committee	has	recommended	that	each	of	the	
Directors	be	re-elected	to	the	Board.
Risk Management and Internal Control
The	Board	has	overall	responsibility	for	ensuring	that	the	Group	
maintains	a	strong	system	of	internal	control.
The	system	of	internal	control	is	designed	to	identify,	manage	 
and	evaluate,	rather	than	eliminate	the	risk	of	failing	to	achieve	
business	objectives.	It	can	therefore	provide	reasonable	but	not	
absolute	assurance	against	material	misstatement,	loss	or	failure	
to	meet	objectives	of	the	business	due	to	the	inherent	limitations	
of	any	such	system.
The	key	elements	of	the	Group’s	system	of	internal	controls	area	
as	follows:
Financial Reporting:	monthly	management	accounts	are	 
provided	to	members	of	the	Board	which	contain	current	financial	
reports.	Reporting	included	an	analysis	of	actual	verses	budgeted	
performance	and	reasons	for	any	significant	differences.	The	
annual	budget	is	reviewed	and	approved	by	the	Board.	The	
Company	reports	half-yearly	and	publishes	trading	updates	 
in	line	with	market	practice.
Risk Management:	the	creation	and	maintenance	of	a	risk	
register,	which	is	continually	updated	and	monitored,	with	full	
reviews	occurring	on	at	least	an	annual	basis.	Each	risk	identified	
on	the	risk	register	is	allocated	an	owner,	at	least	at	the	level	of	
senior	manager	within	the	business,	the	action	required	(where	
necessary)	or	acceptance	of	the	risk	is	also	recorded.	The	risk	
registers are provided to the Board, key risks and appropriate 
mitigating	actions	are	monitored	by	the	Board.
Information	on	key	risks	and	uncertainties	of	the	Group	are	set	out	
on pages 20 to 21.
Monitoring of Controls:	There	are	formal	policies	and	procedures	
in	place	to	ensure	the	integrity	and	accuracy	of	accounting	records	
of	the	Group	and	to	safeguard	its	assets.	The	Board	have	carried	
out	a	review	of	the	effectiveness	of	the	internal	controls	during	 
the year ended 25 July 2015 and for the period up to the date of 
approving	the	Annual	Report	and	Financial	Statements.	The	Board	
were	satisfied	after	a	review	of	the	key	risks	to	the	business	and	
relevant	mitigating	actions	that	they	were	acceptable	for	a	
business	of	the	type,	size	and	complexity	as	that	operated	by	 
the Group.
Staff Policies:	there	are	formal	policies	in	place	in	relation	to	
anti-bribery	and	corruption	and	whistleblowing	policies	in	relation	
to	the	reporting	of	any	suspected	malpractice	or	wrongdoing.
Compliance Statement
For	the	period	prior	to	listing	on	the	London	Stock	exchange	on	 
the	28	January	2015,	the	Company	did	not	have	an	obligation	to	
comply	with	the	provisions	of	the	UK	Corporate	Governance	Code	
published	in	September	2014.	Since	IPO,	the	code	applies	to	the	
Company.	A	copy	of	the	Code	is	available	on	the	UK	Financial	
Reporting	Council’s	website	at	www.frc.org.uk.	The	Company	has	
complied	with	the	provisions	of	the	Code	during	the	period	from	
IPO	to	25	July	2015,	as	applicable,	except	where	stated	above	in	
this report.
Shareholder Relations
The	Board	recognises	that	good	communication	is	key	to	
maintaining	shareholder	relations,	and	as	such	we	will	endeavour	
to	explain	our	actions	and	financial	results	on	a	regular	basis	and	
to	respond	to	investor	inquiries	and	feedback.
Meetings	and	calls	are	regularly	made	with	institutional	investors	
and	analysts	in	order	to	provide	the	best	quality	information	to	
the market.
The	Company	will	communicate	with	its	shareholders	though	 
the	Annual	General	Meeting,	at	which	the	Chairman	will	give	an	
account	of	the	progress	of	the	business	over	the	past	year,	and	will	
provide	the	opportunity	for	shareholders	to	raise	questions	with	
the	Chairman	and	the	Chairs	of	each	of	the	Committees	of	
the Board.
The	Company	also	runs	a	corporate	website	at	www.scsplc.co.uk,	
which	is	regularly	updated	with	our	releases	to	the	market	and	
other	information	and	which	includes	a	copy	of	this	Annual	Report	
and	Financial	Statements.	 30 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Dear Shareholder
The	Audit	Committee	exercises	oversight	of	the	Group’s	financial	
policies	and	reporting.	It	monitors	the	integrity	of	the	financial	
statements	and	reviews	and	considers	significant	financial	and	
accounting	estimates	and	judgements.	The	Committee	satisfies	
itself	that	the	disclosures	in	the	financial	statements	about	these	
judgements	and	estimates	are	appropriate	and	obtains	from	the	
external	auditors	an	independent	view	of	the	key	disclosure	issues	
and risks.
During	the	year	the	Committee	considered	the	following:	
• The	Group’s	significant	accounting	policies	and	practices;
• The	Group’s	exposure	to	tax	and	VAT	issues;
• The	risk	registers	prepared	by	management;
• Various	accounting	matters	relating	to	the	IPO;
• Fraud	risk	and	its	mitigation;
• The	Group’s	business	continuity	and	disaster	 
recovery	procedures;	and
• The	adequacy	of	the	Group’s	systems	and	controls	 
on	which	management	relies.
A	key	responsibility	of	the	Committee	is	to	review	the	scope	of	 
the	work	undertaken	by	the	internal	business	support	function	 
and	external	auditors	and	consider	their	effectiveness.
Further	information	on	the	Committee’s	responsibilities	and	the	
manner	in	which	these	have	been	discharged	are	set	out	below.	
I	shall	be	available	at	the	Annual	General	Meeting	on	 
18	November	2015	to	answer	any	questions	you	may	have	 
on	this	report	and	would	thank	my	colleagues	for	their	help	 
and support during the year.
Committee Composition
The	Committee	comprises	four	members,	two	of	whom	are	
independent	Non-Executive	Directors.	Two	members	constitute	 
a	quorum.	The	Committee	must	include	one	financially	qualified	
member	with	recent	and	relevant	financial	experience.	The	
Committee	Chairman	fulfils	this	requirement.	All	members	are	
expected	to	have	an	understanding	of	financial	reporting,	the	
Group’s	internal	control	environment,	relevant	corporate	
legislation,	the	roles	and	functions	of	business	support	and	
external	audit	and	the	regulatory	framework	of	the	business.	
The	members	of	the	Committee	from	its	inception	until	the	 
date	of	this	report	were	Ron	McMillan,	Alan	Smith	and	Paul	
Daccus.	George	Adams	joined	the	Committee	on	9	July	2015.	
Details	of	Committee	meetings	and	attendance	are	set	out	in	the	
Corporate	Governance	Statement	on	page	29.	
Although	not	members	of	the	Committee,	David	Knight	as	CEO	
and	Ron	Turnbull	as	CFO	and	representatives	from	the	business	
support	function	and	external	auditors	may	attend	the	meetings.	
Responsibilities
The	responsibilities	of	the	Committee,	as	delegated	by	the	 
Board	are	set	out	in	the	terms	of	reference	and	are	available	 
from	the	Group’s	head	office.	They	include	the	following:	
• Monitoring	the	quality,	effectiveness	and	independence	 
of	the	external	auditors	and	approving	their	appointment,	 
re-appointment	and	fee	level;
• Reviewing	and	approving	the	audit	plan,	and	ensuring	that	 
it	is	consistent	with	the	scope	of	the	audit	engagement;
• Reviewing	and	monitoring	the	integrity	of	the	financial	
statements	and	other	price	sensitive	financial	releases	 
of	the	Group;	
• Assisting	the	Board	with	the	development	and	execution	 
of	a	risk	management	strategy,	risk	policies	and	current	 
risk	exposures	including	the	maintenance	of	the	Group’s	 
risk	register;
Audit Committee Report
 “I am pleased to present the inaugural  
Audit Committee Report.”
Ron McMillan
Chairman of the Audit Committee
14	October	2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
31 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
are	non-recurring	in	nature.	PwC	were	best	placed	to	perform	
this	work	given	their	knowledge	of	the	business	and,	after	
inspection	of	the	safeguards	put	in	place	by	PwC,	the	Audit	
Committee	was	satisfied	that	this	did	not	impact	the	external	
auditors	overall	independence;
• Consideration	of	the	significant	risks	included	in	the	 
annual	report;
• Consideration	of	the	interim	results	and	non-statutory	
financial	statements	of	the	Group	for	the	half-year	ended	
24 January	2015;
• Consideration	of	the	processes	that	are	in	place	to	ensure	 
that	assurance	can	be	provided	on	whether	the	Annual	Report	
and	Accounts	is	considered	to	be	fair,	balanced	and	
understandable.	The	Committee	receives	drafts	and	working	
papers	relating	to	the	Annual	Report	and	Accounts	in	order	to	
facilitate	its	review	and	input.	Management	representations,	
external	and	internal	audit	reviews	have	also	taken	place	to	
provide	this	assurance	to	the	Audit	Committee	and	the	Board;
• Consideration	of	this	set	of	full-year	annual	report	and	financial	
statements	of	the	Group;
• Consideration	of	significant	areas	of	accounting	estimation	 
or	judgement,	including	the	Group	reorganisation	and	
accounting	for	the	IPO	fees	and	share	options;
• Consideration	of	the	role	of	the	business	support	function	 
and	the	development	of	an	internal	audit	function;	and
• Making	recommendations	to	the	Board	in	respect	of	the	
Committee’s	findings,	and	reporting	on	how	the	Committee	 
has	discharged	its	duties.
The	Board	considers	that	the	processes	undertaken	by	the	
Committee	are	robust	and	effective	and	in	compliance	with	the	
guidance	issued	by	the	Financial	Reporting	Council.	During	the	
year	the	Board	has	not	been	advised	by	the	Committee	of,	nor	
identified	itself,	any	failings,	frauds	or	weaknesses	in	the	internal	
controls	which	it	has	determined	to	be	material	in	the	context	of	
the	financial	statements.
External Auditors
PwC	have	been	the	Group’s	auditors	for	seven	years,	with	the	
current	year	being	the	first	audit	signed	off	by	the	partner	who	is	
currently	responsible.	The	Committee	has	formally	recommended	
that	PwC	be	re-appointed	as	auditors	at	the	forthcoming	Annual	
General	Meeting,	and	PwC	has	signalled	its	willingness	to	continue	
in	office.	Resolutions	appointing	PwC	as	auditors	and	authorising	
the	directors	to	set	remuneration	will	be	proposed	at	the	Annual	
General Meeting.
During	the	year	PwC	have	been	engaged	in	a	number	of	activities	
for	the	Group.	The	vast	majority	of	this	work	was	carried	out	
before	and	in	preparation	for	the	IPO	and	the	Board	and	its	
advisors	were	of	the	opinion	that	PwC	was	best	placed	to	
undertake	that	work.	PwC	has	satisfied	the	Board	that,	in	relation	
to	these	activities,	appropriate	safeguards	were	put	in	place	to	
ensure	that	the	independence	of	the	audit	team	was	not	impaired.
Going	forward	the	Committee	has	established	policies	which	will	
ensure	that	PwC	is	not	engaged	in	any	work	which	is	not	permitted	
under	current	guidance	and	that	non	audit	fees	will	not	exceed	
70% of audit fees measured over a three-year period.
The	Committee	has	in	conjunction	with	the	Board	and	the	
management	team	reviewed	the	effectiveness	of	the	external	
auditors,	both	in	relation	to	audit	and	non-audit	services	and	has	
satisfied	itself	that	the	work	undertaken	by	the	external	auditors	
was	effective.
• Keeping	under	review	the	adequacy	and	effectiveness	of	 
the	Group’s	internal	financial	controls	and	internal	control	 
and	risk	management	systems;	and
• Monitoring	the	activities	of	the	business	support	function	 
and	the	external	audit	functions.
Activities
In	discharging	its	oversight	of	the	matters	referred	to	in	the	
introductory	letter	to	this	report	the	Committee	was	assisted	 
by	management	and	the	external	auditors.	
The	key	matters	considered	by	the	Committee	during	the	 
year	included:
• Commercial arrangements with suppliers 
The	Group	receives	rebates	and	promotional	support	from	
suppliers.	The	Committee	gained	an	understanding	of	these	
arrangements,	discussed	them	with	management	and	the	
external	auditors	and	satisfied	itself	with	the	controls	that	are	
in	place	to	ensure	that	amounts	received	and	receivable	from	
suppliers	are	properly	accounted	for	on	a	monthly	basis	and	
that the related judgements are limited.
• Accounting for interest-free credit charges 
In	previous	periods	and	in	line	with	advice	then	received,	the	
Group	accounted	for	charges	associated	with	interest-free	
credit	sales	as	a	component	of	cost	of	sales.	Current	guidance	 
is	that	such	charges	should	be	reflected	as	a	component	of	
revenue.	Accordingly,	the	Committee	concluded	that	the	
Group’s	presentation	of	this	item	should	be	modified.
• Accounting for the IPO 
In order to prepare itself for the IPO, a Group reorganisation  
and	capital	reduction	was	undertaken.	In	conjunction	with	 
the	Group’s	auditors,	the	Committee	reviewed	the	accounting	
which	related	to	this	reorganisation.
• Internal controls 
The	Committee	reviewed	the	Group’s	internal	control	
environment	and	concluded	that	the	Group	maintains	a	robust	
system	of	internal	control	for	the	purpose	of	safeguarding	 
the	Group’s	assets,	managing	risk	and,	where	appropriate,	
complying	with	regulation.	This	covers	all	material	risks	 
and	related	controls,	including	financial,	operational	and	
compliance	controls	together	with	mitigating	actions	and	
responsibilities.	The	Group’s	business	support	function	 
focuses	particularly	on	‘in	store’	activity	and	ensures	that	all	
transactions	are	properly	accounted	for.	Going	forward,	the	
Group	has	appointed	a	Head	of	Internal	Audit	who	will	report	 
to	the	Committee,	and	the	business	control	function	will	be	
expanded	to	include	non	store	internal	audit	activity.
In	addition	to	the	above,	the	Committee	undertook	the	following:
• Approval	of	the	external	auditors	terms	of	engagement	and	
proposed	fees;
• Consideration	of	the	level	of	non-audit	services	provided	by	 
the	Group’s	auditor	and	the	formulation	of	a	policy	in	relation	
to	non-audit	services	provided	to	the	Group.	The	Committee	is	
satisfied	that	there	are	no	conflicts	of	interest	in	relation	to	the	
non-audit	work	carried	out	in	2015.	During	the	year,	PwC	
charged	the	Group	£960,000	(2014:	£26,000)	for	non-audit	
related	services.	The	majority	of	these	fees	related	to	the	
reporting	accountant	work	on	the	Group’s	IPO	and	accordingly	 32 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Audit Committee Report Continued
Risk Management
The	Directors	have	overall	responsibility	for	ensuring	that	 
the	Group	maintains	a	sound	system	of	internal	control.	There	 
are	inherent	limitations	in	any	system	of	internal	control	and	 
no	system	can	provide	absolute	assurance	against	material	
misstatement,	loss	or	failure.	Equally,	no	system	can	guarantee	
elimination	of	the	risk	of	failure	to	meet	the	objectives	of	the	
business.	Against	this	background,	the	Committee	oversaw	the	
development	of	a	risk	management	policy	for	the	Group	which,	
sets	out	risk	appetite	and	tolerance,	the	framework	within	which	
risk	is	managed	and	the	responsibilities	and	procedures	attaining	
to	the	application	of	the	policy.
The	Group	is	proactive	in	ensuring	that	corporate	and	operational	
risks	are	identified,	assessed	and	managed	by	identifying	suitable	
controls.	The	Group	maintains	a	Corporate	Risk	Register	and	an	
Operational	Risk	Register	which	detail:
1.	 The	risks	and	impacts	they	may	have;
2.	 Actions	to	mitigate	the	risks;
3.	 Risk	scores	to	highlight	the	likelihood	of	occurrence;
4.	 The	‘owners’	of	the	risks;	and
5.	 Target	dates	for	actions	by	risk	owners.
The	Board	is	responsible	for	measuring	the	effectiveness	of	 
risk	management	and	for	regularly	reviewing	the	Corporate	Risk	
Registers.	Management	are	responsible	for	monitoring	risks	on	 
a	quarterly	basis	and	for	reporting	all	new	and	identified	risks	to	
the Board.
A	description	of	the	key	risks	together	with	mitigating	actions	 
is set out on pages 20 to 21.
Prior	to	the	listing	the	Company	did	not	have	an	internal	audit	
function	and	given	the	relatively	low	complexity	of	the	business,	
relied	upon	the	internal	management	controls	and	the	business	
support	function	to	provide	assurance	over	the	operational	
procedures	and	systems	upon	which	the	financial	reporting	is	
based.	However,	since	the	listing	the	Group	has	recognised	the	
need	to	establish	an	internal	audit	team	within	the	business.	 
A	Head	of	Internal	Audit	has	now	been	appointed	with	a	direct	
reporting	line	to	the	Committee.	The	Committee	will	work	with	
him	over	the	course	of	the	next	year	to	develop	and	strengthen	 
the	business	support	and	the	internal	audit	functions.
The	Committee	believes	that	appropriate	internal	controls	are	 
in	place	throughout	the	Group.	The	Group	has	a	well-defined	
organisational	structure,	with	clear	lines	of	responsibility.	The	
Group	has	a	comprehensive	financial	reporting	system	and	the	
Committee	believes	that	the	Group	complies	with	the	provisions	 
of	the	UK	Corporate	Governance	Code	on	internal	controls.	
Financial Reporting
Volume	rebates	and	promotional	support	
In	the	year	ended	25	July	2015	the	Group	received	income	from	
suppliers	both	from	volume	driven	rebate	arrangements	and	in	 
the	form	of	promotional	support	amounts	given	by	suppliers	for	
inventory	placed	on	display	within	stores.	
The	volume	arrangements	are	pre	negotiated	with	suppliers	and	
are	split	between	suppliers	with	rebate	‘hurdle’	rates	dependent	
on	spend	and	those	that	have	a	flat	rate.	At	the	year	end,	the	vast	
majority	of	hurdle	rates	were	exceeded	and	therefore	the	level	of	
judgement	involved	was	significantly	reduced.	Where	hurdle	rates	
were	not	surpassed	and	the	arrangements	were	not	coterminous	
with	the	year	end,	judgements	were	required	but	the	amounts	
involved	were	not	material.	
Promotional	support	amounts	are	paid	by	suppliers	for	goods	used	
for	display	in	store.	These	are	funded	through	credit	notes	issued	
against	purchases	and	are	recognised	on	delivery.	Accruals	are	
made	for	goods	received	for	which	credit	notes	had	not	been	
received.	The	related	amounts	at	the	year	end	were	not	material	
and	the	level	of	judgement	involved	was	low.
Accounting	for	the	group	reorganisation	on	the	IPO	
As part of the preparation for the IPO, a Group reorganisation 
exercise	was	undertaken.	In	order	to	make	sure	that	all	aspects	 
of	this	were	dealt	with	correctly	we	engaged	appropriate	legal,	
accounting	and	tax	advisors	to	recommend	on	the	steps	necessary	
to	revise	the	structure	ready	for	the	Groups	admission	to	the	
London	Stock	Exchange.	The	reorganisation	resulted	in	
complexities	in	accounting.	After	consideration	of	the	facts	of	 
the	matter	and	the	process	taken	to	perform	the	step	plan,	we	
determined	that	the	correct	accounting	treatment	was	that	of	a	
capital	reorganisation;	this	resulted	in	the	creation	of	a	‘merger	
reserve’	in	the	Consolidated	statement	of	financial	position	of	 
£25.5	million.	The	comparatives	shown	are	those	prior	to	the	
restructuring	of	the	previous	consolidated	parent	Parlour	 
Product	Topco	Limited.	
Another	key	consideration	was	in	respect	of	International	
Accounting	Standard	32:	Financial	Instruments;	Presentation	 
(‘IAS	32’)	as	to	whether	the	costs	incurred	in	relation	to	the	IPO	
should	be	expensed	or	capitalised.	It	was	determined	since	the	
costs	were	not	directly	attributable	to	the	issuing	of	new	shares	
that	they	should	be	expensed	to	the	Consolidated	statement	of	
comprehensive	income.	Given	their	non	recurring	nature	and	
materiality	these	have	been	presented	as	exceptional	items	of	
expense	in	the	year	of	£3.7	million.	
The	Committee	has	reviewed	the	judgements	made	by	
management	in	respect	of	the	above	areas	and,	after	discussion	 
of	the	rationale,	concurred	with	the	treatment	applied.	
Ron McMillan
Chairman of the Audit Committee
14	October	2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
33 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Dear Shareholder
On	behalf	of	the	Board,	I	am	pleased	to	present	the	first	
Remuneration	Committee	report	since	the	IPO	of	the	Company	
and	its	admission	to	trading	on	the	London	Stock	Exchange	 
on	28	January	2015.	The	report	provides	both	details	of	the	
remuneration	of	the	Directors	for	the	financial	year	2015	and	 
the	forward	looking	policy	for	the	Directors	of	the	Group.
Performance and Rewards for 2015
The	remuneration	of	the	two	Executive	Directors	of	the	Company	
along	with	the	senior	management	of	the	Group	was	reviewed	and	
a	thorough	external	benchmarking	process	was	undertaken.	The	
CEO’s	salary	remained	unchanged	and	an	interim	increase	was	
made	to	the	CFO’s	salary	in	advance	of	the	full-year	remuneration	
policy	review	for	FY2016.	Senior	managers’	salaries	remained	
mainly	unchanged.	
A	Long-Term	Incentive	Plan	was	adopted	by	the	Company	in	
preparation for the IPO.
Remuneration Policy from 2016
The	report	sets	out	the	Group’s	proposed,	forward	looking,	
Directors’	Remuneration	Policy	for	2016	onward	following	the	
work	of	the	Committee	in	2015	for	which	shareholder	approval	 
is	being	sought	at	the	AGM.
The	key	objective	from	the	work	undertaken	by	the	Committee	in	
reviewing	and	setting	a	forward	looking	remuneration	policy	to	
apply	from	2016	onward	has	been	to	deliver	simple,	transparent	
and	market	competitive	but	not	excessive	packages	to	the	
Executive	Directors	and	senior	management,	taking	into	account	
the	interests	and	expectations	of	shareholders.	
The	forward	looking	remuneration	policy	is	designed	to	achieve	
these	objectives	by	ensuring	that	performance	is	rewarded	against	
clearly	defined	targets	for	the	Executive	Directors	and	senior	
management	both	in	the	short	and	long	term.	Incentivising	the	
management	in	this	way	should	help	to	drive	the	delivery	of	the	
strategic	aims	of	the	Group	and	align	pay	to	those	objectives.	
A	key	objective	of	the	implementation	of	the	remuneration	policy	
from	2016	and	going	forward	is	to	recognise	the	importance	of	
both	retaining	and	attracting	high	quality	talent	by	the	Group.	
Format of the Report
The	Company’s	Directors’	Remuneration	policy	from	FY2016	is	set	
out	on	pages	34-39,	which	is	subject	to	a	shareholder	vote	at	our	
2015 AGM. 
The	Company’s	Annual	Remuneration	Report	which	details	the	
remuneration	paid	to	the	Directors’	in	the	FY2015,	set	out	on	
pages	39-41	which	is	subject	to	a	separate	shareholder	advisory	
vote at our 2015 AGM. 
The	following	report	details	the	Remuneration	policy	and	the	
decisions	on	remuneration	of	the	Directors	of	the	Group	for	 
the	year	ended	25	July	2015.	This	report	has	been	drafted	in	
compliance	with	the	disclosure	requirements	of	the	UK	corporate	
governance	code	and	the	requirements	of	the	UKLA	listing	rules.	
This	report	also	complies	with	the	provisions	of	the	Companies	 
Act	2006	and	the	large	and	medium-sized	companies	and	groups	
(accounts	and	reports)	(Amendment)	regulations	2013	(Regulations).
Shareholder Feedback
The	Committee	recognises	that	the	developing	close	relationships	
with	shareholders	can	help	its	work	in	developing	the	
remuneration	policy.	
The	Committee	welcomes	any	feedback	you	may	have	in	relation	
to	this	report	and	the	forward	looking	remuneration	policy	 
from	FY2016.	
 “On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to 
present the first Remuneration Committee 
Report since the IPO of the Company and its 
admission to trading on the London Stock 
Exchange on 28 January 2015.” 
George Adams
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
14	October	2015 34 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Introduction
Key	developments	for	2016
The	Remuneration	Committee	has	reviewed	and	put	in	place	a	
forward	looking	Directors’	Remuneration	Policy	for	the	Company	
with	effect	from	the	date	of	approval	in	relation	to	the	Executive	
Directors,	introducing	a	balanced	structure	between	each	of	basic	
pay	and	performance	related	short	and	long-term	rewards.	It	is	
currently	intended	that	the	policy	will	continue	to	apply	from	 
18	November	2015	until	the	2018	AGM.	
Role	of	the	Remuneration	Committee
The	Committee	has	responsibility	for	determining	the	Company’s	
policy	on	remuneration	of	the	Executive	Directors	and	the	
Chairman	and	to	recommend	and	monitor	the	level	and	structure	
of remuneration of other senior management of the Group. 
The	Committee’s	key	aims	in	developing	the	Remuneration	 
Policy	are	to	attract,	retain	and	motivate	high-calibre	senior	
management	and	to	focus	them	on	the	delivery	of	the	Group’s	
strategic	business	objectives,	to	promote	a	strong	and	sustainable	
performance	culture,	to	incentivise	high	growth	and	to	align	the	
interests	of	the	Executive	Directors	and	senior	management	with	
those	of	the	shareholders.	In	promoting	these	objectives,	the	
Committee’s	aims	are	to	develop	a	remuneration	policy	in	a	simple	
transparent	and	understandable	way	and	to	ensure	that	no	more	
than	in	necessary	is	paid.	The	framework	for	the	forward	looking	
policy	from	FY2016	has	been	structured	to	adhere	to	the	principles	
of	good	corporate	governance	and	having	regard	to	pay	across	the	
wider	workforce.	
The	Committee’s	terms	of	reference	are	available	from	the	 
ScS	Group	plc	head	office.
There	will	be	a	vote	on	the	forward	looking	remuneration	policy	
and	the	remuneration	report	for	2015	at	this	year’s	AGM.	
The	Committee	also	welcomes	feedback	generally	at	any	 
time	which	will	be	considered	as	part	of	its	annual	review	 
of	remuneration	policy.	
Remuneration Policy Report
Remuneration	policy	overview
Total	remuneration	packages	for	the	Executive	Directors	
established	at	the	time	of	the	IPO	will	provide	the	basis	for	 
the	structure	of	Director	Remuneration	for	the	Group.	Variable	
elements	of	reward	including	performance-based	annual	 
bonuses	and	long-term	incentives	will	form	a	significant	part	 
of	the	overall	remuneration	package	for	Executive	Directors	 
and senior management. 
During	the	year	the	Committee	has	undertaken	a	full	
remuneration	policy	review	for	implementation	in	FY2016.	 
Prior	to	IPO,	PwC	carried	out	a	benchmarking	review	and	 
advised	on	remuneration	structure,	to	assist	the	Company	 
with	the	formulation	of	the	forward	looking	remuneration	 
policy	set	out	below.	
How	the	views	of	shareholders	are	taken	into	account	
The	Committee	recognises	that	developing	a	dialogue	with	
shareholders	is	constructive	and	informative	in	developing	 
and	applying	the	remuneration	policy.
The	Directors’	remuneration	policy
The	Remuneration	Committee	presents	the	Directors’	
remuneration	policy	looking	forward	from	FY2016.
Directors’ Remuneration Report Continued
Remuneration element Purpose Operation Maximum
Base salary This	is	the	basic	pay	and	
reflects	the	individual’s	
role,	responsibilities	and	
contribution	to	the	Group.
Base	salaries	are	reviewed	annually	with	changes	
typically	taking	effect	from	the	beginning	of	the	relevant	
financial	year.	On	reviews,	consideration	is	given	by	the	
Committee	to	a	range	of	factors	including	the	Group’s	
overall	performance,	market	conditions	and	individual	
performance	of	executives	and	the	level	of	salary	
increases	given	to	employees	across	the	Group.
Base	salaries	are	benchmarked	against	companies	 
both	main	and	AIM	listed	(excluding	those	in	the	 
financial	services	sector)	who	are	of	a	similar	size,	 
sector	and	complexity.
Similarly,	in	practice,	the	Committee	will	typically	
discount	the	data	to	recognise	that	the	cost	of	living	in	
the	North	East	is	lower	than	some	other	parts	of	the	UK.
Given	the	requirements	under	
current	UK	regulations	for	a	
formal	cap,	the	Committee	
has	limited	the	maximum	
salary	it	may	award	to	120%	
of the median salaries in  
the	benchmark	group.	
In	practice	though	the	
Committee	would	normally	
expect	to	keep	it	at	the	
median	of	this	benchmark.	
Policy Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
35 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Remuneration element Purpose Operation Maximum
Benefits To	provide	Benefits	which	
are	valued	by	the	individual	
and	assist	them	in	carrying	
out their duties.
The	Group	will	provide	market	competitive	benefits,	
which	may	periodically	be	reviewed.	Executives	will	
generally	be	eligible	to	receive	those	benefits	on	 
similar	terms	to	other	senior	executives.
The	Committee	has	the	discretion	to	add	or	remove	
benefits	to	remain	market	competitive	or	to	meet	 
the	needs	of	the	business.
In	addition,	where	the	Committee	considers	it	appropriate	
to	do	so,	additional	relocation	expenses	may	be	paid.
Executives	are	entitled	to	a	car	allowance	or	a	company	
car,	car	insurance,	other	running	costs	and	fuel,	death	in	
service	life	assurance,	private	medical	care	and	any	other	
Group-wide	benefits	including	employee	discount.
Business	travel	and	associated	hospitality	are	provided	 
in	the	normal	course	of	business.
The	cost	of	benefits	paid	
to	an	executive	in	any	one	
year	is	capped	at	£100,000,	
but	this	may	be	exceeded	in	
exceptional	circumstances,	
for	example,	if	the	cost	of	
a	benefit	were	to	increase	
significantly.
Pension Provide a market 
competitive	pension	
contribution	(or	equivalent	
cash	allowance).
Executive	Directors	may	take	pension	benefits	as	a	
contribution	to	defined	contribution	personal	pension	
plans,	or	on	reaching	the	lifetime	limit	for	pension	
contributions	the	Executive	Director	can	receive	 
cash	in	lieu.	
A	total	maximum	value	
of	20%	of	base	salary	for	
Executive	Directors	and	 
senior management.
Bonus Provide	an	incentive	linked	
principally	to	the	financial	
performance	of	the	Group.
The	Committee	intends	all	or	the	majority	of	the	bonus	
to	be	based	on	financial	measures,	but	has	the	discretion	
to	introduce	operational,	corporate,	divisional	and/or	
individual	performance	measures	if	appropriate	to	 
the	business.
Performance	conditions,	once	set,	will	generally	remain	
unaltered,	but	the	Committee	has	the	right	in	its	absolute	
discretion	to	make	adjustments	during	any	performance	
period	to	reflect	any	events	arising	which	were	unforeseen	
when	the	performance	conditions	were	originally	set	by	
the	Committee.	Bonuses	are	normally	paid	in	cash.
The	current	annual	bonus	
potential	for	the	CEO	is	
140%	of	base	salary	and	
100%	of	base	salary	for	the	
CFO	and	senior	managers.	
The	threshold	bonus	levels	
will	be	no	more	that	25%	of	
their	respective	maxima.	
As	the	regulations	require	
a	formal	cap	for	a	three-
year	period,	future	bonus	
potential	will	only	increase	
where	appropriate	against	
market data and, in any event, 
will	be	subject	to	an	overall	
maximum	of	200%	of	salary	
for	any	Executive	Director. 36 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Remuneration element Purpose Operation Maximum
Long-term	incentives		 Awards	may	be	made	
annually	of	nil-cost	options	
based	on	performance	
conditions.	The	Committee	
may	set	performance	
conditions	typically	over	a	
three-year period.
Dividend	equivalents	will	be	made	as	either	a	cash	
payment	or	delivery	of	Plan	Shares	at	exercise	equal	
in	value	to	the	dividends	payable	on	the	number	of	
Plan	Shares	in	respect	of	which	the	Award	is	exercised	
between	the	Award	Date	and	the	date	on	which	the	
Award	vested.	
Malus	and	Clawback	provisions	apply	to	the	awards	made	
under	the	LTIP	from	28	January	2015	onwards.	
Performance	conditions,	once	set,	will	generally	remain	
unaltered,	but	the	Committee	has	the	right	in	its	absolute	
discretion	to	make	adjustments	during	any	performance	
period	in	case	of	events	arising	which	were	unforeseen	
when	the	performance	conditions	were	first	set	by	 
the	Committee.	
Where	a	holding	period	is	imposed	in	the	discretion	of	
the	Committee	in	relation	to	any	LTIP	award,	the	default	
position	(unless	the	Committee	determines	otherwise)	is	
for	the	holding	period	to	expire	on	the	fifth	anniversary	 
of	the	date	of	grant	of	the	relevant	award.	
The	policy	is	to	award	
Executive	Directors	nil	cost	
share	options	equating	to	 
no more that 100% of their 
basic	salary.	
No more than 25% of an 
award	can	be	earned	for	 
a	threshold	performance.	
Shareholding guidelines Executive	Directors	are	
expected	to	maintain	their	
shareholding	levels	once	
they	have	been	obtained.	
The	Committee	will	review	shareholding	annually	 
against	policy.	The	Committee	reserves	the	right	to	 
alter the shareholding guidelines during the period  
of	the	policy	but	without	making	the	guidelines	any	 
less onerous overall. 
The	minimum	required	level	
of shareholding is 100%  
of	base	salary	of	the	 
relevant	executive.
Employee share plan To	encourage	share	
ownership	by	employees	
and	participation	in	the	
long-term	success	of	the	
Group, the Group operates 
an	employee	share	incentive	
plan	for	UK	employees	
which	was	adopted	in	 
April 2015.
Executive	Directors	can	participate	in	the	employee	
share	incentive	plan	(SIP)	on	the	same	terms	as	other	
employees	of	the	Group	in	the	UK.
Under	the	rules	of	the	SIP	
employees	can	purchase	a	
maximum	of	£1,800	worth	of	
shares per annum from their 
pre-tax	and	pre-national	
insurance	salary	through	 
a resident SIP trust. 
Directors’ Remuneration Report Continued
Existing	awards
In	putting	the	Directors’	Remuneration	Policy	to	an	advisory	vote	
of	shareholders,	the	Company	will	honour	any	commitments	
already	entered	into	in	the	FY2016	with	the	Executive	Directors,	
which	are	detailed	in	the	Annual	Remuneration	report.	
Remuneration	policy	and	other	employees
As	part	of	the	review	of	the	remuneration	policy	for	FY2016	the	
benchmarking	review	of	the	Executive	Directors’	remuneration	
also	included	a	review	of	the	remuneration	of	senior	management.	
Following	on	from	the	benchmarking	exercise	that	was	
undertaken	prior	to	the	IPO	and	in	consideration	of	the	Company	
Results	for	FY2015,	the	Remuneration	Committee	decided	not	 
to	award	any	pay	increases	to	Senior	Managers	at	the	start	 
of	FY2016.	
As	well	as	the	Executive	Directors,	other	senior	management	will	
also	participate	in	the	performance	based	annual	incentive	plan	 
to	be	adopted	under	the	remuneration	policy	above.	A	small	group	
of	senior	management	also	participate	in	the	long-term	incentive	
plan	for	performance	share	awards.	
The	Company	is	committed	to	widespread	share	ownership.	
Following	the	IPO	the	Company	made	a	number	of	awards	under	 
a	long-term	incentive	plan	which	was	adopted	prior	to	admission.	
Also	the	Company	employee	share	incentive	plan	(SIP),	which	 
was	adopted	prior	to	admission	has	been	launched.	Under	the	SIP ,	
Executive	Directors	are	eligible	to	participate	on	a	consistent	basis	
to all other employees. 
In	setting	the	remuneration	policy	going	forward,	the	Committee	
will	also	have	regard	to	pay	structures	across	the	broader	Group.	
The	Committee	does	not	consult	directly	with	employees	when	
reviewing	Executive	Directors’	remuneration,	but	it	will	take	into	
account	the	general	base	salary	increase	for	the	broader	
workforce	when	undertaking	annual	salary	reviews	for	the	
Executive	Directors	going	forward.	The	Committee	has	taken	
advice	from	PwC,	on	the	benchmarking	and	structure	of	
remuneration	packages	for	Executive	Directors	and	senior	
management,	but	will	be	appointing	a	consultancy	during	 
FY2016	to	give	advice	going	forward.	 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
37 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Operation	of	variable	pay
Annual Incentive Plan
The	Committee	will	set	the	performance	targets	annually	under	
the	annual	incentive	plan	to	take	account	of	the	Company’s	
strategic	plan	and	financial	performance.	The	performance	
targets	are	set	by	the	Committee	based	on	a	range	of	factors	
including	against	the	budget	for	the	financial	year.	The	metrics	
adopted	by	the	Committee	and	the	weighting	of	them	may	vary	 
in	relation	to	the	Company’s	strategy	each	year.	
The	Committee	sets	a	threshold	pay-out,	target	and	maximum	pay	
out target under the plan.
Long-Term Incentive Plan
The	Committee	will	regularly	review	the	performance	targets	 
in	relation	to	the	LTIP	to	take	account	of	the	Company’s	strategic	
plan	and	financial	performance.	Targets	will	be	set	by	the	
Committee	at	the	time	of	the	grant	of	each	award.	In	making	 
the	award	for	FY2016	the	committee	is	adopting	market-based	
performance	conditions	for	the	LTIP	based	on	EPS	growth.	 
The	target	ranges	for	FY2016	onwards	are	set	out	in	the	annual	
remuneration report. 
Clawback
The	Annual	Incentive	Plan	and	LTIP	rules	include	provisions	for	
malus	and	clawback	within	a	three-year	period	following	payment	
or	vesting	if	the	Committee	concludes	that	there	has	been	a	
material	mis-statement	of	financial	results,	or	there	are	
circumstances	which	would	have	warranted	summary	dismissal	 
of	the	participant,	or	there	are	circumstances	having	an	impact	 
on	the	reputation	of	the	Company	which	justify	clawback	being	
operated,	or	where	the	Committee	discovers	information	from	
which	it	concludes	that	a	bonus	or	award	was	paid	or	vested	to	 
a	greater	extent	than	it	should	have	been.	
Potential	reward	scenarios
The	graphs	below	show	an	estimate	of	the	Executive	Directors’	
remuneration	package	for	the	financial	year	ending	30	July	2016,	
as	a	percentage	of	total	potential	remuneration	and	total	value,	
for	the	policy	as	it	will	be	implemented	for	FY2016.	Share	price	
movements	and	dividend	accrual	have	been	excluded	from	the	
indicative	scenarios	below.
Assumptions
• The	minimum	scenario	reflects	fixed	remuneration	only	which	
is	base	salary,	pension	and	benefits.	
• The	on	target	scenario	reflects	the	fixed	remuneration	plus	
50%	of	the	maximum	annual	bonus	under	the	annual	incentive	
plan,	and	25%	vesting	under	the	LTIP	being	the	threshold	level	
(assuming	an	award	of	100%	of	salary	to	Executive	Directors	
under the LTIP).
• The	maximum	scenario	reflects	fixed	remuneration	plus	100%	
of	the	maximum	annual	bonus	under	the	annual	incentive	plan	
which	is	140%	of	base	salary	for	the	CEO	and	100%	of	base	
salary	for	the	CFO	and	100%	vesting	under	the	LTIP	(assuming	
an	award	of	100%	of	salary	under	the	LTIP).	
Recruitment	and	promotions
The	remuneration	package	for	a	new	Executive	Director	would	be	
set	in	accordance	with	the	terms	of	the	Company’s	remuneration	
policy	at	the	time	of	the	appointment.	
Additionally	on	appointment	of	any	new	Executive	Director	
(whether	by	external	recruitment	of	internal	promotion)	the	
remuneration	policy	will	permit	the	following:
• The	UK	regulations	do	not	require	that	caps	on	fixed	pay	apply	
to	a	new	recruit	and	the	Committee	reserves	the	right	to	set	
fixed	pay	at	such	levels	as	it	considers	necessary	although,	in	
practice,	it	envisages	abiding	by	the	caps	set	out	in	this	policy.	
• If	a	new	Executives	salary	is	set	on	appointment	below	the	
median	market	rates,	phased	increases	(as	a	percentage	of	
salary)	above	those	granted	generally	to	other	employees	 
may	be	awarded	subject	to	the	individual’s	performance	 
and development. 
• The	Company	may	compensate	a	new	Executive	Director	for	
amounts	forgone	from	the	individual’s	former	employer	in	
addition	to	ongoing	remuneration	provided	under	the	policy	 
(as	permitted	under	Listing	Rules)	taking	account	of	the	
amount	forfeited,	the	extent	of	any	performance	conditions,	
the	nature	of	the	award	and	the	time	period	for	vesting.	
• The	annual	incentive	plan	would	operate	in	accordance	with	its	
terms pro-rated for the period of employment and depending 
on	the	appointment	timing,	different	performance	targets	
might	be	set	as	the	Committee	considers	appropriate.
Maximum Target Minimum
1,200
£’000
600
200
1,000
800
400
0
David Knight, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Fixed Variable LTIP
32%
11%
57%
38%
27%
35% 100%
1,100,183
665,183
380,183
Maximum Target Minimum
1,200
£’000
600
200
1,000
800
400
0
Ron Turnbull, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
25%
12%
63%
30.5%
30.5%
39%
100%
655,495
405,495
255,495 38 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Directors’ Remuneration Report Continued
• On	an	internal	appointment,	any	variable	pay	element	awarded	
in	respect	of	the	individual’s	former	role	would	be	allowed	to	
pay	out	according	to	its	terms,	with	any	relevant	adjustment	 
to	take	account	of	the	appointment.	Any	other	ongoing	
remuneration	obligations	existing	prior	to	the	appointment	
would	also	continue.	
• On	any	appointment,	the	Committee	may	agree	that	the	
Company	will	meet	the	appropriate	relocation	expenses.	
Service	contract	and	payments	for	loss	of	office
Main provisions on termination
The	service	contract	for	the	CEO	and	CFO	is	indefinite	but	
terminable	either	by	the	Company	or	the	Executive	Director	 
on	12 months’	notice.	Both	service	contracts	are	dated	
19 December 2014.
An	Executive	Directors’	service	contract	can	also	be	terminated	
without	notice	or	payment	of	compensation	except	for	pay	
accrued	up	to	the	termination	date	on	the	occurrence	of	certain	
events	such	as	gross	misconduct.	
Payment	in	lieu	of	notice	equal	to	the	base	salary	only	for	the	
unexpired	period	of	notice	can	be	paid	under	the	Executive	
Directors’	Service	agreements.
There	are	no	enhanced	provisions	on	a	change	of	control	under	
the	Executive	Directors’	service	contracts.	
Any	new	contracts	will	be	on	similar	terms.
The	service	contracts	of	the	Executive	Directors	are	available	 
for	inspection	at	the	registered	office	of	the	Company.	
Annual bonus on termination
There	is	no	contractual	entitlement	to	annual	bonus	on	
termination	or	if	an	Executive	Director	is	under	notice.	Under	 
the	Annual	Incentive	Plan,	the	Committee	has	absolute	discretion	
to	permit	a	bonus	to	be	paid	to	a	leaver	or	under	notice	based	on	
the	full	or	part	year	performance,	subject	to	consideration	by	 
the	Committee	of	the	reasons	for	the	individual	leaving.	A	full	 
or	pro-rata	time	based	bonus	may	be	awarded,	and	this	may	be	 
paid	either	at	or	before	the	normal	payment	date.	
Performance share plans on termination
Share-based	awards	made	under	the	Company’s	share	plans	are	
governed	by	the	relevant	plan	rules.	Under	the	rules	of	the	LTIP ,	
awards	lapse	if	they	have	not	vested	on	giving	or	being	given	
notice	of	termination	of	employment	for	any	reason,	unless	the	
Committee	in	its	discretion	permits	an	award	to	vest	in	whole	or	in	
part	and	on	such	terms	as	it	may	specify	in	its	absolute	discretion.	
Awards	which	may	have	vested	before	giving	or	receiving	notice	 
of	termination	of	employment	remain	exercisable	for	a	period	of	 
six	months	after	leaving	or	(if	later)	the	expiry	of	any	holding	
period	which	the	award	was	subject	to.	The	Committee	has	the	
discretion	to	extend	this	period.	
Chairman	and	Non-Executive	Directors
Fees
The	level	and	structure	of	fees	for	the	Non-Executive	Directors	
was	set	by	the	Board	from	admission.	The	fees	of	the	Non-
Executive	Directors	are	set	by	the	Board	taking	account	of	the	
Chairmanship	of	Board	Committees	and	the	time	and	
responsibility	of	the	roles	of	each	of	them.	The	fees	are	paid	in	
cash.	The	Committee	has	responsibility	for	determining	fees	paid	
to	the	Chairman	of	the	Board.	All	fees	are	subject	to	the	aggregate	
fee	cap	for	Directors	in	the	articles	of	association,	which	is	
currently	£400,000	per	annum.	
Details	of	the	fees	paid	to	the	Non-Executive	Directors	are	set	out	
in	the	Remuneration	Report.	The	Chairman	and	the	Non-Executive	
Directors	are	entitled	to	be	reimbursed	of	all	expenses	reasonably	
incurred	by	them	in	the	performance	of	their	duties.	The	Chairman	
and	Non-Executive	Directors	do	not	participate	in	any	bonus	or	
share	plans	of	the	Company.
The	Non-Executive	Directors	do	not	have	service	contracts.	 
They	are	appointed	for	an	initial	three	year	period	subject	to	 
being	re-elected	by	members	annually.
Remuneration element Purpose Operation Maximum
Non-Executive	Directors	
Fees.
Helps	recruit	and	retain	
high	quality,	experienced	
individuals. 
Reflects	time	commitment	
and role.
The	level	and	structure	of	fees	was	set	by	the	board	
at	admission.	The	fees	consist	of	an	annual	basic	fee	
plus	additional	fees	paid	for	the	Chairmanship	of	Board	
Committees.	Limited	benefits	relating	to	travel	and	
accommodation	may	be	provided	in	relation	to	the	
performance	of	any	Director’s	duties.	
Non-executive	Directors	fees	are	set	by	the	Executive	
Directors	with	reference	to	external	data	on	fee	levels	
in	similar	businesses,	having	taken	account	of	the	
responsibilities	of	individual	Directors	and	their	expected	
annual	time	commitment.
The aggregate amount of 
Directors’	Fees	is	limited	by	
the	Company’s	Articles	of	
Association. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
39 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Letters of appointment
All	of	the	Non-Executive	Directors	of	the	Company	have	letters	of	
appointment	dated	22	October	2014	for	an	initial	period	of	three	
years	and	are	subject	to	three	months’	notice	of	termination	by	
either	side	at	any	time	and	subject	to	annual	re	appointment	as	a	
Director	by	the	shareholders,	save	for	George	Adams	whose	letter	
of appointment is dated 9 July 2015. The appointment letters 
provide	that	no	other	compensation	is	payable	on	termination.
Insurance
All	of	the	members	of	the	Board	have	the	benefit	of	Directors	and	
Officers	liability	Insurance	which	gives	them	cover	for	legal	action	
which	may	arise	against	them	personally.
Annual Remuneration Report
Executive	Directors	remuneration	in	FY2015
Elements of remuneration
The	Executive	Directors	receive	a	base	salary	and	other	benefits.	
Neither	the	CEO	nor	the	CFO	received	an	annual	bonus	in	the	FY2015.	
Long-term	incentive	awards	have	been	made	to	the	CEO	and	CFO	
during	2015.	The	vesting	of	the	long-term	incentives	is	dependent	
upon	the	achievement	of	performance	targets	which	were	set	by	
the	Committee	before	the	awards	were	made.	Details	of	the	
performance	targets	are	set	out	on	page	39.	
During	FY2015	the	Executive	Directors	also	entered	into	a	 
put	and	call	option	agreement	with	the	Company	in	relation	 
to	their	shareholding	in	Parlour	Product	Topco	Limited	(‘Option	
Agreements’).	Pursuant	to	the	Option	Agreements,	each	Executive	
Director	has	an	option	to	acquire	ordinary	shares	in	exchange	 
for	their	shareholding	in	Parlour	Product	Topco	Ltd	shares	and	the	
Company	has	the	equivalent	option	for	itself	or	a	nominate	person	
to	acquire	their	shareholding	in	Parlour	Product	Topco	Ltd	shares	
in	exchange	for	ordinary	shares.	
The	Executive	Directors	also	entered	into	a	restricted	share	
agreement	with	the	Company	and	Principal	Shareholder	 
which	contains	certain	restrictions	on	the	ordinary	shares	 
in	the	Company	to	be	acquired	by	them	pursuant	to	the	 
Options Agreements. 
Details	of	the	options	awarded	are	set	out	on	page	40.
Salary
A	benchmark	review	exercise	was	carried	out	prior	to	the	IPO.	As	a	
result	of	this	exercise	the	CFO’s	salary	was	increased	prior	to	the	
IPO,	the	CEO’s	salary	remained	unchanged.	
There	have	been	no	further	reviews	of	the	Executive	Director’s	
salary	pending	the	full	remuneration	policy	being	completed	by	
the	Committee.	The	Remuneration	Committee	considered	
whether	an	increase	should	be	awarded	at	the	start	of	FY2016,	
however	as	a	decision	was	taken	to	offer	no	pay	increases	across	
the	Company	the	Committee	agreed	to	leave	the	Executive	
Directors’	salaries	unchanged	for	FY2016.	
The	current	basic	salaries	as	at	14	October	2015	are:
• David	Knight	£300,000	(26	July	2014:	£300,000)
• Ron	Turnbull	£200,000	(26	July	2014:	£175,000)
The	CEO’s	salary	is	considered	to	be	broadly	reflective	of	a	median	
position	against	the	benchmark	data,	prior	to	the	IPO	the	CFO’s	
salary	was	approximately	10%	behind	the	median	position	and	
was	increased	in	FY2015	to	reflect	the	median	position.
Pension and other benefits
The	Executive	Directors	are	eligible	to	pension	benefits	equating	
to	20%	of	their	basic	salary,	which	are	non-contributory.	The	CEO	
participated	in	the	pension	scheme	however	the	CFO	has	reached	
his	lifetime	limit	and	receives	a	payment	in	lieu	of	pension	
contributions	equating	to	20%	of	his	basic	salary.
The	CEO	receives	a	car	allowance	of	£18,642	and	the	CFO	receives	
a	car	allowance	of	£11,909.
The	Executive	Directors	are	also	provided	with	private	medical	
insurance	and	are	also	provided	with	Life	Assurance	that	provides	
cover	of	up	to	four	times	base	salary.	
Annual bonus
The	Executive	Directors	did	not	receive	any	bonus	during	FY2015	
as	the	threshold	EBITDA	target	was	not	reached.	
The	bonuses	for	the	Executive	Directors	going	forward	are	subject	
to	the	terms	of	the	performance-based	Annual	Incentive	Plan	set	
out	in	the	Remuneration	policy	on	pages	34-39	above.	
For	FY2016	the	maximum	bonus	opportunity	for	the	CEO	is	140%	
of	base	salary	and	for	the	CFO	is	100%	of	base	salary.	Under	the	
awards	for	FY2016	the	bonus	is	based	on	the	achievement	of	an	
EBITDA	target.	No	bonus	is	paid	unless	a	threshold	level	of	EBITDA	
is	achieved.	The	Committee	does	not	disclose	the	targets	in	
advance	as	they	are	commercially	sensitive	and	it	is	not	market	
practice	to	do	so.	Suitable	disclosure	of	the	financial	target	ranges	
will	be	included	in	next	year’s	report	retrospectively.	
Long-term incentives
On	IPO	a	long-term	incentive	plan	was	awarded	to	the	Executive	
Directors.	The	CEO	was	awarded	171,428	and	the	CFO,	114,285	
ordinary	shares	at	£nil	cost.	Subject	to	meeting	the	performance	
conditions,	the	awards	will	vest	on	the	third	anniversary	of	the	IPO.
The	award	cannot	be	exercised	prior	to	the	28	January	2018.	
Following	the	announcement	of	the	2017	accounts	the	long-term	
incentive	plan	shall	vest	as	follows.
EPS	figure Percentage	of	award	that	vests
Less	than	24	pence Nil
24	pence 25%
Greater	than	24	pence	but	 
less	than	28	pence
Straight-line	basis	between	 
25% and 100%
28	pence 100%
Malus	and	clawback	rules	apply	to	the	award.
All-employee share plans
The	Company	adopted	an	all-employee	UK	Share	Incentive	 
Plan (SIP) immediately prior to admission. All employees on 
completion	of	six	months	service	become	eligible	to	join.	Under	
the	SIP	employees	may	elect	to	acquire	up	to	£150	worth	of	shares	
in	the	Company	every	month	or	bay	a	maximum	one-off	lump	sum	
of	£1,800	in	a	tax	year.	
The	Executive	Directors	are	eligible	to	participate	in	the	SIP	on	the	
same	basis	as	other	employees.	 40 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Directors’ Remuneration Report Continued
Single figure table of total remuneration  
(Executive Directors) – audited
The	audited	table	below	shows	the	aggregate	remuneration	of	the	
Directors	of	the	Company	during	the	FY2015	and	for	the	Financial	
Year	2014:
Salary  
£
Bonus  
£
Benefits	 
£
LTIP
£
Pension  
£
Total  
£
David
Knight 2014 300,000 177,450 20,336** 0 60,000 557,786
2015 300,000 0 20,183 0 60,000 380,183
Ron 
Turnbull 2014 175,000 73,938 15,943** 0 35,000 299,881
2015 200,000 0 15,495 0 40,000* 255,495
*		 The	CFO	has	reached	his	lifetime	limit	and	receives	a	payment	in	lieu	of	pension	
contributions	equating	to	20%	of	his	basic	salary.
**	 Benefits	of	the	Directors	are	discussed	in	detail	on	page	35.
Remuneration of the Chairman and  
Non-Executive Directors – audited
The	fee	levels	and	structure	of	the	Non-Executive	Directors	was	
set	by	the	Board	from	Admission.	No	review	is	expected	during	 
FY2016.
The	fees	of	the	Non-Executive	Directors	are	set	by	the	Board	and	
take	account	of	the	Chairmanship	of	Board	committees	and	the	
time	and	responsibility	of	the	roles	of	each	of	them.	
The	fees	paid	for	2015	to	the	Non-Executive	Directors	were	as	
follows:	
£
Alan Smith 95,192
Ron	McMillan 46,846
George Adams 3,923
No	fees	were	paid	in	2014	as	the	Non-Executive	Directors	were	not	
in	post.	There	were	no	other	amounts	disclosable	for	the	Non-
Executive	Directors	for	the	year.
Share awards made to Directors
Immediately	following	the	IPO	the	Executive	Directors	retained	an	
interest	in	B	ordinary	shares	and/or	D	ordinary	shares	in	the	capital	
of	Parlour	Product	Topco	Limited,	the	former	holding	company	 
of the Operating Group. These B ordinary shares and D ordinary 
shares	are	exchangeable	for	Ordinary	Shares	in	the	capital	of	the	
Company	pursuant	to	the	terms	of	the	Option	Agreements	
entered	into	with	the	CEO	and	CFO:
• David	Knight	1,270,530	ordinary	shares
• Ron	Turnbull	508,212	ordinary	shares
The	Option	Agreements	were	entered	into	in	order	to	provide	 
for	an	orderly	winding	up	of	certain	management	incentive	
arrangements	which	had	been	established	prior	to	Admission	 
and	the	arrangements	were	fully	described	in	the	Company’s	
prospectus	published	in	connection	with	the	IPO	on	23	January	
2015 (‘IPO Prospectus’).	The	Ordinary	Shares	subject	to	the	
Option	Agreements	were	allotted	to	the	ScS	Group	Employee	
Benefit	Trust	(‘EBT’) on Admission. Pursuant to the terms of the 
Option	Agreements,	the	relevant	Directors	and	PDMRs	have	
exchanged	B	and	D	ordinary	shares	in	the	capital	of	Parlour	
Product	Topco	Limited,	for	Ordinary	Shares.
For	the	avoidance	of	doubt,	the	aggregate	interests	in	Ordinary	
Shares	and	Ordinary	Shares	under	options	held	by	the	Executive	
Directors	have	not	changed	from	what	was	disclosed	in	the	 
IPO	Prospectus.
As	described	in	the	IPO	Prospectus,	the	Ordinary	Shares	acquired	
by	the	Executive	Directors	as	a	result	of	the	option	exercise	are	
subject	to	lock-up	agreements	pursuant	to	which	the	Ordinary	
Shares	may	generally	not	be	sold	or	otherwise	disposed	of	for	a	
period	of	12	months	from	the	date	of	the	option	exercise	without	
the	prior	written	consent	of	Investec	(not	to	be	unreasonably	
withheld	or	delayed).	The	Ordinary	Shares	are	also	subject	to	a	
further	restriction	(also	described	in	the	IPO	Prospectus)	
restricting	sales	or	transfers	of	the	Ordinary	Shares	up	to	a	certain	
percentage.	This	is	the	same	percentage	of	its	Ordinary	Shares	
held	by	Parlour	Products	Holdings	(Lux)	S.a.r.l	(‘Principal 
Shareholder’)	immediately	prior	to	admission	as	the	Principal	
Shareholder	has	sold	(either	in	the	IPO	or	subsequently),	and	this	
restriction	applies	until	the	fourth	anniversary	of	admission.
Payments to past Directors and loss of office payments – audited
There	were	no	payments	to	past	Directors	for	loss	of	office	in	the	
year ended 25 July 2015.
Directors’ shareholding and share interests – audited
The	table	below	sets	out	the	number	of	shares	held	or	potentially	
held	be	Directors	(including	connected	persons	or	related	parties	
where	relevant)	as	at	the	financial	year	end	2015.	There	were	no	
share	ownership	guidelines	or	requirements	for	either	the	
Executive	Directors	or	the	Non-Executive	Directors	in	the	financial	
year ended 2015.
Director
Shares held 
beneficially
Unvested	 
options
Alan Smith 11,429 –
Ron	McMillan – –
George Adams – –
Paul	Daccus – –
Name Y/E	25.07.15
Share 
interests held 
beneficially*
Nil	cost	
options 
subject	to	
performance	
**
Option 
awards	vested	
on admission 
*** Totals
David
Knight Number 1,441,958 171,428 22,772 1,636,158
Value at 
year end £2,126,888 £252,856 £33,589 £2,413,333
Ron
Turnbull Number 622,498 114,285 9,109 745,892
Value at 
year end £918,185 £168,570 £13,436 £1,100,191
*	 1,270,530	of	the	CEO’s	interests	and	580,212	of	the	CFO’s	interests	are	exchangeable	
for	ordinary	shares	in	the	capital	of	the	Company	pursuant	to	the	terms	of	the	Option	
Agreements entered into.
**	 Awards	vest	subject	to	EPS	performance	over	a	three	year	period.
***	 Option	awards	are	vested	and	are	exercisable	until	20	January	2025	at	an	exercise	
price	of	£1.75.
The	value	of	share	interests	at	the	year	end	is	based	on	the	closing	
share	price	at	25	July	2015	of	£1.475.
No	awards	were	exercised	during	the	financial	year. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
41 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Performance graph and pay table
The chart below illustrates the Company’s Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR) performance against the performance of the FTSE 
Fledgling Index, from the date of the IPO of the Company. This 
index was selected as it represents a broad equity market index 
which includes companies of a comparable size. 
27 Jan 2015
27 Feb 2015
27 May 2015
27 Apr 2015
27 Mar 2015
25 Jul 2015
27 Jun 2015
150
90
80
60
110
100
120
130
140
70
50
SCS FTSE Fledgling Index
Remuneration of the CEO
David Knight £300,000, Bonus £nil, LTIP £nil.
Changes in the remuneration of the CEO
Total remuneration of individuals undertaking the role of CEO in 
each of the past 5 years Is as follows: 
Salary  
£
Bonus  
£
Benefits  
£
LTIP
£
Pension  
£
Total  
£
David
Knight 2015 300,000 0 20,183 0 60,000 380,183
David
Knight 2014 300,000 177,450 20,336 0 60,000 557,786
David 
Knight 2013 247,500 274,073 16,302 0 49,500 586,875
David
Knight 2012 247,500 199,635 13,929 0 71,625 532,689
David
Knight 2011 247,500 0 17,265 0 49,500 314,265
The table below shows the percentage changes in the CEO’s 
remuneration between the financial year ended 26 July 2014  
and the 25 July 2014 compared to the amounts for UK full time 
employees of the group for each of the following elements of pay: 
2015  
£
2014  
£
%  
Change
CEO
Salary 300,000 300,000 0%
Benefits 20,183 20,336 (1%)
Bonus £0 £177,450 (100%)
Average per Employee
Salary 23,400 23,300 0.4%
Benefits 661 617 7%
Bonus 1,400 1,400 0%
Relative importance of the spend on pay
The table below shows the movement in spend on pay for all 
employees compared with the distributions to shareholders.
FY2014
£’000
FY2015
£’000
% 
Change
Total pay for employees 42,870 49,141 14.6%
Distributions to shareholders – 5,524 –
Remuneration Committee
The members of the committee for the 2015 financial year  
were George Adams (Committee Chairman, appointed  
10 July 2015), Alan Smith, Ron McMillan and Paul Daccus. 
The responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the Corporate 
Governance section of the Annual Report on page 28.
The Committee may invite the Executive Directors or other 
members of the senior management to attend meetings and assist 
the Committee in its deliberations as appropriate. No person is 
present during any deliberations relating to their own 
remuneration or involved in determining their own remuneration. 
The attendance of members of the Committee at meetings of it 
was as follows:
Name Attendance
Alan Smith 1
Ron McMillan 1
Paul Daccus 1
George Adams* –
* Appointed 9 July 2015.
Advisers to the Committee
Advisers are to be appointed during FY2016. Advice to date has 
been sought from PwC.
This report has been approved by the Board of Directors of the 
Company and signed on behalf of the board by:
George Adams
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
14 October 2015 42 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Directors’ Report
Results and Dividend 
The Group’s loss after tax for the financial year ended 25 July 2015 
of £2.2 million (2014: profit £5.9 million) is reported in the 
consolidated statement of income on page 48.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 11.2p per ordinary 
share, which together with the interim dividend of 2.8p per 
ordinary share paid in May 2015 is a total dividend of 14.0p,  
and this reflects the commitment announced at IPO. 
Going Concern
The Group generates strong cash flows, reflecting the  
negative working capital requirements of the business model.  
In addition the Group has a committed £12 million revolving  
credit facility in place. The Group’s forecasts and projections  
show that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. The Group 
therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
its condensed interim financial statements.
Events Since the Balance Sheet Date
Other than those described in note 27 there have been no events 
since the balance sheet date that either require adjustment to the 
financial statements or are important in the understanding of the 
Company’s current position. 
Financial Risk Management
See note 24 of the Financial Statements.
Corporate Social Responsibility
Our CSR activity is set out in the Corporate Social Report on pages 
22 to 23, which form part of this report. 
Employee Involvement
The Group’s policy is to actively involve its employees in  
the business and to ensure that matters of concern to them, 
including the aims and objectives and the financial and economic 
factors which impact thereon, are communicated in an open and 
regular manner. This is achieved principally through three sales 
conferences held at appropriate times during the year supported 
by regular senior management meetings and briefings, both on  
a national and regional basis, and a comprehensive weekly 
newsletter which is made available to all employees.
The Group is an equal opportunities employer and strives to 
ensure that disabled people are not discriminated against on the 
grounds of their disability. The Group’s objective is to ensure equal 
opportunities for all, whether applying for vacancies or already in 
employment, in career development and promotion.
Directors and Their Interests
Details of the Directors of the Company as at 25 July 2015 are 
shown on pages 24 and 25 and their interests in shares and share 
awards made to them under share incentive schemes in the 
Company are shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 39-41, which form part of this report. There have been  
no changes in the Board of the Company since that date.
Directors’ Indemnities
As permitted by the Company’s Articles of Association, the 
Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is applicable  
in certain circumstances. The Company also purchased and 
maintained throughout the financial year Directors’ and Officers’ 
liability insurance. 
Employee benefit trust
The Company established the ScS Group plc Employee  
Benefit Trust (EBT) with Sanne Fiduciary Services Limited as  
the Trustees in Jersey in January 2015. The purpose of the EBT  
is to facilitate the winding up of pre-admission management 
incentive arrangements, holding ordinary shares in the Company 
which will be acquired by the Executive Directors and relevant key 
management in accordance with a put and call agreement within 
the period six to 12 months following admission.
The EBT has waived any dividends which it may be entitled to 
receive in respect of ordinary shares held by it, and has also agreed 
to waive voting rights to such shares.
Major Interest in Shares
As at 30 September 2015 the following shareholders have notified 
the Company of their interest in 3% or more of the Company’s 
issued share capital:
Number of 
shares held
% of issued 
share capital
Parlour Products Holdings (Lux Sarl) 16,620,160 41.55
River & Mercantile Asset Mgt 2,962,625 7.41
ScS Group PLC Employee Benefit Trust 2,722,563 6.81
Columbia Threadneedle Investments 2,419,572 6.05
Investec Asset Mgt 2,051,664 5.13
Artemis Investment Mgt 1,900,000 4.75
Miton Asset Mgt 1,724,478 4.31
Henderson Global Investors 1,645,714 4.11
Independent Investment Trust 1,300,000 3.25
Annual General Meeting 
A notice convening the Company’s first Annual General Meeting 
on 18 November 2015 will be issued to shareholders separately. 
Corporate Governance 
The compliance by the Company with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code are set out in the Corporate Governance Report 
on pages 26 to 29, which form part of this report.
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP is the Company’s independent 
auditor. A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 
auditors will be put to the members at the Annual General Meeting. 
In addition, the Directors as at the date of this report consider that 
the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s and the Group’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
Ron Turnbull
Company Secretary
14 October 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
43 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report,  
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors 
have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union, and the parent company financial statements 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards  
and applicable law). Under company law the Directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group 
and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that 
period. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors  
are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply  
them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; and
• state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union  
and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been  
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed  
and explained in the Group and parent company financial 
statements respectively.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the  
assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud  
and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity  
of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess  
a Company’s performance, business model and strategy. 
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on 
pages 24 and 25 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
• the Group financial statements, which have been prepared  
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of 
the Group; 
• the Directors’ Report and the Group Operating and Financial 
Review include a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces;
• so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
• he/she has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as  
a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are 
aware of that information.
Ron Turnbull
Company Secretary
14 October 2015 44 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Report on the Group Financial Statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, ScS Group plc’s Group financial statements (the ‘financial statements’):
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 25 July 2015 and of its loss and cash flows for the year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
The financial statements comprise:
• the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at 25 July 2015;
• the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended;
• the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended;
• the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended; and
• the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Financial Statements (the ‘Annual Report’), rather 
than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach
Overview
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of 
focus
• Overall Group materiality: £1.38 million which represents 0.5% of revenue.
•  We performed an audit of the complete financial information of the Group’s trading entity A Share & Sons 
Limited, the holding company and all other subsidiaries (excluding dormant entities).
Our areas of focus were:
• Accounting for the Group reorganisation taking place preceding the groups Initial Public Offering (IPO).
• Supplier arrangements, are material and can involve judgement.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In 
particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that 
involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed the 
risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that 
represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are 
identified as ‘areas of focus’ in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to 
provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read 
in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 
Independent Auditors’ Report  
to the Members of ScS Group plc Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
45 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Accounting for the Group reorganisation taking place  
preceding the Groups’ Initial Public Offering (IPO)
Refer to pages 30-32 (Audit Committee Report) and page 55  
(Critical accounting estimates and judgments).
In preparation for the IPO during the year, the Group undertook a capital 
reorganisation and executed a complex step plan, which included the 
insertion of a new holding company, share exchanges and repayment 
arrangements for inter-company balances held with the previous owners.
The execution of the accounting for the reorganisation for the IPO 
represented a heightened risk of material misstatement due to the 
magnitude and complexity of the accounting entries required.
Significant legal and professional costs were incurred during the process, 
including those relating to the Admission of the Group’s shares on the 
London Stock Exchange, fees to advisors and expenses relating to capital 
structuring, which are recognised as exceptional costs in the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income. 
The accounting treatment for these costs is a complex area and requires 
the Directors to apply significant judgement in assessing whether the costs 
relate to the issuance of a new equity instrument and should be capitalised 
or whether they should be expensed directly to the consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income.
For the capital reorganisation and restructuring, we tested whether the 
accounting treatment for these transactions was consistent with the 
underlying substance of the transaction and accounting standards. 
We involved our internal specialists in this field to ensure the correct 
accounting conclusions had been reached by the client.
We assessed the classification and accuracy of the exceptional costs 
incurred by agreeing a sample of costs incurred to third party invoices, We 
concurred that, as no new equity instruments were created on IPO and that 
the costs were non-recurring in nature, they were correctly expensed in 
the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and presented as 
exceptional items.
We found management’s judgements and application of relevant accounting 
standards and the execution of the accounting for the restructuring as a 
whole to be supported by the evidence we obtained.
Supplier arrangements are material and can involve judgement
Refer to pages 30-32 (Audit Committee Report) and page 55  
(Critical accounting estimates and judgments).
The Group receives significant rebates from its suppliers. These include 
volume-based rebates on purchases made from key product suppliers 
throughout the year and promotional support given by suppliers for display 
stocks and positioning of their products within advertising.
Volume rebates: These are negotiated by ScS Group plc as part of its 
dealings in the normal course of business with suppliers. There is a 
percentage rebate given by suppliers based on sales levels; these rates  
often vary based on spend with that supplier.
In volume rebates, the judgement arises when the agreements are not 
co-terminus with the Group’s year end and where these contain spending 
thresholds or ‘hurdle rates’ that, if hit, will change the rebate percentage 
offered for all spend in the period. The impact of judgement is reduced 
through quarterly settlement of rebates and because the vast majority of 
non-coterminous agreements had exceeded the hurdle rate as at the date 
of the Group’s year end.
We focussed on this area to check that volume rebates accounted for were 
supported by contracts, calculated reasonably and accounted for in the 
right period. 
Promotional support: This comprises contributions made by suppliers 
for display models to be used in new and existing stores. The level of 
promotional support is dependent on the inventory ScS Group plc purchases 
as display models for use within its stores. Promotional support is part of the 
supply of goods agreement with suppliers.
We focussed on whether the group was entitled to the amounts recognised 
as income during the year. 
The risk is lessened as the level of judgement concerned is minimal in these 
balances with suppliers issuing a credit note against the inventory item  
with the amount settled net. The year end debtor is also immaterial.
We sent confirmation requests to a sample of suppliers, asking them to 
confirm the rebate terms and rebate percentage included in the contract as 
well as the overall spend in the year. The responses we received corroborated 
the information we had been provided with. We did not receive responses 
for the full population; where a response was not received, we agreed terms 
to the underlying contract. For the total supplier spend during the year, we 
tested on a sample basis to invoice and settlement agreeing that the rebate 
was calculated in line with the rebate agreement. No issues were noted on any 
of the above procedures.
Management calculate the income derived from volume rebates based on an 
average rebate level, which is a weighted average rebate percentage across  
all suppliers, based on actual historic rebate levels, which is used as a proxy  
for the actual rebate levels. 
Management then perform a calculation of the rebate on a supplier by 
supplier basis to demonstrate that any difference between that and the 
amount booked was not material. We recalculated this supplier by supplier 
rebate entitlement amount for the full year, checking that the correct hurdle 
rate was used, based on the spend required as stipulated in the agreement, 
having tested the inputs to the calculation as outlined above. We concurred 
with management that the actual charge was not materially different from 
the amount recognised using the above methodology.
We tested promotional support amounts in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income on a sample basis by tracing them to the underlying 
credit note from the supplier.
No issues were noted with this testing. 46 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Report on the Group Financial Statements Continued
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements  
as a whole, taking into account the Group’s accounting processes and controls and applying our experience in the retail sector. 
The Group is based in and operates solely in the UK market from its 96 stores and 30 House of Fraser concessions. It has one trading 
entity, A Share & Sons Limited, and three UK based holding companies including ScS Group plc. The timing of the audits for the statutory 
accounts for the Group, parent company and the subsidiary companies took place at the same point in time and, as such, as at the date 
of this opinion we have audited all material balances across the Group.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, 
together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit 
procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £1,380,000 (2014: £1,288,000).
How we determined it 0.5% of revenue.
Rationale for benchmark applied We have used 0.5% of revenue as the benchmark for our materiality calculations due to the low 
margin nature of the business and our judgement around what would affect the decisions of the 
users of the financial statements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £0.069 million 
(2014: £0.064 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement, set out on page 42, in relation to going concern. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the 
going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, 
and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit  
we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern.
Other Required Reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• information in the Annual Report is:
− materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
− apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the 
Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
− otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility.
• the statement given by the directors on page 43, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a 
whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
members to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy is materially 
inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility.
• the section of the Annual Report on pages 30-32, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, 
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility.
Independent Auditors’ Report  
to the Members of ScS Group plc Continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
47 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Adequacy of information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance 
with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the Audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 43, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for 
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by 
our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and  
adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and 
• the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a 
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other Matter
We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of ScS Group plc for the year ended 25 July 2015 and on the 
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Jonathan Greenaway (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Newcastle upon Tyne
14 October 2015
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the ScS Group plc website is the responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters 
and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 48 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Notes
2015  
£’000
2014  
£’000
Gross sales
3
292,163 258,206
Revenue 3 276,734 244,133
Cost of sales (149,583) (131,131)
Gross profit 127,151 113,002
Distribution costs (14,041) (12,303)
Administrative expenses (110,343) (94,091)
Operating profit from continuing operations 4 2,767 6,608
Analysed as:
Operating profit before exceptional items 6,420 6,608
Exceptional items 6 (3,653) –
Profit after exceptional items 2,767 6,608
Finance costs 7 (4,515) (1,967)
Finance income 8 20 2,515
Net finance (costs)/income (4,495) 548
(Loss)/profit from continuing operations before taxation (1,728) 7,156
Taxation 9 (496) (1,243)
(Loss)/profit for the year from continuing operations (2,224) 5,913
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent
(Loss)/profit attributable and total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (2,224) 5,913
(Loss)/Earnings per share (expressed in pence per share):
Basic (loss)/earnings per share 10 (5.56)p 14.78p
There is no variance between the diluted and basic earnings per share.
There are no other sources of comprehensive (expense)/income.
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
for the year ended 25 July 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
49 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Share  
capital  
£’000
Share  
premium  
£’000
Capital  
redemption  
reserve  
£’000
Merger  
reserve  
£’000
Retained  
earnings  
£’000
Total  
equity  
£’000
At 28 July 2013 – – – – 4,839 4,839
Profit for the year – – – – 5,913 5,913
Share-based payments – – – – 56 56
Dividend paid – – – – (6,555) (6,555)
At 26 July 2014 – – – – 4,253 4,253
At 27 July 2014 – – – – 4,253 4,253
Loss for the year – – – – (2,224) (2,224)
Share-based payments – – – – 234 234
Proceeds from shares issued 50 70,000 – – – 70,050
Capital reduction – (70,000) – – – (70,000)
Share buyback (13) – 13 – – –
Group re-organisation – – – 25,511 – 25,511
Dividend paid – – – – (1,044) (1,044)
At 25 July 2015 37 – 13 25,511 1,219 26,780
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 50 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
as at 25 July 2015
Notes
2015  
£’000
2014  
£’000
Non-current assets 
Intangible assets 11 1,291 1,407
Property, plant and equipment 12 25,005 25,524
Total non-current assets 26,296 26,931
Current assets
Inventories 13 20,705 20,001
Trade and other receivables 14 8,887 8,316
Cash and cash equivalents 21,055 18,794
Total current assets 50,647 47,111
Total assets 76,943 74,042
Capital and reserves attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent
Share capital 18 37 –
Capital redemption reserve 13 –
Merger reserve 25,511 –
Retained earnings 1,219 4,253
Equity shareholder funds 26,780 4,253
Total equity 26,780 4,253
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 16 5,668 5,332
Deferred tax liability 17 530 1,569
Total non-current liabilities 6,198 6,901
Current liabilities
Current income tax liabilities 675 227
Trade and other payables 15 43,290 62,661
Total current liabilities 43,965 62,888
Total liabilities 50,163 69,789
Total equity and liabilities 76,943 74,042
The notes on pages 52 to 66 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
The financial statements on pages 48 to 66 were approved by the Board and authorised for issue on 14 October 2015 and signed  
on its behalf by:
David Knight
Chief Executive Officer
ScS Group plc: Registered number 03263435 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
51 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year ended 25 July 2015
Notes
2015  
£’000
2014  
£’000
Cash flows from operating activities
(Loss)/Profit before taxation (1,728) 7,156
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property plant and equipment 12 4,185 3,938
Amortisation of intangible assets 11 596 225
Share-based payments 20 234 56
Finance costs 7 4,515 1,967
Finance income 8 (20) (2,515)
7,782 10,827
Changes in working capital:
Increase in inventories 13 (704) (1,443)
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables 14 (571) 1,619
Increase in trade and other payables 3,492 4,267
Decrease in provisions – (260)
Cash generated from operations 9,999 15,010
Interest paid 7 (731) (189)
Income taxes paid (1,088) (1,000)
Net cash flow generated from operating activities 8,180 13,821
Cash flows used in investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 12 (3,666) (1,992)
Payments to acquire intangible assets 11 (480) (1,102)
Interest received 8 20 13
Net cash flow used in investing activities (4,126) (3,081)
Cash flows used in financing activities
Repayment of borrowings from related party (799) (6,583)
Dividends paid (1,044) (6,555)
Proceeds of share issue 50 –
Net cash flow used in financing activities (1,793) (13,138)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 2,261 (2,398)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 18,794 21,192
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 21,055 18,794 52 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
1. General information 
ScS Group plc (the ‘Company’) is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK (Company registration number 03263435). The 
address of the registered office is 45-49 Villiers Street, Sunderland, SR1 1HA. The Company and its subsidiaries’ (the ‘Group’) principal 
activity is the provision of upholstered furniture and flooring, trading under the name ScS. The shares in the Company were admitted  
to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange (LSE) on 28 January 2015.
2. Accounting policies 
Basis of preparation
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union (IFRS) as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 25 July 2015 and applied in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies using IFRS and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee 
(IFRS IC) and under the historic cost convention. The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the 
financial statements for the year ended 25 July 2015.
The Group’s deemed transition date to IFRS is 27 July 2013. The principles and requirements for first time adoption of IFRS are set out in 
IFRS 1. IFRS 1 allows certain exemptions in the application of particular standards to prior periods in order to assist companies with the 
transition process. The Group has not applied any of the optional exemptions under IFRS 1.
The Group financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds (£’000) except 
when otherwise indicated.
Group restructuring
In connection with the admission to the LSE, the Group undertook a reorganisation of its corporate structure which resulted in the 
Company becoming the ultimate holding company of the Group. Prior to the reorganisation the ultimate holding company was Parlour 
Product Topco Limited.
The transaction was accounted for as a capital reorganisation since it did not meet the definition of a business combination under IFRS 3. 
In a capital reorganisation, the consolidated financial statements of the Group reflect the predecessor carrying amounts of Parlour 
Product Topco Limited for the comparative information presented since no substantive economic changes have occurred and the 
creation of a merger reserve in equity.
Going concern 
The Group generates strong cash flows, reflecting the negative working capital requirements of the business model. In addition the 
Group has a committed £12 million revolving credit facility in place. The Group’s forecasts and projections show that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue to operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its condensed interim 
financial statements.
New standards, amendments and interpretations 
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective and adopted by the Group:
IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’ (effective from periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014). This standard builds on 
existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity should be included within the 
consolidated financial statements. The standard provides additional guidance to assist in determining control where this is difficult  
to assess. 
IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of interests in other entities’ (effective from periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014). This standard includes the 
disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and 
other off-balance sheet vehicles. 
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 (effective from periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014). These amendments provide 
additional transition relief to IFRSs 10, 11 and 12, limiting the requirement to provide adjusted comparative information to only the 
preceding comparative period. 
IAS 28 (revised 2011), ‘Investments in associates and joint ventures’ (effective from periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014).  
This standard includes the requirements for joint ventures, as well as associates, to be equity accounted following the issue of IFRS 11. 
IAS 32 (amendment), ‘Financial instruments – Presentation’ on asset and liability offsetting (effective from periods beginning on or  
after 1 January 2014). This amendment clarifies some of the requirements for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on the 
balance sheet.  Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
53 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
IAS 36 (amendment) ‘Impairment of assets’ (effective from periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014). These amendments  
address the disclosure of information about the recoverable amount of impaired assets if that amount is based on fair value less  
costs of disposal. 
IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’ (effective from periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014). This interpretation is on IAS 37, ‘Provisions, contingent 
liabilities and contingent assets’. IAS 37 sets out criteria for the recognition of a liability, one of which is the requirement for the entity to 
have a present obligation as a result of a past event (known as an obligating event). The interpretation clarifies that the obligating event 
that gives rise to a liability to pay a levy is the activity described in the relevant legislation that triggers the payment of the levy. 
Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the 
Group considered to be applicable to the Group are set out below. Management are still considering the potential impact of these 
standards on the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 
IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’, on ‘Classification and measurement’ (effective 1 January 2018). This is the first part of a new standard on 
classification and measurement of financial assets that will replace IAS 39. IFRS 9 has two measurement categories: amortised cost and 
fair value. All equity instruments are measured at fair value. A debt instrument is at amortised cost only if the entity is holding it to 
collect contractual cash flows and the cash flows represent principal and interest. Otherwise it is at fair value through profit or loss. 
Amortised cost accounting will also be applicable for most financial liabilities, with bifurcation of embedded derivatives. The main 
change is that in cases where the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of a fair value change due to an entity’s own 
credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income rather than the income statement, unless this creates an accounting mismatch. 
The Group is yet to assess the impact of IFRS 9 on its consolidated financial information. 
IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ (effective 1 January 2017) is a converged standard from the IASB and FASB on revenue 
recognition. The standard will improve the financial reporting of revenue and improve comparability of the top line in financial 
statements globally. The Group is yet to assess the impact of IFRS 15 on its consolidated financial information. 
Basis of consolidation 
The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of ScS Group PLC and the entities it controls (its subsidiaries) drawn 
up to within seven days of 31 July each year.
Subsidiaries 
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern  
the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights 
that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account. Control is generally accompanied by a shareholding of more than 
one-half of the voting rights. The financial information of subsidiaries is included in the consolidated financial information from the date 
that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation 
Intra-Group balances, and any gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in 
preparing the consolidated financial information. Gains arising from transactions with jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the 
extent of the Group’s interest in the entity. Losses are eliminated in the same way as gains, but only to the extent that there is no 
evidence of impairment. 
Segmental reporting
Segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting to the Board of Directors (see note 3 – ‘Segment information’).
Revenue
Revenue represents amounts invoiced for goods and services, net of discounts, charges associated with Interest free credit sales and 
value added tax, delivered to customers during the year. Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of 
the goods and warranty contracts have passed to the buyer and can be reliably measured. This is deemed to be when the goods and any 
associated warranty contracts have been delivered to the customer. Warranty services, once sold are subsequently provided by third parties.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets purchased separately are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic life.  
The useful economic lives used are as follows:
Computer software – 20% to 33% straight-line per annum.
The carrying value of intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying 
value may not be recoverable. 54 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
2. Accounting policies Continued
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historic purchase cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. 
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its 
intended use. Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, 
of the tangible fixed assets over their anticipated useful lives at the rates shown below:
Fixtures and fittings     10% to 20% straight-line per annum
Computer equipment     20% to 33% straight-line per annum
Short leasehold property improvements straight line per annum The shorter of the term of the lease or 4% straight-line per annum
Long leasehold property improvements line   Over term of lease – minimum 2% straight line
Freehold buildings      2% straight-line per annum
Freehold land      nil
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate 
the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and consist of finished goods held for resale. Where necessary 
provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and defective stocks. Cost comprises the purchase price of goods and other directly 
attributable costs incurred in bringing the product to its present location and condition. Net realisable value is the estimated selling 
price reduced by all costs of completion, marketing, selling and distribution.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business. If collection 
is expected in one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer), they are classified as current assets. If not, they 
are presented as non-current assets.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, 
less provision for impairment.
Trade payables
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from  
suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented as  
non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised 
cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement 
over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Pre-opening and launch costs
Pre-opening and launch costs are charged to the income statement in the year they are incurred.
Advertising expenditure
All routine and general advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising costs paid to media companies are recognised as a 
prepayment until the advertising is placed in the media and communicated to the public, at which point the expenditure is expensed  
to the income statement.
Supplier contributions
Contributions received from suppliers towards the cost of displaying and promoting their product are recognised as a reduction in the 
advertising and marketing costs to which they relate.
Supplier rebates
Rebates receivable from suppliers are based upon the volume of business with each supplier and are recognised in the income statement 
in cost of sales or credited to stock as appropriate on an earned basis, by reference to the supplier revenue.
Leases 
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives
The aggregate benefit of lease incentives is recognised as a reduction of rental expense. The benefit is allocated on a systematic basis 
over the period to the end of the lease. The balance is carried forward within accruals.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
55 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Lease premiums
Premiums paid on entering into a lease are classified as short leasehold property within property, plant and equipment and depreciated 
over the life of the lease.
Pension costs
Contributions to the defined contribution scheme are charged to the income statement in the year in which they become payable.  
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group in an independently administered fund.
Taxation
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax base  
of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, with the following exception:
• Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Director considers that it is more likely than not that there will be 
suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing 
differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All exchange differences are 
taken to the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Share-based payments
The Company operates an equity-settled, share-based payment plan for Directors of the trading subsidiary undertaking, A. Share & 
Sons Limited. The fair value of the Directors’ services received by the Group in exchange for the issue of shares in the Company is 
recognised as an expense in the financial statements of the subsidiary company to which services have been supplied. The total amount 
to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares issued, excluding the impact of any 
non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in 
assumptions about the number of shares that are expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the 
number of shares that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, 
with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that a transfer of economic 
benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates
The preparation of the financial statements under IFRS requires the Director to make estimates and assumptions that affect the  
reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Estimates and judgements are 
continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors including expectations of future events that are believed 
to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The Directors consider that the following 
estimates and judgements are likely to have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated historical 
financial information. 
Exceptional items 
The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement, those material items of income and expense which, 
because of the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders  
to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess 
better trends in financial performance.
Volume rebates and promotional support
The Group receives income from suppliers in two principal ways, being volume rebates and promotional support. Volume rebates  
are based on agreed rates based on the level of spend with suppliers in the year. Where these arrangements are not coterminous  
with the year end these are accrued based on management’s judgement as to whether the turnover targets will be achieved for the 
individual supplier. 
Promotional support is received on new display models placed into stores on an invoice by invoice basis based on pre-negotiated agreements.
Accounting for the Group restructuring on the IPO
As part of the preparation for the IPO a Group restructuring exercise was undertaken. This restructure was accounted for as a capital 
reorganisation. The accounting for this results in the creation of a merger reserve in the Consolidated statement of financial position. 
The comparatives shown are those prior to the restructuring of the previous consolidated parent Parlour Product Topco Limited. 56 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
3. Segment information
The Directors have determined the operating segments based on the operating reports reviewed by the senior management team (the 
Executive Directors and the other Directors of the trading subsidiary, A. Share & Sons Limited) that are used to assess both performance 
and strategic decisions. The Directors have identified that the senior management team are the chief operating decision makers in 
accordance with the requirements of IFRS 8 ‘Segmental reporting’.
The Directors consider the business to be one main type of business generating gross sales and revenue from the retail of upholstered 
furniture and flooring. All gross sales and revenue (loss)/profit before taxation, assets and liabilities are attributable to the principal 
activity of the Group and other related services. All gross sales and revenues are generated in the United Kingdom.
An analysis of gross sales is as follows:
Year  
ended  
25 July 2015  
£’000
Year  
ended  
26 July 2014  
£’000
Sale of goods 273,491 241,593
Associated sale of warranties 18,672 16,613
292,163 258,206
In the 2014 financial statements included in the prospectus and in accordance with guidance at the time, charges associated with 
interest-free credit were included in cost of sales. In line with current guidance, these charges are now deducted from gross sales in 
arriving at revenue. Charges for interest-free credit in 2015 and 2014 were £15,429k and £14,073k respectively. This change in 
presentation has no impact on reported profit in either year.
4. Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging:
Year  
ended  
25 July 2015  
£’000
Year  
ended  
26 July 2014  
£’000
Fees payable to the company auditors for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 59 4
Fees paid for other services: 
– audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 85 86
– tax compliance 13 18
– tax advisory – 13
– other non-audit services 960 –
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment – owned 4,185 3,938
Impairment of property, plant and equipment – owned – –
Amortisation of computer software 596 225
Operating lease rentals – plant and machinery 2,180 1,957
Operating lease rentals – land and buildings 23,262 22,221
Other non-audit services above principally relate to the Group’s initial public offering.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
57 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
5. Employees and Directors
5.1 Staff costs
Year  
ended  
25 July 2015  
£’000
Year  
ended  
26 July 2014  
£’000
Wages and salaries 43,901 38,469
Social security costs 4,077 3,547
Other pension costs (note 22) 929 798
Share-based payments (note 20) 234 56
49,141 42,870
The average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors) during the year was as follows:
Year  
ended  
25 July 2015 
Number
Year  
ended  
26 July 2014 
Number
Sales 704 648
Office and managerial 682 585
Services and warehousing 352 303
Cleaning 27 25
1,765 1,561
5.2 Directors’ emoluments
Year  
ended  
25 July 2015  
£’000
Year  
ended  
26 July 2014  
£’000
Aggregate emoluments 682 763
Other pension costs (note 22) 100 95
Highest paid Director
Year  
ended  
25 July 2015 
£’000
Year  
ended  
26 July 2014  
£’000
Aggregate emoluments 320 498
Other pension costs (note 22) 60 60
5.3 Key management compensation
Key management comprises the Directors of the trading subsidiary, A. Share & Sons Limited, and excludes the Group Directors and 
Non-Executive Directors disclosed in 5.2 above.
The key management compensation is as follows:
Year  
ended  
25 July 2015  
£’000
Year  
ended  
26 July 2014  
£’000
Aggregate emoluments 636 827
Deferred contribution pension cost 112 105
Share based payments 86 56 58 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
6. Exceptional items
Items that are material either because of their size and nature, or that are non-recurring, are considered as exceptional items and are 
presented within the line items in the income statement to which they best relate.
Exceptional costs comprise:
Notes 
Year  
ended  
25 July 2015 
Administrative 
expenses  
£’000
Year  
ended  
25 July 2015 
Finance  
costs  
£’000
Year  
ended  
26 July 2014  
£’000
Management fees 6(a) 1,100 – –
IPO deal fees 6(b) 2,553 – –
Bank facility fees 6(c) – 555 –
3,653 555 –
6 (a)  Management fees payable to an affiliate of the parent undertaking, Sun Capital Partners, Inc. in relation to the termination of a management service agreement  
due to the IPO.
6 (b) Legal and professional fees related to the IPO.
6 (c) Banking and legal fees related to the committed £12.0 million revolving credit facility. 
7. Finance costs
Notes
Year 
ended  
25 July 2015  
£’000
Year 
ended  
26 July 2014  
£’000
Foreign exchange losses on amounts owed to related parties 2,829 –
Interest payable on amounts owed to related parties 955 1,778
Bank facility fees 6(c) 555 –
Other finance costs 176 189
4,515 1,967
8. Finance income
Year  
ended  
25 July 2015  
£’000
Year  
ended  
26 July 2014  
£’000
Foreign exchange gains on amounts owed to related parties – 2,502
Bank interest received 20 13
20 2,515
9. Taxation
(a) Analysis of tax charge in the year
Year  
ended  
25 July 2015  
£’000
Year  
ended  
26 July 2014  
£’000
Current tax:
UK corporation tax on (loss)/profits for the year 1,492 1,387
Adjustments in respect of prior years 43 (283)
Total current tax 1,535 1,104
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (489) (362)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (550) 501
Total deferred tax (note 17) (1,039) 139
Income tax charge in the statement of comprehensive income 496 1,243
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
59 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
(b) Factors affecting tax expense for the year
The tax charge assessed on the profit for the year is higher (2014: higher) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.67% 
(2014: 22.33%). The differences are explained below:
Year  
ended  
25 July 2015  
£’000
Year  
ended  
26 July 2014  
£’000
(Loss)/Profit before taxation (1,728) 7,156
(Loss)/Profit before tax at 20.67% (2014: 22.33%) (357) 1,598
Effects of:
Other expenses not deductible 796 43
Depreciation not eligible for tax purposes 82 108
Foreign exchange loss/(gain) not deductible/(taxable) 585 (558)
Adjustment in respect of prior years (507) 218
Impact of changes in tax rates (103) (166)
Total taxation charge in the statement of comprehensive income 496 1,243
(c) Factors that may affect future tax charges
The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 21% to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. Further reductions in the 
corporation tax rate from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017, then 18% from 1 April 2020 were announced in the Summer Budget 2015 but 
have not yet been substantively enacted. Accordingly, the profits for this period are taxed at an effective rate of 20.67% and deferred 
taxation has been calculated based on a rate of 20%.
10. Earnings per share
Year  
ended  
25 July 2015  
£’000
Year  
ended  
26 July 2014  
£’000
(Loss)/profit attributable to owners of the Company (2,224) 5,913
Basic number of shares in issue 40,000,000 40,000,000
Basic earnings per share (in pence per share) (5.56) 14.78
The basic number of shares in issue is as at IPO as this reflects the underlying number of shares. The 2014 comparatives have been 
adjusted retrospectively to allow for comparability. 
There is no variance between the diluted and basic earnings per share.
11. Intangible assets
25 July 2015  
£’000
 
Computer  
software
Cost 
At 27 July 2014 3,713
Additions 480
At 25 July 2015 4,193
Accumulated amortisation
At 27 July 2014 2,306
Charge for the year 596
At 25 July 2015 2,902
Net book amount
At 25 July 2015 1,291
At 26 July 2014 1,407 60 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
11. Intangible assets Continued
26 July 2014  
£’000
 
Computer  
software
Cost 
At 28 July 2013 2,611
Additions 1,102
At 26 July 2014 3,713
Accumulated amortisation 
At 28 July 2013 2,081
Charge for the year 225
At 26 July 2014 2,306
Net book amount 
At 26 July 2014 1,407
At 27 July 2013 530
12. Property, plant & equipment
Freehold  
land and  
buildings  
£’000
Leasehold  
property  
£’000
Computer 
equipment  
£’000
Fixtures and  
fittings  
£’000
Total  
£’000
Cost 
At 27 July 2014 159 44,429 11,556 25,212 81,356
Additions – 2,009 385 1,272 3,666
At 25 July 2015 159 46,438 11,941 26,484 85,022
Accumulated depreciation
At 27 July 2014 79 23,612 11,028 21,113 55,832
Charge for the year 3 2,720 259 1,203 4,185
At 25 July 2015 82 26,332 11,287 22,316 60,017
Net book amount
At 25 July 2015 77 20,106 654 4,168 25,005
At 26 July 2014 80 20,817 528 4,099 25,524
Cost   
At 28 July 2013 159 43,611 11,258 24,336 79,364
Additions at cost – 818 298 876 1,992
At 26 July 2014 159 44,429 11,556 25,212 81,356
Accumulated depreciation
At 28 July 2013 76 20,932 10,620 20,266 51,894
Charge for the year 3 2,680 408 847 3,938
At 26 July 2014 79 23,612 11,028 21,113 55,832
Net book amount
At 26 July 2014 80 20,817 528 4,099 25,524
At 27 July 2013 83 22,679 638 4,070 27,470
The net book value of leasehold properties is as follows:
25 July 2015  
£’000
26 July 2014  
£’000
Short leaseholds 20,029 20,737
Long leaseholds 77 80
20,106 20,817
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
61 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
13. Inventories
25 July 2015  
£’000
26 July 2014  
£’000
Finished goods 20,705 20,001
The cost of inventories as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to £156,194,000 (2014: £136,064,000).
The charge for the year relating to inventories written off amounted to £353,000 (2014: £265,000).
14. Trade and other receivables
25 July 2015  
£’000
26 July 2014  
£’000
Trade receivables 3,376 3,266
Other receivables 2,180 1,672
Prepayment 3,331 3,378
8,887 8,316
The fair value of trade and other receivables is approximate to their carrying value. Trade and other receivables are considered due once 
they have passed the contracted due date. 
The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are all denominated in Pounds Sterling.
The majority of the trade receivables are due from finance houses with which there are existing relationships and no history of default. 
The bad debt provision is not considered material for disclosure.
15. Trade and other payables – current
25 July 2015  
£’000
26 July 2014  
£’000
Trade payables 24,356 21,349
Borrowing from related party – 22,526
Payments received on account 7,247 7,159
Other taxation and social security payable 3,449 3,129
Accruals 8,238 8,498
43,290 62,661
The fair value of financial liabilities approximates their carrying value due to short maturities. Financial liabilities are denominated in 
Pounds Sterling.
Borrowings from related parties, which include interest capitalised and are repayable upon demand, are analysed as follows:
25 July 2015  
£’000
26 July 2014  
£’000
23,987,885 Series 1 – 8% Unsecured payment in kind notes of US$1.00 each – 13,987
9,233,000 Series 2 – 8% Unsecured payment in kind notes of US$1.00 each – 8,539
– 22,526
As part of the Group reorganisation in the period, the borrowings from related parties were capitalised or repaid.
16. Trade and other payables – non-current
25 July 2015  
£’000
26 July 2014  
£’000
Lease incentives 5,668 5,332 62 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
17. Deferred tax
Deferred tax liability
The Group’s movements in deferred taxation during the current financial year and previous year are as follows:
25 July 2015  
£’000
26 July 2014  
£’000
Opening deferred tax liability 1,569 1,430
Charged/(credited) to profit and loss account arising from the origination and reversal of temporary differences (note 9) (1,039) 139
Closing deferred tax liability 530 1,569
Deferred taxation has been fully provided for in respect of:
Accelerated capital allowances 1,609 2,176
Losses (119) –
Other timing differences (1,079) (1,151)
Capital gains held over 119 544
Closing deferred tax liability 530 1,569
The Group also has a balance of £nil (2014: £527,000) in relation to losses in respect of which no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
18. Called-up share capital
Notes
Number of  
shares  
Number
Ordinary  
shares  
£’000
Share  
premium  
£’000
Total  
£’000
At 28 July 2014 1 – – –
Share sub-division 18(a) 99,999 – – –
Shares issued/proceeds 18(a) 5,000,000,000 50 70,000 70,050
Capital reduction 18(a) – – (70,000) (70,000)
Consolidation of shares 18(b) (4,963,079,840) – – –
Share sub-division 18(b) 37,020,160 – – –
Share re-designation and buyback 18(b) (37,020,160) (13) – (13)
Shares issued/proceeds 18(c) 257,277 – – –
Shares issued/proceeds 18(d) 2,722,563 – – –
At 25 July 2015 40,000,000 37 – 37
Authorised, allotted and fully paid share capital is 40,000,000 of £0.0001p each (2014: one ordinary share of £1 each).
18(a)  As part of the Group reorganisation on 21 January 2015 the existing £1 share capital which consisted of one ordinary share was 
subdivided into 100,000 (£0.00001) ordinary shares. A further 4,999,900,000 (£0.00001) ordinary shares were issued to the 
principal shareholder for cash. 
 
A further 100,000 (£0.00001) ordinary shares were issued to the principal shareholder as consideration for the acquisition of the 
entire ‘A’ ordinary shares in issue in Parlour Product Topco Limited. The value attributable to the acquisition was £70,000,000 
thereby creating a share premium of £69,999,999. This was subsequently reduced through a capital reduction.
18(b)  The shares in issue were consolidated down to 37,020,160 ordinary shares of £0.001351 per share and subdivided into 37,020,160 
ordinary shares of £0.001 per share and 37,020,160 ordinary shares of £0.000351 per share. 
 
The ordinary £0.000351 shares were redesignated as deferred shares and bought back out of distributable reserves for total 
consideration of £0.01 and held as Treasury shares. 
18(c)  On 22 January 2015 the Company issued 257,277 ordinary (£0.001) shares in exchange for the 750 ‘C’ ordinary shares held by  
a senior manager in Parlour Product Topco Limited.
18(d)  On 28 January 2015 the Company issued a further 2,722,563 ordinary shares of £0.001 each to the ScS Group plc Employee 
Benefit Trust (refer to Directors’ Report).
19. Dividends
An interim dividend of 2.8p per ordinary share was declared by the Board of directors on 22 March 2015 and paid on 22 May 2015.  
It has been recognised in shareholders’ equity in the year to 25 July 2015. 
A final dividend of 11.2p per ordinary share was proposed by the Board of Directors.
At 25 July 2015 the retained earnings of the parent company amounted to £67.2 million.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
63 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
20. Share-based payments
The Group operates equity-settled share schemes for certain employees that are intended to act as a long-term incentive to help retain 
key employees and Directors who are considered important to the success of the business.
Pre-admission management incentive arrangements
The management equity plan (MEP) was introduced in November 2009. On 27 November 2009, five Directors subscribed for B ordinary 
shares in Parlour Product Topco Limited for a price equal to the nominal value of £0.00001 per share. On 7 February 2013 a further Director 
subscribed for C ordinary shares in Parlour Product Topco Limited for a price of £462. On an exit (sale, listing, liquidation) of Parlour Product 
Topco Limited the holders of the B and C ordinary shares will share in the exit proceeds above a ‘hurdle value’ and this is effectively deemed to 
be the exercise price. Further shares (D ordinary shares in Parlour Product Topco Limited) were issued to five Directors on 11 June 2014. Each 
Director subscribed for 6,667 D ordinary shares. The D ordinary shares carry voting rights but have limited economic rights and are 
considered to have minimal value. For this reason, there is no share-based payment charge relating to the D ordinary shares.
On the Group restructure, one Director exchanged his shares in Parlour Product Topco Limited for shares in ScS Group plc pursuant  
to the reorganisation. The remaining Directors retained their shares in Parlour Product Topco Limited and entered into an option agreement 
to acquire ordinary shares in ScS Group plc in exchange for their shares in Parlour Product Topco Limited, exercisable between six and 12 
months from the date of admission. The number of ordinary shares in ScS Group plc that each Director can acquire on exercise of this option 
is the number which, at the Offer Price of £1.75, reflects the value of their shares in Parlour Product Topco Limited at admission. 
Post-admission incentive arrangements
The ScS Group plc Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) was adopted on 21 January 2015 conditional upon admission. The LTIP allows  
for various types of awards and the following grants over shares in ScS Group plc were made during the year:
(i) £nil cost options conditional on the IPO taking place (approved on 21 January 2015).
(ii) Market value options under a HMRC approved Company Share Option Plan conditional on the IPO taking place (approved on  
21 January 2015).
(iii) Unapproved market value options conditional on the IPO taking place (approved on 21 January 2015).
(iv) Performance based £nil cost options granted on 30 March 2015 (the performance condition is based on EPS as set out in the 
consolidated audited financial statements of the Group for the FY2017).
Fair value of awards
The awards granted have been valued by an independent third party using the Black-Scholes model. No performance conditions were 
included in the fair value calculations.
The expected life is the estimated time period to exercise. The expected volatility is calculated by reference to the historic volatility  
of the Company from the period between admission and the date of grant and historic volatilities of comparator companies measured over a 
period commensurate with the expected life. The dividend yield is based on the target dividend yield set at IPO (with the exception of awards 
that give an entitlement to receive dividend equivalents). The risk-free interest rate is the yield on UK government bonds of a term consistent 
with the expected life. The level of vesting is estimated at the balance sheet date and will be trued up until the vesting date. 
LTIP (pre IPO nil cost options) LTIP (CSOP market value options) LTIP (Directors’ awards) LTIP (all awards)
Share awards
Average 
exercise price Share awards
Average 
exercise price Share awards 
Average 
exercise price Share awards 
Average 
exercise price
Outstanding as at 28 July 2013 – – – – – – – –
Granted – – – – – – – –
Forfeited – – – – – – – –
Exercised – – – – – – – –
Expired – – – – – – – –
Outstanding as at 27 July 2014 – – – – – – – –
Granted 571,421  £0.000001  68,659  £1.75  445,711  £0.000001  1,085,791  £0.11 
Forfeited – – – – – – – –
Exercised – – – – – – – –
Expired – – – – – – – –
Outstanding as at 25 July 2015 571,421  £0.000001  68,659  £1.75  445,711  £0.000001  1,085,791  £0.11 
Exercisable at 25 July 2015 –  £0.000001  68,659  £1.75  –  £0.000001  68,659  £1.75 
Exercisable at 27 July 2014 – – – – – – – –
Note: Weighted average share price for all LTIP awards during the year. 64 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
20. Share-based payments Continued
Fair value of awards Continued
The fair value per share issued and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
2015 2015 2015
Grant date 21 January 2015 21 January 2015 30 March 2015
Share price at grant date £1.75 £1.75 £2.05
Exercise price £nil £1.75 £nil
Number of employees 25 6 6
Shares issued 571,421 68,659 445,711
Expected volatility 33.7% 36.2% 33.7%
Expected life (years) 3 5 3
Risk-free interest rate 0.70% 1.06% 0.69%
Expected dividend yield 8% 8% 0%
Fair value per share £1.38 £0.24 £2.05
Estimated vesting 100% 100% 0%
The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans was £234,000 (2014: £56,000) which is in relation to 
equity-settled share-based payment transactions. There are no liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions.
21. Capital commitments
Capital commitments contracted for but not provided amounted to £nil (2014: £1,538,000).
22. Pension commitments
The Group operates several defined contribution pension schemes for the benefit of its staff. The assets of the schemes are held 
separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds. The pension charges represent contributions payable by  
the Group to these funds and are shown in note 3. Amounts outstanding at the year end were £114,000 (2014: £106,000) and are held  
in accruals.
23. Financial commitments
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as set out below:
Land and buildings Plant and machinery
2015  
£’000
2014  
£’000
2015  
£’000
2014  
£’000
Operating leases which expire:
Within one year – 120 312 308
Within two to five years 13,641 6,683 3,930 3,756
After five years 184,665 205,997 – –
198,306 212,800 4,242 4,064
24. Financial instruments – risk management
Financial risk management policy
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise cash and cash equivalents. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to 
provide funds for the Group’s operations. The Group has other financial instruments being trade receivables and trade payables that 
arise directly from its operations.
It is, and has been under review throughout the year, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.  
The Group has not entered into derivative transactions during the years under review. The Group does not undertake any speculative 
transactions and continues to pursue prudent treasury policies by investing surplus funds only with reputable UK financial institutions. 
Credit risk
The finance for all Group’s credit sales is provided from external financing companies who bear the whole risk of customer defaults on 
repayment. The Group’s financial assets which are past due and not impaired are deemed not material for disclosure. The remaining 
balance is deemed fully recoverable due to the use of finance houses to mitigate the risk of recoverability. There have been no gains/
losses on financial liabilities. 
Cash and deposits are invested with Lloyds plc. 
Liquidity risk
The Group’s exposure to liquidity risk is low, as historically working capital requirements have been funded entirely by inter-Company 
debt and self-generated cash flow. The Group now has a £12 million committed revolving credit facility as of the time of the IPO. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
65 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Financial instruments by category
Financial assets and liabilities are classified in accordance with IAS 39. No financial instruments have been reclassified or derecognised 
in the year. There are no financial assets which are pledged or held as collateral. The Group does not hold any financial assets or liabilities 
held as fair value through the income statement, defined as being in a hedging relationship or any available for sale financial assets. 
All financial assets are deemed to be loans and receivables at amortised cost and their carrying value equal to their fair value. 
All financial liabilities are held at amortised cost and their carrying value equal to their fair value and there is no variance between this at 
initial recognition and the transaction price. 
All financial assets and liabilities are based on readily observable prices and market data (level 1).
Capital management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and retain financial flexibility 
to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders. The Group considers capital to be equity and cash. 
The Group manages its capital through continued focus on free cash flow generation and setting the level of capital expenditure and 
dividend in the context of the current period and forecast free cash flow. 
25. Related parties
Loans from related parties
The Group received the following loans from Parlour Product Holding (Lux) Sarl, the principal shareholder:
• Unsecured interest free loan of US$6,125,000 payable on maturity at 12 August 2068;
• 23,987,885 Series 1 – 8% unsecured payment in kind notes of US$1.00 payable on demand; 
• 9,233,000 Series 2 – 8% unsecured payment in kind notes of US$1.00 payable on demand; and
• 18,076,284 unsecured payment in kind notes of US$1.00 payable on demand in recognition of interest accrued and capitalised  
at each balance sheet date.
The movement on the amounts outstanding are as follows:
25 July 2015  
£’000
26 July 2014  
£’000
Unsecured interest free loan
Opening balance – 3,708
Foreign exchange loss/(gain) – (150)
Repaid – (3,558)
Closing balance – –
Series 1 payment in kind notes
Opening balance 13,987 17,405
Issued 593 1,117
Repaid (748) (3,025)
Foreign exchange loss/(gain) 1,756 (1,510)
Capitalised in period (15,588) –
Closing balance – 13,987
Series 2 payment in kind notes
Opening balance 8,539 8,720
Issued 362 661
Foreign exchange loss/(gain) 1,073 (842)
Capitalised in period (9,974) –
Closing balance – 8,539
The amounts capitalised in the period were part of the Group reorganisation. 66 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
25. Related parties Continued
Purchases of goods and services
Management fees and expenses have been paid to an affiliate of the principal shareholder under the terms of a Management Services 
Agreement as follows:
Year ended  
25 July 2015  
£’000
Year ended  
26 July 2014  
£’000
Management fees and expenses 152 981
Termination fee (note 6 (a)) 1,100 –
1,252 981
Holdings in subsidiaries are disclosed in the parent company accounts in note 2. Only ScS Furnishings Limited is not included in the 
consolidation on the grounds of materiality.
Letter of credit
At 26 July 2014 the Bank of Montreal had provided Barclays Bank plc, the Group’s bankers at that date, with an irrevocable standby letter 
of credit for £6.0 million to underwrite merchant services transactions in A Share & Sons Limited, the Group’s trading subsidiary. Sun 
Capital Partners Inc., the ultimate owner of the principal shareholder, had provided a guarantee in favour of the Bank of Montreal  
for any losses suffered in connection with such irrevocable standby letter of credit. This standby letter of credit was cancelled as part  
of the Group reorganisation.
26. Contingent liabilities
The subsidiary undertakings of the Group are party to a debenture with Lloyds Bank plc which grants fixed and floating charges over the 
assets of each subsidiary undertaking.
27. Post-balance sheet events
Pursuant to management’s share option agreement on 5 October 2015 management exercised their right to exchange their combined 
stake of 7.4% in Parlour Product Topco Limited for an aggregated 6.8% stake in ScS Group plc. As at the date of signing this report all 
subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned directly or indirectly by ScS Group plc. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
67 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the Members of ScS Group plc
Report on the Company Financial Statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, ScS Group plc’s Company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’):
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 25 July 2015;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited
The financial statements comprise:
• the Company Balance Sheet as at 25 July 2015; and
• the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Other Required Reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
• the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.  68 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the Audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 43, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs  
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for 
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by 
our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, 
whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and 
• the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a 
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Financial Statements (the “Annual Report”) 
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other Matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of ScS Group plc for the year ended 25 July 2015.
Jonathan Greenaway (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Newcastle upon Tyne
14 October 2015
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the ScS Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters 
and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Independent Auditors’ Report  
to the Members of ScS Group plc Continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
69 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Company Balance Sheet
Notes
25 July 2015  
£’000
26 July 2014  
£’000
Investments 3 70,000 –
Current assets
Debtors 4 17 –
Cash at bank and in hand – –
17 –
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (2,779) –
Net current liabilities (2,762) –
Net assets 67,238 –
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 6 37 –
Capital redemption reserve 7 13 –
Profit and loss account 7 67,188 –
Total shareholders’ funds 67,238 –
The notes on pages 70 to 72 form an integral part of these financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 69 to 72 were approved by the Board and authorised for issue on 14 October 2015 and signed  
on its behalf by:
David Knight
Chief Executive Officer 
Parent Company Information 70 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
1. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
These financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis, under the historical cost convention, and in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom. The principal accounting policies, which have been 
applied consistently throughout the year, are set out below.
No profit and loss is presented by the Company as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 and the Company has taken the 
exemptions under FRS1 to not present a cash flow statement.
Fixed asset investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiary undertakings are recorded at cost plus incidental expenses less any provision for impairment.
Taxation
The tax charge for the financial period is based on the profit for the financial period.
2. Directors emoluments
No Executive Directors received any remuneration for their services to the company (2014: nil). All Executive Directors remuneration was 
borne by another group company, A Share and Sons Limited. These costs have been consolidated into the groups financial statements 
and are disclosed along with the Non-Executive Directors fees, within the Remuneration report on pages 33-41.
3. Investments
Subsidiary 
undertaking  
£’000
Cost and net book value
At 27 July 2014 –
Additions 70,000
At 25 July 2015 70,000
The subsidiaries, which were owned and incorporated in the United Kingdom at the beginning of the financial year were are as follows:
Name Principal activity Class of shares held % of Holdings
Parlour Product Topco Limited Holding company Ordinary 92.4%
Held by subsidiary undertakings
Parlour Product Holding Limited Holding company Ordinary 100%
A. Share & Sons LImited Specialist retailer of upholstered furniture Ordinary 100%
ScS Furnishings Limited Dormant Company Ordinary 100%
The Group reorganisation in January 2015 (see Strategic Report) resulted in ScS Group plc becoming the ultimate parent undertaking 
prior to the IPO on 28 January 2015.
All Shares carry equal voting rights and are deemed to be controlled by ScS Group plc.
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
Parlour Product Topco is only 92.4% owned by the Group as the remainder is owned by the senior management of the Group. 
Pursuant to management’s share option agreement on 5 October 2015 management exercised their right to exchange their combined 
stake of 7.4% in Parlour Product Topco Limited for an aggregated 6.8% stake in ScS Group plc. As at the date of signing this report all 
subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned directly or indirectly by ScS Group plc. 
ScS Furnishings Limited is exempt from audit as it is dormant. It’s aggregate amount of capital and reserves is £1.
Parent Company Information Continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
71 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
4. Debtors
2015  
£’000
2014  
£’000
Prepayments and accrued income 17 –
5. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2015  
£’000
2014  
£’000
Amounts owed to group undertakings 2,661 –
Accruals and deferred income 118 –
2,779 –
Amounts owed to group undertakings are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.
6. Called-up share capital
Notes
Number  
of shares  
Number
Ordinary  
shares  
£’000
Share  
premium  
£’000
Total  
£’000
At 28 July 2014 1 – – –
Share sub-division 6(a) 99,999 – – –
Shares issued/proceeds 6(a) 5,000,000,000 50 70,000 70,050
Capital reduction 6(a) – – (70,000) (70,000)
Consolidation of shares 6(b) (4,963,079,840) – – –
Share sub-division 6(b) 37,020,160 – – –
Share re-designation and buyback 6(b) (37,020,160) (13) – (13)
Shares issued/proceeds 6(c) 257,277 – – –
Shares issued/proceeds 6(d) 2,722,563 – – –
At 25 July 2015 40,000,000 37 – 37
Authorised, allotted and fully paid share capital is 40,000,000 of £0.0001p each (2014: one ordinary share of £1 each).
6(a)  As part of the Group reorganisation on 21 January 2015 the existing £1 share capital which consisted of one ordinary share was 
subdivided into 100,000 (£0.00001) ordinary shares. A further 4,999,900,000 (£0.00001) ordinary shares were issued to the 
principal shareholder for cash. 
 
A further 100,000 (£0.00001) ordinary shares were issued to the principal shareholder as consideration for the acquisition of the 
entire ‘A’ ordinary shares in issue in Parlour Product Topco Limited. The value attributable to the acquisition was £70,000,000 
thereby creating a share premium of £69,999,999. This was subsequently reduced through a capital reduction.
6(b)  The shares in issue were consolidated down to 37,020,160 ordinary shares of £0.001351 per share and subdivided into 37,020,160 
ordinary shares of £0.001 per share and 37,020,160 ordinary shares of £0.000351 per share. 
 
The ordinary £0.000351 shares were redesignated as deferred shares and bought back out of distributable reserves for total 
consideration of £0.01 and held as treasury shares. 
6(c)  On 22 January 2015 the Company issued 257,277 ordinary (£0.001) shares in exchange for the 750 ‘C’ ordinary shares held by  
a senior manager in Parlour Product Topco Limited.
6(d)  On 28 January 2015 the Company issued a further 2,722,563 ordinary shares of £0.001 each to the ScS Group plc Employee  
Benefit Trust. 72 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
7. Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds and movement on reserves
Share  
premium  
account  
£’000
Capital  
redemption 
reserve  
£’000
Called-up  
share  
capital  
£’000
Profit  
and loss  
account  
£’000
Total  
2015  
£’000
Total  
2014  
£’000
At 27 July 2014 – – – – – –
Group reorganisation 70,000 13 37 – 70,050 –
Capital reduction (70,000) – – 70,000 – –
Dividend paid – – – (1,044) (1,044) –
Loss for the financial year – – – (1,768) (1,768) –
At 25 July 2015 – 13 37 67,188 67,238 –
8. Dividends
An interim dividend of 2.8p per ordinary share was declared by the Board of Directors on 22 March 2015 and paid on 22 May 2015.  
It has been recognised in shareholders’ equity in the year to 25 July 2015. 
A final dividend of 11.2p per ordinary share was proposed by the Board of Directors.
Parent Company Information Continued Company Information
Registered Office
ScS Group plc
45-49 Villiers Street
Sunderland
SR1 1HA
Tyne & Wear
Tel: 0191 514 6000
www.scsplc.co.uk
Company Number
Registered in Enlgand: 03263435
Listing
Ordinary Shares of ScS Group plc are  
listed with a premium listing on the  
London Stock Exchange.
Share Registrar
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
Tel: 0871 384 2030
www.equinity.com
Auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
5th & 6th Floor
Central Square South
Orchard Street
Newcastle Upon Tyne
NE1 3AZ
Tel: 0191 232 8493
www.pwc.co.uk
Brokers
Investec Bank Plc
2 Gresnom Street
London
EC2V 7QP
Tel: 020 7597 4000
www.investec.co.uk
Principal Bankers
Lloyds Banking Group PLC
Financial PR
Buchanan
107 Cheapside
London
EC2V 6DN
Tel: 020 7466 5000
scs@buchanan.uk.com ScS Group plc
45-49 Villiers Street
Sunderland
SR1 1HA
Tyne and Wear
Tel. 0191 514 6000
www.scs.co.uk
Sofa Carpet Specialist  ScS Group plc  Annual Report 2015
