 Sepura plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Sepura is a global leader in the design, 
development and supply of digital 
radio solutions, complementary 
accessories, support tools and devices. Applications
Productivity Applications
Image Messaging
Message
Query
Command & Control
SICS-NET Dispatch
SICS-NET Visualise
SICS-DTT
Resource Management
Locate-Server
Locate
Radio Manager 2
STProtect
Radio Applications
Short Data Applications
Virtual Console
WAP
Stop & Search
Network Management
Network Management System
Security
CDT
CMC
SKMS
Terminals
Hand-Portable Radios
STP8X Series
STP9000 Series
SRH Series
Mobile Radios
SRG3900
HBC
HBC2
Covert Radios
SRC3300
Fleet Management
Radio Manager 2
Modem
SRB
Accessories
STP Accessories
SRH3900 Accessories
STP8X Accessories
SRG Accessories
Systems
Radio Access
Solo
FR400
Network Core
eXtras FTS100
eXtras FTG64 Gateways
Central Recorder
Security Management
Command & Control
SICS-NET Dispatch
SICS-NET Visualise
SICS-DTT
Network Management
Network Management System
The Complete Critical 
Communications Solution
Our Products
TETRA (TErrestrial Trunked RAdio)
TErrestrial Trunked RAdio (TETRA) is an open digital 
trunked mobile radio standard developed to meet  
the most demanding needs of Professional Mobile 
Radio (PMR) user organisations including:
• Public Safety 
• Transportation 
• Utilities 
• Government 
• Military 
• PAMR 
• Commercial & Industry 
• Oil & Gas
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Applications
Productivity Applications
Image Messaging
Message
Query
Dispatch
Emergency 112
Resource Management
Locate-Server
Locate
STProtect
Applications
Dispatch
SICS eXpress
Terminals
Hand-portable Radios
SBP8000 Series
SCP8000 Series
SEP8000 Series
Mobile Radios
SBM8000
SCM8000
SEM8000
Accessories
Portable Accessories
Mobile Accessories
Repeater Accessories
Systems
Controller
Tier III Controller
Repeaters
SBR8000
SCR8000
SER8000
DMR (Digital Mobile Radio)
Digital Mobile Radio (DMR) is an 
open digital standard that defines 
a direct digital replacement for 
analogue PMR. Designed for users 
who do not require the full range of 
public safety functionality of TETRA, 
DMR serves the widest range of 
users from trunked mission-critical 
applications through to single 
buildings.
Multi-Platform market 
leader in 
over 30 
countries resellers worldwide
 >100
>400
staff in 20 countries
speaking 
15 
different 
languages
 >1,300,000
radios deployed
products operational  
in over 100 countries
Strategic Report
Our Products IFC
Operations 01
Chairman’s Statement 02
Highlights 03
Chief Executive’s Statement 04
Teltronic Acquisition 05
Sepura at a Glance 06
Marketplace 08
Creating Value 10
Key Performance Indicators 12
Risk Management 14
Our Achievements During the Year 16
Operational Review 18
Financial Review 22
Corporate Social Responsibility  26
Governance 
Corporate Governance Report 29
– Our Board and Senior Management 30
Report of the Audit Committee 35
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
– Annual Statement 38
– Remuneration Policy Report 39
– Annual Report on Remuneration 44
Directors’ Report 50
Group Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report to  
the Members of Sepura Plc 55
Consolidated Income Statement 61
Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income 62
Consolidated Statement  
of Changes in Equity 62
Consolidated Balance Sheet 63
Consolidated Statement  
of Cash Flows 64
Notes to the Group  
Financial Statements 65 
Company Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report to  
the Members of Sepura plc 96
Company Balance Sheet 98
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements 99
Shareholder Information 108
Contact Details and Advisers 109
Financial Calendar 2015/16 110
Strategic Report
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 01 Facilitating the Analogue 
to Digital Migration
I am pleased to report 
another year of record 
revenues and a 20% 
increase in adjusted 
operating profit to €15.0 
million, despite significant 
foreign exchange 
headwinds. 
Chairman’s Statement
Revenues
+12%
Record revenues of €131.2 million  
(2014: €116.6 million)
Addressable market
$3.3b
Addressable market increased from  
$2.5 billion to $3.3 billion 
At the same time we have continued to invest 
in expanding our addressable market, both 
organically and through acquisition, to ensure 
that we are positioned to benefit from the 
accelerating analogue to digital migration within 
the Professional Mobile Radio (“PMR”) market.
This acceleration reflects both government 
mandated migration to digital technologies, 
driven by a need for interoperability and 
increased spectrum efficiency, together 
with commercial users’ need for operational 
efficiencies that cannot be realised from 
obsolete analogue networks. We have 
responded to these trends by broadening 
our product portfolio and expanding our 
geographical reach, thereby significantly 
increasing our addressable market.  
Sepura now offers more solutions for a wider 
range of PMR users, as demonstrated by 
the increasing contribution from our recent 
investments in DMR and software applications.
Dr. John 
Hughes CBE 
Hon DSc
Chairman
The acquisition of T eltronic represents a material 
step in the transformation of Sepura into a 
geographically and technologically diverse 
critical communications solution supplier; it 
builds further on our successful earlier entry into 
the infrastructure market through the acquisition 
of 3T in FY13. T eltronic will enable us to accelerate 
the delivery of our strategic goals by providing 
additional scale, improved revenue visibility 
and increased exposure to commercial PMR 
users. The acquisition strengthens the Group’ s 
position in a range of markets, with T eltronic’ s 
customer base primarily in Latin America and 
North America. Combining T eltronic, the leading 
TETRA infrastructure supplier in North America, 
with Sepura, the market-leading TETRA terminals 
supplier, creates a compelling solution in the 
world’ s largest PMR market. We are confident 
that we can build on the early success of both 
businesses and make North America a significant 
market for the Group. 
Our record order book and the opportunities 
created by T eltronic give us confidence that 
our business is set to deliver further growth in 
earnings and cash generation over the coming 
years, reflected in a further increase in the annual 
dividend of 20% to 2.4p.
Our success was recognised in April 2015 with 
the award of the Queen’s Award for Enterprise: 
International Trade, which is a testament to the 
outstanding contribution of all of our employees 
to the profitable growth of our business.  
I would like once again to thank them for their 
commitment, and welcome our new colleagues 
from T eltronic who join us at an exciting time in 
Sepura’s development.
Subsequent to the acquisition of Teltronic and 
the significant expansion of the Group, I am 
pleased to announce that Richard Smith will  
be joining the Group as CFO not later than  
2 January 2016. Our thanks to Steve 
Chamberlain for his contribution in this role, 
especially in the recent acquisition. Steve will 
be continuing with the Group after he steps 
down from the Board, initially focusing  
on supporting the integration of Teltronic.
 
I am confident that the Company has a strong 
future ahead.
Dr. John Hughes CBE Hon DSc
Chairman
6 July 2015 
02 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Highlights
• Revenues up 12% to €131.2 million  
(2014: €116.6 million)
• Adjusted operating profit
1
 up 20% to €15.0 million 
(2014: €12.5 million); adjusted diluted EPS
1
 up 15%  
to 9.7¢ (2014: 8.4¢)
• Operating cash conversion of 88% (2014: 101%)  
and closing net debt of €1.1 million  
(2014: net cash of €5.3 million)
• Full year dividend increased by 20% to 2.4p  
(2014: 2.0p)
• IFRS operating profit up 18% to €17.1 million  
(2014: €14.4 million)
Operational Highlights
• Strong demand across core markets
– 217,000 radios delivered worldwide, up 15%  
from 188,000 last year
– Record order backlog at FY15 year end of €41 
million for delivery in FY16 (2014: €13.1 million) 
following orders for 63,000 terminals for public 
safety network in Saudi Arabia
– Installed base grown to over 1.3 million radios 
providing a stable stream of repeat business
• Momentum building for DMR and Applications
– DMR portfolio expanded and Fylde acquired  
to facilitate DMR adoption
– €2.3 million Applications contract for Finnish 
National Police Board
Teltronic acquisition completed post year end
• Total consideration of €127.5 million financed by new 
debt facility and capital raise
• Immediately enhancing to adjusted diluted EPS and 
significantly enhancing in the first full financial year
• Cost synergies of €3 million per annum by the end  
of the first full financial year, with €1.5 million in the 
current year
• Addressable market increased by $820 million to  
over $3.3 billion
1 The calculation of adjusted operating profit and IFRS  
operating profit are set out in Notes 8 and 15 respectively  
to the consolidated financial statements.
 Unless otherwise stated, all figures exclude the impact of the 
acquisition of Teltronic SAU that was completed after the end  
of the period.
Revenue +12%
€131. 2m
(2014: €116.6m)
IFRS operating profit
1
 +18%
€17.1m
(2014: €14.4m)
Adjusted operating profit
1 
+20%
€15.0m
(2014: €12.5m)
Highlights
See our Key Performance Indicators  
on pages 12 to 13
Strategic Report
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 03 Chief Executive’s Statement
Delivering 
Growth
Successful execution against 
our strategic objectives will 
continue to create additional  
long-term shareholder value.
Radios delivered
>200,000
We shipped a total of over 217,000 radios in 2015  
(2014: 188,000)
Our record order book at the year-end of  
€41 million for delivery in FY16 included 
orders for a further 63,000 radios for delivery 
to the same network.
We believe this confirms TETRA as the digital 
PMR standard of choice for public safety users 
around the world, despite some uncertainty 
in the UK over the future role of TETRA for 
such users. This speculation did not have a 
material impact on our business in the UK, 
where we shipped 21,000 radios compared 
to 24,000 last year. We expect the UK market 
to continue to deliver strong repeat TETRA 
revenues during the medium term, together 
with an increasingly significant contribution 
from DMR as commercial users in the UK 
migrate to digital solutions.
PMR users increasingly demand more than 
voice communications from their investment 
in digital networks. Sepura’s investment 
in software applications enables us to 
support users as they adopt complementary 
technologies that supplement TETRA’s core 
voice and data capabilities. Our success 
in securing a significant role as part of a 
consortium delivering a multi-year, multi-
agency and multi-standard Command & 
Control platform for the Finnish National 
Police Board confirms TETRA has a long-
term role as an integral part of national PMR 
networks across Europe, and that Sepura is 
well positioned to address the increasingly 
complex needs of our customers.
The acquisition of Teltronic with its established 
infrastructure portfolio will enable us to 
accelerate our market penetration of new 
PMR networks around the world. Teltronic 
brings strong brands in Latin and North 
America, which together represented 83% of 
its revenues in the year ended 31 December 
2014 compared to the current 5% for Sepura. 
In addition to this increased geographical 
diversity, Sepura will also have a more diverse 
customer base as 39% of Teltronic’s revenues 
are derived from commercial users, compared 
to 25% for Sepura in FY15. Teltronic also 
provides increased scale and longer-term 
revenue visibility through its contracted  
order backlog, together with an opportunity  
to promote Sepura’s existing products across 
Teltronic’s installed base of networks.
Gordon 
Watling
Chief 
Executive
We have delivered a fourth consecutive  
year of double-digit growth in adjusted 
operating profit, which increased by 20%  
to €15 million despite €1.9 million of foreign 
exchange headwinds. This has been achieved 
by our continuing focus on combining 
strong operational performance in our core 
markets with the strategic expansion of our 
addressable market, which has increased 
to approximately $3.3 billion following 
investments in DMR, software applications 
and, most recently, the acquisition of Teltronic.
Our core markets continue to show 
sustained, long-term demand despite the 
impact of macro-economic factors on 
specific segments such as the extractive 
industries. Terminal shipments increased 
by 15% to 217,000 radios, compared to 
188,000 last year, and included 65,000 radios 
delivered in Germany and 31,000 radios 
delivered to a new national public safety 
network in Saudi Arabia.  
04 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Increased scale and visibility
Combining Teltronic and Sepura creates a 
group with pro-forma revenues
1
 for FY15 
of €194 million and pro-forma adjusted 
operating profit of €23.4 million. The 
enlarged group is capable of targeting 
larger opportunities, with potential 
customers having increased confidence 
in sourcing products from a leading 
global supplier. Teltronic’s predominantly 
infrastructure business also offers a 
significant contracted backlog of  
€33.8 million at 31 December 2014, 
giving the enlarged group a pro-forma 
backlog of €74.8 million.
The acquisition adds significant scale to 
the financial profile of the Group. Teltronic 
generated revenue of €62.9 million 
and adjusted operating profit of €8.4 
million for the year ended 31 December 
2014. At the time of the acquisition, 
we announced that the transaction is 
expected to deliver €3 million of cost 
synergies per annum, to be achieved 
in full by the end of full year 2017 
and with €1.5 million achieved in the 
current financial year. We also expect the 
acquisition to be immediately enhancing 
to adjusted diluted EPS and significantly 
enhancing in the first full financial year.
The robustness of our established markets 
and the exciting growth prospects 
provided by DMR, applications and the 
acquisition of Teltronic, which builds on 
our existing infrastructure capabilities, 
give us confidence in meeting our targets 
for the coming year. Successful execution 
against our strategic objectives will 
continue to create additional long-term 
shareholder value.
Gordon Watling
Chief Executive
6 July 2015
Case Study
Teltronic  
Acquisition
1
2
3
4
On 27 May 2015 Sepura completed 
the acquisition of Spanish PMR 
business Teltronic SAU. Teltronic 
provides complete wireless voice 
and data communications solutions, 
including infrastructure, terminals, and 
software, principally for customers in 
the public safety, transportation and 
utility sectors. Its vertically integrated 
business covers the entire PMR value 
chain, including network infrastructure, 
terminals and command and control 
centres.  
Teltronic operates in over 50 countries 
serving customers based primarily in 
Latin America, the EMEA region and 
North America.
The acquisition helps Sepura accelerate 
the delivery of its strategic goals by 
providing additional scale and improved 
revenue visibility, geographical diversity, 
increased exposure to commercial PMR 
users, a broader product portfolio and 
attractive synergies.
 NCE 33%
 Latin America 26%
 SEMEA 19%
 UK&I 10%
 APAC 8%
 North America 4%
 Sepura  
Commercial 17%
 Incremental  
Commercial 12%
 Public Safety 71%
Pro-forma FY15 revenue
1
Pro-forma FY15 revenue
1
Product offering and technical 
breadth
Teltronic has an extensive infrastructure 
portfolio, including an emerging LTE 
portfolio and P25 capability. It offers a 
comprehensive suite of transportation 
solutions, together with a broad 
command and control offering that 
complements Sepura’s applications 
products.
Global reach
Teltronic generates its revenues in 
complementary territories to Sepura. 
In particular, it has established brands 
in Latin and North America, which in 
aggregate accounted for 83% of its 
revenues, compared to 5% for Sepura.
End market diversity
While Teltronic has an established 
presence in public safety markets, it 
also derives a higher proportion of its 
revenues (39%) than Sepura (25%) from 
commercial PMR users, especially in the 
transportation sector. On a pro-forma 
basis, 29% of the enlarged group’s 
revenues are derived from commercial 
PMR users.
1 Pro-forma figures have been calculated by combining 
Sepura's actual results for the year ended 27 March 
2015 with Teltronic's actual results for the year ended 
31 December 2014.
Strategic Report
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 05 Where We 
Operate
Applications  
 
 
  
 
       
Terminals 
 
 
 
   Systems 
 
 
       
Products and Markets
Our deep expertise and experience enables 
us to combine terminals, systems and 
applications into solutions that address the 
operational challenges facing our customers.
Sepura is a global leader in the design, development 
and supply of digital radio solutions, complementary 
accessories, support tools and devices. Our compelling 
solutions bring together radio infrastructure, terminals  
and data applications to help our customers overcome  
the operational challenges they face every day.
Systems Terminals
Our network infrastructure 
delivers scaleable and seamless 
communications, covering a  
single-site campus right through  
to national networks.
We provide a comprehensive portfolio 
of hand-held and vehicle radios that 
address the operational requirements 
of the most demanding users and 
environments.
Sales staff based 
overseas
Head office
Offices
Countries investing over  
€1m in our solutions in FY15
Countries investing €1m or 
less in our solutions in FY15
Investment
Sepura at a Glance
06 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Applications
Our applications capability offers 
enhanced productivity tools that 
drive improved performance across 
customers’ communications networks.
Sepura customers
>1,000
Over 1,000 organisations using  
Sepura solutions in over 100 countries 
Users
>1.3m
Over 1.3 million users across the globe
Revenues
Revenue by customer location
49% Northern Europe
22%
Southern Europe,  
Middle East and Africa
10% Asia-Pacific
3% Latin America
14% United Kingdom & Ireland
Northern America 2%
Further details on our KPIs on page 12 and 13
Strategic Report
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 07 Enabling the  
Digital Revolution
Marketplace
Professional Mobile Radio (PMR) is the term used to describe  
the form of two-way radio communications used by many  
public safety and commercial organisations around the world.  
As at 31 December 2014 an estimated 43 million PMR users  
were communicating over PMR radio networks, generally 
through two-way radios that are either carried by individuals  
or installed in vehicles or control rooms. Organisations that  
utilise PMR networks generally operate over a wide geographical 
area with multiple users co-ordinated from a central control  
room and so require instant communication between individuals 
or pre-defined user groups.
Mission Critical
Sepura has a proud tradition of supplying 
radio equipment to Public Safety users 
that spans over 70 years. We now provide 
cutting edge solutions that deliver 
increased productivity and enhanced safety, 
maximising Public Safety organisations' 
return on their substantial investment  
in communication networks.
Why Professional Mobile Radio?
PMR radios offer a no-compromise, cost-effective solution to support business- 
critical communications. In addition, the functionality of next-generation digital  
radios extends well beyond voice communications and include value-adding location  
and text alert applications integrated into a rugged and reliable device. In comparision  
to consumer-friendly smartphones, PMR radios are often the only viable option to  
support today's frontline mobile workers' business-critical communications requirements.
Requirements for business-critical 
mobile communications devices:
• Reliable 
Communications are “mission critical“ and  
so users prefer their own network rather 
than relying on a shared or third-party 
network which may suffer degradation  
of service if too many users are accessing 
the network at the same time.
• Robust 
Users operate in extremely challenging 
environments, such as mines and factories, 
and so require rugged and robust devices 
that can withstand shock and dust or water 
ingress, with an operational life of between 
five to seven years. Users also typically wear 
protective clothing and so require devices 
that can be operated without removing,  
for example, gloves or helmets.
• Secure 
Private, encrypted networks reduce the risk 
that third parties eavesdrop on sensitive 
communications.
• Group communications 
Users need to communicate simultaneously 
with multiple individuals without the 
need to dial, or the delay associated with 
establishing a connection on a commercial 
mobile cellular system.
• Cost of ownership  
Without monthly services fees, PMR radios 
offer a significantly lower total cost  
of ownership when compared directly  
to smartphones and other cellular 
connected devices.
• Enhanced worker safety 
For scenarios where worker safety is critical, 
the always-on capabilities of PMR radios  
are invaluable.
• Battery life and management 
A major requirement for business-critical 
communication solutions is a strong  
all-shift battery. 
• Audio quality 
The level of ambient noise can render  
many mobile communications devices 
ineffective. The voice quality on PMR 
digital radios is enhanced by sophisticated 
software algorithms and background  
noise suppression.
• Value adding features and functionality  
PMR radios offer additional integrated 
features such as GPS, text messaging  
and location tracking.
• Enterprise-class accessory ecosystem  
Providing a variety of accessories, PMR 
radios offer a broad accessory portfolio 
closely aligned with enterprise use cases  
and target applications.
The Case for PMR
Business Critical
Sepura supplies users across a wide 
spectrum of sectors that need the 
functionality of our secure and feature-rich 
product portfolio. These include transport 
networks, utilities and the extractive 
industries, which all demand secure, reliable 
and robust communications solutions.
08 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 The Professional Mobile Radio market is undergoing an “analogue to digital” 
migration as governments and commercial organisations replace ageing and 
obsolete analogue products with digital solutions. These enable the efficient use 
of radio spectrum, interoperability between government agencies and enhanced 
security and functionality that drive operational efficiencies.
The Analogue to Digital Migration
TETRA: 10+ years of future growth
• The largest digital installed base
– New networks are being deployed
– New users are continuing to join networks
– Users will replace their radios multiple times  
over the life of the infrastructure
• TETRA is the public safety users’ preferred voice  
solution outside North America
DMR: The commercial user's solution
• A TDMA-based ETSI standard like TETRA
• Targets users who do not need all of TETRA’s  
public safety functionality
• Results in significantly lower-cost infrastructure
Sepura has successfully expanded its total addressable market from 
$500 million in 2012 to over $3.3 billion for 2016, by investing in new 
products and solutions and expanding our geographical reach:
• $50m pa – TETRA ATEX Terminals
• $600m pa – TETRA Infrastructure
• $500m pa – Applications
• $800m pa – DMR
• $800m pa – North America
• $100m pa – P25
• $100m pa – LTE
Worldwide Installed Base of PMR Radios (M units)
40,000
10,000
0
20,000
30,000
50,000
 Analogue
 DMR
 TETRA
 Other Digital Standards
UK
• Most mature TETRA market with c.275,000 
users
• Supply every police force in England, 
Wales and Scotland
• Supply every ambulance and paramedic
• In 2015, the UK generated 14% of global 
revenues at €18 million
Germany
• Largest TETRA market in short-medium 
term with c.750,000 forecast users
• Deployment is still underway and over 
200,000 more radios will be needed in  
the next 2-3 years 
• Germany generated >€39 million  
of revenue in 2015
Global
• In 2015, international revenues went  
up by 16% to €113 million
• 21 countries generated over €1 million  
of revenue
Major Market Leaders
Source: IHS
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Total Addressable Market ($m)
 TETRA Terminals 
(Excluding ATEX)
 TETRA ATEX Terminals
 Systems
 Applications
 DMR
 North America
 P25
 LTE
2012 2013 2014 2015
3,000
500
0
1,500
2,500
1,000
2,000
3,500
Strategic Report
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 09 Creating Value
Our vision is to establish  
Sepura as a global leader  
in the supply of digital 
communication systems.
Our strategy is designed to  
deliver sustainable growth, 
reduced risk and long term 
financial performance.
Our business model is to exploit the Sepura brand 
and the core competencies it represents.
Market expertise
Routes to market
Supply chain
Developing a broad portfolio of
 Expanding our addressable market 
 Building long-term customer relationships 
Our employees have a deep understanding of the PMR market 
gained through many years of servicing the most demanding 
vertical within it: public safety. Our close relationship with 
our customers ensures that we understand their operational 
challenges, and our technical know-how enables us to 
develop a solution to address their specific needs.
Market expertise
Our close relationship with our customers ensures 
that we understand their operational challenges.
market-leading solutions
Our Strategy
Business Model
10 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 We are continually expanding our 
addressable market by identifying 
complementary high-growth 
opportunities within the PMR market 
which can be addressed by our core 
competencies by:
• growing our geographical footprint
• broadening our product portfolio
• entering new market verticals
• offering a range of PMR standards.
We continuously enhance our product  
and service offering to ensure that we  
have a broad portfolio of market-leading 
solutions. We have invested over €150 
million in research and development, 
enabling us to secure a competitive 
advantage by being first supplier in our 
markets to offer GPS and Gateway and 
Repeater functionality, together with a  
wide range of other innovative product 
features and functions.
A typical PMR network will be operational 
for at least 20 years. In addition to the initial 
capital sale of infrastructure, applications  
and radios, customers require regular 
supplies of batteries and other ancillaries 
which generate strong recurring revenues 
over the lifetime of the network. They also 
create new opportunities as the network 
expands, new applications are identified, 
new users join the network or existing 
users replace ageing radios with the latest 
technology. We have a demonstrable track 
record of customer retention and the repeat 
business that flows from establishing Sepura 
as our customers’ supplier of choice.
We have exclusive partnerships with a global network of 
dedicated PMR distributors, each of which is a specialist in 
their particular geography or market vertical. We work closely 
with them to target key opportunities, combining their local 
knowledge and relationships with our product expertise to 
create a compelling and cost-effective solution for end-users.
We outsource the manufacture of our products to 
world-class Contract Electronics Manufacturers, who offer 
a flexible and scaleable supply that meets our customers’ 
demand profile. We work closely with our supply chain to 
improve the design of our products, and to reduce costs  
and lead-times.
Routes to market Supply chain
We work closely with a global network  
of dedicated PMR distributors.
By outsourcing the manufacture of our products 
we can improve the design of our products whilst 
reducing costs.
Developing a broad portfolio  
of market-leading solutions
Building long-term customer 
relationships
Expanding our addressable 
market
Strategic Report
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 11 A Strong 
Performance
Key Performance Indicators
Our strategic 
KPIs are leading 
indicators of  
future potential. 
Installed Base (000s of radios)
Strategic
Our growing installed base of radios in use will generate additional revenues  
from regular demand for replacement accessories and, ultimately, new radios,  
together with opportunities to upsell new applications to existing customers.
2012
930
2013
1,048
2014
1,186
2015
1,342
544
2009
677
2010
800
2011
Our operational KPIs are leading and 
lagging indicators demonstrating 
operational progress during the year.
Operational
Closing Order Book (€m)
Our closing order book increased by c.€28 million as  
we secured significant orders for radios to be deployed 
on a new national network in the coming year, together 
with infrastructure and software contracts that will be 
delivered over several financial years, giving improved 
visibility for future revenues.
2013
9.8
2014
13.1
2015
41.0
Annual Shipments (000s of radios)
2014 2015 2013
154
188
217
Annual shipments increased by 15%, including 65,000 
radios to Germany and 31,000 radios for a new national 
network in the Middle East.
Our financial KPIs are lagging indicators 
showing the financial result of our 
operational performance.
Financial
Revenue (€m)
We delivered a third consecutive year of double-digit 
revenue growth as we broaden our product portfolio  
and penetrate new markets.
Adjusted Operating Margin
1
We delivered a fourth consecutive year of double-digit 
growth in adjusted operating profits, driven by both 
increased revenues and improved operational leverage.
2013 2014 2015 2013 2014
10.7%
2015
11.4%
104.8
116.6
131.2
10.0%
 Other
 UK
 Germany
12 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 1 The calculations of adjusted operating margin and adjusted 
diluted EPS are set out in Notes 8 and 15 to the consolidated 
financial statements respectively.
2 Calculated as cash generated from operations divided by cash 
generated from operations before movements in working capital.
We have seen strong demand from new public-safety users that has more  
than mitigated the forecast softening demand from extractive industries.
Commercial vs Public Safety Revenues (€m)
20
0
100
80
60
40
2013 2014 2015
Total Addressable Market ($m)
The dividend declared by the Board of 2.4 pence represents 
a 20% increase over last year and reflects the Group’s strong 
balance sheet and confidence in the future.
We generated €25.2 million of operating cash during 
the period. This represented cash conversion of 88% 
as the significant growth in revenues, the increasing 
breadth of our product portfolio and delays in payment 
by customers in Greece and the Middle East increased 
working capital.
Cash Conversion
2
Adjusted Diluted EPS (¢)
1
Although adjusted operating profits increased 20%, 
adjusted EPS increased by 15% as the growth of 
the Group resulted in additional interest costs and 
proportionally less tax relief on its R&D expenditures.
2014
8.4
2013
7.8
2015
9.7
2013 2014
101%
119%
2015
88%
Dividends per Share (p)
2013
1.68
2014
2.00
2015
2.40
 TETRA Terminals 
(Excluding ATEX)
 TETRA ATEX Terminals
 Systems
 Applications
 DMR
 North America
 P25
 LTE
 Commercial
 Public Safety
2012 2013 2014 2015
3,000
500
0
1,500
2,500
1,000
2,000
3,500
29%
30%
25%
Strategic Report
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 13 Informing Decisions
Risk Management 
The material strategic and operational risks and uncertainties 
facing the Group, their potential impact on our future 
performance, and how we manage them.
Technological change
Our revenue and profitability are affected by the extent to which there 
is increasing demand for, and development by our competitors of, 
additional products and product features. For example, the adoption  
of 4G / “LTE” for the delivery of broad-band data services to consumers 
has led some Public Safety agencies, including those in the UK, to explore 
the possibility of creating equivalent data networks, using either planned 
commercial networks or constructing their own 4G private networks. 
We make significant investments in new product development, and 
there can be no guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient 
revenue to offset these development costs or to continue to make 
such investments. There are also associated risks relating to difficulties 
and delays in the development process of new products, and their 
acceptance by customers. If our competitors successfully launch new 
products or features which we are unable to match then we could lose 
market share with a corresponding impact on our future profitability  
and financial position.
Product innovation
While the existing 4G standard does not contain the protocols necessary 
for voice traffic, or the call prioritisation and similar functions required  
by Public Safety agencies, we are investing in new product development 
to position the Group for the likely future deployment of LTE and our 
recently launched “Next Generation” SC2020 products incorporate a 
high speed data bearer making it the first TETRA hand-portable which 
can claim to be LTE data ready. This is part of our ongoing programme 
of identifying customer needs, and potential competitor advances, to 
ensure that we maintain a portfolio of market leading products. We focus 
our development efforts on features which meet a market requirement 
and are likely to generate sufficient revenue to fund their development. 
We have established internal processes for prioritising and reviewing our 
development projects.
Reliance on key markets or customers
A significant percentage of our revenue in each financial year is currently 
derived from a small number of end-user organisations, the majority 
of which are governmental organisations, in several key geographies. 
The timing of orders from these customers is influenced by a number 
of factors, including governmental investment decisions which may be 
affected by changes in political and economic conditions. This makes 
accurate predictions of the timing of future revenues more difficult. In the 
event that there is a delay to either the tendering process or the placing 
of orders following a successful bid, then revenues may not be generated 
within the originally forecast timeframe, with a consequential impact on 
the profitability of the Group in any given period.
Growing our addressable market
The Group’s focus on diversification will result in a reducing significance  
of individual contracts or customers relative to the Group’s total 
operations. Our addressable market is increasing as we launch new 
products and enter new markets. Furthermore, the increasing role of 
regular add-on and replacement business also helps to mitigate the 
impact of significant delays in securing new customers. However, the 
impact of significant contracts on half and full-year reported revenue 
remains a risk for the Group.
Credit risk
Reliance on key markets or customers may also result in credit risk being 
concentrated within a small group of customers and default by a material 
customer could have a material impact on the Group’s results. Following 
the global expansion of the Group’s activities it now operates in countries 
and with customers that may give rise to higher credit risk exposure than 
that to which it has previously been exposed.
Working with the right partners
The Board has implemented policies that require appropriate credit 
checks on potential customers and customer orders are checked against 
pre-set requirements before acceptance. Formal credit control procedures 
are applied subsequent to invoicing customers, with letters of credit 
and payments in advance obtained where appropriate. Such rigorous 
procedures cannot completely mitigate credit risk, and the Group 
provides against significant overdue accounts where recoverability  
of the debt is considered sufficiently uncertain. The maximum exposure  
to credit risk is limited to the carrying value of trade and other receivables.
Risk and Impact Management Strategy
Competition
There is strong competition in the markets in which we operate, 
particularly in relation to government procurement tendering processes 
which rely on a combination of technical performance and price.  
A significant reduction in the prices we achieve for our products could 
have a material impact on the Group’s margins and profitability.
Investing in product leadership
The Group’s ability to compete depends on its high-quality product range 
and its reputation for customer service as well as the ongoing programme 
of work to reduce product costs. The Board regularly reviews the level 
of investment in these areas in the light of changes in the competitive 
landscape, to ensure that the Group can continue to compete effectively.
14 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Managing rapid growth
The rapid growth of our business may place a significant strain on our 
management, operational and financial resources, and those of our 
manufacturing and distribution partners. If we are unable to grow our 
business profitably, as a result of being unable to secure adequate 
resources or incurring excessive costs in doing so, then this could have  
a material adverse effect on our financial position.
Investing in operational excellence
The Board is continually reviewing and enhancing our internal controls 
and processes and hiring additional employees in critical areas of the 
business. The Group is also implementing an integrated ERP system 
which will enhance internal controls and deliver operational efficiencies. 
We have two primary sub-contract manufacturers, ensuring continuity 
of supply and providing flexibility in meeting additional demand for our 
products.
Foreign currency
The Group has an international customer base and purchases products 
and services in a range of currencies. The reported revenues, costs, 
assets and liabilities of the Group are therefore affected by fluctuations 
in prevailing rates of exchange between these currencies. This affects 
comparisons of current year results to previous periods, where equivalent 
underlying transactions are reported at differing rates, and may affect 
future results if assets and liabilities are subject to revaluation over time.
Effective hedging of exchange rate exposures
The Company’s presentational and functional currency is the Euro, 
reflecting the relative contribution of Euro-denominated revenues. 
The Board has implemented policies that require regular reviews of the 
Group’s forecast currency requirements, in conjunction with a rolling 
programme of monthly forward contracts to hedge forecast net cash 
flows in major currencies. Where these hedges are deemed to be effective 
any unrealised gains or losses on the hedges are recognised in equity 
rather than in the consolidated income statement, again reducing 
possible volatility in reported earnings arising from changes in  
exchange rates.
Information security
The Group regards information within the business as a key asset and 
recognises the risk and impact on the business of breaches to the 
integrity of information relating to the business.
Effective protection of information security and integrity
The Group has in place systems and processes for the classification  
and control of access to information within a number of elements of the 
business. The information security standard ISO27000 is a reference frame 
for all information security management systems and is the framework 
against which the Group manages information security.
Supply chain risk and product recall
We are dependent on outsourced electronic manufacturing companies 
for the manufacture of substantially all of our current products and on a 
small number of suppliers for key components. Any failure or inability of 
these companies to supply us could adversely affect our business. Our 
supply chain is complex, and the use of third-party suppliers and service 
providers could adversely affect our product quality, delivery schedules  
or customer satisfaction. Any of these could have an adverse effect  
on our financial results.
Monitor manufacturing and component supply chain
The Group mitigates supply chain risk by employing a number of supplier 
monitoring mechanisms and control measures which address business 
viability, production quality and component obsolescence. Automated 
and manual product testing is an integral part of all projects and 
manufacturing. In addition, all third party products undergo  
conformance testing and compliance checks.
Integration of acquired businesses
Our future financial performance will reflect the results of acquired 
businesses, which will in turn be impacted by our ability to integrate 
such businesses into our current operations. If we are unable to retain key 
employees or exploit forecast synergies then we may be unable to deliver 
the forecast level of revenues, profitability and cash flows which could 
have an adverse effect on the financial results and position of the Group 
as a whole.
Protection from vendors, combined with detailed planning and 
execution 
Prior to any acquisition the Group undertakes detailed investigation 
and due diligence in conjunction with external advisors. Appropriate 
warranties and indemnities are obtained from the vendors against 
specific financial risks identified. Where appropriate, an element of 
consideration is deferred and will only be satisfied if the acquired business 
generates the forecast level of profitability on which the valuation of the 
business was based. Detailed integration plans are prepared, with specific 
risks identified and mitigation plans prepared, which set out detailed 
actions, responsibilities and timetables. We conduct regular reviews  
with the management of acquired entities to assess performance  
against these plans and take action accordingly.
Risk and Impact Management Strategy
Strategic Report
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 15 We have grown  
our business
• Revenues up 12% to  
€131.2 million
• Adjusted operating profit  
up 20% to €15.0 million
We have invested  
for success
• Teltronic acquired in May 2015
• €16.8 million invested in new 
product development
• Fylde Micro acquired in  
May 2014
Key
 Developing a broad 
portfolio of market-leading 
solutions
 Building long-term 
customer relationships
 Expanding our  
addressable market
Leading 
the Way
Our Achievements During the Year
Sepura announces office 
relocation
October 2014 
Sepura announced that it will 
relocate its head office to  
the city's Research Park.  
The company, currently based  
in the Chesterton area of the 
city, has signed a 15 year lease 
for the site's Building 9000. 
Sepura announces partnership 
with Skyscape Cloud Services
September 2014 
Sepura has launched its cloud-
enabled applications portfolio, 
which is brought to the UK 
Public Safety market through  
a strategic alliance with assured 
cloud service provider Skyscape 
Cloud Services.
Major Bavarian Fire Services 
select Sepura radios
June 2014 
Sepura and our long-standing 
German partner Selectric GmbH 
were awarded two prestigious 
contracts for the supply of 
TETRA radios and accessories 
to the fire brigades in the cities 
of Ingolstadt and Augsburg in 
Central and Western Bavaria 
respectively.
Sepura announced acquisition 
of Fylde Micro Limited
May 2014 
Fylde Micro have been pioneers 
in the field of radio trunking 
for over thirty years, gaining 
a worldwide reputation for 
delivering reliable solutions 
within the Professional Mobile 
Radio (“PMR“) market.
Sepura expands into the 344-
400MHz and 800MHz market
May 2014
Sepura adds to its portfolio 
of products with the launch 
of its new 344-400MHz and 
800MHz TETRA radios in order 
to serve customers in emerging 
markets, including China (344-
400MHz) and North America 
(800MHz) as well as to increase 
the opportunity for market 
share growth in other 800MHz 
markets: Asia, Australia, South 
America and Brazil, specifically.
2014
Sepura is at 
the forefront of 
answering the 
communications 
needs of a broad 
spectrum of markets.
€11 3m
International  
Revenues up 16%
16 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 250,000
Radios supplied to the German 
Public Safety market
Sepura completes the 
acquisition of Teltronic
May 2015
Sepura announced the 
acquisition of Spanish PMR 
company Teltronic, with its 
complementary product offering 
and strong brands in Latin and 
North America. Further details 
are set out on page 5 and  
Note 34 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
Sepura awarded the Queen’s 
Award for Enterprise: 
International Trade
April 2015
In April 2015 Sepura was 
awarded the prestigious 
Queen’s Award for Enterprise: 
International Trade in 
recognition of Sepura’s 
consistent growth that has 
resulted from our focus 
on exciting high growth 
opportunities, product 
innovation and delivering  
quality and customer service.
Patria, Portalify and Codea 
deliver a Multi-Agency Field 
Commanding System
January 2015
The Finnish National Police Board 
and a consortium comprising 
Patria, Portalify Oy and Codea 
Oy signed an agreement for the 
development and delivery of a 
Multi-Agency Field Commanding 
System (KEJO) for all Finnish 
Public Protection and Disaster 
Relief (PPDR) authorities. The  
total value of the consortium's 
contract is €23 million. 
Sepura delivers a quarter of a 
million radios to the German 
Public Safety market
November 2014 
Sepura delivered its 250,000
th
 
TETRA radio terminal to German 
public safety organisations. 
We celebrated this significant 
milestone with our established 
German partner Selectric after 
a very successful financial year. 
FY15 saw shipments of 65,000 
Sepura TETRA radio terminals  
to Germany alone. 
Sepura launches DMR Tier III 
portfolio
October 2014 
Sepura announced the 
availability of its DMR Tier III 
solution to the global market. 
This latest significant addition 
to Sepura's product portfolio 
and to its DMR offering was 
accelerated by the acquisition 
of Fylde Micro, world leading 
experts in DMR trunked radio 
solutions.
Sepura launches a new 
revolutionary accessory
November 2014 
Sepura launched the Sepura 
Dynamic Controller (SDC) at 
PMR Expo. The SDC connects 
GSM and TETRA devices to 
Sepura's proven range of covert 
accessories.
2015
€15.0m
Adjusted Operating  
Profit up 20%
Strategic Report
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 17 The Critical 
Communications 
Solutions Provider
Sepura has been transformed from a  
UK-centric TETRA terminals business into 
a global geographically diverse critical 
communications solutions provider,  
with an estimated addressable market  
of $3.3 billion. The Group’s record revenues  
of €131.2 million, up 12% from €116.6 million 
last year, reflect an increasingly diverse  
global customer base that is expected  
to deliver long-term growth from the 
analogue to digital migration.
Sustained demand from our core TETRA 
devices markets
The Group delivered a record 217,000 
devices last year, up from 188,000 in 
the previous year. This included 65,000 
radios into Germany, the world’s largest 
TETRA market with approximately 600,000 
registered users and one in which Sepura 
is market leader. The current backlog of 
contracted orders for future delivery to new 
users in Germany is approximately 53,000 
radios. In line with experience in mature 
markets, the Group has seen increasing 
demand from German customers for 
replacement batteries and ancillaries, and 
for specialist accessories such as covert 
solutions as network coverage extends 
across the country.
With an installed base now over 1.3 million 
radios across 114 countries, the Group has 
a growing stream of recurring revenues 
as users refresh existing fleets and acquire 
accessories and applications to maximise 
the return on their investments in our 
technology. This is also the case in Germany 
where, in addition to demand from new 
users, early adopters have confirmed their 
intention to begin refreshing their existing 
radio fleets as they near the end of their 
operational lives.
Growing demand from emerging markets
North America is the world’s largest PMR 
market and is forecast to generate 25% of 
the growth in digital PMR users as 1.5 million 
commercial PMR users in North America 
convert to digital. The acquisition of Teltronic 
and its North America Powertrunk brand, 
since the end of the period brings together 
the leading suppliers of TETRA terminals 
and infrastructure in North America. Sepura 
and Teltronic have supplied 11 of the first 
14 TETRA networks in North America, and 
Sepura terminals are now in use on all of 
these networks.
Operational Review
The Group delivered a 
record 217,000 devices 
last year, up from 188,000 
in the previous year. This 
included 65,000 radios 
into Germany, the world’s 
largest TETRA market with 
approximately 600,000 
registered users and one 
in which Sepura is  
market leader. 
18 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Growing demand from commercial users
The total PMR market is continuing to 
expand, with an estimated value of $16.5 
billion per annum in 2017 when 45 million 
PMR radios are forecast to be in use globally 
according to independent research from 
IHS. An increasing proportion of these will 
be digital radios. Approximately 15 million 
PMR users, representing one third of all PMR 
users, currently use digital PMR technology 
and a further 10 million PMR users are 
forecast to migrate to digital by 2018. The 
majority of this growth is expected to come 
from smaller, frequently single site, digital 
networks primarily for use by individual 
commercial organisations that prefer a single 
supplier that can offer a simple migration 
path to a solution that suits their  
operational needs.
Installed base
1.3m
An installed base of over 1.3 million radios 
across 114 countries
Addressable market
$3.3b
Addressable market increased to $3.3 billion 
(2014: $2.5 billion)
Strategic Report
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 19 Operational Review
continued
Forecast number of global 
PMR users in 2017
45m
The total PMR market has an estimated 
value of $16.5 billion per annum in 2017 
when 45 million PMR radios are forecast to 
be in use globally
20 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Increasing contribution from DMR
DMR products address the needs of smaller 
commercial users. DMR is independently 
forecast to be the fastest growing segment 
within PMR over the next four years, with 
the installed base of DMR radios forecast 
to grow by 4.2 million radios by 2017. The 
Group’s DMR portfolio has expanded since 
its launch last year, and has been enhanced 
by the acquisition of Fylde with its enabling 
technology that offers a lower risk and more 
cost-effective migration strategy for trunked 
analogue users. The Group has also expanded 
its DMR reseller channel and routes to 
market, and Sepura DMR radios are already 
operational in 37 countries. The acquisition of 
Teltronic will further increase routes to market 
for DMR products, particularly within Latin 
America, where Teltronic has well established 
distribution channels to commercial users. 
The range of potential DMR customers is 
demonstrated by the largest deployment 
to date being a fleet of 2,600 radios 
in Brazil, while other prestigious early 
adopters include leading sporting venues 
requiring significantly smaller fleets such 
as Goodwood racecourse, and the Group’s 
local football team Cambridge United. 
Management believe the Group will be 
able to establish a similar presence and 
reputation in the DMR market over time to 
that enjoyed by its TETRA products, which 
will enable DMR to become a significant 
revenue stream for the Group over the 
medium term.
Developing a broad portfolio of market-
leading solutions
In addition to the ongoing investment in 
DMR and software applications, Sepura has 
continued to invest in product innovation.  
The Group’s new generation of TETRA radios 
which was launched earlier this month at 
Critical Communications World, maintains 
its product-leadership position by offering 
enhanced robustness and additional  
features and functionality that support  
PMR users’ increasing demand for real-time 
data in the field.
Building global 
relationships
 37
The Group has also expanded its DMR 
reseller channel and routes to market, and 
Sepura DMR radios are already operational  
in 37 countries
Strategic Report
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 21 Delivering  
Record Revenues
The Group delivered 
record revenues of €131.2 
million, up 12% from last 
year’s €116.6 million. 
Financial Review
Research and development costs
Gross expenditure on R&D was €16.8 million 
(2014: €16.7 million), or 13% of revenues 
(2014: 14%). A significant proportion of these 
costs relate to the fixed Sterling costs of the 
Group’s UK-based development teams. These 
are hedged 12 months in advance and so 
reflect last year’s GBP/Euro rates, and on a 
constant currency basis gross expenditure 
on R&D increased by 4% to €17.4 million.
Investment in research and development 
continued to focus on maintaining product 
leadership, with significant investment in the 
Group’s next generation platform of both 
terminals and infrastructure, broadening 
its DMR portfolio and expanding its 
Applications offering.
Capitalised development expenditure 
represented 78% (2014: 75%) of related 
gross development spend. The related 
amortisation charge for the period 
decreased to €6.7 million (2014: €8.1 million) 
as the development expenditure on several 
older products is now fully amortised, while 
an increasing proportion of research and 
development expenditure is on long-term 
projects, such as the Group’s next generation 
platform, on which amortisation has yet  
to commence.
Revenue
The Group delivered record revenues of 
€131.2 million, up 12% from last year’s €116.6 
million. Fylde, whose results have been 
consolidated for the first time following its 
acquisition on 20 May 2014, accounted for 
€1.5 million of the increase. The total number 
of terminals shipped increased by 15% from 
188,000 to 217,000, including 31,000 to new 
public safety customers in Saudi Arabia. The 
Group also received orders for a further 63,000 
radios to Saudi Arabia for delivery in FY16.
Gross margin
Gross margin strengthened as forecast in the 
second half of the year, with a gross margin 
for H2 of 47.1% compared to 45.1% in H1. 
The gross margin for the full year of 46.2% 
was affected by product and customer mix, 
including the first full year of the Group’s 
DMR portfolio and entry into new strategic 
markets. Gross margin was also impacted 
by foreign exchange and on a constant 
currency basis the gross margin was 46.7%, 
compared to the 47.4% reported for the 
same period last year. The gross margin 
percentage for the first half of the current 
year will reflect pricing for recent high 
volume contracts in strategic new markets, 
which will deliver incremental business  
over the operational life of those radios.
Steve 
Chamberlain
Chief Financial 
Officer
22 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Selling, marketing, distribution and 
administrative expenses
Selling, marketing and distribution costs 
increased by 10% to €18.2 million (2014: 
€16.6 million), reflecting investments made 
over the last year to expand the Group’s 
routes to market, especially in North 
America. Current year costs include a full year 
contribution from Portalify, together with the 
incremental costs associated with Fylde and 
the launch of the Group’s DMR portfolio.
Administrative expenses, excluding the IFRS 
2 share option cost, non-recurring items and 
the amortisation of acquired intangibles, 
increased by 12% compared with the same 
period last year to €10.7 million from €9.5 
million. Foreign exchange accounted for  
10% of this increase and the remainder 
related to the incremental costs of Portalify 
and Fylde following acquisition.
The total cash operating costs, being the 
gross R&D expenditure, sales and marketing 
costs and administrative expenses (excluding 
the IFRS 2 share option cost, associated 
National Insurance, the amortisation of 
acquired intangibles and non-recurring 
items), increased by 7% to €45.6 million 
(2014: €42.8 million), reflecting the 
investment in research and development 
and routes to market described above,  
and the impact of foreign exchange.
Foreign exchange
The Group continues to be impacted by the 
volatility of both Euro/GBP and Euro/USD 
exchange rates. Adjusted operating profit 
on a constant currency basis, excluding 
the forecast impact of foreign exchange 
hedges, was €16.9 million, €1.9 million higher 
than that reported, after adjusting for the 
following items:
• Revenues would have been €1.3 million 
lower at last year’s exchange rates;
• Product costs would have been €1.3 
million lower at last year’s exchange rates;
• The Group’s unhedged Sterling operating 
costs would have been €0.6 million lower 
at last year’s exchange rates; and
• The Group incurred €1.3 million more of 
transactional net foreign exchange losses 
during the period compared to last year.
The Group continues to use forward 
contracts to sell Euros and buy Sterling to 
meet Sterling expenses that can be forecast 
with sufficient certainty as to timing and 
value to qualify for hedge accounting. This 
provides certainty as to the future Euro 
reporting value of these costs to the Group 
for the next 12 months. 
The average hedge rate for the period was 
€1.190 / £1, based on prevailing rates during 
the prior year, compared to €1.24 / £1 for 
the same period last year which were in 
turn based on prevailing rates 12 months 
previously. As a result the Group’s hedged 
Euro operating costs decreased by 4% 
compared to the prior year.
The hedges outstanding at the end of the 
period covered £27.4 million (2014: £19.2 
million) of forecast Sterling cash flows at 
rates ranging from €1.233 – €1.354 / £1 
(2014: €1.169 – €1.219 / £1), and with a 
weighted average rate of €1.274 / £1 (2014: 
€1.190 / £1) compared to the spot rate at 
the end of the period of €1.367 / £1 (2014: 
€1.205 / £1). The translation of the Group’s 
hedged Sterling cost base into Euros in the 
coming year will therefore result in higher 
reported Euro costs than those reported for 
the current period.
Operating profit
The Group presents adjusted operating profit 
as a key performance measure in addition to 
the operating profit reported under IFRS, as 
the exclusion of certain non-operational or 
non-cash items better reflects the underlying 
trading performance of the Group. Adjusted 
operating profit for the period increased by 
20% to €15.0 million, (2014: €12.5 million), 
while the operating profit reported under 
IFRS was €17.1 million (2014: €14.4 million), 
representing growth of 18%.
Non-recurring items
The Group incurred €532,000 of costs, 
primarily professional fees, in connection 
with the acquisition of Fylde, together with 
€350,000 of subsequent restructuring costs, 
and initial costs of €864,000 in connection 
with the acquisition of Teltronic SAU, which 
completed subsequent to the end of the 
period. Following amendments to the terms 
of the Fylde earn-out, and reflecting the 
first year's post acquisition performance, 
€2,320,000 of deferred consideration that 
had been recognised on acquisition will 
now be treated as future management 
remuneration and accordingly this amount 
has been released to the income statement.
While the Board will continue to pursue 
full settlement of the amounts outstanding 
under a Greek public safety contract, given 
the current economic situation in Greece, 
which makes the timing and value of any 
payments uncertain, the Group has  
provided €1,770,000, being the total  
financial exposure.
Revenue (€m)
2013
104.8
2014
116.6
2015
131.2
€131.2m
Record revenues of €131.2 million  
(2014: €116.6 million)
Closing Order Book (€m)
€41.0m
An increase of 212% to €41.0 million  
(2014: €13.1 million)
9.8
13.1
41.0
2013 2014 2015
Strategic Report
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 23 8.4
Financial Review
continued
Closing cash balances at 27 March 2015 
stood at €2.4 million (2014: €8.0 million)  
and net debt, including borrowings acquired 
with Sepura Systems and Portalify, was  
€1.1 million (2014: net cash of €5.3 million).
The balance sheet
The Group’s intangible assets increased 
during the period from €52.9 million to  
€66.6 million primarily due to the acquisition 
of €8.0 million of intangibles with Fylde, and 
net capitalised R&D of €6.4 million. 
Inventory levels, excluding the impact  
of the acquisition of Fylde, increased by  
€1.4 million (2014: decrease of €1.3 million) 
as the Group’s product portfolio broadened 
while trade receivables increased by a net 
€8.7 million (2014: €4.8 million) compared to 
the prior period due to the growth in second 
half revenues over the same period last year 
and the delayed customer receipt referred  
to above. Trade payables increased by  
€9.4 million (2014: €3.9 million), in line with 
increased levels of activity across the Group 
while provisions were reduced by  
€2.7 million, including a €2.3 million release 
of part of the contingent consideration 
relating to Fylde. These movements equate 
to the working capital outflow of €3.4 million 
during the period referred to above.
Share capital
The Company has continued to purchase 
shares for Treasury in anticipation of future 
share option awards vesting, with a further 
2.9 million shares (2014: 0.9 million) acquired 
during the period for total consideration of 
€5.4 million (2014: €1.3 million). 2.2 million 
(2014: 0.5 million) Treasury shares were 
utilised to settle options that vested and 
were exercised during the period, leaving  
1.2 million (2014: 0.5 million) shares  
in Treasury at the end of the period.
A further invitation for eligible employees to 
participate in the Company’s SAYE scheme 
was issued in September, with options over 
0.8 million shares subsequently granted 
at an exercise price of 1.19p. Options were 
also granted to senior executives under 
the Company’s Long-Term Incentive Plan 
totalling 1.8 million shares (2014: 2.0 million). 
These will vest if targets relating to the 
period to 31 March 2017 and 31 March 2018 
are achieved.
Taxation
The Group has continued to benefit from 
enhanced tax relief on qualifying research 
and development expenditure and its 
brought forward tax losses, with €9.5 million 
(net) of losses available for offset against 
future taxable profits (2014: €9.9 million) 
in the UK. These are not available to the 
Group’s overseas subsidiaries, which paid 
an aggregate of €631,000 of corporate 
taxes during the period. The Group also has 
deferred tax liabilities of €8.0 million (2014: 
€6.8 million) in relation to the development 
costs capitalised under IFRS, together with 
€0.9 million (2014: €0.8 million) in relation  
to acquired intangibles, which do not 
represent future tax cash payments and  
will be released to income as the related 
costs are amortised.
EPS
Adjusted diluted earnings per share, based 
on expensing development costs as they are 
incurred and excluding non-recurring items, 
the IFRS 2 share option charge, associated 
National Insurance and the amortisation of 
acquired intangibles, was 9.7 € cents (2014: 
8.4 € cents). IFRS fully diluted earnings per 
share was 10.8 € cents (2014: 9.4 € cents).
Cash flows and financing
The Group continues to generate strong 
operating cash flows, with net cash 
generated from operations of €24.6 million 
(2014: €26.4 million). Cash conversion for 
the year was 88% (2014: 101%) with net 
working capital increasing by €3.4 million 
(2014: decrease of €0.3m). This is broadly in 
line with target cash conversion despite the 
delay in receipt from the Greek public safety 
contract referred to above.
Significant non-operating cash flows during 
the period related to:
• €3.4 million (2014: €5.0 million) paid for 
acquisitions;
• €13.1 million (2014: €12.5 million) spent  
on capitalised development costs;
• €5.2 million (2014: €4.6 million) of other 
capital expenditure due to investment in 
test equipment and tooling for the Group’s 
new DMR portfolio and next generation 
TETRA terminal, and investment in a new 
integrated business system;
• €3.7 million (2014: €3.0 million) paid in 
relation to last year’s final dividend and 
this year’s interim dividend;
• €5.4 million (2014: €1.3 million) purchasing 
shares for Treasury; and
• €0.2 million (2014: €0.2 million) received 
from employees exercising share options.
Adjusted diluted earnings  
per share (¢)
2013
7.8
2014 2015
9.7
9.7¢
An increase of 15% to 9.7¢ (2014: 8.4¢)
Dividend
2.4p
A total dividend of 2.4p per Ordinary 
share (2014: 2.00p)
2013
1.68
2014
2.00
2015
2.4
24 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Dividends
The Board has proposed a final dividend  
of 1.71p per Ordinary share in respect of the 
year (2014: 1.41p), payable on 18 August 
2015 to shareholders on the register at the 
close of business on 17 July 2015, giving  
a total dividend of 2.4p per Ordinary share 
(2014: 2.0p). This represents a 20% increase 
on last year’s total dividend.
Post period events
On 27 May 2015 the Company announced 
that it had completed the acquisition of 
Teltronic for €127.5 million. The acquisition 
was financed through a combination of  
new banking facilities of €120 million from  
a broadened group of banks (which replaced 
all previous facilities) and a £60.5 million 
equity raise, gross of fees and expenses, 
which has significantly broadened the 
Group’s institutional investor base.
Teltronic is highly complementary, both 
in terms of product set and geographical 
penetration, with an extensive infrastructure 
portfolio, an emerging LTE portfolio and P25 
capabilities. The acquisition strengthens the 
Group's presence in both Latin America and 
North America, in addition to extending the 
existing strong EMEA customer base.
Teltronic generated revenues of €62.9 million 
and an adjusted operating profit of €8.4 
million for the year ended 31 December 
2014. At the time of the acquisition, the 
Group announced that the transaction is 
expected to be immediately enhancing 
to adjusted diluted EPS and significantly 
enhancing in the first full year of ownership 
to March 2017.  
There is expected to be significant overlap 
in R&D spend, as well as savings across the 
operating cost base, that are expected to 
generate €3 million of cost synergies per 
annum by the end of the first full year after 
completion. 
Approximately €1.5 million of these are 
expected to be achieved this year, and  
the cost of implementation to realise  
them is expected to be c. €1.9 million.  
The improved product offering, cross selling 
and geographical expansion is expected  
to provide other incremental benefits.
The Relationship Agreement (as defined on 
page 58 of the Company’s Annual Report 
for the year ended 28 March 2014) between 
the Company and its Principal Shareholders 
that has been in effect since the Company’s 
IPO in August 2007 has been terminated 
following the completion of the acquisition 
and associated equity raise.
Steve Chamberlain
Chief Financial Officer
6 July 2015
Adjusted operating profit for the period increased by 20% to 
€15.0 million, (2014: €12.5 million), while the operating profit 
reported under IFRS was €17.1 million (2014: €14.4 million), 
representing growth of 18%.
Strategic Report
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 25 Maintaining  
Long-Term Value
Corporate Social Responsibility
Sepura recognises that a positive approach 
to Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”)  
can have a positive contribution to its 
reputation and the ability to create and 
maintain long-term value for shareholders.
This is why the Board, led by the Chief 
Executive Officer, takes CSR seriously and  
is committed to advancing our related 
policies, systems and initiatives across  
all areas of the business as we continue  
to grow and mature. These areas  
primarily include ethical behaviour,  
concern for employee welfare, health  
and safety, care for the environment  
and community involvement.
We make considerable efforts to communicate 
effectively with all stakeholders who may have 
an interest in our CSR activities, including our 
shareholders, customers, suppliers, partners 
and employees. The Company’s website is one 
of the main routes for providing information 
to interested parties and providing us with 
constructive feedback.
Ethical behaviour
In support of our core values of 
integrity, excellence, care, teamwork 
and commitment, Sepura expects that 
its business around the world is always 
conducted to high ethical standards  
of practice and legal principles. To that  
end, all our employees and business  
partners are also expected to demonstrate 
high standards of professionalism and 
integrity at all times when conducting 
business on the Company’s behalf.  
This is indeed how we behave in practice.
A Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 
(including a whistle-blowing policy)  
covering the whole of the business  
and our various stakeholder interests  
is in place and is regularly reviewed and 
reiterated to staff and business partners.
Human rights
The Group respects all human rights and 
conducts its business in adherence to all 
relevant government guidelines, and takes 
all practical steps to ensure that its products 
are not supplied to organisations that may 
use them to advance terrorism, internal 
repression or otherwise abuse human rights.
Employees
As a business driven largely by technical 
development and innovation, our main 
assets lie in the talents and skills of the 
people we employ. Consequently,  
we aim to attract, retain and motivate  
the highest calibre of employees, both 
technical and non-technical, by encouraging 
and rewarding high performance through 
competitive remuneration and incentive 
arrangements. Sepura continues to be an 
“Investor in People” accredited employer.
Discounted shares for 
employees
20%
The UK's ShareSave Scheme enables 
employees to purchase shares  
in Sepura through regular savings 
made over a three or five year  
period but at a discount of up  
to 20% on the share price as 
determined at the outset
26 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Acknowledging that an environment  
that fosters innovation and collaboration 
is critical to our success, efforts are made 
to identify and provide further learning, 
training and development opportunities 
for our employees. These are structured 
so as to align our organisational objectives 
with personal career aspirations. Formal 
performance reviews, including 360° 
appraisals, are conducted annually.
Similarly, the importance of two-way 
communication is recognised,  
particularly as it relates to the business  
and its performance. We actively encourage 
employee involvement through a Staff 
Council and keep employees regularly 
informed of the Group’s activities and 
performance through team briefings,  
direct access to managers and Directors 
at all levels and by interim and year-end 
presentations to all staff.
During the period, and with a view  
to encouraging share ownership  
amongst its employees, the Company  
issued another invitation to employees  
to join an all-employee ShareSave Scheme 
in the UK. This Scheme, which is HMRC 
approved, enables employees to purchase 
shares in Sepura through regular savings 
made over a three or five year period  
but at a discount of up to 20% on the  
share price as determined at the outset.  
The Company intends to make an annual 
invitation under this Scheme and will from 
time to time consider its extension to other 
countries in which it has established a major 
operating presence.
Equality and diversity
The split of staff by gender at the end  
of the period was as shown opposite.
Sepura is committed to providing  
equality of opportunity to all existing  
and prospective employees without 
unlawful or unfair discrimination.  
In addition, we are supportive of the 
employment and advancement of  
disabled persons. The Group gives full  
and fair consideration to the applications  
for employment from disabled persons,  
having regard to their particular aptitudes 
and abilities. Appropriate arrangements  
are made for the continued employment 
and training, career development and 
promotion of disabled persons employed 
by the Group. If members of staff become 
disabled the Group aims to continue  
their employment, either in the same,  
or an alternative, position, with appropriate 
retraining being given if necessary.
Health and safety
During the period there were no accidents 
reportable under the Reportable Injuries, 
Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences 
Regulations 2013; there were 3 non-
reportable accidents in the UK (2014: 3).  
The Group operates a Health & Safety 
Management System based on the  
ISO18001 framework. The Health and 
Safety Committee meets regularly, with 
responsibility for controlling, directing 
and delegating responsibility to line 
management and functional heads  
for the practical day-to-day compliance  
with the Group’s Health and Safety Policy 
Statement, other operating procedures  
and relevant legislation. Appropriate  
training is also coordinated by this 
Committee, together with an ongoing 
awareness programme for all employees  
to help create and maintain a safe and 
healthy working environment. Health & 
Safety is included as part of the Group’s 
internal audit cycle with periodic audits  
also undertaken by an external consultant.
It continues to be the Company’s policy 
to offer staff free influenza injections and 
additional policy and contingency plans 
are in place in the event of any pandemic 
virus impacting staff health and business 
continuity. Notable health and safety risks 
to the business continue to be fire, electrical 
faults, soldering, manual handling, work 
station use, driving and stress. Employee 
travel to high risk geographies, due to 
the expanding diversity of the Group’s 
customer base, is also of particular concern. 
The statutory testing of all equipment and 
appliances is up to date for all UK offices. 
Manual handling training is mandatory 
for those where risk assessment has 
identified training as necessary, and regular 
work station risk assessments are carried 
out together with any remedial action 
necessary. All staff have free access to a stress 
counselling service and our Occupational 
Road Risk Policy has been re-written to 
reflect current industry best practice.
Sepura welcomes new 
apprentices
Our apprenticeship programme has 
gone from strength to strength; the 
appointment of our latest apprentices  
is testament to, and builds on, the 
success of the scheme. Our first 
apprentices are making excellent 
progress. They are learning, growing 
professionally and have started to add 
real value to the organisation
Gender diversity
 Female
 Male
Directors Other 
Employees
332
54
7
Senior 
Managers
46
2
Strategic Report
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 27 Corporate Social Responsibility
continued
Environmental care
We are committed to minimising  
the environmental impact of our business 
operations and complying with all relevant 
legislation, with pro-active and effective 
environmental management throughout  
our business operations wherever 
practicable. The Company is ISO 14001 
accredited and our business complies  
with relevant legislation and regulations.
We set targets against which we measure 
and report, driving forward continuous 
improvement in resource conservation  
and the prevention of pollution throughout 
the life-cycle of our products with a 
particular focus on:
• Conserving resources through better 
energy efficiency, reduction of travel 
emissions and recycling;
• Promoting sustainable design principles  
in the development of new products  
and packaging;
• Fostering a positive culture amongst  
our employees, customers and supply 
chain by the development and 
communication of clear policies,  
and the promotion of good practice;
• Minimising our impact on the 
communities in which we operate 
through engagement with local 
organisations and raising employee 
awareness; and
• Using our Environmental Management 
System to provide a framework for setting, 
evaluating and reporting environmental 
performance.
Specific initiatives undertaken during  
the last year included:
• Packaging 
 We have applied eco-design principles  
to a review of all of the packaging we  
use, decreasing the size of packaging  
and delivered a lower carbon footprint 
for the packaging itself and reduced 
emissions from shipping.
• Recycling  
 We encourage recycling wherever 
possible, and during the period achieved 
an overall recovery rate of 54% at our 
Cambridge headquarters, up from 47% 
last year.
• Batteries and radios 
 We record sales by weight and  
chemistry to comply with the  
Waste Batteries and Accumulators 
Regulations, and offer a “take-back” 
scheme for batteries and radio  
units that have reached their end- 
of-life. We employ a specialist contractor 
to recycle returns and currently achieve  
a recycle rate of at least 96% per unit.
• Transport 
 We participate in the Government’s  
“Bikes for Work Scheme” for employees, 
and offer staff the opportunity to have 
their bikes serviced free of charge.  
The number of employees based at our 
Cambridge office who, during our travel 
survey week in October 2014, arrived at 
work by bicycle, on foot or using public 
transport now stands at 52%.
By way of supplement to our existing 
Environmental Management System,  
a regular Environmental Update is issued  
to help highlight and explain to staff and 
other interested stakeholders exactly  
what we are doing in this important area.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Sepura is committed to reporting its total 
carbon emissions based on the Scope 1  
and 2 Greenhouse gas emissions from  
across the Group. A “financial control” 
approach has been adopted in conjunction 
with the “GHG Protocol Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard  
(revised edition)” and emission factors  
from UK Government’s “GHG Conversion 
Factors for Company Reporting 2014” to 
determine the Group’s total greenhouse  
gas emissions, based on detailed metrics 
from each of the Group’s locations where 
they are available. Data from several smaller 
offices, based in serviced premises, has been 
excluded on the grounds of materiality as 
the data is not available.
The total emissions and intensity ratios  
for the last financial year, together with  
the prior year that formed the baseline  
year from which progress will be tracked,  
are show above.
Community involvement
Sepura aims to be a responsible  
corporate citizen and active employer  
in the communities in which we operate, 
particularly at our main operating site in 
Cambridge. Sepura is the headline sponsor 
of the Cambridge United Community Trust, 
which was established in 2011 with the aim 
of positively influencing 10,000 children  
per year through a series of programmes  
for young offenders, children at risk of 
exclusion, ethnic minority groups, disability 
groups, the homeless and people living  
in areas of deprivation.
Gordon Watling
Chief Executive Officer
6 July 2015 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
   2015   2014
   Tonnes of   Tonnes of 
   Co
2 
per Tonnes of  Co
2 
per Tonnes
  Tonnes  €1m of Co
2 
per Tonnes of  €1m of  of Co
2
  of Co
2
 revenue employee of Co
2
 revenue employee
Scope 1: Direct emissions  52 0.4 0.1 72 0.6 0.2
Scope 2: Indirect emissions  676 5.2 1.7 1,045 9.0 3.0
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions  728 5.6 1.8 1,117 9.6 3.2
28 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report
Introduction from  
the Chairman
We believe that solid governance principles 
for the Group to operate within are the 
foundations that underpin the creation 
of value for shareholders on a sustainable 
long term basis. My Board colleagues and 
I are therefore committed to setting the 
‘tone from the top’ in terms of instilling high 
standards of corporate governance and 
business integrity.
Sound corporate governance is considered 
by the Board to be at the core of the setting 
and implementation of the strategy for the 
Group by way of both informing decisions 
and monitoring their implementation. 
 The Board has established the structure  
and procedures described in this report  
for these purposes.
Set out in the following pages are:
• Biographical details of the members  
of our Board
• A summary of the operation of our Board 
and its Committees
• A report from our Audit Committee
• The Directors’ Remuneration Report
• The Directors' Report
I hope that readers will find them 
informative.
This Corporate Governance Report also  
sets out how the Company has applied 
the main principles of good governance 
contained in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code 2012 (the “Code”, which can be found 
on the FRC’s website at www.frc.org.uk), for 
the period ended 27 March 2015. The Board 
considers that the Company is compliant 
with the Code with just one exception.
The Board does not currently have  
a nominated Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director, as it continues 
to have this appointment under review, 
although it intends to appoint one in the 
coming year. On his appointment as a new 
independent Non-Executive Director  
during the year, Russell King was appointed 
to the Nominations Committee, bringing 
that Committee into full compliance with 
the Code. 
We look forward to reporting to you  
on these and other developments in  
our Annual Report next year.
Dr. John Hughes CBE Hon DSc
Chairman
6 July 2015 
As an integral part of Sepura’s 
participation in an established 
investment market your Board 
continues to be mindful of the 
responsibility for the Company 
to be managed transparently 
and in an optimal manner to 
maximise success in its business. 
Dr. John 
Hughes CBE 
Hon DSc
Chairman
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 29
Governance Corporate Governance Report
continued
Our Board and 
Senior Management
The Board is responsible for providing 
leadership for the Group. Its prime objectives 
include ensuring that the right strategy and 
controls, together with appropriate financial 
and human resources, are in place to deliver 
value to shareholders and other stakeholders.
Dr. John Hughes CBE Hon DSc (63) N, I
Non-Executive Chairman 
(Chairman of the Nominations Committee)
John Hughes joined the Group as  
non-executive Chairman in July 2010.  
John has more than 30 years' experience  
in the management and strategic 
positioning of complex, high technology 
businesses. John has previously held senior 
positions within a number of leading 
technology companies, including Thales 
Group, Lucent Technologies and Hewlett-
Packard. He is currently Chairman of JUST 
EAT plc, Spectris plc and Telecity Group 
plc and Non-executive director of CSG 
Systems International, Inc., a Nasdaq-listed 
company. John is also an Alzheimer's Society 
Ambassador. John was awarded the CBE for 
services to international telecommunications 
in the Queen’s 2011 New Year Honours 
List, and an honorary Doctor of Science 
in 2014 by The University of Hertfordshire 
in recognition of his contribution to the 
communications and technology sector  
and to the wider business community.
Gordon Watling (47) 
Chief Executive Officer
Gordon Watling was appointed to the  
Board as Chief Executive Officer on  
1 October 2008, having served as Chief 
Operating Officer since joining the Group 
in November 2006. He was previously 
Global Engineering Director of Honeywell's 
Electronic Sensing business from 2003 to 
2006 and Operations Director of Invensys 
Energy Systems from 1998 to 2000, until 
he became Development Manager at HP/
Agilent Technologies in 2000. Prior to that, 
Gordon had operations, development 
and manufacturing roles at Schlumberger 
Industries between 1985 and 1997.
Sion Kearsey (49) N
Non-Executive Director
Sion Kearsey is a founding member of 
Sepura and joined the Group in 2002.  
He was a co-founder and is now Managing 
Partner of Kelso Place Asset Management 
LLP , a private equity firm specialising in 
acquiring controlling interests in UK based 
companies. Sion was previously a Managing 
Director of Goldman Sachs International 
in its Fixed Income, Currencies and 
Commodities Division.
Russell King (57) A, N, R, I
Non-Executive Director
Russell King was appointed to the Board  
in July 2014. He is a highly experienced 
board-level executive and has deployed 
his strong strategic and human capital 
skills across a number of sectors including 
technology, industrials, chemicals and 
mining. He is currently Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of  
the Remuneration Committee of Aggreko 
plc, Non-executive Director and Chairman  
of the Remuneration Committee of Spectris 
plc, Chairman of Humming Bird Resources 
plc and Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director of Interserve plc. He is also a senior 
adviser to Heidrick & Struggles. During his 
career Mr King has been Chief Strategy 
Officer of Anglo American plc and spent over  
20 years at ICI, working within its fertiliser, 
petrochemical and paint businesses.
30 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Senior Management Team
Paul Watson
Chief Operating Officer
Juan Ferro
CEO, Teltronic
Kasper Barfoed
Senior Vice President, Sales
Jonathan Hamill
Vice President, Government and Public 
Safety
Chris D’Aguiar
Vice President, Commercial
Steve Barber
Head of Product Strategy
James Griffiths
Group HR Director
A: Audit Committee
N: Nominations Committee
R: Remuneration Committee
I: Independent Non-Executive Director
Steve Chamberlain (43)
Chief Financial Officer
Steve Chamberlain was appointed  
Chief Financial Officer in March 2012.  
He joined the Group from Autonomy  
where he spent 7 years as VP Finance  
with worldwide responsibility for finance.  
During that time Steve played a pivotal  
role in the successful integration of  
key acquisitions with a combined value  
of $2 billion. He has over 15 years of  
experience in the technology sector  
which includes time in practice at  
Arthur Andersen and Deloitte. Steve  
is a Chartered Accountant and has a 
Masters Degree in Mechanical Engineering, 
Manufacture and Management from the 
University of Birmingham.
Nigel Smith (61) A, N, R, I
Non-Executive Director
(Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee)
Nigel Smith joined the Group in July 2013. 
He is a highly experienced executive  
with deep technology sector expertise. 
He is currently Chairman of Spikes Cavell, 
a business focused on the public sector 
in the UK and USA. Prior to that, he was in 
HM Treasury as Permanent Secretary, Board 
Member and Chief Executive of the Office  
of Government Commerce, and is still 
actively involved with government as an 
adviser. His previous experience includes 
senior board roles at major industrial and 
engineering businesses, including Invensys 
plc, Charter Group plc and TI Group plc.  
He is also a Non-Executive Director of 
Sellafield Ltd.
Gordon Stuart (51) A, N, R, I
Non-Executive Director 
(Chairman of the Audit Committee)
Gordon Stuart joined the Group  
in July 2013, bringing his detailed 
understanding of quoted technology 
businesses. He is currently Chief Financial 
Officer of TMF Group, a leading global 
provider of high value outsourced  
business services. Previously, following 
six years at McKinsey & Co, he held 
senior positions with a number of highly 
successful UK listed businesses, serving as 
Group Finance Director of London Bridge 
Software plc and thereafter Xansa plc. 
He then became Chief Financial Officer 
of recruitment process outsourcing firm, 
Alexander Mann Solutions. He also served 
as a Non-Executive Director of Intec 
Telecom Systems PLC.
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 31
Governance Corporate Governance Report
continued
Summary of the operation of our Board
The Board directs the Company, and 
provides leadership, support and challenge 
to the rest of the Group. The Group operates 
within a framework of appropriate and 
effective controls that enables risks and 
uncertainties to be identified, assessed  
and managed.
The Board:
• sets the Group’s strategic aims;
• ensures that the Company has the 
necessary financial and human resources 
in place;
• reviews management performance;
• defines the Group’s values and standards;
• ensures that its obligations to shareholders 
are understood and met; and
• works closely with the operating 
management to achieve the Group’s 
objectives.
All members of the Board take collective 
responsibility for the Group’s performance.
The Board has seven members, all of whom 
served throughout the financial period, save 
for Russell King who was appointed during 
the period. Its composition is as follows:
• a Non-Executive Chairman, John Hughes, 
who was independent on appointment, 
who chairs the Nominations Committee, 
and who stepped down from the 
Remuneration Committee during the year 
bringing this into compliance with leading 
best practice;
• two Executive Directors, Gordon Watling, 
Chief Executive Officer, and Steve 
Chamberlain, Chief Financial Officer; 
• three independent Non-Executive 
Directors, Russell King, Nigel Smith, 
and Gordon Stuart, all of whom serve 
on each of the Audit, Nominations and 
Remuneration Committees; and 
• A further Non-executive Director, Sion 
Kearsey, who serves on the Nominations 
Committee.
All Directors are able to, and do, devote 
sufficient time and attention to their Board 
duties and responsibilities.
This schedule of matters reserved for the 
Board’s decision is reviewed annually, and 
updated as considered appropriate, as it was 
during the year. In addition, certain matters 
have been delegated to three principal 
Committees within clearly defined terms 
of reference. Their remits, together with 
the composition of each Committee, are 
reviewed annually. The current terms  
of reference for the Audit, Remuneration  
and Nominations Committees are available 
on the Company’s website at www.sepura.
com/investors. Resumés of the roles of  
each of these Committees appear later  
in this Report.
The Directors have access to the advice  
and services of the Company Secretary, 
whose appointment and removal may  
only be effected by the Board. The Company 
Secretary, who also acts as Secretary to 
 each Committee, is responsible for 
information flow to the Board and 
Committees, facilitating the induction  
and professional development of the 
Directors, and advising through the 
Chairman on compliance with Board 
procedures and applicable laws and 
regulations on governance matters.
Board decisions are taken through consensus 
following debate as appropriate. Though 
no Director so requested during the period, 
Directors have the right to request that any 
concerns they may have are recorded in the 
appropriate Board or Committee minutes. 
Minutes are circulated for comment before 
being formally approved at the next relevant 
meeting. There is also an agreed procedure 
by which Directors may take independent 
professional advice relating to their duties  
at the Company’s expense, if required.  
No such advice was taken by any 
Director during the period.
The Board has adopted a formal 
schedule of matters specifically 
reserved for its or its Committees’ 
decision which include:
• the Group’s strategy, which is 
reviewed with relevant members 
of the management team when 
appropriate during the year; 
• the business plan and annual 
operating budget, which are 
prepared and considered in the 
context of the outcome of the 
strategy discussions; 
• internal controls and risk 
management, which are reviewed 
regularly by the Audit Committee;
• major investments, acquisition 
opportunities and capital projects, 
and monitoring their subsequent 
performance;
• accounting policies, which are 
reviewed in detail by the Audit 
Committee;
• dividend policy and payments 
commented on further in the 
Directors’ Report on page 50;
• shareholder communications, 
such as announcements of results 
and this Annual Report and 
accompanying notice of the AGM;
• the Board structure, composition 
and succession planning, which 
are handled in more detail by the 
Nominations Committee;
• Executive remuneration policy  
and the remuneration of the 
Chairman, which are handled by  
the Remuneration Committee; and
• the remuneration of the Non-
Executive Directors, in relation  
to which they do not participate  
in decisions.
32 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 The Board meets regularly at scheduled 
meetings, approximately eight times per 
year. At these meetings, it reviews the 
development, trading performance and 
plans of the Group. If and when required, 
additional meetings are held, usually by 
telephone conference.
A Contract Bid Committee has also been 
established with a remit to help facilitate  
the review and determination of contractual 
bid proposals which exceed pre-determined 
approval limits delegated to management.
Irrespective of their membership, all Non-
Executive Directors may attend Committee 
meetings and the Executive Directors (and 
members of management) may attend and 
present on relevant matters at the invitation 
of the Committee Chairman.
Board balance and independence
The Board believes that its current structure 
and membership of the Chairman, two 
Executive Directors and four Non-Executive 
Directors is appropriate and represents 
a good balance of skills and experience 
necessary to manage the business and  
the Company in an effective and successful 
manner. This composition ensures that a 
proper balance of influence is maintained 
without one person or separate group 
having undue powers of decision making. 
All the Non-Executive Directors bring strong 
independent judgement to bear on the 
Board’s deliberations and decision  
making process.
As recommended by the Code, the Board 
has considered the independence of its  
Non-Executive Directors and determined 
that three of its four Non-Executive Directors 
are independent for this purpose. In  
addition, the Chairman was independent  
at the time of his appointment to that 
position. Sion Kearsey is not deemed to  
be independent under the Code due to his 
shareholding in the Company. Mr Kearsey 
is, though, considered fully independent 
of management and makes a valuable 
contribution to the Board as a whole in  
his role as a Non-Executive Director.
The attendance of current Board and Committee members at meetings and calls, as 
compared with the number of meetings held during the period they were a member  
of the Board or on the relevant Committee, is shown below:
Directors absent from meetings were 
unavoidably prevented from being present. 
Where a Director is unable to attend a 
particular meeting, full documentation  
for the meeting is issued to them, their  
views are sought in advance and briefings  
are provided subsequent to the meeting,  
as appropriate.
1 John Hughes stepped down from the Remuneration 
Committee with effect from 16 March 2015.
2 Denotes Chairman status.
3 Directors do not attend meetings of the 
Remuneration Committee when the Committee 
is deciding matters in relation to such Directors’ 
remuneration.
4 Appointed to the Board and Audit, Nominations and 
Remuneration Committees in July 2014.
All Directors on the Board at that time attended the 
AGM.
Attendance at Board meetings
John Hughes
1
Gordon Watling
Steve Chamberlain
Sion Kearsey
Russell King
4
Nigel Smith
Gordon Stuart
Board (12 meetings)
Audit Committee (3 meetings)
Remuneration Committee (3 meetings)
3
Nominations Committee (1 meeting)
Board or Committee member not present
Non-committee member invited 
to attend some or all of a meeting 
(although not any part of a 
Remuneration Committee meeting  
at which their own remuneration  
was decided)
2 2
2
2
The role of the Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman and Chief 
Executive are separated, with a clear division 
of responsibility at the head of the Company 
having been established, agreed and set out 
in writing. This division of responsibilities 
has recently been reviewed and no changes 
found necessary.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for 
managing the Board, facilitating the effective 
contribution of all Directors, for ensuring 
effective communication with shareholders 
and that all Board members are aware of the 
views of major investors.
The Chief Executive, together with the 
Chief Financial Officer, has been delegated 
appropriate responsibilities and authorities 
for the effective leadership of the senior 
management team in the day-to-day 
running of the business, for carrying out 
the agreed strategy and for implementing 
specific Board decisions relating to the 
Group’s operations. During the period  
the Chairman held both formal and  
informal discussions with the Non-Executive 
Directors without the Executive Directors 
being present.
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 33
Governance Corporate Governance Report
continued
Audit Committee:
Gordon Stuart, Chairman
This Committee comprises solely 
the Company’s three independent 
Non-Executive Directors and reviews 
matters in relation to the Company’s 
financial reporting, internal control 
and risk management on behalf of the 
Board. Its membership and activities are 
commented upon further in its report 
which commences on page 35.
Performance reviews and Directors’ 
development
An internally facilitated evaluation of the 
Board’s performance, individual Directors 
and its Committees, and of the performance 
of the Chairman, was completed during 
the period. The appraisal questionnaires 
used were wide-ranging covering the 
membership, activities and performance of 
the Board and its Committees. The appraisal 
outputs were used to highlight strengths 
and weaknesses and indicated that the 
overall performance was effective. A number 
of areas for improved effectiveness and 
opportunities to develop processes were 
identified for further consideration. The 
Board has agreed specific actions to address 
these. They included matters in relation to 
further ongoing reviews in relation to the 
Group’s industry and its markets generally; 
ongoing strengthening of the management 
team in line with the development of the 
Group; and matters specifically in relation  
the Group’s Committees.
Directors have free access to the Company’s 
officers, management and advisers and 
to visit the Company’s operations. Every 
Director has access to appropriate training, 
as required, subsequent to appointment and 
it is the responsibility of the Chairman and 
the Company Secretary to ensure that the 
Directors are able to update their skills and are 
provided with the necessary resources to do so.
Re-election of Directors
All Directors retire, and where appropriate, 
are proposed for reappointment at the 
Company’s annual general meetings. The 
Board considers that each of the Non-
Executive Directors makes a valuable 
contribution to the Group both at and 
outside Board meetings. Following the 
results of the Board evaluation, the Chairman 
confirms that each of the Non-Executive 
Directors continues to be effective. 
Accordingly they are all to be proposed  
for reappointment
Takeover Directive
Disclosures relating to the Takeover Directive 
are included in the Directors’ Report on  
page 54. 
Shareholder relations
The Board is committed to maintaining 
good communications with existing 
and potential shareholders based on 
the mutual understanding of objectives. 
A comprehensive investor relations 
programme underpins this commitment. 
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief 
Financial Officer and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee have regular 
dialogue with institutional shareholders 
in order to develop an understanding 
of their views which is fed back to, and 
discussed with, the Board and Remuneration 
Committee. Presentations are generally 
given to analysts and investors covering the 
annual and interim results and other major 
corporate events.
The results announcements and results 
presentations, together with all information 
reported to the market via a regulatory 
information service, press releases and other 
shareholder information, are published on 
the Company’s website at www.sepura.
com/investors. Additional Shareholder 
Information is set out on page 108.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend, 
and have the opportunity to ask questions 
at, the Company’s Annual General Meetings 
and at any other times by contacting  
the Company. The Chairmen of the Audit, 
Nominations and Remuneration Committees 
will be available at the Annual General 
Meeting to answer questions relating to  
the responsibilities of those Committees.
The Notice convening the 2015 AGM  
will be issued at least 20 working days 
in advance of the meeting and separate 
resolutions will be proposed on each 
substantially separate matter. The results  
of the proxy votes on each resolution will  
be published on the Company’s website 
after the meeting.
Nominations Committee:
John Hughes, Chairman
The Nominations Committee now 
comprises the Chairman, who was 
considered independent on  
appointment, and four other Non-
Executive Directors, three of whom 
are considered independent. It is 
responsible for evaluating the balance 
of skills, knowledge and experience 
of the Directors. It also reviews the 
composition and structure of the Board 
and makes recommendations to the 
Board on retirements and appointments 
of additional and replacement Directors, 
including succession planning.
The Nominations Committee selected and 
recommended the appointment of Russell 
King before he joined the Board at the time 
of last year’s AGM. This followed a formal, 
rigorous and transparent recruitment 
process. The Nominations Committee 
was able to select Mr King from a range of 
suitable candidates without any need to 
appoint an external search firm or engage 
in open advertising and considered  
him to be ideally suited for the role. This 
included all existing Directors meeting  
Mr King prior to the recommendation  
for his appointment.
The Board recognises the benefits 
of diversity in its membership as in 
the Group more generally and has a 
policy that recruitments to the Board 
should enhance this. The Directors 
currently on the Board are from a 
diverse range of backgrounds and 
provide a wide range of knowledge, 
skills and experience enriching Board 
discussions and informing its decision 
making. Gender diversity in the Group 
is commented upon under Corporate 
Social Responsibility on page 27 and 
the Board supports this approach as 
part of its own policy.
Remuneration Committee:
Nigel Smith, Chairman
The Remuneration Committee comprises 
three independent Non-Executive 
Directors and meets at least three 
times per year, as it did in the period, 
and otherwise as necessary. It sets the 
Company’s remuneration strategy and 
determines, on behalf of the Board 
and within its agreed remuneration 
framework, the individual remuneration 
package and conditions of employment 
of each of the Executive Directors and the 
Chairman.
No Director is involved in deciding 
his own remuneration whether 
determined by the Committee, or 
in the case of other Non-Executive 
Directors, by the Board.
The Directors’ Remuneration  
Report on pages 38 to 49  
includes a more detailed description 
of the role and activities of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Board Committees
34 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 The Audit
Committee
Report of the Audit Committee
The Committee:
• is Chaired by Gordon Stuart who has 
recent, significant and relevant financial 
experience from his current Chief Financial 
Officer role external to the Group as well 
as his past roles in public and private 
companies;
• is responsible for recommending the 
appointment, review and remuneration  
of the external auditors and has authority 
to approve their engagement for both 
audit and permitted non-audit services 
within an agreed framework;
• assesses the independence, objectivity 
and effectiveness of the external auditors 
against specific criteria;
• reviews the external audit process and 
post-audit findings;
• reviews the annual and half-year financial 
statements, the Group’s accounting 
policies and procedures and its financial 
control environment; 
• monitors the Group’s system of internal 
controls, including financial, operational 
and compliance risk management;
• reviews updates to the Group’s key 
policies including, during the period,  
its anti-bribery and related policies and  
its whistleblowing arrangements, which  
now include an externally managed 
hotline; and
• considers whether, in its view, the Annual 
Report taken as a whole provides a fair, 
balanced and understandable assessment 
of the Group’s position and prospects, the 
ultimate judgement on which is decided 
by the Board.
The Committee met three times during the year and addressed the following:
Topic What was considered
Financial reporting The Annual Report, Interim Results and 
related announcements, together with 
reports from the external auditor. Further 
details on specific financial reporting risks 
identified, and their mitigation, are given 
below. 
Internal controls The effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
control systems and risk management 
processes in place during the period,  
as set out on pages 36 and 37.
Risk register The Group’s risk register, which forms 
an integral part of the Group’s risk 
management process, as set out on 
page 37.
The external auditor The proposed audit plan of the external 
auditor, together with the results of their 
review of the Interim Results, the audit of 
the Annual Report, their proposed fees and 
the policies in place to ensure the external 
auditor’s independence.
Going concern The basis of the statement on Going 
Concern on page 52.
Audit Committee:
Gordon Stuart, Chairman 
The Audit Committee comprises three 
independent Non-Executive Directors, 
in accordance with the provisions  
of the Code.
The Committee meets at least 
three times a year, together with 
representatives of the executive and 
finance management teams and the 
external auditors as appropriate. It 
also meets privately with the external 
auditors on a regular basis.
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 35
Governance The Audit Committee has set a policy which 
is intended to maintain the independence 
and integrity of the Company’s auditors 
when acting as auditor of the Group’s 
accounts. The policy governs the provision 
of audit and non-audit services provided 
by the auditor and, in summary, requires 
significant non-audit services other than 
other assurance services and routine tax 
compliance services to be subject to a 
competitive tendering process. The fees paid 
to the auditor for audit services, audit related 
services and other non-audit services are set 
out in Note 9 to the consolidated financial 
statements.
Non-audit services over £5,000 are subject  
to approval by the Audit Committee.
The Company recognises the new 
requirements for the tendering of audits 
and will comply with these. The Audit 
Committee in any case keeps this possibility 
under review, taking into account the 
outcome of its annual review of the 
effectiveness of the external audit process. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has served as 
the Company’s auditor for the last 13 years, 
during the last 8 of which the Company’s 
Ordinary shares have been traded on the 
Official List of the London Stock Exchange. 
There has not been an audit tender during 
that time. Rotation of the audit engagement 
partner in line with the relevant guidelines 
will take place in the coming year.
The Audit Committee is authorised to 
engage the services of external advisers,  
as it deems necessary, at the Company’s 
expense in order to carry out its functions.
Internal controls and risk management 
environment
The Board is ultimately responsible for the 
operation of an effective system of internal 
control and risk management appropriate 
to the business. Of course, any control 
system can provide only reasonable and 
not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. The Company has 
complied with the FRC’s Internal Control 
Guidance for Directors on the Code 
throughout the period and up to the date 
on which these financial statements were 
approved.
Day-to-day operating and financial 
responsibility rests with senior management 
and performance is closely monitored 
through the Operations Management 
Committee, which meets on a weekly basis.
Report of the Audit Committee
continued
As part of its consideration of the Annual Report the Committee identified the following 
significant financial reporting issues:
Significant financial reporting  
issues for 2015
How the committee addressed  
these issues
Revenue recognition The Committee assessed the Group’s 
policy in relation to revenue recognition, 
including long-term contracts, together 
with associated risk management and 
approval processes.
Overdue accounts receivable The Committee reviewed the 
methodology used to assess overdue 
accounts for potential indicators of 
impairment, together with management’s 
judgement as to the level of provision 
required against specific receivables.
Capitalisation of development costs The Committee reviewed the 
methodology used to determine whether 
specific projects qualified for capitalisation, 
and when amortisation should commence, 
together with the basis for subsequent 
reviews of capitalised development costs 
for potential impairment and useful 
economic lives.
Acquisition accounting The Committee reviewed the 
methodology used to assess the fair value 
of the assets and liabilities acquired with 
Fylde Micro Limited, together with the 
likely level of contingent consideration 
payable. 
36 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 The following key elements comprise the 
present internal control environment which 
has been designed to identify, evaluate and 
manage, rather than eliminate, the risks 
faced by the Group in seeking to achieve 
its business objectives and ensure accurate 
and timely reporting of financial data for the 
Company and the Group.
The process is embedded in the Group 
through various operational and financial 
control and procedure statements:
• an appropriate organisational structure 
with clear lines of responsibility;
• a comprehensive annual strategic  
and business planning process;
• systems of control procedures and 
delegated authorities, which operate 
within defined guidelines, and approval 
limits for capital and operating 
expenditure and other key business 
transactions and decisions;
• a robust financial control, budgeting  
and rolling forecast system, which  
includes regular monitoring, variance 
analysis, key performance indicator 
reviews and risk and opportunity 
assessments at Board level;
• procedures by which the Company's 
consolidated financial statements are 
prepared, which are monitored and 
maintained through the use of internal 
control frameworks addressing key 
financial reporting risks arising from 
changes in the business or accounting 
standards;
• an experienced and commercially focused 
legal function that supports the Group’s 
bid and contracts’ management process;
• established policies and procedures 
setting out expected standards of integrity 
and ethical standards which reinforce the 
need for all employees to adhere to all 
legal and regulatory requirements;
• an experienced and qualified finance 
function which regularly assesses the 
possible financial impact of the risks facing 
the Group; and
• an ongoing risk management programme, 
including a comprehensive disaster 
recovery and business interruption plan.
The Audit Committee considers annually 
whether there is any need for a separate 
internal audit activity and has again 
concluded in the period that in its opinion, 
given the scale and nature of the Group’s 
operations, this is not required.
A Risk Committee, comprising the senior 
management team, meets on a regular basis. 
The Company has a robust risk management 
process that follows a sequence of risk 
identification, assessment of probability  
and impact, and assigns an owner to 
manage mitigation activities. A register is 
kept of all corporate risks and is monitored 
by the Risk Committee. The Risk Committee, 
the Audit Committee and the Board 
together ensure that the risk management 
process is operating effectively.
This approach to risk management helps 
to facilitate top-down and bottom-up 
perspectives across key business risks within 
the organisation. The corporate risk register 
is presented to, and reviewed by, the Audit 
Committee regularly.
The internal control process described  
above has been in place throughout the 
period and up to the date of approval  
of this Annual Report.
The Company’s Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics, which was reviewed and 
refreshed during the year has been  
re-communicated across the Company 
together with the Whistleblowing Policy 
which provides a mechanism through which 
employees can raise public interest issues 
on a confidential basis. These policies form 
an integral part of the Company’s internal 
control policy. All employees received 
specific training on anti-bribery measures 
during the year.
Review of effectiveness
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the 
Board, has reviewed the effectiveness 
of the internal control systems and risk 
management processes in place during 
the period, taking account of any material 
developments since the financial period 
end, and can confirm that no failings 
or weaknesses were found which the 
Committee considered significant. This 
judgement was reached after reviews of 
reports received from management and  
the results of external audits.
Gordon Stuart
Chairman of the Audit Committee
6 July 2015
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 37
Governance Directors' Remuneration Report
Annual  
Statement
Our remuneration policy is appropriately 
aligned with the strategic goals of the Group.
Dear Shareholder
This report, which has been prepared 
by the Remuneration Committee 
(the “Committee“) and approved 
by the Board for the financial year 
ended 27 March 2015, sets out the 
remuneration policy for the Directors 
of the Company. As a result of the 
shareholder voting and disclosure 
requirements published by the 
Department for Business, Innovation 
and Skills, this report has been divided 
into three sections:
• This Annual Statement, which 
demonstrates how performance  
has linked to reward and summarises 
the decisions made by the Committee 
in the year;
• The Remuneration Policy Report, 
which sets out the Group's policy 
on the remuneration of Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors which, 
following shareholder approval, 
became effective from the 2014 
AGM; and
• The Annual Report on Remuneration, 
which discloses details of the 
Remuneration Committee, how the 
remuneration policy will operate 
for the period ending 1 April 2016 
(“FY16”) and how the policy was 
implemented in the period ended  
27 March 2015 (“FY15”).
The Remuneration Policy Report which was 
approved at the Company’s AGM in 2014 
has been included for information only 
given that no changes are proposed. This 
Annual Statement and the Annual Report on 
Remuneration will be subject to an advisory 
vote at the 2015 AGM.
Remuneration policy and reward for FY15
The Company performance during FY15 has 
been strong with revenues up 12%, adjusted 
operating profit up 20% and adjusted diluted 
earnings per share up 15%. However as 
a result of the challenging performance 
targets set this level of performance only 
resulted in a 17% payout under the terms  
of the FY15 STIP.
The FY15 results also form the basis for one 
third of the FY13 LTIP granted in July 2012 
and while performance has been strong 
the Group only met the minimum adjusted 
EBITDA target of €15.3 million and hence 
vesting for this component will be 10% of 
the maximum for this part of the award. The 
remaining components of the LTIP are based 
on share price performance and as such, full 
vesting under these parts are expected July 
2015 when the scheme performance period 
for these awards ends.
Remuneration policy for FY16
The Company is not proposing any  
changes to the Remuneration Policy for 
FY16. The key points to note in relation  
to the coming year are:
• The base salary levels for the Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer will be reviewed and become 
effective from 1 July 2015 following a 
review of both individual and Company 
performance which will be carried out 
during July 2015. Major investors will be 
consulted to the extent this is considered 
appropriate.
• Benefit and pension provision will remain 
unchanged, with the Company pension 
contribution (or salary supplement in  
lieu) limited to no more than 10% of  
base salary.
• The STIP will remain capped at 120% of 
salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 
100% of salary for the Chief Financial 
Officer. Targets will continue to be 
challenging and primarily based around 
financial performance, requiring growth  
in adjusted operating profit of over 20% 
for the maximum payout to be achieved.
• The level of bonus received to be awarded 
in deferred shares will be increased from 
40% to 50% with a normal deferral period 
of two years.
• LTIP awards will continue to be granted 
at 150% of salary for Executive Directors 
with performance targets again based 
on challenging Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR); adjusted EBITDA and Absolute  
Share Price targets measured over  
a three year period. 
• Share ownership guidelines will continue 
to operate at 100% of salary and, 
consistent with best practice, clawback 
provisions will apply.
Shareholder engagement
The Committee continues to take an  
active interest in shareholder views on  
our executive remuneration policy and  
is mindful of the views of shareholders  
and other stakeholders. This is reflected  
in our voting result at the 2014 AGM,  
which was over 99% in favour of the 
Directors' Remuneration Report resolution.  
In conclusion, we intend that 
implementation of our remuneration  
policy for FY16 onwards will continue  
to be appropriately aligned with the 
strategic goals of the Group in supporting 
long terms success and delivering sustained 
shareholder value.
Nigel Smith
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
6 July 2015
38 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Remuneration  
Policy Report
This part of the Directors' Remuneration 
Report sets out the remuneration policy for 
the Group which has operated and became 
formally effective from the Company’s 2014 
AGM. No changes are being proposed to 
this policy framework for FY16 although 
certain disclosures in this section of the 
report that do not affect the policy itself have 
been updated to reflect the latest available 
information. 
Policy overview
The Committee’s policy for the remuneration 
of the Executive Directors and senior 
management team members is based  
on the following three key principles:
1. To provide remuneration in a form and 
amount that is sufficient to attract, retain 
and motivate a senior management team 
of the calibre and experience required to 
run the Company successfully;
2. To ensure that there is a strong link 
between reward and corporate and 
individual performance. To this end, it 
has been the Committee’s policy to set 
fixed pay levels broadly around market 
levels, but to provide the opportunity to 
earn upper quartile rewards for achieving 
and exceeding the Group’s business plan 
through variable performance-linked 
remuneration; and
3. To provide alignment with shareholders’ 
interests by ensuring that a significant 
proportion of the remuneration package  
is delivered in the form of shares  
(via the compulsory deferral of a portion 
of any bonus earned and participation 
in the Long-Term Incentive Plan) and 
by encouraging the Executive Directors 
to build up a meaningful holding of the 
Company’s shares over time through  
the operation of a formal shareholding 
guideline.
Consequently, the Committee structures 
executive remuneration in two distinct parts:
(i)  fixed remuneration comprising base 
salary, benefits and pension to recognise 
day to day responsibilities and support 
the internal control and risk management 
elements of the Group strategy; and
(ii) variable performance-related 
remuneration provided through 
participation in the annual bonus and 
long-term incentive plan to provide 
motivation for achieving the Group's 
shorter and longer-term aims.
The Committee aims to ensure that the 
incentive structure for Executive Directors 
and senior management does not raise 
environmental, social or governance risks 
by inadvertently motivating irresponsible 
behaviour. More generally, with regard 
to the overall remuneration structure, 
the Committee also ensures that the 
remuneration policy does not encourage 
inappropriate operational risk-taking and 
is aligned with the Company's risk policies 
and systems. The Group’s remuneration 
policy is reviewed regularly to ensure that it 
remains appropriate and recognises any key 
developments in remuneration practice and 
corporate governance.
Remuneration scenarios for Executive 
Directors for FY16
The charts above, which are the same as 
those presented last year, show how the 
composition of the Executive Directors' 
remuneration packages varies at three 
performance levels, namely, at minimum  
(i.e. fixed pay), target and maximum levels, 
under the policy set out in the table above.
The charts above are based on:
• salary levels effective 1 July 2014
• an approximated annual value of benefits 
for FY16
• an annualised pension contribution  
(as a % of salary)
• a 120% of salary maximum annual bonus 
for the Chief Executive Officer and 100% 
of salary maximum annual bonus for 
the Chief Financial Officer (with target 
assumed to be 50% of the max)
• a 150% of salary award under the 
Long Term Incentive Plan (with target 
assumed to be 50% of the maximum). 
The additional award proposed for the 
Chief Executive Officer for FY15 has been 
excluded from the analysis given that it is 
not part of the ongoing policy
• No share price appreciation in respect  
of the share awards has been assumed  
in line with the legislation.
Value of remuneration packages at different levels of performance
Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer
Minimum Maximum On-target
45%
250
0
1,500
£‘000
1,250
1,000
750
500
24%
31%
40%
31%
100%
 LTIP award
 Bonus
 Basic salary, benefits 
and pension
29%
Minimum
100%
On-target
47%
Maximum
31%
21%
28%
32%
41%
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 39
Governance Directors' Remuneration Report
continued
Summary Director policy table
The table below summarises the remuneration policy for Directors which, following shareholder approval, became effective from  
the 2014 AGM:
Purpose and Link  
to Strategy
Operation Maximum Performance  
Targets
Salary Reflects the role, 
responsibilities and 
experience of the 
individual. 
Provides an appropriate 
level of basic fixed income 
avoiding excessive risk 
arising from over reliance 
on variable income.
Normally reviewed 
annually, effective 1 July.
Normally paid in cash  
on a monthly basis.
Comparisons against 
companies with similar 
characteristics and in 
similar sectors are taken 
into account.
There is no prescribed 
maximum or maximum 
annual base salary 
increase.
The Committee is 
guided by the general 
increase for the broader 
employee population 
but may decide to 
award a lower increase 
or a higher increase for 
Executive Directors to 
recognise, for example, 
an increase in the scale, 
scope or responsibility of 
the role and/or to take 
account relevant market 
movements.
N/A
Benefits Provides market consistent 
benefits.
Supports the individual 
and their family during 
periods of ill health or 
death.
Benefits currently 
comprised of life assurance 
and private medical cover.
Other benefits may 
be provided where 
appropriate.
N/A N/A
Pension Provides competitive 
retirement benefits.
Defined contribution and/
or cash supplement.
Up to 10% of basic salary 
p.a.
N/A
Bonus Incentivises delivery of 
Group and personal/
strategic annual goals.
Maximum bonus only 
payable for achieving 
demanding targets.
Non-pensionable.
Part of the bonus may be 
payable in deferred shares 
which normally vest after 3 
years, subject to continued 
employment.
Dividend equivalents may 
be payable (in cash or 
shares) on any deferred 
bonus shares.
Up to 120% of salary p.a. Group profit-related target 
will apply for the majority 
(if not all).
Personal and/or strategic 
targets may be applied for 
a minority.
One year performance 
period.
Clawback provisions apply.
Remuneration Policy Report
continued
40 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Purpose and Link  
to Strategy
Operation Maximum Performance  
Targets
Long Term 
Incentive Plan
Aligned to main strategic 
objectives of delivering 
long-term value creation.
Encourages co-
investment.
Aligns Executive Directors' 
interests with those of 
shareholders.
Retention.
Grant policy normally 
based on the annual grant 
of share awards which 
normally vest subject to 
continued service and 
performance targets. 
The Committee reviews 
the quantum of awards 
annually and monitors 
the continuing suitability 
of the performance 
measures.
150% of salary p.a. 
maximum limit.
300% of salary exceptional 
limit for 2014/15, 200% 
of salary exceptional limit 
thereafter.
Participants may benefit 
from the value of 
dividends paid over the 
vesting period to the 
extent that awards vest. 
This benefit is delivered 
in the form of cash or 
additional shares at the 
time that awards vest.
Performance normally 
measured over three 
years although longer 
performance periods  
may apply.
Financial measures (e.g. 
EBIDTA) and / or relative 
share price related targets 
(e.g. TSR). 
No more than 25% 
may vest at threshold 
performance increasing to 
100% vesting at maximum.
Clawback provisions apply.
All employee 
share plans
Encourages employee/
shareholder alignment and 
long-term shareholdings 
in the Company.
Invitations made by the 
Committee under the 
Sharesave (or any other 
all employee share plan 
introduced in the future).
As per prevailing  
HMRC limits.
N/A
Share 
ownership 
guidelines
Provides alignment 
of interests between 
Executive Directors and 
shareholders.
Executive Directors are 
required to build (over 
time) and maintain a 
shareholding equivalent  
to at least one year's  
base salary.
At least 100% of salary. N/A
Non-Executive 
Directors
Provides fees reflecting 
time commitments and 
responsibilities, in line with 
those provided by similarly 
sized companies.
Normally based on  
a cash fee.
Normally paid on  
a monthly basis.
Fees are reviewed 
periodically.
There is no prescribed 
maximum fee increase 
The Board, excluding 
Non-Executive Directors, 
is guided by market rates, 
time commitments and 
responsibility levels.
N/A
Notes:
(1) The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus scheme reflect the Committee’s belief that any incentive compensation should be appropriately 
challenging and tied to both the delivery of profit growth and personal and/or strategic objectives. The Remuneration Committee may in its sole discretion at any time 
make adjustments to the targets for factors not taken into account at the time they were set, such as subsequent acquisitions or other exceptional items.
(2) The performance conditions applicable to the FY15 LTIP were selected by the Remuneration Committee on the basis that they reward the delivery of long-term returns 
to shareholders and the Group's financial performance and are consistent with the Company's objective of delivering superior levels of long-term value to shareholders. 
Performance conditions in future years may differ from those in 2015 if considered appropriate by the Committee.
(3) The Committee operates the LTIP and its all-employee share plan in accordance with the plan rules, the Listing Rules and HMRC legislation and the Committee, consistent 
with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of the plan.
(4) Consistent with HMRC legislation, the all-employee Sharesave scheme does not have performance conditions. 
(5) For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors' Remuneration Policy, authority was given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current 
or former Directors (such as the payment of the prior year's annual bonus or the vesting/exercise of share awards granted in the past). Details of any payments to former 
Directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 41
Governance Directors' Remuneration Report
continued
Remuneration Policy Report 
continued
How employees' pay is taken into account
Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group 
were considered when finalising the 
current policy for Executive Directors and 
continue to be considered in relation to 
implementation of this policy. In order to  
do so, the Committee regularly interacts  
with the CEO and other senior executives.
How the Executive Directors' remuneration 
policy relates to the wider Group
The remuneration policy described above 
provides an overview of the structure that 
operates for the most senior executives 
in the Group. Employees below executive 
level have a lower proportion of their total 
remuneration made up of incentive-based 
remuneration, with remuneration driven by 
market comparators and the impact of the 
role of the employee in question. Long-term 
incentives are reserved for those judged as 
having the greatest potential to influence 
the Group's earnings growth and share price 
performance.
How shareholders’ views are taken  
into account
The Committee continues to take an  
active interest in shareholder views on  
our executive remuneration policy and  
is mindful of the concerns of shareholders 
and other stakeholders. This is reflected in 
our voting result at the 2014 AGM, at which 
over 99% of the votes cast were in favour 
of the Directors' Remuneration Report 
resolution. The Committee consulted with 
institutional and other substantial investors 
in the Company representing approximately 
75% of the Company’s share capital on 
the current policy and proposals for FY15. 
The policy presented in this report reflects 
the results of that consultation. To the 
extent that there are any changes to the 
Remuneration Policy or any major changes 
to the way the policy is implemented, our 
major shareholders will be consulted where 
appropriate.
Service contracts
 Effective date of Notice period from Company
 service agreement (from employee)
  
Gordon Watling 1 October 2008 12 months (2014: 12 months)
Steve Chamberlain 26 March 2012 6 months (2014: 6 months)
Service contracts
 Effective date of Commencement of Unexpired term (months) 
 letter of appointment current three year term from 27 March 2015
  
John Hughes 21 July 2010 21 July 2013 16
Sion Kearsey 01 July 2007 01 July 2013 15
Russell King 30 July 2014 30 July 2014 28
Nigel Smith 22 July 2013 22 July 2013 16
Gordon Stuart 22 July 2013 22 July 2013 16
Non-Executive Directors' letters  
of appointment
Each of the Chairman and Non-Executive 
Directors has a letter of appointment from 
the Company (rather than a contract of 
service) setting out the terms on which 
the appointment is made. The letter of 
appointment of the Chairman may be 
terminated on three months’ notice by 
the Chairman or six months’ notice by the 
Company. The letters of appointment of 
the independent Non-Executive Directors 
may be terminated by either party on one-
months’ notice. The letter of appointment 
of the non-independent Non-Executive 
Director terminates automatically in line with 
the Company’s articles or on three months’ 
notice from the Director. The Company 
may elect to make a payment in lieu of any 
unexpired portion of notice period for earlier 
termination. The letters of appointment are 
available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office during normal business 
hours. Relevant appointment letter and  
term dates are set out in the table below.
Directors' Remuneration 
Report Resolution
99%
Over 99% of votes at the 2014 AGM 
were in favour of the Directors' 
Remuneration Report Resolution
42 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Approach to recruitment and promotions
The remuneration package for a new 
Executive Director would be set in 
accordance with the terms of the Company’s 
prevailing approved remuneration policy 
at the time of appointment and take into 
account the skills and experience of the 
individual, the market rate for a candidate 
of that experience and the importance of 
securing the relevant individual. 
Salary would be provided at such a level 
as required to attract the most appropriate 
candidate and may be set initially at a below 
mid-market level on the basis that it may 
progress towards the mid-market level once 
expertise and performance has been proven 
and sustained. 
The annual bonus potential would be limited 
to 120% of salary and grants under the LTIP 
would be limited to 150% of salary (300% 
of salary in exceptional circumstances). 
In addition, the Committee may offer 
additional cash and/or share-based elements 
to replace deferred or incentive pay forfeited 
by an executive leaving a previous employer. 
It would seek to ensure, where possible, 
that these awards would be consistent with 
awards forfeited in terms of vesting periods, 
expected value and performance conditions.
For an internal Executive Director 
appointment, any variable pay element 
awarded in respect of the prior role may  
be allowed to pay out according to its 
original terms.
For external and internal appointments,  
the Committee may agree that the Company 
will meet certain relocation and/or incidental 
expenses as appropriate.
Fee structure and quantum for Non-
Executive Director appointments will be 
based on the prevailing Non-Executive 
Director fee policy.
Approach to leavers
No Executive Director has the benefit of 
provisions in his or her service contract 
for the payment of pre-determined 
compensation in the event of termination  
of employment or a change of control. It  
has been the Committee’s general policy 
that the service contracts of Executive 
Directors (none of which are for a fixed 
term) should provide for termination 
of employment by giving notice or by 
making a payment of an amount in lieu of 
notice (equal to base salary, pension and 
bonus for any completed year in respect 
of Gordon Watling’s contract and base 
salary in respect of Steve Chamberlain’s 
contract). In determining amounts payable 
on termination, the Committee also will 
also consider the Executive Director’s duty 
to mitigate his loss and amounts may be 
payable in instalments.
In respect of Gordon Watling, if the 
Company terminates without cause on 
or after the end of the third quarter of the 
financial year, the executive is entitled to 
a pro-rata proportion of the bonus paid in 
cash at the normal payment date. In respect 
of Steve Chamberlain, an annual bonus may 
be payable with respect to the period of the 
financial year served, although it will be pro-
rated for time and normally paid in cash at 
the normal payment date.
Any share-based entitlements granted to 
an Executive Director under the Company’s 
share plans will be determined based on 
the relevant plan rules. However, in certain 
prescribed circumstances such as ill-health, 
injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, 
sale of employing company or business or 
other circumstances at the discretion of the 
Committee, “good leaver” status may be 
applied. For good leavers:
• Deferred share bonus awards will normally 
vest at cessation; and
• LTIP awards will normally vest at the date 
of cessation, subject to the satisfaction of 
the relevant performance conditions at 
that time and reduced pro-rata to reflect 
the proportion of the vesting period 
actually served. However, other than in the 
case of death where LTIP awards vest on 
the date of death subject to performance 
and time pro-rating, the Remuneration 
Committee has discretion to determine 
that awards vest at some other date (e.g. 
the normal vesting date) and/or disapply 
time pro-rating.
Outside interests 
Executive Directors may accept external 
Non-Executive Director appointments with 
prior approval of the Board and provided 
that such appointments do not prejudice 
their ability to fulfil their executive duties 
with the Company. Whether an Executive 
Director is entitled to retain any fees relating 
to such an appointment will be considered 
on a case-by-case basis. No Non-Executive 
Directorships were held by the Executive 
Directors during the year.
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 43
Governance Directors' Remuneration Report
continued
Annual Report  
on Remuneration
Implementation of the Remuneration Policy for FY16
Base salary
The base salary for each Executive Director 
is determined by the Remuneration 
Committee taking into account the role, 
responsibilities, performance and experience 
of the individual. When setting base salary 
levels, the Remuneration Committee 
takes into account the performance of 
the individual, the Company’s particular 
circumstances and market data on salary 
levels for similar positions in comparable 
companies (although the latter is used with 
caution given the risk of creating an upwards 
ratchet in pay levels). The current annual 
salaries for the Chief Executive Officer and 
Chief Financial Officer, effective from 1 July 
of each year, are shown in the table above.
The base salary levels for the Chief Executive 
Officer and Chief Financial Officer were 
reviewed last year and the increases  
(10% and 5% respectively, as detailed and 
explained in last year’s Annual Report on 
Remuneration) became effective on 1 July 
2014. No changes to base salary levels have 
since been made although salary levels will 
be reviewed during July 2015 (becoming 
effective 1 July 2015) once the Committee 
has considered both individual and 
Company performance. Major investors  
will be consulted to the extent this is 
considered appropriate.
Benefits in kind and pension
Non-pension benefits will continue to 
comprise life assurance and private medical 
insurance cover. The current range of 
benefits and their value are considered to 
be broadly in line with those provided to 
Executive Directors in other similarly sized 
listed companies and they will continue  
to be reviewed and monitored annually.
Executive Directors will continue to be eligible 
to participate in a defined contribution 
group personal pension plan into which 
the Company contributes on behalf of 
participating individuals. Alternatively, 
an equivalent salary supplement may be 
provided. The pension contributions for 
Executive Directors for the coming year  
are currently anticipated to remain at  
10% of salary.
  2015/2016 2014/2015 
  £’000 £’000 % Increase
  
Gordon Watling Chief Executive Officer £330,000 £330,000 –
Steve Chamberlain Chief Financial Officer £190,000 £190,000 –
Performance-related 
annual bonus
The annual bonus plan is designed 
to drive and reward the short-term 
operating performance of the Group 
which should, in turn, lead to the 
generation of sustained long-term 
returns to shareholders
44 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Non-Executive Directors
 2015/2016 2014/2015
 £’000 £’000
Chairman 145 145
Non-Executive
Director fee 40 40
Committee Chair fee 5 5
Performance-related annual bonus 
The annual bonus plan is designed to 
drive and reward the short-term operating 
performance of the Group which should, 
in turn, lead to the generation of sustained 
long-term returns to shareholders. 
Bonuses are not pensionable. For FY16, 
the performance targets for the Executive 
Directors under the annual bonus will be 
linked to the Group’s financial performance. 
Financial performance will be measured by 
reference to demanding profit targets while 
personal performance targets will be linked 
to specific business and personal objectives. 
The maximum bonus potential for the 
Executive Directors for FY16 will continue 
to be 120% of base salary for the Chief 
Executive Officer and 100% of base salary  
for the Chief Financial Officer.
To ensure a further alignment of interest 
between Executive Directors and 
shareholders, any bonus paid will, at the 
discretion of the Committee, be settled by 
a combination of cash (50%) and deferred 
Sepura plc shares (50%). The deferred shares 
(together with any dividends received 
thereon) will normally vest after two years 
subject to continued employment.
Long-term incentives 
The Sepura Long-Term Incentive Plan 
continues to be the Group’s primary long-
term incentive arrangement. It is envisaged 
that the FY16 awards granted to Executive 
Directors will be not more than 150% of 
salary and will be subject to the following 
performance conditions measured over 
three years from grant or, in the case of 
adjusted EBITDA, three financial years ending 
31 March 2018:
(a) One third absolute share price growth 
measured over the three years from 
grant (with testing based on the 90 day 
average share price prior to grant and the 
90 day average ending prior to the third 
anniversary of grant). 10% of this part of 
an award vests for an average share price 
growth of 5% compound p.a. increasing 
pro-rata to 55% of this part of an award 
vesting for a share price growth of 10% 
compound p.a. increasing pro-rata to 
100% of this part of an award vesting for 
a share price of 15% compound p.a. or 
more. No vesting will take place for this 
part of an award for a share price growth 
less than 5% compound p.a.
(b) One third relative TSR as measured over 
the 3 years from grant – 10% of this 
part of an award vests for median TSR 
increasing pro-rata to 100% of this part of 
an award vesting for upper quartile TSR of 
the FTSE SmallCap (excluding investment 
trusts) at grant. No vesting will take place 
for this part of an award for a TSR below 
median; and
(c) One third adjusted EBITDA growth as 
measured from FY15 to FY18. 10% of this 
part of an award vests for an adjusted 
EBITDA growth of 10% compound 
p.a., 25% of this part of an award vests 
for adjusted EBITDA growth of 14% 
compound p.a. increasing pro rata to 
full vesting for this part of an award 
for an adjusted EBITDA growth of 18% 
compound p.a.. No vesting will take place 
for this part of an award for an adjusted 
EBITDA growth less than 10% compound 
p.a.
Consideration by the Directors of matters 
relating to Directors’ remuneration
All decisions with regard to the 
remuneration of the Executive Directors 
are taken by the remuneration Committee. 
This committee comprises Nigel Smith 
(Chairman), Russell King and Gordon Stuart. 
The Committee is advised by its own 
remuneration advisor, New Bridge Street, 
which has no other relationship with the 
Company or its Executive Directors. 
New Bridge Street's fees for the year  
totalled €20,000 (2014: €24,000) for  
services principally relating to advice  
on the Company's share schemes,  
executive remuneration and the  
Directors' Remuneration Report.
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 45
Governance Directors' Remuneration Report
continued
Annual Report on Remuneration 
continued
Tables for Annual Report on Remuneration
Audited information
Total remuneration received by Directors The individual remuneration of the Directors serving during the period ended 27 March 2015, together with 
equivalent sums received in the prior year, is set out below.
 Salary Taxable  Annual Long-term
£’000 and fees benefits Pension cash bonus  incentives Total
Executive Directors  
Gordon Watling  
2015 323 – 32 40 833 1,228 
2014 298 – 30 205 – 533
Steve Chamberlain 
2015 188 – 19 19 – 226 
2014 179 – 18 101 – 298
Non-Executive Directors 
John Hughes 
2015 145 – – – – 145 
2014 145 7 – – – 152
Sion Kearsey      
2015 40 – – – – 40 
2014 45 – – – – 45
Gordon Stuart
1
      
2015 45 – – – – 45 
2014 31 – – – – 31
Nigel Smith
1
      
2015 45 – – – – 45 
2014 31 – – – – 31
Russell King
2
      
2015 27 – – – – 27 
2014 – – – – – –
Former Directors
3
2015 – – – – – –
2014 36 – – – – 36
Total 
2015 813 – 51 59 833 1,756
2014 765 7 48 306 – 1,126
1 Appointed on 22 July 2013.
2 Appointed on 30 July 2014.
3 David Tilston and Tony Illsley retired on 22 July 2013.
Annual bonus for FY15
The annual bonuses awarded to Executive Directors in respect of FY15 are set out below:
 Total Awarded  Award payable
 Maximum (% of salary) Actual (% of salary) In cash (% of salary) In shares (% of salary)
Gordon Watling 120% 20% 12% 8%
Steve Chamberlain 100% 17% 10% 7%
The element of the bonus payable in shares will be awarded following the approval of this Annual Report with the deferred bonus shares vesting over a two year period.
46 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 LTIP performance
The LTIP value for Mr Watling in respect of FY15 is based on the LTIP award granted in August 2011 which vested during the year under review following  
the completion of the performance period to which it related as follows:
Year    Target  Actual  Number of 
of grant Metric Threshold Stretch outturn Vested shares vested Value
1
FY12 Absolute share price growth 75p 100p > 100p 100% 286,788 £416,560
FY12 TSR Median  Upper Upper 100% 286,788 £416,560
  performance quartile quartile
   performance performance
FY12 Adjusted EBITDA for the year  £14.4m £17.7m €14.4m Nil – – 
 ended 28 March 2014
      573,576 £833,120
1 The share price on the day of vesting was £1.4525.
The expected outturns for the LTIP awards granted in July 2012, where the performance period expires shortly after the period under review, are as follows:
Year of    Target  Expected Expected
grant Metric Threshold Stretch outturn vesting
FY13 Absolute share price growth 90p 125p > 125p 100% 
FY13 TSR Median Upper Upper 100%   
  performance quartile quartile
   performance performance
FY13 Adjusted EBITDA for the year €15.3m €19.4m €17.0m 10% 
 ended 27 March 2015
Share awards granted in the year
The following share awards were granted to Directors during FY15:
   Share price   % of face value 
   used to Number  Face value that would vest Vesting
  Basis of determine  of shares
 
of award at threshold determined by
 Type of award award granted awards granted (£’000) performance performance over
Gordon Watling LTIP 150% of salary £1.44 312,391 £450,000 10% 3 years 
 LTIP 150% of salary £1.44 312,391 £450,000 10% 4 years 
 Deferred 25% of the £1.44 35,633 £51,330 N/A 3 years
 bonus shares annual bonus     
Steve Chamberlain LTIP 150% of salary £1.44 188,476 £271,500 10% 3 years 
 Deferred  25% of the £1.44 17,509 £25,223 N/A 3 years 
 bonus shares annual bonus
The performance targets attached to the FY15 LTIP awards were as follows: 
(a) One third absolute share price growth measured over the three years from grant (with testing based on the 90 day average share price prior to grant and  
the 90 day average ending prior to the third anniversary of grant). 10% of this part of an award vests for an average share price growth of 5% compound  
p.a. increasing pro-rata to 55% of this part of an award vesting for a share price growth of 10% compound p.a. increasing pro-rata to 100% of this part  
of an award vesting for a share price of 15% compound p.a. or more. No vesting will take place for this part of an award for a share price growth less than  
5% compound p.a.
(b) One third relative TSR as measured over the 3 years from grant – 10% of this part of an award vests for median TSR increasing pro-rata to 100% of this part  
of an award vesting for upper quartile TSR of the FTSE SmallCap (excluding investment trusts) at grant. No vesting will take place for this part of an award  
for a TSR below median; and
(c) One third adjusted EBITDA growth as measured from FY14 to FY17. 10% of this part of an award vests for an adjusted EBITDA growth of 10% compound  
p.a., 25% of this part of an award vests for adjusted EBITDA growth of 15% compound p.a. increasing pro rata to full vesting for this part of an award for  
an adjusted EBITDA growth of 20% compound p.a.. No vesting will take place for this part of an award for an adjusted EBITDA growth less than 10%  
compound p.a.
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 47
Governance Directors' Remuneration Report
continued
Annual Report on Remuneration 
continued
Outstanding LTIP awards
Details of outstanding LTIP awards granted to Directors are set out below:
     Granted  Vested Lapsed No. of shares End of   
   Exercise No. of shares at during  during during shares at  performance Exercise 
Director Scheme Grant date price 29 March 2014 the year the year the year 27 March 2015 period period
Gordon FY12 19 August 2011 – 860,364 – (573,576) (286,788) – –  –
Watling FY13 24 July 2012 – 614,103 – – – 614,103 23 July 2015 –
 FY14 10 June 2013 – 383,260 – – – 383,260 9 June 2016 –
         50% -
 FY15 17 June 2014 – – 624,782 – – 624,782 16 June 2017 – 
         50% -
         16 June 2018
Steve FY13 24 July 2012 – 362,109 – – – 362,109 23 July 2015 –
Chamberlain FY14 10 June 2013 – 225,991 – – – 225,991 9 June 2016 –
 FY15 17 June 2014 – – 188,476 – – 188,476 16 June 2017 –
Performance targets are disclosed above or, in respect of earlier awards, in prior Remuneration Reports.
Directors’ interests
Directors’ interests in the shares of the Company at the beginning and end of the period were as follows:
 Beneficially Beneficially  Outstanding  Outstanding share Shareholding 
 owned at owned at Outstanding deferred awards under all as a % of salary
Director 29 March 2014 27 March 2015 LTIP awards share awards employee share plans at year end
1
Gordon Watling 135,994 302,539 1,622,145 86,216 40,382 126%
Steve Chamberlain 68,125 69,098 776,576 42,364 24,229 50%
2
John Hughes 40,000 40,000 – – – N/A
Sion Kearsey 8,000,000 8,000,000 – – – N/A
Gordon Stuart 15,000 15,000 – – – N/A
Nigel Smith – 20,000 – – – N/A
Russell King – – – – – N/A
1   Based on the share price and base salary levels as at 27 March 2015.
2  The Executive Directors are increasing their shareholdings in accordance with the Company’s shareholding criteria.
Performance Graph and CEO Remuneration
The following chart presents the Company’s TSR over the past 6 years compared to the FTSE SmallCap index excluding investment trusts.
400
350
250
100
50
0
150
200
300
450
500
31/03/2009 31/03/2010 01/04/2011 29/03/2013 01/04/2012 28/03/2014 27/03/2015
 Sepura
 FTSE Small Cap
48 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 The CEO’s total remuneration over the same six year period has been as follows:
 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15
Total remuneration (£000s) 257 245 320 559 533 1,242
Annual bonus (%) 5% 0% 0% 67% 71% 20%
LTIP vesting (%) 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 66.6%
Changes in CEO remuneration
The CEO received an increase in salary and benefits as described on page 44 above. This compares to other employees as follows:
      % change
Chief Executive     Salary 8%
1
     Benefits 7%
     Bonus -80%
All employees     Salary 8%
     Benefits 12%
     Bonus -88%
1   Based on actual remuneration received for the financial year; salary rises are effective part-way through each financial year.
Relative importance of spend on pay
Overall staff costs increased by 9% during FY15, through a combination of pay reviews, additional headcount through both recruitment and the acquisition  
of Portalify and Fylde, and the impacts of foreign exchange. This increase in overall staff costs can be seen in the context of the change in other key metrics  
as shown below:
 FY14 FY15
 €M €M % change
Staff costs 30.4 32.8 8%
Revenue 116.6 131.2 12%
Gross profit 55.3 60.3 9%
R&D expenditures 16.7 16.8 1%
Adjusted operating profit 12.5 15.0 20%
Dividends and share repurchases 4.3 9.1 112%
Shareholder voting
Shareholders voted overwhelmingly at the 2014 AGM in favour of adopting both the Company’s Remuneration Policy and the Annual Statement  
and Annual Report on Remuneration:
  Annual Statement and
 Remuneration Policy Annual Report on Remuneration
  Percentage   Percentage
 Votes of votes Votes of votes
Votes cast in favour 110,528,646 99.97% 101,446,788 92.10%
Votes cast against 38,299 0.03% 8,707,618 7.90%
Total votes cast 110,566,945 100% 110,154,406 100%
Votes Withheld 2,000 – 414,469 –
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 49
Governance Directors' Report
Directors’  
Report
The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report  
and the audited financial statements for the period  
ended 27 March 2015, being the nearest Friday to  
the end of the period.
Strategic Report
The Strategic Report on pages 01 to 28 sets 
out a fair review of the Group’s performance 
during the period and of its position at the 
period end, including commentary on its 
likely future development and prospects, 
while information on principal risks and 
uncertainties and key performance indicators 
is given on pages 12 to 15. Such information 
should be read in conjunction with this 
Report. The Corporate Governance Report 
and Directors’ Remuneration Report detail 
the Company’s Governance and Directors’ 
remuneration arrangements. The Group’s 
approach to business ethics, employee 
welfare and practice, health and safety, 
environmental and community matters 
is summarised in the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Statement on pages 26 to 28. 
All these sections form part of this Directors’ 
Report into which they are incorporated  
by reference.
Results and dividends
The audited financial statements of the 
Group and of the Company for the period 
under review are set out on pages 61 to 95 
and pages 98 to 107 respectively.
The Board’s chosen dividend policy takes 
account of the profitability and underlying 
growth of the Group in addition to capital 
requirements, cash flows and distributable 
reserves, while also recognising the 
appropriateness of maintaining an 
appropriate level of dividend cover.
Pursuant to that policy, the Directors have 
recommended an increased final dividend 
for the period of 1.71 pence per Ordinary 
share which, subject to approval by 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting 
to be held on Wednesday 12 September 
2015 (“2015 AGM”), will be paid on 9 October 
2015 to shareholders registered at the close 
of business on 28 August 2015. Together 
with the interim dividend paid of 0.69 
pence per Ordinary share, this makes a total 
dividend for the period of 2.4 pence per 
Ordinary share. A Dividend Reinvestment 
Plan will be offered in conjunction with the 
final dividend.
Going forward, and subject to any 
unforeseen circumstances, the Directors 
intend to continue their recommendation of 
both an interim and final dividend in respect 
of each financial period in the approximate 
proportions of approximately one-third and 
two-thirds respectively of the total annual 
dividend.
Research and development
Product development and innovation, 
principally, but not solely, related to TETRA 
technology and products, remain key 
strategies for maintaining and improving the 
Group’s competitive position and therefore 
they continue to be strong priorities. The key 
objectives are new product development, 
improved functionality and extended 
application, all designed to enhance benefits 
for the end-user. 
Our commitment to this vital area is 
highlighted by the €16.8 million of 
development spend during the period, 
representing 13% of sales (2014: €16.7 
million and 14% of sales). Under IAS 38 
“Intangible Assets”, €13.1 million of this 
period’s spend was capitalised (2014: €12.5 
million). The Group will continue to commit 
a significant amount of resource and 
expenditure, as appropriate, to research  
and development.
Financial instruments
Details of the Group’s objectives and policies 
on financial risk management, and of the 
financial instruments currently in use, can 
be found in Note 31 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
Employment
The Group’s policy regarding the hiring, 
continuing employment and training, career 
development and promotion of disabled 
persons is set out on page 27.
50 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Share capital
The Company has a single class of share 
which is divided into Ordinary shares of 
£0.0005 each with all of the Ordinary shares 
ranking pari passu. On a show of hands at a 
general meeting, every holder of Ordinary 
shares present in person or by proxy, and 
entitled to vote, has one vote, and on a poll 
every holder of Ordinary shares present in 
person or by proxy, and entitled to vote,  
has one vote for every Ordinary share held.
The rights (including full details relating to 
voting), obligations and any restrictions on 
transfer relating to the Company’s Ordinary 
shares, as well as the powers of the Directors, 
are set out in the Company’s Articles of 
Association. These can only be amended  
by special resolution at a general meeting  
of shareholders.
The Company is not aware of any 
agreements or control rights between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions 
on the transfer of securities or on voting 
rights. Further information regarding the 
Company’s share capital are set out in Note 
26 to the consolidated financial statements.
Share buy back
At the Annual General Meeting held on 
30 July 2014 (“2014 AGM”), shareholders 
granted the Company limited authority to 
purchase its own shares, subject to certain 
specified conditions.
During the year, the Company purchased 
2,880,867 shares (representing 2.08% of the 
called up share capital) into treasury and 
issued 2,164,200 shares from treasury in 
satisfaction of the Company share option 
schemes.
Pursuant to resolutions passed at the 
2014 AGM, the Company had authority 
exercisable by the Directors: 
(a) to allot shares in the Company and to 
grant rights to subscribe for or to convert 
any security into shares in the Company 
up to a maximum of £23,024;
(b) to make market purchases (as defined in 
section 693 (4) of that Act) of Ordinary 
shares of £0.0005 each in the capital 
of the Company. As at the date of this 
report, there is authority remaining to 
make such market purchases in relation 
to 10,983,676 Ordinary shares.
The Company will seek to renew these 
authorities at the 2015 AGM.
Major shareholders
At 30 June 2015 the Company had been notified (or was aware) of the following material interests of 3% 
or more in the Ordinary share capital of the Company:
 Number of % of
 Ordinary shares voting rights
1
Schroders Plc 24,493,432 13.33%
Henderson Global Investors 23,719,518 12.90%
Jonathan Green 20,368,068 11.08%
Michael Sherwood 18,145,958 9.87%
Sion Kearsey (Director) 8,000,000 4.35%
Danske Capital Management 7,317,667 3.98%
Liontrust Asset Management 6,572,254 3.58%
1 Total voting rights attaching to the issued share capital of the Company comprising 183,777,335 Ordinary 
shares each of £0.0005 nominal value, being the 185,183,892 Ordinary shares in issue less 1,406,557 
Ordinary shares currently held in Treasury.
2 No changes to such interests have been notified to the Company between 30 June 2015 and 6 July 2015, 
being the date on which this Report has been signed.
Board of Directors
The Directors of the Company who served 
throughout the period and up to the date of 
signing of this Annual Report (except where 
noted) were:
Dr. John Hughes  (Chairman)
CBE Hon DSc
Gordon Watling (Chief Executive  
 Officer)
Steve Chamberlain (Chief Financial Officer)
Russell King  (Appointed  
 30 July 2014)
Sion Kearsey
Nigel Smith
Gordon Stuart
The names and brief biographical details  
of the current Directors, and identification  
of the Board Committees on which they sit,  
are shown on pages 30 and 31 and details  
of their beneficial holdings in the shares  
of the Company are shown on page 48.
Election and re-election of Directors
The Company’s Articles of Association 
contain provisions relating to the 
appointment and replacement of Directors. 
They require that all Directors stand for re-
election at intervals of not more than three 
years. The UK Corporate Governance Code 
2012 recommends all directors retire are and, 
if appropriate, be proposed for election every 
year and in accordance with best practice 
the Company is following this guideline.
The service agreements of the Executive 
Directors and the letters of appointment  
of the Non-Executive Directors are available 
for inspection by shareholders at the 
Company’s registered office during normal 
business hours and at the Company’s AGM 
from 15 minutes before the meeting.
There have been no changes in the 
Directors’ beneficial or non-beneficial 
interests between the period-end and  
6 July 2015, being the date on which this 
Report has been signed. Save as disclosed, 
none of the Directors nor any person 
connected with a Director has any interest  
in the shares or loan capital of the Company 
or any subsidiary undertakings.
Details of the Directors’ employment 
agreements and appointment letters, and 
emoluments and interests in the Ordinary 
share capital of the Company which derive 
from their employment are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report which 
commences on page 38.
Save as disclosed in this Annual Report,  
at no time during the period did any Director 
hold a material interest, directly or indirectly, 
in any contract of significance with the 
Company or any undertaking other than 
service agreements between Executive 
Directors and the Company.
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 51
Governance Directors' Report
continued
Directors’ indemnity arrangements
The Company has purchased and 
maintained throughout the period to the 
date of this Report, and intends to do so 
going forward, Directors’ and Officers’ 
qualifying third-party liability insurance  
in respect of itself and its Directors.
Corporate governance
The Company is committed to high standards 
of corporate governance. Its application of the 
principles of good governance in respect of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 for 
the period under review is described in the 
Corporate Governance Report on pages 29 to 
34, which forms part of this Directors’ Report.
The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in 
respect of this Annual Report and the financial 
statements appears on pages 53 and 54.
Political donations
At the 2014 AGM, shareholders gave 
authority (covering the period up to 
the conclusion of the 2015 AGM or 28 
September 2015, whichever is earlier) for 
the Company to make political donations 
and incur political expenditure up to a 
maximum aggregate sum of £100,000 as a 
precautionary measure in light of the wide 
definitions contained in the Political Parties 
Elections and Referendums Act 2000. No 
payments were made during the period 
or the prior period and it is proposed to 
maintain the Group’s policy in this area  
and renew this authority at the  
forthcoming AGM.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Disclosures in respect of greenhouse gas 
emissions are given on page 28.
Employee share incentive plans
The Company has in place for its Executive 
Directors and employees the Sepura 2008 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) under 
which awards were granted during the 
period. Details of this share plan can be 
found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
commencing on page 38 and Note 27 to  
the consolidated financial statements.
The Company also has in place a Savings-
Related Share Option Scheme (based on 
HMRC Guidelines) (“Sharesave Scheme”). 
This incentive plan, which encourages share 
ownership amongst Sepura employees, was 
successfully launched in September 2008 
and experienced a high level of take-up, and 
has subsequently been refreshed annually. 
The Board expects this to continue for the 
foreseeable future.
The table opposite outlines any impact of a 
change of control prescribed in the rules of 
each of the Company’s share incentive plans
Related party transactions
There were no related party transactions 
with Directors, other than their 
remuneration, during either the  
current or previous period.
Going concern
After making due enquiry, and having 
considered the Group’s budget for 
the coming year together with outline 
projections through to 2018, the Directors 
confirm they have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group and the Company have 
adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Consequently, the going concern 
basis has been applied in preparing the 
financial statements for the period ended  
27 March 2015.
2015 AGM
The Annual General Meeting of the 
Company will be held at 9am on  
Wednesday 12 September 2015 at the 
offices of Hogan Lovells International LLP, 
Atlantic House, Holborn Viaduct, London, 
EC1A 2FG. A separate Circular, comprising a 
Letter from the Chairman, Notice of Meeting, 
Explanatory Notes and a Form of Proxy, 
accompanies this Annual Report  
to shareholders.
The Notice of the 2015 AGM specifies 
deadlines for the exercise of voting rights 
and the appointment of a proxy or proxies 
to vote in relation to the resolutions to be 
proposed at the meeting. All proxy votes  
will be counted and the numbers For, 
Against or Withheld (the latter of which 
is not a vote at law) in relation to each 
resolution will be announced at the meeting 
and via a regulatory information service,  
and published on the Company’s website  
at www.sepura.com/investors.
Independent auditors
Separate resolutions to re-appoint 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors 
of the Company and to authorise the 
Directors to determine their remuneration 
will be proposed at the 2015 AGM. The re-
appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP has been recommended to the 
Board by its Audit Committee and 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have  
indicated their willingness to remain  
in office.
52 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015   Change of control
  provisions contained
  within the share  Performance
Share incentive plan incentive plan rules Effect on vesting condition
LTIP Yes Acceleration pro rata to 
   time and voting level
1
 Pro rata testing
1
Deferred bonus shares Yes Acceleration N/A 
Sharesave Scheme Yes Acceleration pro rata to  
   accumulated savings
1
 Not applicable
1 At the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Disclosure of information to auditors
Each of the Directors of the Company at 
the time when this Report was approved 
confirmed that:
• so far as the Director is aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware; and
• he has taken all the steps that he ought 
to have taken as a Director in order to 
make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that 
information.
This confirmation is given in accordance  
with section 418(2) of the Act.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report, the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to 
prepare financial statements for each 
financial year. Under that law the Directors 
have prepared the Group financial 
statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as 
adopted by the European Union, and the 
parent company financial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards and 
applicable law). Under company law the 
Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Group and the Company and of the 
profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements,  
the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and 
then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union and applicable 
UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in 
the Group and parent company financial 
statements respectively; and
• prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that 
are sufficient to show and explain the 
Company’s transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Company and the Group 
and enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements and the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report comply with the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and the Group 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other 
irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United 
Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that this Annual 
Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 53
Governance Directors' Report
continued
• save as otherwise disclosed above, there 
are no other significant agreements to 
which the Company is a party that take 
effect, alter or terminate upon a change  
of control following a takeover bid.
Information required under  
the Listing Rules
On 1 May 2015 the Company published 
a prospectus in relation to the proposed 
acquisition of Teltronic SAU, a proposed  
firm placing and proposed placing and  
open offer that included a profit forecast  
and estimate. 
Post balance sheet event
On 1 May 2015 the Company announced 
the proposed acquisition of Teltronic SAU for 
aggregate consideration of €127.5 million, 
to be funded through a firm placing and 
offer of 46,538,461 Ordinary shares in the 
Company at 130p per share and a new 
debt facility of €120 million. The acquisition 
was approved by shareholders on 21 May 
2015 and completed on 27 May 2015, and 
further information is given in Note 34 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
Relationship Agreement
Effective from Listing in August 2007, John 
Drinkwater, Jonathan Green, Sion Kearsey, 
Michael Sherwood and Kelso Place Asset 
Management LLP (“Principal Shareholders”), 
entered into an agreement to regulate the 
ongoing relationship between the Company 
and the Principal Shareholders, details of which 
are set out on page 58 of the Company’s Annual 
Report for the year ended 28 March 2014. The 
Relationship Agreement has been terminated 
following the completion of the Teltronic 
acquisition and associated equity raise.
On behalf of the Board
Tony Hunter, 
Company Secretary
Radio House
St Andrew’s Road
Cambridge, CB4 1GR
Registered in England No. 04353801
6 Juy 2015
Each of the Directors, whose names and 
functions are listed on pages 30 and 31, 
confirms that, to the best of their knowledge:
• the Group financial statements, which 
have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit  
of the Group; and
• the Strategic Report and Governance 
Review, along with the Directors’ Report, 
together include a fair review of the 
development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that  
it faces on pages 14 and 15. 
Overseas branches
The Company conducts some of its overseas 
operations through branches in Malaysia and 
Argentina.
Takeover Directive disclosures
Where not provided previously in this 
Report, the following provides the additional 
information required for shareholders as a 
result of the implementation of the Takeover 
Directive into English law and Section 922  
of the Companies Act 2006:
• the Company has not entered into any 
contractual commitments to its Directors 
or employees providing for compensation 
on loss of office or employment 
(whether through resignation, purported 
redundancy or otherwise) that would 
occur because of a takeover bid;
• the Company has entered into various 
agreements in the ordinary course of 
business, many with local governments 
and government organisations around 
the world. Some of these, either by their 
nature or value, may represent significant 
agreements and generally (as with the 
Company’s standard terms and conditions 
of business) do provide for a right of 
termination upon a change in control 
of the Company. National security and 
commercial sensitivity prevent  
disclosure of the details of any  
individual agreements; and
54 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 55
Independent Auditors’ Report  
to the Members of Sepura plc
Report on the group financial 
statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Sepura plc’s group financial 
statements (the “financial statements”):
• give a true and fair view of the state of the 
group’s affairs as at 27 March 2015 and of 
its profit and cash flows for the year then 
ended;
• have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted 
by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 
2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
Sepura plc’s financial statements comprise:
• the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at  
27 March 2015;
• the Consolidated Income Statement 
and the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income for the year  
then ended;
• the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year then ended;
• the Consolidated Statement of Changes  
in Equity for the year then ended; and
• the notes to the financial statements, 
which include a summary of significant 
accounting policies and other explanatory 
information.
Certain required disclosures have been 
presented elsewhere in the Annual Report & 
Accounts 2015 (the “Annual Report”), rather 
than in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial 
statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that 
has been applied in the preparation of the 
financial statements is applicable law and 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach
Overview
Materiality
• Overall group materiality: €760,000 which 
represents approximately 5% of profit 
before tax.
Audit scope
• Of the Group's four reporting units, 
we identified Sepura plc (based in the 
United Kingdom) and Sepura Systems 
GmbH (based in Austria), which, in our 
view, required an audit of their complete 
financial information due to their size. 
• Specific procedures were performed on 
certain balances of Portalify OY (based in 
Finland) and Fylde Micro Limited (based 
in the United Kingdom). This, together 
with additional procedures at Group level, 
gave us the evidence we needed for our 
opinion on the Group financial statements 
as a whole. 
Areas of focus
• Risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
• Accounting for long term contracts.
• Recoverability of accounts receivable.
• Capitalisation of product development 
costs.
• Acquisition accounting for Fylde Micro 
Limited.
The scope of our audit and our areas of 
focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining 
materiality and assessing the risks of material 
misstatement in the financial statements.  
In particular, we looked at where the 
directors made subjective judgements, for 
example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions 
and considering future events that are 
inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits 
we also addressed the risk of management 
override of internal controls, including 
evaluating whether there was evidence of 
bias by the directors that represented a risk 
of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had 
the greatest effect on our audit, including 
the allocation of our resources and effort, 
are identified as “areas of focus” in the table 
below. We have also set out how we tailored 
our audit to address these specific areas in 
order to provide an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, and any comments 
we make on the results of our procedures 
should be read in this context. This is not 
a complete list of all risks identified by our 
audit.  56 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Independent Auditors’ Report  
to the Members of Sepura plc continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Revenue recognition
(Refer to page 36 (Report of the Audit Committee) and Note 4 (Summary  
of significant accounting policies)
Historically, Sepura makes a significant amount of sales in the last 
month of the financial year. These sales included both the sale of 
hardware and software.
We focussed on this area as, with a significant amount of sales being 
generated in the final month of the year, there is a risk that cut-off 
procedures may have been incorrectly applied and, as a result, the 
revenue for the year could be overstated.
The Group has bill and hold arrangements in place with certain 
customers. This involves handsets that are sold to the customer and 
then held by Sepura on their behalf until the customer is ready for 
delivery. The nature of such bill and hold arrangements means there 
is a risk that the conditions set out in IAS 18, 'Revenue’ have not been 
met allowing for such revenue to be recognised. The key conditions in 
IAS 18 that we focussed on were that the goods need to be on hand, 
identified and ready for collection at the time the sale is recognised 
and that the buyer has specifically acknowledged the deferred delivery 
instructions.
The Group has sold software during the period. Revenue is recognised 
on a software sale when there is appropriate evidence of a commercial 
arrangement and provided the software is available for use by the 
customer. When there is maintenance and support associated with the 
sale a proportion of revenue is recognised on a straight line basis over 
the period of the maintenance contract. The focus of our work was 
therefore to check that appropriate commercial arrangements were in 
place, the software was available to the customer and whether there 
were appropriate deferrals of revenue for maintenance and support. 
We performed detailed cut-off procedures for March sales, agreeing to 
supporting invoice and third party despatch documentation. We also 
checked the Incoterms; sales are typically made on an “Ex-works” basis, 
which means revenue is recognised when the goods are despatched 
and ready for delivery or collection by the customer. No significant 
issues were identified as a result of our work.
As an additional cut-off procedure, we also tested credit notes covering 
all sales (hardware and software) that were raised during the financial 
year and also subsequent to the year end (up to the date of signing 
the financial statements) on a sample basis. This test was performed 
in order to establish whether or not there was a need for a credit note 
provision at the year end. No significant issues were identified as a 
result of our work.
We tested material sales made on bill and hold terms, obtaining 
customer confirmations. We also attended a specific inventory count 
on 30 March 2015 (the first working day immediately after the year  
end) to confirm that the goods were on hand, separately identified  
and ready for delivery to the buyer. No significant issues were identified 
as a result of our work.
We tested the treatment of software sales to check for appropriate 
contractual arrangements, availability of the software with customers 
and that appropriate amounts were deferred. This involved examining 
contracts and correspondence between the Group and the customer, 
including to look for any maintenance / support clauses or for any 
rights of return. No significant issues were identified as a result  
of our work.
Accounting for long term contracts 
(Refer to page 36 (Report of the Audit Committee), Note 4 (Summary  
of significant accounting policies) and Note 5 (Critical accounting  
estimates and assumptions)
The company’s subsidiary undertakings (Sepura Systems GmbH and 
Portalify OY) have a number of projects that straddle the year end 
that are accounted for as long term contracts. These contracts are to 
provide systems solutions and will generally take a number of months 
to complete. As a result, revenue and cost of sales from these long-term 
contracts are recognised on the percentage of completion basis based 
on costs incurred to date when the outcome of the contract can be 
estimated reliably. The criteria for this are that total contract revenue 
and the costs to complete the contract can be estimated reliably, it is 
probable that the economic benefits associated with the contract will 
flow to the Group and that the stage of contract completion can be 
measured. 
We focussed on this area as there is judgement involved with respect 
to estimating the costs to complete individual projects (versus the  
costs incurred to date) and with regard to management’s forecasts.  
An increase in costs to complete would impact the stage of completion 
and result in less revenue recognised. There is also a risk that customers 
have not been invoiced on a timely basis in line with the contract 
terms. 
We tested the calculations of revenue recognised, based on supporting 
documentation, including timesheet data and contracts. We also 
reconciled the amounts outstanding to invoices raised and cash 
received. No significant issues were identified as a result of our work.
We agreed forecast costs to complete to project plans prepared by 
management. We also tested historical estimating accuracy relating to 
projects that had completed during the year, comparing the estimated 
costs to complete on these projects as at the prior year end with the 
actual costs that were incurred to complete the project. No significant 
variances were identified as a result of this work. Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 57
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Recoverability of accounts receivable
(Refer to page 36 (Report of the Audit Committee) and Note 4 (Summary  
of significant accounting policies), Note 5 (Critical accounting estimates 
and assumptions) and Note 21 (Trade and other receivables)
The Group continues to grow internationally, generating sales of its 
products and services in both established markets (such as the UK and 
Germany) and new markets (such as the Middle East and Greece). As 
a result of increased sales in new markets, where receiving payment 
is an inherently slower process, the Group has a significant number 
of accounts receivable balances that are overdue (€9.4 million as per 
Note 21 of the consolidated financial statements). There was therefore 
a risk that the Group’s provision for doubtful debts was insufficient if 
amounts were not recoverable. The Group’s accounting policy is that 
trade receivables are assessed individually for impairment.
We focused in particular on the overdue elements relating to two 
specific material receivable balances; one in the Middle East and one in 
Greece where amounts are overdue and any past payments have been 
slower than agreed.
We performed the following procedures when testing the 
recoverability of accounts receivable balances:
• We sent specific confirmations on a sample basis to confirm year 
end balances. We also requested that these customers confirm their 
acknowledgement of the transfer of risks and rewards at the invoice 
date, as appropriate. No significant issues were identified as a result 
of our work.
• We vouched cash received post year end to bank records.  
No significant issues were identified as a result of our work.
• We read relevant credit terms and considered whether any payments 
received during the period that provided evidence of future payment 
of any overdue amounts. No significant issues were identified as a 
result of our work.
• On overdue balances, we obtained sufficient supporting evidence 
where no provision was made. This evidence was in the form of 
subsequent payment and / or correspondence obtained to support 
the recoverability of the balance. 
• In respect of the material receivable from the Middle East customer, 
we considered recoverability in light of established local business 
practices and consulted with PwC legal counsel with experience  
of such matters in these markets. Based on our work, we considered 
that management had made sufficient provision against  
that balance.
• In respect of the material receivable from Greece, management have 
made a provision for the exposure on this receivable as described in 
Note 21. Based on our work, we considered that management had 
made sufficient provision against this balance. 58 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Capitalisation of product development costs
(Refer to page 36 (Report of the Audit Committee) and Note 4 (Summary  
of significant accounting policies), Note 5 (Critical accounting estimates 
and assumptions) and Note 17 (Intangible assets)
Sepura spends a significant amount in developing new products and 
product functionality. As set out in Note 17, during the current period 
the Group has capitalised €13.1 million of internal development costs 
within Intangible assets and had a Net book value balance of  
€40.2 million of capitalised development costs at 27 March 2015.
We focussed on this area due to the size of the costs capitalised, and 
the fact that judgement is involved in assessing whether the criteria set 
out in the accounting standards required for capitalisation of such costs 
have been met, particularly:
• The appropriateness and support for the costs capitalised;
• The technical feasibility of the project; and 
• The likelihood of the project delivering sufficient future economic 
benefits.
We had particular regard to the fact that the Group is developing 
its next generation platform of both terminals and infrastructure. 
To the extent that these projects have not yet been completed, no 
amortisation has been charged. We therefore also focussed on whether 
the carrying value of the capitalised development costs was impaired.
As part of our work we also focussed on management’s judgements 
regarding whether capitalised costs were of a developmental rather 
than research nature (which would result in the costs being expensed 
rather than capitalised); and whether costs, including employment 
(payroll) costs, were directly attributable to relevant projects.
We obtained a breakdown, by value, of all individual development 
projects (new products and product functionality) capitalised in the 
period and reconciled this to the amounts recorded in the general 
ledger. Subsequently, management posted an adjustment of  
€1.5 million and we agreed with this adjustment.
We tested all projects where capitalised costs were in excess  
of €495,000, together with a sample of smaller projects from  
the remaining population, as follows:
• We obtained explanations from management of why the project was 
considered capital in nature, in terms of how the specific requirements 
of the relevant accounting standards (IAS 38 “Intangible assets”) 
were met. We also conducted interviews with individual project 
managers responsible for the projects selected to corroborate these 
explanations and to obtain an understanding of the specific projects 
to enable us to independently assess whether the projects met all the 
criteria for capitalisation set out in the accounting standards. From 
these discussions, we challenged management further on why one 
particular project had been capitalised but we were ultimately satisfied 
that these costs satisfied the criteria in the accounting standards.
• To determine whether costs were directly attributable to projects, we 
obtained listings of hours worked on individual projects and selected a 
sample of the individual hours recorded. We then reconciled the hours 
worked to the payroll records and then reconciled the payroll amounts 
with the amounts capitalised. We also tested which cost centres were 
directly related to capitalised costs and that the individual employees 
were included in the appropriate cost centre. No significant issues 
were identified as a result of this work.
• In respect of impairment of capitalised development costs, we 
evaluated and challenged management’s future cash flow forecasts, 
and the process by which they were drawn up, and tested the 
underlying calculation. We compared managements’ forecast to the 
latest Board approved forecasts as this would indicate the quality of 
the forecasting process. The key assumptions related to the level of 
forecast cash flows and the assumed rate that the new technology 
would replace the existing technology. We also obtained other 
evidence such as prototypes or production invoices to support the 
progress on the projects and their expected completion and release 
timetables. We performed sensitivity analysis around these key 
assumptions to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions 
that either individually or collectively would be required for the 
development costs to be impaired. We determined that there was 
sufficient headroom in the calculations such that no impairment  
was required.
Acquisition accounting for Fylde Micro Limited
(Refer to page 36 (Report of the Audit Committee) and Note 4 (Summary  
of significant accounting policies), Note 5 (Critical accounting estimates 
and assumptions) and Note 6 (Acquisition of Fylde Micro Limited)
On 20 May 2014, the Group announced the acquisition of Fylde  
Micro Limited. 
The consideration for the acquisition consisted of €4 million payable 
on completion and €4.4 million payable dependent on EBITDA 
targets being met for each of the two years ending 31 May 2016. This 
contingent consideration must be valued at each period end. 
There is judgement in determining the fair value of contingent 
consideration, as this is based on management’s forecasts to determine 
the level of EBITDA that will be generated and, hence, the amount  
of the payments that will be made.
On acquisition, management recognised the maximum amount of 
contingent consideration as a financial liability in accordance with IAS 
39, “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”. However, 
as described in Note 6, reflecting the first year’s post acquisition 
performance, an adjustment was posted by management to reduce the 
financial liability to its fair value of €2,093,000 with the corresponding 
credit of €2,320,000 recognised in the consolidated income statement 
(see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements) in accordance 
with IFRS 3 “Business combinations” (para 58). 
We compared business performance post acquisition with the original 
expectation and challenged management’s future forecasts. We read 
correspondence between the company and the selling shareholders 
around the proposed changes to the arrangements and were satisfied 
that the accounting appropriately reflected the nature  
of the arrangements.
Independent Auditors’ Report  
to the Members of Sepura plc continued Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 59
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative 
thresholds for materiality. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine 
the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the 
effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
 
Based on our professional judgement, and consistent with the prior year, we determined materiality 
for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall group materiality €760,000 (2014: €685,000).
How we determined it Approximately 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied We have applied this benchmark, a 
generally accepted auditing practice, 
in the absence of indicators that an 
alternative benchmark would be 
appropriate.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure 
that we performed enough work to be 
able to give an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, taking into account 
the geographic structure of the group, the 
accounting processes and controls, and the 
industry in which the group operates. 
The Group is structured as one core 
operating business focussed on the design, 
development and supply of secure digital 
radio products and systems. The core 
operating business consists of four reporting 
units and the Group financial statements are 
a consolidation of those four reporting units 
and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to 
the Group audit, we determined the type 
of work that needed to be performed at 
the reporting units by us, as the Group 
engagement team, or component auditors 
from other PwC network firms operating 
under our instruction. Where the work 
was performed by component auditors, 
we determined the level of involvement 
we needed to have in the audit work 
at those reporting units to be able to 
conclude whether sufficient appropriate 
audit evidence had been obtained as a 
basis for our opinion on the Group financial 
statements as a whole.
Of the Group's four reporting units, we 
identified Sepura plc (based in the United 
Kingdom) and Sepura Systems GmbH (based 
in Austria), which, in our view, required an 
audit of their complete financial information 
due to their size. Specific procedures were 
performed on certain balances of Portalify 
OY (based in Finland) and Fylde Micro 
Limited (based in the United Kingdom). 
This, together with additional procedures 
at Group level, gave us the evidence we 
needed for our opinion on the Group 
financial statements as a whole. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that 
we would report to them misstatements 
identified during our audit above €37,500 
(2014: €30,000) as well as misstatements 
below that amount that, in our view, 
warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to 
review the directors’ statement, set out on 
page 52, in relation to going concern. We 
have nothing to report having performed 
our review.
As noted in the directors’ statement, 
the directors have concluded that it 
is appropriate to prepare the financial 
statements using the going concern basis 
of accounting. The going concern basis 
presumes that the group has adequate 
resources to remain in operation, and 
that the directors intend it to do so, for at 
least one year from the date the financial 
statements were signed. As part of our audit 
we have concluded that the directors’ use  
of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events 
or conditions can be predicted, these 
statements are not a guarantee as to the 
group’s ability to continue as a going 
concern. 60 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the 
Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report 
for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with 
the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required  
to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• information in the Annual Report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the 
information in the audited financial 
statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based 
on, or materially inconsistent with, our 
knowledge of the group acquired in  
the course of performing our audit; or
 – otherwise misleading.
• the statement given by the directors on 
page 53, in accordance with provision 
C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (“the Code”), that they consider 
the Annual Report taken as a whole to 
be fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary 
for members to assess the group’s 
performance, business model and 
strategy is materially inconsistent with our 
knowledge of the group acquired in the 
course of performing our audit.
• the section of the Annual Report on 
page 35, as required by provision C.3.8 
of the Code, describing the work of the 
Audit Committee does not appropriately 
address matters communicated by us to 
the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising 
from these responsibilities.
Adequacy of information and explanations 
received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit. We 
have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have 
no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to 
review the part of the Corporate Governance 
Statement relating to the parent company’s 
compliance with ten provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. We have 
nothing to report having performed our 
review. 
Responsibilities for the financial 
statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the 
directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of 
Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 
53, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been 
prepared for and only for the company’s 
members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, 
in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any 
other person to whom this report is shown 
or into whose hands it may come save 
where expressly agreed by our prior consent 
in writing.
Independent Auditors’ Report  
to the Members of Sepura plc continued
What an audit of financial statements 
involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about 
the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are 
free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the group’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and 
• the overall presentation of the financial 
statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas 
by assessing the directors’ judgements 
against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures 
in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using 
sampling and other auditing techniques, to 
the extent we consider necessary to provide 
a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. 
We obtain audit evidence through testing 
the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the Annual 
Report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited financial statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired 
by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Parent 
Company financial statements of Sepura 
plc for the year ended 27 March 2015 
and on the information in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report that is described  
as having been audited.
Stuart Newman 
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory 
Auditors
Cambridge
6 July 2015  Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 61
Consolidated Income Statement
   2015   2014
  Before non- Non- After non- Before non- Non- After non-
  recurring recurring recurring recurring recurring recurring
  items  items
1
 items items  items
1
 items
 Note €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Revenue 7 131,160 – 131,160 116,645 – 116,645
Cost of sales  (70,508) – (70,508) (61,326) – (61,326)
Gross profit  60,652 – 60,652 55,319 – 55,319
Selling, marketing and distribution costs  (18,225) (1,770) (19,995) (16,625) – (16,625)
Research and development costs  (10,394) – (10,394) (12,228) – (12,228)
Administrative expenses  (13,750) 574 (13,176) (11,449) (590) (12,039)
Operating profit 9 18,283 (1,196) 17,087 15,017 (590) 14,427
Financial income 12 55 – 55 6 – 6
Financial expense 13 (484) – (484) (250) – (250)
Net financial expense  (429) – (429) (244) – (244)
Profit before income tax  17,854 (1,196) 16,658 14,773 (590) 14,183
Income tax (expense) credit 14 (1,838) 256 (1,582) (1,189) 136 (1,053)
Profit for the period attributable  
to owners of the parent  16,016 (940) 15,076 13,584 (454) 13,130
Earnings per share (¢)
Basic 15 11.6 (0.7) 10.9 9.8 (0.3) 9.5
Diluted 15 11.5 (0.7) 10.8 9.8 (0.4) 9.4
1 Non-recurring items relate to the acquisition of Fylde Micro Limited in the current period, as described in Note 6, and subsequent restructuring costs, together with 
initial costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of Teltronic SAU which completed subsequent to the end of the period as described in Note 34. They also 
include a provision against outstanding receivables due from a customer in Greece. Non-recurring items in the prior period related to the acquisition of Portalify OY  
and subsequent restructuring costs.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 62 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Profit for the period     15,076 13,130
Other comprehensive income (expense):
Exchange translation     (164) (42)
Cash flow hedges, net of taxation     1,695 1,125
Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified into income    1,531 1,083
Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to owners of the parent   16,607 14,213
  Share Share Other Retained Total
  capital premium reserves earnings equity
 Note  €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
At 30 March 2013  78 – – 63,103 63,181
Profit for the period  – – – 13,130 13,130
Other comprehensive (expense) income for the period  – – (42) 1,125 1,083
Total comprehensive (expense) income  – – (42) 14,255 14,213
Transactions with owners
Tax on share option schemes 19 – – – 517 517
Employee share option schemes:  
value of employee services 27 – – – 664 664
Equity dividends paid 16 – – – (3,020) (3,020)
Issue of shares 26 1 999 – – 1,000
Treasury shares  – purchase of own shares 26 – – – (1,323) (1,323) 
 –  issue of shares to settle 
employee share options 26 – – – 163 163
Total transactions with owners  1 999 – (2,999) (1,999)
At 28 March 2014  79 999 (42) 74,359 75,395
Profit for the period  – – – 15,076 15,076
Other comprehensive (expense) income for the period  – – (164) 1,695 1,531
Total comprehensive (expense) income  – – (164) 16,771 16,607
Transactions with owners
Tax on share option schemes 19 – – – 248 248
Employee share option schemes:  
value of employee services 27 – – – 1,262 1,262
Equity dividends paid 16 – – – (3,686) (3,686)
Treasury shares  – purchase of own shares 26 – – – (5,397) (5,397) 
–  issue of shares to settle 
employee share options 26 – – – 193 193
Total transactions with owners  – – – (7,380) (7,380)
At 27 March 2015  79 999 (206) 83,750 84,622
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
  Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 63
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Of Sepura plc, Company number 04353801, as at 27 March 2015
     2015 2014
    Note  €’000 €’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets    17 66,552 52,864
Property, plant and equipment    18 10,329 7,706
Deferred tax asset    19 4,294 6,069
Total non-current assets     81,175 66,639
Current assets
Inventories    20 12,133 11,983
Trade and other receivables    21 47,632 37,407
Derivative financial instruments    31 2,516 403
Cash and cash equivalents    22 2,401 8,017
Total current assets     64,682 57,810
Total assets     145,857 124,449
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Borrowings    23 (2,983) (2,182)
Trade and other payables    24 (45,269) (34,039)
Income tax payable     (1,195) (1,225)
Provisions    25 (2,578) (1,316)
Total current liabilities     (52,025) (38,762)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings    23 (546) (650)
Trade and other payables    24 (3,348) (4,826)
Provisions    25 (5,316) (4,816)
Total non-current liabilities     (9,210) (10,292)
Total liabilities     (61,235) (49,054)
Net assets      84,622 75,395
Shareholders’ equity
Ordinary share capital    26 79 79
Share premium    26 999 999
Other reserves     (206) (42)
Retained earnings     83,750 74,359
Total equity     84,622 75,395
The financial statements on pages 61 to 95 were approved by the Board and authorised for issue on 6 July 2015 and are signed  
on its behalf by:
Gordon Watling Steve Chamberlain 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 64 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
     2015 2014
    Note  €’000 €’000
Cash generated from operations    28 25,205 26,446
Income taxes paid     (631) (60)
Net cash generated from operating activities     24,574 26,386
Cash flow from investing activities
Interest received     55 6
Purchase of property, plant and equipment     (4,419) (3,711)
Capitalised development costs     (13,108) (12,536)
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings, net of cash acquired     (3,403) (4,997)
Purchase of other intangible assets     (834) (896)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment     78 18
Net cash used in investing activities     (21,631) (22,116)
Cash flow from financing activities
New borrowings     15,200 –
Repayment of borrowings     (14,281) (463)
Interest paid     (436) (202)
Arrangement fee     (150) –
Dividends paid to shareholders     (3,686) (3,020)
Purchase of own shares for Treasury     (5,397) (1,323)
Issue of share capital from Treasury     193 163
Net cash used in financing activities     (8,557) (4,845)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents    29 (5,614) (575)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period     8,017 8,634
Foreign exchange     (2) (42)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period    22 2,401 8,017
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 65
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
For the period ended 27 March 2015
1. Incorporation
Sepura plc (“the Company”) is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales with registered number 04353801, 
whose Ordinary shares of £0.0005 each are traded on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange. The Company’s registered office is Radio House, 
St Andrew’s Road, Cambridge, CB4 1GR, England.
Details of the Company’s subsidiary undertakings are set out in Note 6 to the Company’s financial statements. The Company and its subsidiary 
undertakings are collectively referred to below as “the Group”.
2. The business of the Group
The principal activity of the Group is the design, development and distribution of secure digital radio products and systems.
3. Basis of preparation
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted 
by the European Union, the IFRS Interpretations Committee (formerly the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”)) 
interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The financial statements  
of the parent company, which have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, are presented separately following these consolidated  
financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost basis, except for certain financial 
instruments that have been measured at fair value.
The Company has prepared these consolidated financial statements for the period to 27 March 2015, being the nearest Friday to the end  
of the period.
These consolidated financial statements include the results of all of the Company’s subsidiary undertakings, which are listed in Note 6 to the 
Company’s financial statements. One of the Company’s subsidiaries, Fylde Micro Limited, has taken advantage of the exemption from an audit for 
the period ended 27 March 2015 available under s479A of the Companies Act 2006 as the Company has given a statutory guarantee of all of the 
outstanding liabilities of Fylde Micro Limited as at 27 March 2015.
4. Summary of significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently 
applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
New standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards effective in the financial statements
For the purposes of the preparation of these consolidated financial statements, the Group has applied all standards and interpretations  
that are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 29 March 2014.
The following new standards and amendments to published standards have been adopted during the current period:
• IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements”
• IFRS 11 “Joint arrangements”
• IFRS 12 “Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities”
• IAS 27 (Revised) “Separate Financial Statements”
• IAS 28 (Revised) “Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures”
• IAS 36 (Amended) “Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets”
• IAS 39 (Amended) “Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting”
• Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 on transition guidance
• Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 in relation to “Investment Entities”
• Amendments to IAS 32 on financial instrument asset and liability offsetting
None of these have had an impact on the reported results of the Group.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective
Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the Group’s accounting 
periods beginning on or after 28 March 2015 or later periods, and which the Group has not adopted early:
• IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”
• IFRS 14 “Regulatory Deferral Accounts”
• IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”
• IFRIC 21 “Levies”
• Amendment to IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” on defined benefit plans
• Amendment to IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements” on the disclosure initiative
• Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 on investment entities applying the consolidation exemption
• Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 on the sale or contribution of assets
• Amendments to IAS 27 “Separate Financial Statements” on the equity method
• Amendments to IAS 16 “Property, Plant and Equipment” and IAS 38 “Intangible Assets” on depreciation and amortisation
• Amendments to IFRS 11 “Joint Arrangements” on acquisition of an interest in a joint operation
The Directors are reviewing the implications of IFRS15 on the Group’s financial statements. The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of the 
other Standards, Amendments and Interpretations, where relevant, in future periods will have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements. 66 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
4. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings. Subsidiary 
undertakings are all entities over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, 
variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiary 
undertakings are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date that 
control ceases. The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are 
also eliminated but are considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of subsidiary undertakings have 
been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Segment reporting
An operating segment is a component of an entity that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses 
(including revenues and expenses relating to transactions with other components of the same entity), whose operating results are regularly 
reviewed by the entity's chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its 
performance, and for which discrete financial information is available. Operating segments are aggregated into reporting segments where 
they share similar economic characteristics as a result of the nature of the products sold or the services provided, the production processes 
used to manufacture the products, the type of customer for the products and services and the methods used to distribute the products or 
provide the services.
Revenue
Revenue, which relates to both the shipment of products and supplying solutions as part of long-term contracts, is recognised to the 
extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. The following specific 
recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised:
i. Sale of products
Revenue from the sale of products, such as the Group’s terminals, accessories and standard software products, is recognised when the 
significant risks and rewards of ownership of the products have passed to the buyer and revenue can be reliably measured. Depending on 
the Incoterms applicable, the Group typically recognises such revenue from the sale of products on despatch, on receipt of products by the 
customer, or upon formal acknowledgement from the customer that title has passed but they wish the products to be stored at the Group’s 
premises, in which case revenue is only recognised when the products are on hand, separately identified and available for collection, usual 
payment terms apply, and it is probable that delivery will take place.
In a multiple element arrangement some of the elements, either hardware or software, may remain undelivered or incomplete. Revenue  
may be recognised on the fair value of the elements delivered providing the following conditions are fulfilled:
• The element of the product delivered has value to the customer on a stand-alone basis and is thus a separately identifiable component 
within the arrangement;
• The fair value can be reliably attributed to the undelivered element (in the event of bundling where undelivered components may not have 
a separate invoiced sales price the fair value of the revenue deferred is calculated by comparing the underlying product list price of each 
element of the bundle compared to the overall bundle price); and
• Delivery of the undelivered element is probable and under the control of the Group i.e. the technical risk attached to the delivery of the 
component is acceptable.
If any of these conditions are not met then all revenue under the arrangement is deferred until either the contract is complete or uncertainty 
over any of these conditions is removed.
ii. Long-term contracts
The supply of solutions by the Group, such as network infrastructure or command and control software applications, where the 
implementation takes place over a period of months or years, are accounted for as long-term contracts. Revenue and cost of sales from long-
term contracts are recognised on the percentage of completion basis based on costs incurred to date when the outcome of the contract can 
be estimated reliably. The criteria for this are that total contract revenue and the costs to complete the contract can be estimated reliably, 
it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the contract will flow to the Group and that the stage of contract completion can 
be measured. When the Group is not able to meet those conditions, the policy is to recognise revenue equal to costs incurred to date, to 
the extent that such costs are expected to be recovered. Expected losses are recognised in full at the point at which they are anticipated. If 
the amount of the revenue recognised exceeds the amounts invoiced to customers, the excess amount is recorded in amounts recoverable 
on contracts within trade and other receivables. If the amounts invoiced exceed the revenue recognised, the excess amount is recorded as 
deferred revenue or payments in advance. 
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 27 March 2015 Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 67
4. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
iii. Warranties
As noted above, the Group assesses whether any of its contracts contain elements which operate independently of other contractual 
elements and which should, therefore, be ‘unbundled’ and accounted for separately. The Group offers as standard to all customers a 
product warranty package, which is typically for a period of three to five years depending on the product and territory concerned. Generally, 
product warranty packages which are offered as standard with all products are not separately priced, are offered for periods in line with 
the Group’s standard terms of supply at the time of sale and are not considered to be an element capable of ‘unbundling’. In such cases, 
provision is made at the time of sale for the estimated cost of providing the warranty cover based on historical information on the cost and 
frequency of repairs required to the Group’s products. The Group also has back-to-back warranties of between twelve and fifteen months 
with the majority of its sub-contract manufacturers to limit risk on product warranties. Amounts due from manufacturers under back-to-back 
warranties are not recognised until the manufacturer has confirmed a reimbursement will be made.
In certain cases “enhanced” warranty packages, of a longer than standard period, are sold to customers as separate products. In such cases 
the fair value of the revenue associated with the warranty cover is amortised over the underlying period of the warranty cover. The fair value 
of the revenue is determined by the Directors based on market information, including the sales price when enhanced warranties are sold  
on a stand-alone basis.
Pensions
The Group provides access to a Stakeholder Pension Scheme, a defined contribution plan into which employees may elect to contribute 
via salary deduction. The Group makes contributions to the scheme in proportion to the amount contributed by the employees. Costs are 
recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period to which they relate.
Employee share schemes
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to its eligible employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at 
fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed in the 
consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of the number of shares  
that will eventually vest. The corresponding entry is recorded in retained earnings. Fair value is measured using the trinomial model.  
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability,  
exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Financial income
Financial income comprises interest receivable on cash balances and deposits and is recognised using the effective interest rate method.
Financial expense
Financial expense comprises interest payable on credit facilities and is calculated using the effective interest rate method in accordance  
with IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”.
Income tax
Income tax on the result for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date, in the countries in which the Group operates, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts  
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The amount of deferred tax provided  
is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted  
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset 
when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes  
levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
 
Dividends
Dividends declared on the Company’s equity share capital are recognised as a liability when an irrevocable obligation to pay the dividends 
is established. In the case of interim dividends this arises when the dividend is paid, while for final dividends this is the date at which the 
dividends are approved at a shareholders’ general meeting. 68 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
4. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Historical cost includes 
expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items including, where relevant, the cost of subcontractors, direct labour 
and a proportion of attributable overheads. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, 
as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the 
item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the consolidated income statement during the financial 
period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of property, plant and equipment. Depreciation for certain 
manufacturing plant and machinery is calculated by reference to the number of units produced, and for all other assets by equal annual 
instalments over their estimated useful economic lives as follows:
• Plant and machinery 3 – 7 years
• IT equipment 3 – 5 years
No depreciation is charged on assets in the course of construction as their useful economic life has yet to commence. On completion,  
the assets are transferred to the appropriate class of property, plant and equipment and depreciation is charged at the above rates.
Intangible assets
The Group undertakes research and development activities with a view to developing new products and product functionality. Expenditure 
on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the 
consolidated income statement when incurred.
Costs incurred on development projects (relating to the design and testing of new or improved products) are recognised as intangible assets 
when it is demonstrable that:
• It is technically feasible that the project can be completed and will result in a product that is available for use or sale;
• It is intended that the project will be completed and the asset will be used or sold;
• The resultant asset can be used or sold;
• The resultant asset will generate future economic benefits;
• There are sufficient resources to complete the development and use or sell the asset; and
• The expenditure attributable to the project can be measured reliably.
Development expenditures that do not meet these criteria are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement as they are 
incurred. Development costs previously recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period. The expenditure 
capitalised includes cost of materials, subcontractors, direct labour and a proportion of attributable overheads. Capitalised development 
expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Amortisation is provided to write off the cost of the 
development expenditure by equal annual instalments over the products’ estimated useful life, which is usually three years, commencing 
from the time the asset is available for use. The amortisation of capitalised development expenditure is included in research and 
development costs in the consolidated income statement.
Software and similar licences
Externally purchased software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.  
The Group also purchases licences to exploit third-party intellectual property rights. Licences are recorded at the historical cost to acquire the 
licence less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, and are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the licence or, where 
the licence is indefinite, their estimated useful life which is generally three years. The amortisation of software and similar licences is included 
in the consolidated income statement within cost of sales or research and development costs as appropriate.
Acquired intangible assets
At the date of acquisition of a subsidiary, intangible assets that are deemed separable and that arise from contractual or other legal rights are 
capitalised and included within the net identifiable assets acquired. These intangible assets are initially measured at fair value, which reflects 
market expectations of the probability that the future economic benefits embodied in the asset will flow to the entity, and are amortised on 
a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives. They are subsequently measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment. 
At each balance sheet date, these assets are assessed for indicators of impairment and, in the event that an asset’s carrying amount is 
determined to be greater than its recoverable amount, the asset is written down immediately through the consolidated income statement.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 27 March 2015 Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 69
4. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the  
identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost  
less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually, or more frequently if events or changes  
in circumstances indicate potential impairment. The carrying value of goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the  
higher of the value in use and the fair value less costs to sell. Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not 
subsequently reversed.
Acquisition costs
Costs relating to an acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed to the consolidated 
income statement as incurred.
Impairment
The carrying value of non-current assets is reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may  
not be recoverable to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount 
is estimated. Intangible assets initially recognised during the current annual period which are not yet available for use are also tested for 
impairment by reference to the asset’s recoverable amount at the balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable 
amount of property, plant and equipment and capitalised software and other licences is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and 
value in use. The recoverable amount of capitalised development costs is its value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows over the remaining useful economic life of the asset in question are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Inventories
Inventories including work in progress are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, being estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business less applicable variable selling costs. Cost is determined on a first in first out basis and includes transport and handling 
costs. Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and defective inventories.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and call deposits with maturity of less than three months.
Leases
Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised 
at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.  
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of  
interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term, unless there is reasonable 
certainty that ownership will be retained at the end of the lease term in which case they are depreciated over their useful economic life.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases. Operating 
lease payments are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Where the Group enters into a finance sale and leaseback, the transaction is essentially a financing operation and therefore no profit or loss is 
recognised on the sale. Instead, any gain or loss arising on the sale, reflecting the difference between the sale price and the previous carrying 
value, is deferred and amortised over the lease term.
Restructuring provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the 
Group will be required to settle that obligation and the amount can be estimated reliably. Provisions are measured at the best estimate of 
the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Warranty provisions
Provision is made at the time of sale for the estimated cost of providing warranty cover which cannot be separated from the sale of 
the underlying goods. The provision is calculated based on historical information on the cost and frequency of repairs required to the 
Group’s products. The Group also has back-to-back warranties of between twelve and fifteen months with the majority of its sub-contract 
manufacturers to limit risk on liabilities arising from manufacturing defects. This back-to-back warranty has not been netted from the 
provision. The warranty provision has not been discounted as the impact would not be material. 70 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
4. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Contingent consideration
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, 
it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent 
consideration are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity  
as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Non-recurring items
Items of income and expense that are considered material, either by their size and/or nature, are classified as exceptional / non-recurring. 
Such items are shown separately on the face of the consolidated income statement. The categorisation of exceptional items depends on  
the nature of the items arising.
Financial instruments
i. Treasury policies and management
The Group’s treasury policies are designed to ensure that adequate financial resources are available for the development of the Group’s 
businesses.
ii. Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method,  
less provision for impairment. Trade receivables are first assessed individually for impairment, or collectively where the receivables are  
not individually significant. Where there is no objective evidence of impairment for an individual receivable, it is included in a group  
of receivables with similar credit risk characteristics and these are collectively assessed for impairment and movements in the provision  
for doubtful debts are recorded in the consolidated income statement.
iii. Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.  
Trade payables are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 
twelve months after the balance sheet date.
iv. Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost; any 
difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the consolidated income statement 
over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group 
has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date.
v. Derivative financial instruments
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into, and are subsequently remeasured at their 
fair value at each reporting date. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as  
a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as either:
(a) hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment (“fair value hedges”);
(b) hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction (“cash flow hedge”); or
(c) hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation (“net investment hedge”).
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its 
risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at 
hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting 
changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in Note 31.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other 
comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within  
“losses on forward currency contracts”. Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged  
item affects profit or loss (for example, when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). When a hedging instrument expires or is sold,  
or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in 
equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no 
longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement within 
“losses on forward currency contracts”. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting 
are recognised in the consolidated income statement as they arise.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 27 March 2015 Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 71
4. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Foreign currencies
i. Functional and presentational currency
The presentational currency of the Group and the Company is the Euro (€). The functional currency of each Group entity is that of the primary 
economic environment in which it operates.
ii. Transactions and balances
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into the functional currency at the actual rates of exchange ruling at the 
date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been retranslated at rates ruling at the balance 
sheet date. All exchange gains and losses are taken to the consolidated income statement in the period in which they arise.
iii. Group companies
The results and financial position of the Group’s overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated, where appropriate, into Euros as follows:
• Assets and liabilities at each balance sheet date presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
• Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates; and
• All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
5. Critical accounting estimates and assumptions
Judgements and estimates
The preparation of financial information in conformity with IFRS requires the Directors to make critical accounting estimates and judgements 
that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. An assessment of the impact of 
these estimates and judgements on the financial statements is set out below.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable 
under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are 
not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period 
in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects 
both current and future periods.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities 
within the next financial period are discussed below.
Bad debt provision
The Group has some concentration of credit risk due to the influence of large contracts on its business, albeit these contracts are directly,  
or indirectly (via the Group’s distribution partners) predominantly with Government agencies both in the UK and internationally. To offset 
this risk the Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales are made. The 
Group does not hold any security or other collateral in respect of its trade receivables and so was exposed to credit risk in respect of the net 
trade receivables balance of €40.5 million (2014: €34.8 million) including overdue receivable balances relating to projects in the Middle East. 
An impairment provision is maintained in respect of amounts owed by specific customers where recoverability of the debt is considered 
sufficiently uncertain. This includes a provision in relation to a Greek public safety contract as described in Note 21.
Assessment of fair value of undelivered elements in multiple element arrangements
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the products or services have passed to the buyer and  
revenue can be reliably measured. Depending on the Incoterms applicable, there can be judgement regarding the point at which these  
risks and rewards have been transferred. The Group enters into a number of multiple element arrangements where typically an element of 
software (which is not fundamental to the effective operation of the product) is delivered after the date of delivery of the initial hardware and 
software. In such circumstances, where the fair value of the undelivered elements can be estimated by management, revenue equal to this 
fair value is separately carved out and deferred until such items have been delivered. The remainder of the revenue is recognised on initial 
delivery. If management’s estimation of the fair value of deferred income (as at the date of invoicing) were increased by 10% then profit for  
the period ended 27 March 2015 would be increased by €0.1 million (2014: reduction of €21,000) while net assets would be reduced by  
€0.5 million (2014: €0.6 million).
Estimating the costs required to complete long-term contracts
Revenue recognised under long-term contracts is determined by reference to the stage of completion of the relevant contract. Assessing  
the stage of completion requires an estimation of the future costs that will be incurred to complete the contract. If management’s assessment 
of these future costs were amended by 10% then the impact on revenue and gross margin would be €0.2 million (2014: €0.3 million). 72 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
5. Critical accounting estimates and assumptions (continued)
Assessing whether development costs meet the criteria for capitalisation
The point at which development costs meet the criteria for capitalisation is critically dependent on management’s judgement of the point  
at which technical feasibility is demonstrable.
The carrying amount of development costs on projects which are not yet available for sale or use was:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Development costs not available for sale or use     27,169 25,600
Assessing the useful economic lives of capitalised development costs
Management have estimated the useful economic lives of capitalised development costs as three years based on historical knowledge  
of the life cycle of the Group’s products and technology.
If this estimate was reduced from three to two years, net assets would be reduced by €1.1 million at 27 March 2015 and €2.7 million  
at 28 March 2014, with a corresponding increase in the Group’s reported profit of €1.5 million and €0.4 million respectively.
Impairment of goodwill, capitalised development costs and acquired intangibles
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating unit (“CGU”) to which goodwill 
has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows of the CGU, and a suitable discount 
rate, in order to calculate the present value. Similar calculations are required in respect of capitalised development costs and other acquired 
intangibles. Changing the assumptions selected by management, in particular the discount rate and growth rate assumptions used in the 
cash flow projections, could significantly affect the Group’s impairment evaluation.
Acquired intangibles
IFRS 3 (revised) “Business Combinations” requires that goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is capitalised and included  
in intangible assets. IFRS 3 (revised) also requires the identification of other intangible assets at acquisition. The assumptions involved in 
valuing these intangible assets, as set out in Note 17, requires the use of estimates and judgements, that may differ from the actual outcome. 
These estimates and judgements cover future growth rates, expected inflation rates and the discount rate used. Changing the assumptions 
selected by management could significantly affect the allocation of the purchase price paid between goodwill and other acquired intangibles.
Contingent consideration
Contingent consideration of up to €4.9 million and €2.1 million is payable to the previous owners of Portalify OY and Fylde Micro Limited 
respectively in the event that revenue and operating profit targets are met over a certain period. Management have considered that, based 
on current projections, all of this consideration will be payable and accordingly a provision for €7.0 million is recorded in the consolidated 
financial statements. In the event that either Portalify OY or Fylde Micro Limited fail to meet these targets then the amount of consideration 
payable will be reduced accordingly.
Tax estimates
The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge for the period necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain 
items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined at the reporting date. To the extent that the final outcome differs from the tax that 
has been provided, adjustments will be made to income tax and deferred tax provisions. Furthermore, the recognition of deferred tax assets  
is based upon whether it is more likely than not that sufficient and suitable taxable profits, based on the latest available profit forecasts, will  
be available in the future against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 27 March 2015 Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 73
6. Acquisition of Fylde Micro Limited
On 20 May 2014 the Group announced the acquisition of the entire share capital of Fylde Micro Limited, (“Fylde”), which designs and 
manufactures trunking controllers that enable a simple, low-risk and cost-effective migration from analogue to digital networks. The 
acquisition of Fylde expands the Group’s addressable market by broadening the Group’s product portfolio. The initial cash consideration 
was £2.75 million, with a subsequent additional payment of £450,000 based on the net assets at the date of acquisition. Further contingent 
consideration of up to £3.5 million was payable in cash if Fylde achieved EBIT targets over an earn-out period, none of which was linked to 
future employment. Subsequent to the acquisition, the terms of the earn-out were amended to include technical milestones as well as EBIT. 
As a result, in accordance with IFRS 3 “Business Combinations”, part of the contingent consideration now represents future management 
remuneration that will be charged to the income statement as it is incurred. Reflecting this and the first year's post-acquisition performance, 
the related liability that had been recognised on acquisition has been released through the income statement and included within  
non-recurring items.
The provisional book and fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired are as follows:
     Fair value Provisional
    Book value adjustments fair value
    €’000 €’000 €’000
Intangible assets    – 2,402 2,402
Property, plant and equipment    33 – 33
Deferred tax    – (480) (480)
Inventories    253 – 253
Trade and other receivables    263 – 263
Cash at bank and in hand    548 – 548
Income tax payable    (144) – (144)
Trade and other payables    (135) – (135)
Net assets acquired    818 1,922 2,740
Goodwill      5,624
Purchase consideration, including contingent consideration      8,364
The purchase consideration comprises:
Cash consideration paid on completion      3,951
Deferred consideration payable in cash      4,413
Purchase consideration, including contingent consideration      8,364
Intangible assets acquired relate to existing customer contracts, intellectual property and relationships together with the business’ brand 
name. These are being amortised over the expected useful economic lives, which have been assessed as five years. The goodwill arising  
on the acquisition is attributable to the value of synergies arising from the acquisition, Fylde’s assembled workforce and future profits arising 
from access to new markets. None of the goodwill on this acquisition is expected to be deductible for tax. The Group incurred €882,000 of 
costs in connection with acquisition and subsequent restructuring that have been charged to the consolidated income statement as non-
recurring items.
Fylde reported a profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2013 of £1,000. Fylde contributed €1.5 million of revenues and a loss of  
€0.4 million, after deducting amortisation of acquired intangibles, to the Group’s results for the period, while the Group’s revenue and earnings 
would have been €131.6 million and €15.2 million respectively if Fylde had been a member of the Group for the whole period.
During the period the preliminary fair values attributable to the assets and liabilities of Portalify OY, acquired on 25 July 2013, were re-assessed 
and the related goodwill increased by €148,000.
  74 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
7. Segment reporting
The Board has concluded that the Group has a single reportable segment, being the design, development and supply of secure digital radio 
products and systems as:
• The Chief Operating Decision Maker is the Board, which reviews regular financial information on the performance of the Group, assesses  
the performance of the Group’s executives and is responsible for resource allocation;
• Since acquiring Fylde Micro Limited on 20 May 2014 its operations have been integrated into Sepura’s core business and a combined sales 
team now go to market selling Fylde Micro’s products as part of Sepura’s total product portfolio; and
• Responsibility for world-wide sales falls under a single individual, reflecting the shared economic characteristics of the Group’s geographical 
markets and customers in terms of the products sold into these markets, the sourcing of those products from the Group’s sub-contract 
manufacturers and the distribution channels used by end-customers.
Revenues attributable to customers based in the Company’s country of domicile, the United Kingdom, were €18,320,000 (2014: €19,346,000). 
Revenues from all other countries totalled €112,840,000 (2014: €97,299,000), of which €39,016,000 (2014: €32,309,000) related to customers 
in Germany which in aggregate represented more than 10% of the Group’s revenues for the period. A significant percentage of the Group’s 
revenue in each financial period is derived from orders from a small number of end-user organisations; the Group is not reliant on any 
individual end-user organisations.
The Group’s intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are located as follows:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
United Kingdom     56,280 39,520
Rest of world     20,601 21,050
     76,881 60,570
8. Adjusted performance measures
The Group presents adjusted figures as key performance measures in addition to those reported under IFRS. These adjusted figures, 
comprising EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted operating profit and adjusted operating margin, exclude certain non-operational or non-cash 
items and so, in management's view, better reflect the underlying trading performance of the Group. They may not be comparable  
to measures with a similar description used by other entities.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation has been calculated as follows:
    2015 2014
    €’000 €’000 Increase
Operating profit    17,087 14,427 18%
Depreciation (see Note 18)    1,801 1,445
Amortisation (see Note 17)    8,428 9,588
EBITDA    27,316 25,460 7%
Non-recurring items    1,196 590
Reversal of capitalised development costs (see Note 17)    (13,108) (12,536)
Reversal of the IFRS 2 share-option charge (see Note 10)    1,262 664
Reversal of the NI payable on the shares subject to the IFRS 2 share-option charge  301 238
Adjusted EBITDA    16,967 14,416 18%
Adjusted operating profit has been calculated as follows:
    2015 2014
    €’000 €’000 Increase
Operating profit    17,087 14,427 18%
Adjustments
Non-recurring items    1,196 590
Reversal of capitalised development costs (see Note 17)    (13,108) (12,536)
Reversal of associated amortisation (see Note 17)    6,747 8,080
Reversal of amortisation of acquired intangibles (see Note 17)    1,518 1,010
Reversal of the IFRS 2 share-option charge (see Note 10)    1,262 664
Reversal of the NI payable on the shares subject to the IFRS 2 share-option charge  301 238
Adjusted operating profit    15,003 12,473 20%
Adjusted operating margin, being adjusted operating profit divided by revenue  11.4% 10.7%
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 27 March 2015 Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 75
8. Adjusted performance measures (continued)
Adjusted operating costs have been calculated as follows:
For the period ended 27 March 2015  Selling, marketing Research and Administrative 
  and distribution costs development costs expenses Total
  €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Per consolidated income statement  19,995 10,394 13,176 43,565
Adjustments
Non-recurring items  (1,770) – 574 (1,196)
Reversal of capitalised development costs (see Note 17)  – 13,108 – 13,108
Reversal of associated amortisation (see Note 17)  – (6,747) – (6,747)
Reversal of amortisation of acquired intangibles (see Note 17)  – – (1,518) (1,518)
Reversal of the IFRS 2 share-option charge (see Note 10)  – – (1,262) (1,262)
Reversal of the NI payable on the shares subject to the IFRS 2 share-option charges – – (301) (301)
Adjusted operating costs  18,225 16,755 10,669 45,649
For the period ended 28 March 2014  Selling, marketing Research and Administrative 
  and distribution costs development costs expenses Total
  €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Per consolidated income statement  16,625 12,228 12,039 40,892
Adjustments
Non-recurring items  – – (590) (590)
Reversal of capitalised development costs (see Note 17)  – 12,536 – 12,536
Reversal of associated amortisation (see Note 17)  – (8,080) – (8,080)
Reversal of amortisation of acquired intangibles (see Note 17)  – – (1,010) (1,010)
Reversal of the IFRS 2 share-option charge (see Note 10)  – – (664) (664)
Reversal of the NI payable on the shares subject to the IFRS 2 share-option charges – – (238) (238)
Adjusted operating costs  16,625 16,684 9,537 42,846
9. Operating profit
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Operating profit is stated after charging (crediting):
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense (included in cost of sales)    66,665 53,530
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment:
– Owned assets     1,801 1,445
– Amounts included in capitalised development costs     365 183
Amortisation of intangible assets
– Development costs     6,747 8,080
– Software and similar licences     163 498
– Acquired intangibles     1,518 1,010
Research and non-capitalised development costs (excluding amortisation)    3,647 4,148
Operating lease rentals:
– Land and buildings     1,499 1,451
– Plant and machinery     19 19
Trade receivables impairment (included in sales, marketing and distribution costs  
and excluding the non-recurring item described below)     (37) 346
Foreign exchange losses     1,414 144
Non-recurring items:
– Acquisition costs relating to Fylde Micro Limited (See Note 6)     532 329
– Acquisition costs relating to the acquisition of Teltronic SAU     864 –
– Restructuring costs     350 261
– Release of Fylde contingent consideration     (2,320) –
– Provision against Greek public safety contract (See Note 21)     1,770 – 76 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
9. Operating profit (continued)
Non-recurring items in the current period relate to the acquisition of Fylde Micro Limited and subsequent restructuring, together with initial 
costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of Teltronic SAU which completed subsequent to the end of the period, as described in Note 
34. They also include a provision against outstanding receivables due from a customer in Greece as described in Note 21. Non-recurring items 
in the prior period related to the acquisition of Portalify OY and subsequent restructuring.
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Auditors’ remuneration:
– Fees payable to the Company’s Auditors for the audit of the  Company and consolidated financial statements  114 99
– Fees payable to the Company’s Auditors for other services:
– Audit related assurance services (interim review)     25 25
– Tax compliance services     16 12
– Tax advisory services     10 11
– Corporate finance and Reporting Accountant services     262 16
– All other non-audit services     6 3
     433 166
10. Employee numbers and costs
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group (including executive Directors) during the period, analysed by category,  
was as follows:
     2015 2014
     Number Number
Research and development     205 200
Sales, marketing and distribution     95 78
General and administration     20 17
Production support     69 50
     389 345
The aggregate costs of these employees were as follows:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Wages and salaries     27,214 25,303
Social security costs     3,031 3,238
Other pension costs     1,322 1,176
Expense relating to share based payments     1,262 664
     32,829 30,381
11. Key management compensation and remuneration of Directors
Total Directors’ remuneration, excluding gains from the exercise of share options, comprised:
    2015  2014
   £’000 €’000 £’000 €’000
Directors’ emoluments   872 1,104 1,078 1,305
Company contributions to money purchase pension plans    51 65 48 58
   923 1,169 1,126 1,363
Information on the remuneration of individual Directors is given in those sections of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described as having 
been audited, and those elements required by the Companies Act 2006 and the Financial Conduct Authority form part of these financial 
statements. One of the Directors exercised share options during the period giving rise to a taxable gain of £833,000 (2014: £211,000);  
the total expense in the income statement relating to Directors’ share based payments was €383,000 (2014: €190,000).
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 27 March 2015 Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 77
11. Key management compensation and remuneration of Directors (continued)
The compensation of the Directors and the seven (2014: seven) other “key management personnel” (as defined within IAS 24) was as follows:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Salaries and other short-term employee benefits     2,487 2,687
Aggregate gains made on the exercise of share options     1,055 255
Expense relating to share based payments     568 300
     4,110 3,242
12. Financial income
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Interest receivable and similar income on short-term bank deposits    55 6
13. Financial expense
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Interest payable on borrowings and credit facilities     436 202
Amortisation of loan arrangement fees     48 48
     484 250
14. Income tax expense
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Current tax:
Overseas income tax for the period     457 769
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences     1,125 1,200
Adjustment in respect of prior periods     – (1,428)
Impact of change in UK tax rate     – 512
Total tax in consolidated income statement     1,582 1,053
Factors affecting the tax expense for the period
The tax expense for the period is different from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK, which was 21% (2014: 23%).  
The differences are explained below:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Tax reconciliation
Profit before income tax     16,658 14,183
At standard rate of corporation tax in the UK     3,498 3,262
Effects of:
Research and development enhanced expenditure     (828) (735)
Patent box     (447) (498)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes     132 65
Accelerated capital allowances     – 23
Employee share options     (773) (148)
Impact of change in UK tax rate     – 512
Adjustment in respect of prior periods     – (1,428)
Total tax expense (see above)     1,582 1,053
Effective tax rate     9% 7%
The Finance Act 2013, which provides for reductions in the main rate of corporation tax from 23% to 21% effective from 1 April 2014 and  
to 20% effective from 1 April 2015, was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. These rate reductions have been reflected in the calculation  
of deferred tax at the balance sheet date. 78 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
15. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing earnings attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number  
of shares of the Company for each period. For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares is adjusted to allow for  
the conversion of all dilutive equity instruments.
   2015   2014
 Before non- Non- After non- Before non- Non- After non-
 recurring recurring recurring recurring recurring recurring
 items items items items items items
Earnings attributable to owners of the parent (€’000) 16,016 (940) 15,076 13,584 (454) 13,130
Number of shares
Basic weighted average number of shares (‘000) 138,056 138,056 138,056 138,057 138,057 138,057
Effect of dilutive securities:
Employee incentive plans (‘000) 1,041 1,041 1,041 1,160 1,160 1,160
Diluted weighted average number of shares (‘000) 139,097 139,097 139,097 139,217 139,217 139,217
Basic EPS (¢) 11.6 (0.7) 10.9 9.8 (0.3) 9.5
Diluted EPS (¢) 11.5 (0.7) 10.8 9.8 (0.4) 9.4
The Group presents an adjusted earnings per share figure which excludes non-recurring items, the capitalisation of development costs 
(together with associated amortisation), the amortisation of acquired intangibles and the IFRS 2 share-option charge, all net of UK Corporation 
Tax at the standard rate. This adjusted earnings per share figure has been based on adjusted basic earnings for each financial period and on 
the same number of diluted weighted average shares in issue as the GAAP earnings per share calculation above.
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Earnings attributable to owners of the parent     15,076 13,130
Adjustments
Non-recurring items     1,196 590
Reversal of capitalised development costs     (13,108) (12,536)
Reversal of associated amortisation     6,747 8,080
Reversal of amortisation of acquired intangibles     1,518 1,010
Reversal of the IFRS 2 share-option charge     1,262 664
Reversal of the NI payable on the shares subject to the IFRS 2 share-option charge   301 238
     (2,084) (1,954)
Effect of UK Corporation Tax at 21% (2014: 23%)     438 449
Net of UK Corporation Tax at 21% (2014: 23%)     (1,646) (1,505)
Adjusted earnings attributable to owners of the parent     13,430 11,625
Adjusted diluted EPS (¢)     9.7 8.4
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 27 March 2015 Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 79
16. Dividends
The Directors have proposed a final dividend in respect of the financial period ended 27 March 2015 of 1.71p per Ordinary share, totalling 
approximately €4.3 million based on the Ordinary shares in issue at the date of this report. The proposed dividend is subject to approval by 
shareholders and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
During the current and prior periods the Company paid the following dividends:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
FY15 Interim dividend of 0.69p per Ordinary share     1,255 –
FY14 Final dividend of 1.41p per Ordinary share     2,431 –
FY14 Interim dividend of 0.59p per Ordinary share     – 966
FY13 Final dividend of 1.17p per Ordinary share     – 2,054
     3,686 3,020
17. Intangible assets
    Acquired
    software,
  Capitalisation of Software customer
  development and similar relationships
  costs licences and brand Goodwill Total
  €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Cost
At 30 March 2013  93,346 3,705 4,468 8,513 110,032
Additions  12,536 896 – – 13,432
Acquisitions  730 504 1,031 5,440 7,705
At 28 March 2014  106,612 5,105 5,499 13,953 131,169
Transfer  – (504) 504 – –
Additions  13,108 834 – – 13,942
Acquisitions  – – 2,402 5,772 8,174
At 27 March 2015  119,720 5,435 8,405 19,725 153,285
Amortisation and impairment
At 30 March 2013  64,748 2,914 1,055 – 68,717
Charge for the period  8,080 498 1,010 – 9,588
At 28 March 2014  72,828 3,412 2,065 – 78,305
Charge for the period  6,747 163 1,518 – 8,428
Transfer  – (88) 88 – –
At 27 March 2015  79,575 3,487 3,671 – 86,733
Net book value
At 27 March 2015  40,145 1,948 4,734 19,725 66,552
At 28 March 2014  33,784 1,693 3,434 13,953 52,864
At 29 March 2013  28,598 791 3,413 8,513 41,315
The amortisation charge for each period has been included within the following captions of the consolidated income statement:
     2015 2014
     €'000 €'000
Cost of sales     – 315
Research and development costs     6,845 8,175
Administrative expenses     1,583 1,098
     8,428 9,588
  80 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
17. Intangible assets (continued)
The Group tests annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may have been impaired. Goodwill relates  
to the acquisition during the period of Fylde Micro Limited, and the acquisitions of Portalify OY and 3T Communications AG in prior periods,  
all of which are considered part of a single “cash generating unit”. The Directors have prepared “value in use” calculations in accordance with 
IAS 36 “Impairment of assets”, using the following key assumptions:
Assumption How determined
Revenues  Management have used detailed forecasts for the next three years as this time period provides sufficient  
headroom to support the carrying value of goodwill.
Gross margin  Gross margin has been calculated based on the specific customer and product mix included in the 
revenue forecasts for the three year period.
Operating costs  Operating costs are based on detailed forecasts reflecting expected future head-count, investment  
in R&D and routes to market and contracted hedge rates for Sterling-denominated costs.
Capital expenditure  Forecast capital expenditure is based on specific planned investment together with historical levels  
of capital expenditure.
Discount rate  The pre-tax discount rate of 15% applied to the cash flows reflects the weighted average cost of capital  
of the Group using the industry standard formula.
Based on the above, the Directors have concluded that no impairment is required to be recorded.
18. Property, plant and equipment
   Assets under Plant and
   construction machinery IT equipment Total
   €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Cost
At 30 March 2013   468 12,432 2,318 15,218
Transfers   (247) 229 18 –
Additions   1,746 1,655 310 3,711
Acquisitions   – – 6 6
Disposals   – (13) (5) (18)
At 28 March 2014   1,967 14,303 2,647 18,917
Foreign exchange   – 63 – 63
Transfers   (572) 570 2 –
Additions   1,901 2,043 475 4,419
Acquisitions   – 33 – 33
Disposals   – – (78) (78)
At 27 March 2015   3,296 17,012 3,046 23,354
Accumulated depreciation
At 30 March 2013   – 7,933 1,833 9,766
Charge for the period   – 1,228 217 1,445
At 28 March 2014   – 9,161 2,050 11,211
Foreign exchange   – 13 – 13
Charge for the period   – 1,472 329 1,801
At 27 March 2015   – 10,646 2,379 13,025
Net book value
At 27 March 2015   3,296 6,366 667 10,329
At 28 March 2014   1,967 5,142 597 7,706
At 29 March 2013   468 4,499 485 5,452
There was no capital expenditure at the end of either period which had been contracted for prior to the end of the period but not provided 
for in the financial statements.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 27 March 2015 Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 81
19. Deferred tax
The Group’s deferred tax assets and (liabilities) totalled €13,773,000 (2014: €13,883,000) and €9,479,000 (2014: €7,612,000) respectively  
and relate to temporary differences in respect of:
     Equity-
 Capitalised Cash- Acquired  settled Other Property,
 development flow intangible  share temporary plant and
 costs hedges assets Losses options differences equipment Net
 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
At 30 March 2013 (6,578) 248 (785) 9,886 1,607 188 2,120 6,686
Acquired (179) – (338) – – – – (517)
Recognised in income – – 353 41 153 (11) (820) (284)
Recognised in equity:
– Arising on cash flow hedges – (333) – – – – – (333)
– Arising on equity settled share options – – – – 289 – – 289
– Effect of change in tax rate – – – – 228 – – 228
At 28 March 2014 (6,757) (85) (770) 9,927 2,277 177 1,300 6,069
Acquired – – (480) – – – – (480)
Recognised in income (1,272) – 303 (412) 265 (9) – (1,125)
Recognised in equity:
– Arising on cash flow hedges – (418) – – – – – (418)
– Arising on equity settled share options – – – – 248 – – 248
At 27 March 2015 (8,029) (503) (947) 9,515 2,790 168 1,300 4,294
Deferred tax liabilities have been offset against deferred tax assets at 27 March 2015 as there is a legally enforceable right to offset current  
tax assets and current tax liabilities within the same fiscal jurisdiction.
The Group’s deferred tax assets have been recognised in accordance with IAS 12 as, based on historical performance and future budgets,  
the Directors believe that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which the assets will reverse.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities may be classified as long-term or current as follows:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Non-current assets     11,971 12,421
Non-current liabilities     (8,657) (7,378)
     3,314 5,043
Current assets     1,802 1,260
Current liabilities     (822) (234)
     980 1,026 82 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
20. Inventories
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Raw materials     2,196 1,800
Work in progress     2,182 1,526
Finished goods and goods for resale     7,755 8,657
     12,133 11,983
An obsolescence provision is maintained in respect of inventories, the movements on which are set out below:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
At the beginning of the period     906 907
(Released) charged to cost of sales in the consolidated income statement    (310) 11
Utilised in period     (12) (12)
At the end of the period     584 906
21. Trade and other receivables
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Trade receivables     42,581 35,844
Less: provision for impairment of receivables     (2,070) (1,004)
Trade receivables (net)     40,511 34,840
Other receivables     862 416
Prepayments and accrued income     6,259 2,151
     47,632 37,407
Other receivables at 27 March 2015 included €Nil (2014: €120,000) of unamortised fees incurred in connection with the Group’s revolving 
credit facility described in Note 23. The equivalent balance at 27 March 2015 has been offset against borrowings as described in Note 23.
Credit risk in relation to trade and other receivables
The Group has some concentration of credit risk due to the influence of large contracts on its business, albeit these contracts are directly,  
or indirectly (via the Group’s distribution partners) predominantly with Government agencies both in the UK and internationally. To offset 
this risk the Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales are made. Customer 
orders are checked against pre-set requirements before acceptance and formal credit control procedures are applied subsequent to invoicing 
the customer. Letters of credit and payments in advance are also obtained from customers as appropriate.
The Group does not hold any security or other collateral in respect of its trade receivables and so was exposed to credit risk in respect of  
the net trade receivables balance of €40,511,000 (2014: €34,840,000). Management believe that the credit quality of trade receivables which 
are within the Group’s typical payment terms of between 30 and 90 days is good, with €9,438,000 (2014: €5,126,000) being overdue but not 
impaired at the period end, of which €1,081,000 was less than 30 days overdue (2014: €2,059,000) and €4,542,000 (2014: €3,128,000) was more 
than 120 days overdue. 
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 27 March 2015 Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 83
21. Trade and other receivables (continued)
An impairment provision is maintained in respect of amounts owed by specific customers which were more than 120 days overdue  
and where recoverability of the debt was considered sufficiently uncertain. While the Board will continue to pursue full settlement of the 
amounts outstanding under a Greek public safety contract, given the current economic situation in Greece, which makes the timing and  
value of any payments uncertain, the Group has provided €1,770,000, being the total financial exposure.
The movement in the impairment provision during the period and the prior period is shown below:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
At the beginning of the period     1,004 780
(Released) charged to the consolidated income statement     (37) 346
Provision against Greek public safety contract included in non-recurring items    1,770 –
Utilised in period     (667) (122)
At the end of the period     2,070 1,004
Foreign exchange risk in relation to trade receivables
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Euro     33,877 32,392
Sterling     4,671 2,125
US dollar     1,678 134
Other      285 189
Total     40,511 34,840
The Group’s overall foreign exchange risk is explained in Note 31 “Financial instruments”.
22. Cash and cash equivalents
The denomination and interest rate risk profile of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents is as follows:
   2015   2014
 Cash at    Cash at
 bank and Short-term  bank and Short-term
 in hand deposits Total in hand deposits Total
 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Sterling 9 – 9 728 121 849
US dollar 723 – 723 2,219 168 2,387
Euro 1,235 9 1,244 2,625 2,018 4,643
Other currencies 425 – 425 138 – 138
Total 2,392 9 2,401 5,710 2,307 8,017
Variable rate  0.4% 0.25%  0.4% 0.13%
The credit risk associated with cash and cash equivalents is mitigated by holding funds with counterparties with high credit ratings assigned 
by international credit rating agencies. Deposit accounts represent amounts placed on short-term deposit on the money markets through 
accounts held at AA2 to AA3-rated banks (2014: AA2 to AA3-rated). The effective interest rate on deposit accounts was 2.2% (2014: 0.1%).  
The Group’s overall interest rate risk is explained in Note 31 “Financial instruments”. 84 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
23. Borrowings and facilities
Borrowings outstanding at the end of the period
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Bank borrowings, all of which are denominated in Euros, are repayable as follows:
Within one year     2,983 2,182
In the second year     170 311
In the third to fifth year inclusive     376 339
     3,529 2,832
Less: amounts due for settlement within 12 months (shown under current liabilities)   (2,983) (2,182)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months     546 650
Bank borrowings comprise drawdowns under the Group’s Revolving Credit Facility, net of fees, of €1,131,000 (that bear interest at LIBOR plus 
1.35%), and loans acquired with Sepura Systems GmbH and Portalify OY. Bank borrowings at Sepura Systems GmbH comprise an export loan 
of €1,500,000, which bears interest at 1.85% and a term loan of which €321,000 is outstanding, is repayable in monthly instalments of €11,000 
and bears interest at 4.56%. Bank borrowings at Portalify OY comprise development funding loans of €539,000, which are repayable in annual 
instalments through to 2017 and bear interest at the Bank of Finland base rate less 3% (subject to a minimum of 1%), and €38,000 of other 
loans repayable monthly or quarterly that bear interest at rates ranging from 1% to 6%.
Facilities
On 2 October 2014 the Group increased its revolving credit facility to €35 million, with an extended life of five years from that date. The total 
costs associated with extending the facility were €150,000, which, together with the unamortised fees for the original facility of €96,000, 
were being amortised over the life of the facility. The facility was secured by a fixed and floating charge over the Group’s assets, and included 
covenants which were tested quarterly. The facility was refinanced after the end of the period as part of the acquisition of Teltronic described 
in Note 34.
24. Trade and other payables
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Trade payables     30,721 21,039
Other taxation and social security     1,747 896
Accruals and deferred income     12,632 11,650
Payments in advance     169 454
     45,269 34,039
Non-current
Deferred income     3,348 4,826
Non-current deferred income relates to non-standard warranty package revenues, which are amortised over the underlying period  
of the warranty cover.
At the end of the period the Group had entered into supply agreements under which the Group has minimum contractual purchase 
commitments of €9,606,000 (2014: €9,899,000) during the three month period subsequent to the period end. No loss is expected to  
be incurred in respect of these contracts.
Foreign exchange risk in relation to trade payables
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade payables are denominated in the following currencies:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Euro     15,241 14,894
Sterling     6,058 4,220
US dollar     9,316 1,872
Other currencies     106 53
Total     30,721 21,039
The Group’s overall foreign exchange risk is explained in Note 31 “Financial instruments”.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 27 March 2015 Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 85
25. Provisions
   2015   2014
 Warranty Contingent  Warranty Contingent
 provision consideration Total provision consideration Total
 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
At the beginning of the period 1,227 4,905 6,132 1,388 5,000 6,388
Settled during the period – – – – (5,000) (5,000)
Arising on acquisition of Fylde Micro Limited
as described in Note 6 – 4,413 4,413 – – –
Subsequent release of part of the contingent  
consideration in respect of Fylde Micro Limited  
as described in Note 6 – (2,320) (2,320) – – –
Arising on acquisition of Portalify OY – – – – 4,905 4,905
Charged to the consolidated income statement 258 – 258 441 – 441
Utilised in period (589) – (589) (602) – (602)
At the end of the period 896 6,998 7,894 1,227 4,905 6,132
Less: amounts due for settlement within 12 months
(shown under current liabilities) (483) (2,095) (2,578) (411) (905) (1,316)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 413 4,903 5,316 816 4,000 4,816
Warranty provision
A warranty provision is made at the time of sale for the estimated cost of providing standard warranty cover which cannot be separated 
from the sale of the underlying goods. The provision is calculated based on historical information regarding the cost and frequency of repairs 
required to the Group’s products. Warranty cover is typically provided over a period of three to five years, depending on the product and 
territory concerned. The Group also has back-to-back warranties of between twelve and fifteen months with the majority of its sub-contract 
manufacturers to limit risk on liabilities arising on manufacturing defects.
Contingent consideration
Contingent consideration of up to €4.9 million and €2.1 million is payable to the previous owners of Portalify OY and Fylde Micro Limited 
respectively in the event that revenue and operating profit targets are met over a certain period. Management have considered that, based 
on current projections, all of this consideration will be payable and accordingly a provision for €7.0 million is recorded in the consolidated 
financial statements. In the event that either Portalify OY or Fylde Micro Limited fail to meet these targets then the amount of consideration 
payable will be reduced accordingly.
 
26. Share capital
Authorised share capital
   2015   2014
 Number £ €’000 Number £ €’000
Authorised
Ordinary shares of £0.0005 each 400,000,000 200,000 227 400,000,000 200,000 227
Issued share capital
During the period and the prior period the following changes occurred in the Company’s issued, allotted and fully paid share capital  
of Ordinary shares of £0.0005 each:
     Share Share
     capital premium
   Number £ €’000 €’000
At 30 March 2013    137,318,580 68,659 78 –
Exercise of options under employee share option schemes   25,517 13 – –
Issue of shares to settle contingent consideration relating  
to the acquisition of 3T Communications AG   1,301,334 651 1 999
At 28 March 2014 and 27 March 2015   138,645,431 69,323 79 999 86 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
26. Share capital (continued)
Treasury shares
During the period and the prior period the following changes occurred in the number of Ordinary shares held in Treasury:
     Aggregate Employee
     consideration consideration
    Number €‘000 €‘000
At 30 March 2013    131,983
Purchase of Ordinary Shares for Treasury    850,000 1,323 –
Exercise of options under employee share option schemes    (478,551) – 163
At 28 March 2014    503,432
Purchase of Ordinary Shares for Treasury    2,880,867 5,397 –
Exercise of options under employee share option schemes    (2,164,200) – 193
At 27 March 2015    1,220,099
27. Share based payments
Share options have been granted to Directors and employees under the following equity-settled schemes:
i. Sepura Limited 2002 Employees’ Share Option Plan
In July 2002 the Company established the Sepura Limited EMI share option plan that entitled employees to purchase shares in the entity 
under the Government’s Enterprise Management Initiative (“EMI”) scheme. The scheme was closed to new employees joining the Group after 
1 October 2005 (save for one individual award made in July 2007).
ii. Long Term Incentive Plan
The Group launched its Long Term Incentive Plan for senior executives and management in July 2008. Annual awards have been made under 
the Long Term Incentive Plan which will vest in the event that certain performance targets are met. Further details are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 49.
iii. Employee SAYE schemes
Following shareholder approval at the 2008 AGM the Company launched an all-employee SAYE scheme in September 2008. The fourth 
scheme matured during the period, and a further invitation to employees to join the scheme was issued in August 2014.
vi. Deferred bonus shares
Deferred shares are issued as part of the bonus arrangements for senior management. Further details are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 49.
The Group recognised an expense of €1,262,000 (2014: €664,000) in relation to equity-settled share based payments during the period.
Movements in the total number of share options outstanding and their relative weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
    2015  2014
   Weighted  Weighted
   average  average
   exercise  exercise
   price in £  Number price in £ Number
   per share of options per share of options
At the beginning of the period   0.13 9,408,782 0.11 7,797,623
Granted   0.35 2,621,769 0.19 2,700,029
Forfeited and lapsed   0.03 (1,020,836) 0.12 (584,802)
Exercised   0.07 (2,164,200) 0.27 (504,068)
At the end of the period   0.22 8,845,515 0.13 9,408,782
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of the options exercised during the period was £1.45 (2014: £1.43).
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 27 March 2015 Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 87
27. Share based payments (continued)
The outstanding options may be analysed as follows:
    2015  2014
   Weighted  Weighted
   average  average
   exercise  exercise
   price in £  Number price in £ Number
   per share of options per share of options
Vested and exercisable   0.43 2,518 0.0000007 9,940
Unvested   0.22 8,842,997 0.13 9,398,842
    8,845,515  9,408,782
Share options outstanding at each reporting date have the following expiry date and exercise prices.
     Exercise price 2015 2014
Expiry date  Scheme    in £ per share Number Number
31 May 2014 2012 LTIP    –
1
  – 2,537,132
1 October 2014 2002 Employees’ Share Option Plan    0.0000007 – 9,240
1 March 2015 2010 SAYE 5 year scheme    0.31 – 328,250
30 April 2015 2012 SAYE 3 year scheme    0.43 2,518 135,156
23 July 2015 2013 LTIP    –
1
 2,699,666 2,782,775
1 October 2015 2002 Employees’ Share Option Plan    0.0000007 – 700
1 March 2016 2011 SAYE 5 year scheme    0.34 56,345 56,345
1 March 2016 2013 SAYE 3 year scheme    0.54 811,159 811,159
31 July 2016 2013 Deferred shares    –
1
 118,779 118,779
31 July 2016 2014 LTIP    –
1
 1,905,885 1,957,755
1 March 2017 2014 SAYE 3 year scheme    0.96 359,322 387,822
30 April 2017 2012 SAYE 5 year scheme    0.43 14,348 21,522
16 June 2017 2015 LTIP    –
1
 1,440,867 –
31 July 2017 2014 Deferred shares    –
1
 82,510 –
28 February 2018 2015 SAYE 3 year scheme    1.19 527,228 –
1 March 2018 2013 SAYE 5 year scheme    0.54 127,773 127,773
16 June 2018 2015 Additional LTIP    –
1
 312,391 –
1 March 2019 2014 SAYE 5 year scheme    0.96 134,374 134,374
28 February 2020 2015 SAYE 5 year scheme    1.19 252,350 –
      8,845,515 9,408,782
1 Not applicable for awards under the LTIP scheme or deferred shares forming part of the short-term bonus arrangements for senior management.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the outstanding options was 1 year and 5 months (2014: 1 year and 4 months). 88 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
27. Share based payments (continued)
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.  
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on the trinomial model. The significant inputs into the model for each 
grant during the period and the prior period were:
 2014 deferred 2015 Additional
 bonus LTIP  2015 LTIP 2015 SAYE 2015 SAYE
 18 June  18 June 18 June 1 September 1 September
Date of grant 2014 2013 2014 2014 2014
Share price at grant date £1.14 £1.45 £1.45 £1.42 £1.42
Exercise price – – – £1.19 £1.19
Number of employees 7 1 40 30 108
Shares under option 88,933 312,391 1,440,867 252,350 527,228
Vesting period 36 months 48 months 36 months 60 months 36 months
Expected volatility (expressed as standard  
deviation of expected share price returns) 11% 11% 11% 11% 11%
Expected option life 36 months 48 months 36 months 63 months 39 months
Risk free interest rate
(based on national Government bonds) 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% 3.0%
Dividend yield 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0%
Fair value per option £1.14 £1.34 £1.36 £0.55 £0.52
  2013 deferred 
  bonus 2014 LTIP 2014 SAYE 2014 SAYE
  10 June  24 July 29 July 29 July
Date of grant  2013 2013 2013 2013
Share price at grant date  £1.14 £1.35 £1.42 £1.42
Exercise price  – – £0.96 £0.96
Number of employees  6 46 21 95
Shares under option  118,779 2,040,304 134,374 406,572
Vesting period  36 months 36 months 60 months 36 months
Expected volatility (expressed as standard  
deviation of expected share price returns)  21% 21% 21% 21%
Expected option life  39 months 39 months 63 months 39 months
Risk free interest rate
(based on national Government bonds)  3.0% 3.0% 3.0% 3.0%
Dividend yield  1.2% 1.2% 1.2% 1.2%
Fair value per option  £1.14 £1.34 £0.55 £0.52
The expected volatility for options granted during the period and prior period was determined by reference to the Company’s share price 
since Listing in August 2007. Share options are granted under a service condition. Such conditions are not taken into account in the fair value 
measurement of the services received.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 27 March 2015 Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 89
28. Cash generated from operations
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Profit before income tax     16,658 14,183
Adjustments for:
Depreciation charges     1,801 1,445
Amortisation charges     8,428 9,588
Equity settled share based payment charge     1,262 664
Financial income     (55) (6)
Financial expense     484 250
Cash generated from operations before movements in working capital    28,578 26,124
(Increase) decrease in inventories     (1,397) 1,330
(Increase) in trade and other receivables     (8,730) (4,766)
Increase in trade and other payables     9,405 3,919
Decrease in provisions     (2,651) (161)
Movements in working capital     (3,373) 322
Cash generated from operations     25,205 26,446
 
Cash conversion     88% 101%
Cash conversion is calculated as cash generated from operations divided by cash generated from operations before movements  
in working capital.
29. Reconciliation of cash flows to movements in net funds (debt)
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Net (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents     (5,614) (575)
Net (drawdown) repayment of borrowings     (919) 463
Arrangement fee     150 –
Changes in net funds (debt) resulting from cash flows     (6,383) (112)
Amortisation of debt issue costs     (48) (48)
Borrowings acquired with subsidiary undertaking     – (1,098)
Net movements in net funds (debt)     (6,431) (1,258)
Net funds at the beginning of the period     5,305 6,605
Foreign exchange     (2) (42)
Net (debt) funds at the end of the period     (1,128) 5,305
Net (debt) funds comprises:
Cash and cash equivalents     2,401 8,017
Gross borrowings  – Amounts due within one year     (3,031) (2,182) 
– Amounts due after one year     (720) (650)
Unamortised loan arrangement fees     222 120
     (1,128) 5,305 90 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
30. Operating lease commitments
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
   2015   2014
 Plant and   Plant and
 machinery Property Total machinery Property Total
 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
No later than one year 6 1,093 1,099 6 970 976
Later than one year and no later than five years – 6,589 6,589 – 1,546 1,546
More than five years – 15,428 15,428 – – –
 6 23,110 23,116 6 2,516 2,522
The Group rents its principal location at Radio House, St Andrew’s Road, Cambridge, under a lease which expires during the year ending  
31 March 2017. The Group has exercised a break clause under the lease, terminating the lease with effect from 1 April 2016, and has signed 
a 15 year lease, expiring in July 2030, on new premises with an initial annual rental of £1,020,000 per annum, subject to a two year ‘‘rent-free’’ 
period. The Group has contracted to lease additional space at its new premises for ten years from July 2020, for a further £133,000 per annum.
 
31. Financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments
    Current assets
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Derivatives that are designated and effective as hedging instruments carried at fair value – cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange derivative financial instruments (through equity)    2,516 403
The above foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, which mature at various dates during the coming year, represent aggregate sales 
of €34,932,000 and purchases of £27,412,000 (2014: €22,877,000 and £19,288,000 respectively).
€367,000 (2014: €5,000) was credited to the consolidated income statement in relation to ineffective hedges. 
Financial assets and liabilities
The Group’s accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the items below:
    2015  2014
    Derivatives  Derivatives
   Loans and used for Loans and used for
   receivables hedging receivables hedging
Assets as per balance sheet   €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Trade and other receivables, excluding prepayments   43,443 – 35,256 –
Derivative financial instruments   – 2,516 – 403
Cash and cash equivalents   2,401 – 8,017 –
   45,844 2,516 43,273 403
    2015  2014
   Liabilities   Liabilities
   at fair value  Other at fair value Other
   through profit  financial through profit financial
   and loss liabilities and loss liabilities 
Liabilities as per balance sheet   €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Borrowings   – (3,529) – (2,832)
Trade and other payables, excluding non-financial instruments   – (43,522) – (33,143)
Contingent consideration   (6,998) – – (33,143)
   (6,998) (47,051) – (35,975)
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 27 March 2015 Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 91
31. Financial instruments (continued)
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently re-measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate 
method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established where there is objective evidence that 
the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the 
debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, or default or delinquency in payments are considered 
to be indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount 
and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced 
through the use of an allowance account and the amount of loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement within administrative 
expenses. When a trade receivable is irrecoverable, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries 
of amounts previously written off are credited against the trade receivable impairment provision in the consolidated income statement.  
Details concerning the credit risk associated with trade receivables are set out in Note 21 above.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date that a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured  
at their fair value. Details concerning derivative financial instruments are set out above.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of three months or less. Further details are set out in Note 22 above.
Fair value estimation
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is determined by comparing contracted forward exchange rates with the prevailing exchange 
rates at the balance sheet date. As a result they fall into “Level 2” of the fair value hierarchy as defined in Paragraph 27A of IFRS 7 “Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures”. The nominal value less impairment provision of trade receivables and payables approximates to their fair value.  
The book value of all other financial assets and liabilities approximate to fair value.
Financial risk management
The Group’s operations expose it to financial risks that include the effects of changes in certain currency rates, credit risk and interest rate  
cash flow and fair value risk. The Group has in place risk management procedures that seek to limit the adverse effects on the financial 
performance of the Group by monitoring the movements in relevant currency and interest rates and a credit control procedure to minimise 
the risk of customer debt default.
The Board of Directors sets the policies for liquidity, credit and interest rate cash flow and fair value risk, and these are implemented by the 
Group’s finance department which has a procedures manual that sets out specific guidelines for managing currency, interest and credit risk.  
In circumstances where it is appropriate financial instruments are used to manage those risks. 
Market risk management
The Group is not exposed to market risks other than currency and interest rate risks.
  92 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
31. Financial instruments (continued)
Foreign exchange risk
Currency denominated bank accounts are maintained to provide some cover for timing differences, and a currency exchange hedging policy 
has been agreed by the Board of Directors. The Group invoices its customers in Sterling pounds (GBP), US dollars (US$) or Euros (€), and the 
majority of the Group’s suppliers also trade in these currencies. The exposure to other currencies is not material to the Group’s operations.
i. Sterling
The Group has a partial natural hedge as operating expenses are primarily denominated in Sterling and this exposure is partly offset by Sterling 
receivables from the Group’s UK business. However, there remains a net exposure and the Board has agreed a policy of taking out forward 
contracts on a rolling twelve month basis to hedge the forecast monthly Sterling operating costs.
The Group had the following current assets and liabilities denominated in Sterling:
     2015 2014
     £’000 £’000
Outstanding forward contracts     (27,413) (19,228)
Trade receivables denominated in GBP     3,419 1,756
Sundry receivables denominated in GBP     68 64
Cash balances denominated in GBP     7 702
Trade payables denominated in GBP     (4,435) (3,488)
Other payables denominated in GBP     (5,735) (6,950)
Percentage of net current assets not matched by forward contracts    – –
The period-end rate and the average rate for the period were as follows:
     2015 2014
Period-end rate     €1.37/£1 €1.21/£1
Average rate for the period     €1.27/£1 €1.18/£1
If Sterling had weakened or strengthened by 10% against the Euro then the following additional foreign exchange gains (losses) would have 
been reported in the consolidated income statement or consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
     2015 2014
     £’000 £’000
GBP weakens     (1,380) (850)
GBP strengthens     1,518 935
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 27 March 2015 Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 93
31. Financial instruments (continued)
ii. US Dollar
Purchases and receipts in US dollars are dealt with through the Group’s US dollar current account, with further purchases of currency to meet 
US dollar denominated liabilities being made as necessary on a spot basis. Any significant US dollar revenues or purchases are hedged on 
order confirmation.
The Group had the following current assets and liabilities denominated in US dollars:
     2015 2014
     $’000 $’000
Outstanding forward contracts     – –
Trade receivables denominated in US dollars      1,787 184
Cash balances denominated in US dollars     820 4,434
Trade payables denominated in US dollars     (10,417) (2,740)
Percentage of net current assets not matched by forward contracts    100% 100%
The period-end rate and the average rate for the period were as follows:
     2015 2014
Period-end rate     $1.07/€1 $1.38/€1
Average rate for the period     $1.27/€1 $1.34/€1
If the US dollar had weakened or strengthened by 10% against the Euro then the following additional foreign exchange gains (losses) would 
have been reported in the consolidated income statement or consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
US dollar weakens     730 (235)
US dollar strengthens     (803) 259
Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and short-term deposits and the availability of funding through an 
adequate amount of committed credit facilities. Accordingly on 2 October 2014 the Group increased its revolving credit facility to €35 million, 
with an extended life of five years from that date.
 
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities, which will be settled on a net basis, into relevant maturity groupings based on 
the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows.
    Less than Between Between
    one year 1 & 2 years 2 & 5 years
    €’000 €’000 €’000
At 27 March 2015
Borrowings    3,068 220 507
Trade and other payables    45,269 – –
At 28 March 2014
Borrowings    2,241 332 337
Trade and other payables    34,039 – –
Borrowings are Euro-denominated. 94 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
31. Financial instruments (continued)
Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group had interest bearing cash deposits of €9,000 (2014: €2,307,000). 
The Group’s outstanding borrowings comprise €1,821,000 (2014: €1,966,000) which bears interest at fixed rates and €1,930,000 (2014: €866,000) 
which bears interest at floating rates as set out in Note 23 above, exposing the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. A change of 1% in interest 
rates at the balance sheet date, applied to borrowings outstanding at that point in time, would have had a €20,000 impact on the Group’s 
reported results (2014: €20,000).
Off-setting
Cash balances of €6,706,000 (2014: €Nil) have been off-set against bank overdrafts where there is a legal right of set-off.
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide  
returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.  
The capital structure of the Group comprises borrowings (as disclosed in Note 23), cash and cash equivalents (as disclosed in Note 22) and  
the equity attributable to equity holders in the parent company (comprising the issued share capital, share premium, other reserves and 
retained earnings disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity). At 27 March 2015 the Group had net assets of €84,622,000 
(2014: €75,395,000) which included net debt of €1,128,000 (2014: Net funds of €5,305,000). In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, 
the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, borrow additional funds 
or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements. The Group is subject to certain covenant restrictions under its revolving 
credit facility. The Group did not breach any of these covenants during the period.
 
32. Contingent liabilities
The Group has entered into guarantee and performance bond arrangements with its customers totalling approximately €2.4 million  
(2014: €2.1 million). The Group is also subject to disputes with suppliers during the ordinary course of business. Provision is made for any 
amounts that the Directors consider will probably become payable under such arrangements.
33. Ultimate controlling party
The Directors do not consider that Sepura plc has an ultimate controlling party, as no individual shareholder is able to exercise control over  
the Company.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 27 March 2015 Group Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 95
34. Post balance sheet event
On 1 May 2015 the Company announced the proposed acquisition of Teltronic SAU for aggregate consideration of €127.5 million,  
to be funded through a firm placing and offer of 46,538,461 Ordinary shares in the Company at 130p per share and a new debt facility  
of €120 million. The acquisition was approved by shareholders on 21 May 2015 and completed on 27 May 2015.
The preliminary provisional book and fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired are as follows:
      €’000
Intangible assets      7,394
Property, plant and equipment      4,540
Non-current financial assets      3,055
Deferred tax asset      7,067
Inventories      7,889
Trade and other receivables      37,702
Taxes and government grants receivable      2,589
Other current assets      1,201
Cash and cash equivalents      2,776
Borrowings      (15,786)
Derivative financial instruments      (614)
Trade and other payables      (22,155)
Provisions      (4,643)
Tax liabilities      (2,142)
Net assets acquired      28,873
Goodwill and purchased intangibles arising on acquisition      98,627
Purchase consideration      127,500
The purchase price allocation has not yet been finalised given that the acquisition was completed on 27 May 2015. This exercise is expected to 
be completed during the first half of the current financial year and the appropriate amount will be recorded as purchased intangibles, with the 
balance being attributable to goodwill.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition is attributable to the value of synergies arising from the acquisition, Teltronic’s assembled workforce 
and future profits arising from access to new markets. None of the goodwill on this acquisition is expected to be deductible for tax. Acquisition 
costs are expected to be approximately €2,500,000, of which €864,000 have been charged to administrative expenses in the consolidated 
income statement for the year ended 27 March 2015 and the remainder will be charged to administrative expenses in the consolidated income 
statement for the year ending 1 April 2016. 96 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Sepura plc 
Report on the parent company 
financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Sepura plc’s parent 
company financial statements (the “financial 
statements”):
• give a true and fair view of the state  
of the parent company’s affairs as at  
27 March 2015;
• have been properly prepared in 
accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting  
Practice; and
• have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies  
Act 2006.
What we have audited
Sepura plc’s financial statements comprise:
• the Company Balance Sheet as at  
27 March 2015; and 
• the notes to the financial statements, 
which include a summary of significant 
accounting policies and other explanatory 
information.
Certain required disclosures have been 
presented elsewhere in the Annual Report & 
Accounts 2015 (the “Annual Report”), rather 
than in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial 
statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that 
has been applied in the preparation of the 
financial statements is applicable law and 
United Kingdom Accounting Standards 
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the 
Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report 
for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with 
the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”) we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the 
information in the audited financial 
statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based 
on, or materially inconsistent with, our 
knowledge of the company acquired in 
the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising 
from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and 
information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our  
audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not 
been kept by the company, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited  
by us; or
• the financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising 
from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report - 
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have 
no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility.  Company Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 97
Responsibilities for the financial 
statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the 
directors
As explained more fully in the Statement  
of Directors' Responsibilities set out on page 
53, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been 
prepared for and only for the company’s 
members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, 
in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to  
any other person to whom this report is 
shown or into whose hands it may come 
save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements 
involves
We conducted our audit in accordance 
with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An audit involves 
obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements 
sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from 
material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error. This includes an assessment 
of: 
• whether the accounting policies 
are appropriate to the company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and 
• the overall presentation of the financial 
statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas 
by assessing the directors’ judgements 
against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures 
in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using 
sampling and other auditing techniques, 
to the extent we consider necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw 
conclusions. We obtain audit evidence 
through testing the effectiveness of controls, 
substantive procedures or a combination of 
both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the Annual 
Report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited financial statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired 
by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the group 
financial statements of Sepura plc for the 
year ended 27 March 2015.
Stuart Newman 
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory 
Auditors
Cambridge
6 July 2015 98 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
     2015 2014
    Note €’000 €’000
Fixed assets
Tangible assets    4 11,072 7,761
Intangible assets    5 – –
Investments    6 25,013 18,967
     36,085 26,728
Current assets
Stock    7 10,604 8,337
Current asset investments    8 – 2,306
Debtors (including €8,355,000 (2014: €10,361,000)
due after more than one year)    9 51,212 46,329
Derivative financial instruments    11 2,516 403
Cash at bank and in hand     806 1,801
     65,138 59,176
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year    12 (41,867) (30,019)
Net current assets      23,271 29,157
Total assets less current liabilities     59,356 55,885
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year    13 (3,348) (4,826)
Provision for liabilities    14 (7,894) (6,132)
Net assets      48,114 44,927
  
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital    15 79 79
Share premium    15 999 999
Cumulative translation reserve     (275) (46)
Profit and loss account    17 47,311 43,895
Total shareholders’ funds    18 48,114 44,927
The parent company financial statements on pages 98 to 107 were approved by the Board and authorised for issue on 6 July 2015 and are 
signed on its behalf by:
Gordon Watling Steve Chamberlain 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
 
Company Balance Sheet
Of Sepura plc, Company number 04353801, at 27 March 2015 Company Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 99
1. Principal accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and in accordance 
with applicable Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom. A summary of the more important accounting policies, which have been 
reviewed by the Board of Directors in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard (“FRS”) 18, “Accounting policies”, and have been applied 
consistently, is set out below.
The Company has prepared these financial statements for the period to 27 March 2015, being the nearest Friday to the end of the period.
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention, except for certain financial instruments that have 
been measured at fair value.
Turnover and warranty costs
Turnover represents the invoiced amount of goods sold excluding value added tax. For contracts which do not involve complex long-term 
software and hardware development, revenue is recognised on despatch or upon formal acknowledgement from the customer that title has 
passed but they wish the goods to be stored at the Group’s premises. Turnover also includes warranty income, as appropriate.
Revenue and cost of sales from contracts which do involve complex long-term software and hardware development are recognised on the 
percentage of completion basis, based on costs incurred to date when the outcome of the contract can be estimated reliably. The criteria for 
this are that total contract revenue and the costs to complete the contract can be estimated reliably, it is probable that the economic benefits 
associated with the contract will flow to the Company, and that the stage of contract completion can be measured. When the Company is not 
able to meet those conditions, the policy is to recognise revenue equal to costs incurred to date, to the extent that such costs are expected to 
be recovered. Expected losses are recognised in full at the point at which they are anticipated. If the amount of revenue recognised exceeds 
the amounts invoiced to customers, the excess amount is recorded in amounts recoverable on contracts within debtors. If the amounts 
invoiced exceed the revenue recognised, the excess amount is recorded as deferred revenue or payments in advance.
In a multi-element arrangement some of the elements, either hardware or software may remain undelivered or incomplete. Revenue may  
be recognised on the fair value of the elements delivered providing the following conditions are fulfilled:
• If the element of the product delivered has value to the customer on a stand-alone basis and is thus a separable element from the 
undelivered element;
• If the fair value can be reliably attributed to the undelivered element. (In the event of bundling where undelivered components may not  
have a separate invoiced sales price then the fair value of the revenue deferred can be calculated by comparing the underlying product list 
price of each element of the bundle to the overall bundle price); and
• If the delivery of the undelivered element is probable and under the control of the company i.e. the technical risk attached to the delivery  
of the component is acceptable.
If any of these conditions are not met then all revenue under the arrangement is deferred until the contract is complete or uncertainty over 
any of these conditions is removed.
In accordance with the requirements of FRS 5 Application Note G “Reporting the substance of transactions: Revenue recognition”, the 
Company assesses whether any of its contracts contain elements which operate independently of other contractual elements and which 
should, therefore, be ‘unbundled’ and accounted for separately. The Company offers as standard to all customers a product warranty package, 
which is typically for a period of three to five years depending on the product and territory concerned. Generally, in the case of product 
warranty packages which are offered as standard with all products, are not separately priced, and are offered for periods in line with the 
Company’s standard terms of supply at the time of sale, such standard warranty packages are not considered to be an element capable of 
‘unbundling’. In such cases, provision is made at the time of sale for the estimated cost of providing the warranty cover based on historical 
information on the cost and frequency of repairs required to the Company’s products. The Company also has back-to-back warranties of 
between twelve and fifteen months with the majority of its sub-contract manufacturers to limit risk on product warranties. Amounts due  
from manufacturers under back-to-back warranties are not recognised until the manufacturer has confirmed a reimbursement will be made.
In certain cases “enhanced” warranty packages, of a longer than standard period, are sold to customers as separate products. In such cases  
the fair value of the revenue associated with the warranty cover is amortised over the underlying period of the warranty cover. The fair value  
of the revenue is determined by the Directors based on market information, including the sales price when enhanced warranties are sold  
on a stand-alone basis.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
For the period ended 27 March 2015 100 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
1. Principal accounting policies (continued)
Research and development expenditure
All ongoing research and development expenditure is written off in the period in which it is incurred.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for impairment, if any.
Tangible fixed assets
The cost of tangible fixed assets is their purchase cost, together with any incidental costs of acquisition including, where relevant, the 
cost of subcontractors, direct labour and a proportion of attributable overheads. Tangible fixed assets are carried at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and are depreciated from the date they come into use. Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual 
value of tangible fixed assets. Depreciation for certain manufacturing plant and machinery is calculated by reference to the number of units 
produced, and for all other assets by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful economic lives as follows:
• Plant and machinery 3-7 years
• IT equipment 3-5 years
Provision is made against the carrying value of tangible fixed assets where impairment is deemed to have occurred.
No depreciation is charged on assets in the course of construction as their useful economic life has yet to commence. On completion,  
the assets are transferred to the appropriate class of tangible fixed assets and depreciation is charged at the above rates.
Intangible assets
The Company purchases licences to exploit third-party intellectual property rights. Licences are recorded at the historical cost to acquire  
the licence less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, and are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the licence.
Leases
Finance leases, which transfer to the Company substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are 
capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease 
payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant  
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.  
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Stocks and work in progress
Stocks and work in progress are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined on a first in first out basis and includes 
transport and handling costs. Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and defective stocks.
Current asset investments
Short-term bank deposits are stated at cost less provision for impairment, if any.
Cash flow
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 1 (Revised 1996) “Cash Flow Statements” which provides that where a company 
is a member of a group and a consolidated cash flow statement is published, the company does not have to prepare a cash flow statement.
Deferred taxation
Provision is made for deferred taxation, using full provision accounting when an event has taken place by the balance sheet date which 
gives rise to an increased or reduced tax liability in the future in accordance with FRS 19, “Deferred taxation”. Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
are not discounted.
Pension scheme arrangements
The Company contributes to defined contribution plans for employees. The Company contributes to these schemes based upon various 
fixed percentages of employee compensation and such contributions are expensed as incurred.
The Company provides no other post-retirement benefits to its employees.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 27 March 2015 Company Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 101
1. Principal accounting policies (continued)
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 29 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures” for parent company financial 
statements as the disclosures in respect of the Company are included in the consolidated financial statements.
Derivatives are initially accounted for at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into, and are subsequently remeasured at  
their fair value at each reporting date. The gain or loss on remeasurement is taken to the profit and loss account except where the derivative 
is a designated cash flow hedging instrument. The accounting treatment of derivatives classified as hedges depends on their designation, 
which occurs on the date that the derivative contract is committed to. The Company designates derivatives as either:
(a) hedges of the fair value of an asset or liability (“fair value hedges”);
(b) hedges of the income or cost of a highly probable forecast transaction or commitment (“cash flow hedges”); or
(c) hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation (“net investment hedges”).
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Company is required to document in advance the relationship between the item being hedged 
and the hedging instrument. The Company is also required to document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between 
the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis. This effectiveness 
testing is performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Gains or losses on fair value hedges that are regarded as highly effective are recorded in the profit and loss account with the gain or loss  
on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
Gains or losses on cash flow hedges that are regarded as highly effective are recognised in equity. Where the forecast transaction results  
in a financial asset or liability, only gains or losses previously recognised in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the same period as the 
asset or liability affects profit or loss. Where the forecasted transaction or commitment results in a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, 
any gains or losses previously deferred in equity are included in the cost of the related asset or liability. If the forecasted transaction or 
commitment results in future income or expenditure, gains or losses deferred in equity are transferred to the profit and loss account in the 
same period as the underlying income or expenditure. The ineffective portions of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument are recognised 
in the profit and loss account.
For the portion of hedges deemed ineffective or transactions that do not qualify for hedge accounting under FRS 26, any change in assets  
or liabilities is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account. Where a hedge no longer meets the effectiveness criteria, any gains  
or losses deferred in equity are only transferred to the profit and loss account when the committed or forecasted transaction is recognised  
in the profit and loss account. However, where an entity applied cash flow hedge accounting for a forecasted or committed transaction  
that is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that has been recorded in equity is transferred to the profit and loss account. 
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised 
when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the profit and loss account.
Foreign currencies
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into Euros at actual rates of exchange ruling at the date of the 
transactions, except to the extent that these transactions were covered by forward foreign exchange contracts. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date, except to the extent that the 
assets and liabilities are covered by forward foreign exchange contracts. All exchange gains and losses are taken to the profit and loss 
account in the period in which they arise. Transactions, assets and liabilities covered by forward foreign currency contracts are translated  
at the forward foreign currency contract rate. 
Share options
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to employees and Directors of the Company. In accordance with FRS 20  
“Share-based payment”, equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. Fair value is measured by  
use of the trinomial pricing model. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed  
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.  
The corresponding credit is recognised in reserves. 102 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
2. Profit for the financial period
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the parent company’s profit and loss account has not been included in these 
financial statements. The parent company’s profit after taxation was €9,349,000 (2014: €7,101,000). The audit fee for the Company was  
€90,000 (2014: €72,000).
The average number of employees of the Company during the period was 301 (2014: 289) and total staff costs, excluding charges for share 
options, were €24.5 million (2014: €23.8 million). Information on the remuneration of Directors is given in those sections of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report described as having been audited and Note 11 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements, and those elements 
required by the Companies Act 2006 and the Financial Conduct Authority form part of these financial statements.
3. Dividends
The Directors have proposed a final dividend in respect of the financial period ended 27 March 2015 of 1.71p per Ordinary share, totalling 
approximately €4.3 million based on the Ordinary shares in issue at the date of this document. The proposed dividend is subject to approval 
by shareholders and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
During the current and prior periods the Company paid the following dividends:
     2015 2014
     €'000 €'000
FY15 Interim dividend of 0.69p per Ordinary share     1,255 –
FY14 Final dividend of 1.41p per Ordinary share     2,431 –
FY14 Interim dividend of 0.59p per Ordinary share     – 966
FY13 Final dividend of 1.17p per Ordinary share     – 2,054
     3,686 3,020
  
4. Tangible assets
   Assets under Plant and IT
   construction machinery equipment Total
   €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Cost   
At 29 March 2014   1,967 12,633 5,012 19,612
Foreign exchange   – 63 – 63
Transfers   (526) 524 2 –
Additions    1,855 1,799 1,295 4,949
At 27 March 2015   3,296 15,019 6,309 24,624
Accumulated depreciation   
At 29 March 2014   – 8,518 3,333 11,851
Foreign exchange   – 11 – 11
Charge for the period   – 1,269 421 1,690
At 27 March 2015   – 9,798 3,754 13,552
Net book value at 27 March 2015   3,296 5,221 2,555 11,072
Net book value at 28 March 2014   1,967 4,115 1,679 7,761
There was no capital expenditure at the end of either period which had been contracted for prior to the end of the period but not provided 
for in the financial statements.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 27 March 2015 Company Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 103
5. Intangible assets
      Licences
      €’000
Cost   
At 29 March 2014      1,985
Additions      –
At 27 March 2015      1,985
Accumulated amortisation
At 29 March 2014      1,985
Charge for the period      –
At 27 March 2015      1,985
Net book value at 27 March 2015      –
Net book value at 28 March 2014      –
   
6. Fixed asset investments
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Shares in Group undertakings
At the beginning of the period     18,967 13,052
Acquisition of Fylde Micro Limited
(see Note 6 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements)    6,044 –
Acquisition of Portalify OY     – 5,905
Investment in newly-incorporated subsidiaries     2 10
At the end of the period     25,013 18,967
  
The Company owns the entire issued share capital of the following subsidiary undertakings, whose results are included within the 
consolidated financial statements of Sepura plc for the period ended 27 March 2015:
   Proportion of nominal
 Country of  value of shares held Principal
Name of undertaking incorporation Description of shares held by the Group activity
Sepura Systems GmbH Austria 8,400 ordinary shares of €10 each 100% Trading
Fylde Micro Limited England & Wales 1,331 A ordinary shares  
  of £0.1 each 100% Trading
Portalify OY Finland  17,991,795 ordinary shares 
of €0.01 each 100% Trading
Smashlet OY
1
 Finland 8,000 ordinary shares of €1 each 100% Dormant
Sepura Deutschland GmbH Germany  One ordinary share of €250 and 
one ordinary share of €24,750 100% Sales support
Sepura Seviços de  Brazil Six thousand ordinary shares 
Intermediação e Marketing em   of R$1,000 each 100% Sales support 
Equipamentos de Radio Ltda
1
  
Sepura LLC  The State of Delaware,  
United States of America One ordinary share of $1 100% Sales support
Sepura Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 50,000 shares of 1 Peso each 100% Sales support
Sepura Overseas Limited England & Wales  One hundred ordinary shares   Holding 
of £1 each 100% company
  
1 Held indirectly.
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets. 104 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
7. Stock
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Raw materials     2,196 1,800
Work in progress     2,182 1,526
Finished goods and goods for resale     6,226 5,011
     10,604 8,337
  
There is no material difference between the balance sheet value of stock and its replacement cost.
8. Current asset investments
Current asset investments of €Nil (2014: €2,306,000) comprised short-term bank deposits, which are classified as cash in the Group’s financial 
statements which are prepared under IFRS.
9. Debtors
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Amounts falling due within one year:  
Trade debtors     35,788 32,574
Amounts owed by Group undertakings     686 788
Other debtors     2,460 259
Deferred tax asset, including €8,355,000 (2014: €10,361,000) due after one year (see Note 10)   10,638 11,387
Prepayments and accrued income     1,640 1,321
     51,212 46,329
  
10. Deferred tax
The Company’s deferred tax assets relate to timing differences in respect of:
 
  Cash-flow Tangible  Equity-settled
  hedges fixed assets Losses share options Net
  €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
At 29 March 2014  (85) 1,300 9,767 405 11,387
Charged (credited) to the profit and loss account  – – (596) 265 (331)
Recognised in equity  (418) – – – (418)
At 27 March 2015  (503) 1,300 9,171 670 10,638
Deferred tax liabilities have been offset against deferred tax assets as there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and current 
tax liabilities within the same fiscal jurisdiction. There was no unprovided deferred taxation at the end of either period.
The Company’s deferred tax asset has been recognised as, based on historical performance and future budgets, the Directors believe that it is 
probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which the assets will reverse. The net deferred tax asset has been classified within 
debtors in Note 9 above.
The Finance Act 2013, which provides for reductions in the main rate of corporation tax from 23% to 21% effective from 1 April 2014 and  
to 20% effective from 1 April 2015, was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. These rate reductions have been reflected in the calculation  
of deferred tax at the balance sheet date.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 27 March 2015 Company Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 105
11. Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments comprise foreign exchange forward contracts. Further details are given in Note 31 to the Company’s 
consolidated financial statements.
12. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Bank loans and overdrafts     914 –
Trade creditors     29,346 18,658
Corporation tax payable     204 181
Other taxation and social security     1,962 1,007
Accruals and deferred income     9,441 10,173
     41,867 30,019
  
13. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Accruals and deferred income     3,348 4,826
  
14. Provision for liabilities
   2015   2014
 Warranty Contingent  Warranty Contingent
 provision consideration Total provision consideration Total
 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
At the beginning of the period 1,227 4,905 6,132 1,388 5,000 6,388
Settled during the period – – – – (5,000) (5,000)
Arising on acquisition of Fylde Micro Limited
as described in Note 6 to the Company’s  
consolidated financial statements – 4,413 4,413 – – –
Subsequent release of part of the  
contingent consideration in respect of Fylde  
Micro Limited as described in Note 6 to the  
Company’s consolidated financial statements – (2,320) (2,320) – – –
Arising on acquisition of Portalify OY – – – – 4,905 4,905
Charged to the profit and loss account 258 – 258 441 – 441
Utilised in period (589) – (589) (602) – (602)
At the end of the period 896 6,998 7,894 1,227 4,905 6,132
   
Warranty provision
The warranty provision is an estimate of the future costs of rectifying potential defects in products shipped to customers whilst they are under 
warranty cover. Warranty cover is typically provided over a period of three to five years, depending on the product and territory concerned. 
The Company also has back-to-back warranties of between twelve and fifteen months with the majority of its sub-contract manufacturers  
to limit risk on liabilities arising on manufacturing defects.
Contingent consideration
Contingent consideration of up to €4.9 million and €2.1 million is payable to the previous owners of Portalify OY and Fylde Micro Limited 
respectively in the event that revenue and operating profit targets are met over a certain period. Management have considered that, based 
on current projections, all of this consideration will be payable and accordingly a provision for €7.0 million is recorded in the consolidated 
financial statements. In the event that either Portalify OY or Fylde Micro Limited fail to meet these targets then the amount of consideration 
payable will be reduced accordingly. 106 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
15. Called up share capital
Authorised share capital
   2015   2014
 Number £ €’000 Number £ €’000
Authorised    
Ordinary shares of £0.0005 each 400,000,000 200,000 227 400,000,000 200,000 227
    
Issued share capital
During the period and the prior period the following changes occurred in the Company’s issued, allotted and fully paid share capital  
of Ordinary shares of £0.0005 each:
     Share Share
     capital premium
   Number £ €’000 €’000
At 30 March 2013    137,318,580 68,659 78 –
Exercise of options under employee share option schemes   25,517 13 – –
Issue of shares to settle contingent consideration  
relating to the acquisition of 3T Communications AG   1,301,334 651 1 999
At 28 March 2014 and 27 March 2015   138,645,431 69,323 79 999
  
Treasury shares
During the period and the prior period the following changes occurred in the number of Ordinary shares held in Treasury:
     Aggregate Employee
     consideration consideration
    Number €’000 €’000
At 30 March 2013    131,983 
Purchase of Ordinary Shares for Treasury    850,000 1,323 –
Exercise of options under employee share option schemes    (478,551) – 163
At 28 March 2014    503,432 
Purchase of Ordinary Shares for Treasury    2,880,867 5,397 –
Exercise of options under employee share option schemes    (2,164,200) – 193
At 27 March 2015    1,220,099 
  
16. Share options
Information on share options which have been granted to Directors and employees is given in Note 27 to the Company’s consolidated 
financial statements.
17. Profit and loss account
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
At the beginning of the period     43,895 39,185
Profit for the financial period     9,349 7,101
Dividends paid     (3,686) (3,020)
Employee share option schemes: value of employee services     1,262 664
Cash flow hedges, net of taxation     1,695 1,125
Treasury shares  – purchase of own shares     (5,397) (1,323) 
– issue of shares to settle employee share options    193 163
At the end of the period     47,311 43,895
  
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 27 March 2015 Company Financial Statements
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 107
18. Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
     2015 2014
     €’000 €’000
Profit for the financial period     9,349 7,101
Dividends paid     (3,686) (3,020)
Employee share option schemes: value of employee services     1,262 664
Cash flow hedges, net of taxation     1,695 1,125
Issue of shares     – 1,000
Treasury shares  – purchase of own shares     (5,397) (1,323) 
– issue of shares to settle  employee share options    193 163
Foreign exchange     (229) (46)
Net additions to shareholders’ funds     3,187 5,664
Opening shareholders’ funds     44,927 39,263
Closing shareholders’ funds     48,114 44,927
  
19. Operating lease commitments
At 27 March 2015 the Company had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
    2015  2014
    Other  Other
   Land and operating Land and operating
   buildings leases buildings leases
   €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Expiring within one year   1,078 6 20 6
Expiring between two to five years inclusive   – – 912 –
   1,078 6 932 6
  
20. Bank facilities
On 2 October 2014 the Group increased its revolving credit facility to €35 million, with an extended life of five years from that date.  
The total costs associated with extending the facility were €150,000, which, together with the unamortised fees for the original facility  
of €96,000, were being amortised over the life of the facility. The facility was secured by a fixed and floating charge over the Group’s assets,  
and included covenants which were tested quarterly. The facility was refinanced after the end of the period as part of the acquisition of 
Teltronic described in Note 34 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
21. Contingent liabilities
The Company has entered into guarantee and performance bond arrangements with its customers totalling approximately €1.0 million  
(2014: €3.0 million). The Company is also subject to disputes with suppliers during the ordinary course of business. Provision is made  
for any amounts that the Directors consider will probably become payable under such arrangements.
Under sections 394A and 479A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has guaranteed all of the outstanding liabilities of Fylde Micro 
Limited as at 27 March 2015, which totalled €292,000, until they are satisfied in full. The guarantee is enforceable against the Company  
by any person to whom any such liability is due.
22. Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available to parent companies under FRS 8, “Related party disclosures” not to disclose 
transactions and balances with wholly owned subsidiary undertakings.
23. Ultimate controlling party
The Directors do not consider that Sepura plc has an ultimate controlling party, as no individual shareholder is able to exercise control  
over the Company.
24. Post balance sheet event
On 27 May 2015 the Company announced that it had completed the acquisition of Teltronic SAU. Further details are given in Note 34  
to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 108 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Shareholder Information
Share services and information
Equiniti, the Company’s Registrars, provide a range of shareholder information on-line. You can check your holding and find practical help on 
transferring shares and updating your personal details at www.shareview.co.uk. Equiniti may also be contacted on 0871 384 2030 (calls to this 
number are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras), or by writing to Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex  
BN99 6DA. Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday. Callers from outside the UK should dial +44 (0) 121 415 7047.
Share dealing service
An internet and telephone share dealing service is operated by Equiniti, enabling shareholders to buy and sell Sepura plc Ordinary shares  
on the London Stock Exchange. Shareholders who are interested in using these services should visit www.shareview.co.uk or telephone  
0845 603 7037.
ShareGift
Shareholders, who hold only a small number of shares, where dealing costs make it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating 
them to charity though ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation. The relevant share transfer form  
can be obtained from their website www.sharegift.org or by writing to ShareGift, 5 Lower Grosvenor Place, London SW1W 0EJ, or by 
telephoning +44 (0) 20 7828 1151.
Dividends/payments to mandated accounts/Dividend Reinvestment Plan
We recommend to you that you have all your future dividends paid direct into your nominated bank or building society account via the 
Bankers’ Automated Clearing System (BACS). This service provides you with cleared funds on the dividend payment date, is more secure  
than sending a cheque by post and avoids the inconvenience of paying each dividend by cheque. A tax voucher will still be sent to your 
registered address.
You can take advantage of this convenient and popular method of payment by visiting www.shareview.co.uk, or by completing the dividend 
mandate form that will be sent to you with your dividend cheque on 9 October 2015. Alternatively, you can contact the Company’s Registrar, 
Equiniti, by telephone 0871 384 2030 or by writing to them at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA. Lines are open 
8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday. Callers from outside the UK should dial +44 (0) 121 415 7047. Please quote your Shareholder Reference 
Number as detailed on your dividend tax voucher or share certificate.
Shareholders have the opportunity of using their cash dividend payments to increase their shareholding in Sepura plc through the Dividend 
Reinvestment Plan (“DRIP”). Participation in the DRIP will mean that in future all your dividends will be reinvested in Sepura plc shares, which 
will be purchased on your behalf in the market on or as soon as practicable after the relevant dividend payment. An explanatory booklet, 
which also contains the terms and conditions of the DRIP, and an application form will be sent to you on request. If you wish to join the DRIP, 
please read the terms and conditions carefully and return the completed application form in the reply paid envelope provided. (Alternatively, 
you can access the details and download the application form from the investor section of the Company’s website.) Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 109
Company Secretary
Tony Hunter
Registered Office
Radio House
St Andrews Road
Cambridge
CB4 1GR
Tel: +44 (0) 1223 876000
Fax: +44 (0) 1223 879000
Email: info@sepura.com
Website
www.sepura.com
Registered number
4353801
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA
Service helpline:
Tel:  0871 384 2030 (UK)
+44 (0) 121 415 7047 (Overseas)
www.shareview.co.uk
Corporate brokers
Liberum Capital
Ropemaker Place 
Level 12
25 Ropemaker Street
London
EC2Y 9LY
Bankers
Barclays Bank Plc
Ashton House
497 Silbury Boulevard
Milton Keynes
MK9 2LD
Independent Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and  
Statutory Auditors
Abacus House
Castle Park
Cambridge 
CB3 0AN
Tel: +44 (0) 1223 460055
www.pwc.com
Legal Advisors
Hogan Lovells International LLP
Atlantic House
Holborn Viaduct
London 
EC1A 2FG
Eversheds LLP
One Wood Street, 
London 
EC2V 7WS
Financial PR Consultants
Bell Potinger
6th Floor, Holborn Gate
330 High Holborn
London
WC1V 7QD
Contact Details and Advisers 110 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Financial Calendar 2015/16
Annual General Meeting  September 2015
FY15 Final Dividend: Key Dates
Ex-dividend 27 August 2015
Record 28 August 2015
Payment 9 October 2015
FY16 Interim Results Announcement
Provisional November 2015
FY16 Financial Period End 1 April 2016
FY16 Final Results Announcement
Provisional June 2016
Sepura plc is a public limited company registered in England No. 04353801 and its Ordinary shares are traded 
on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange (ticker: SEPU).
Sepura plc is the parent company of the Sepura Group of companies. Unless otherwise stated, the text in this 
Annual Report does not distinguish between the activities and operations of the parent company and those  
of its subsidiary undertakings.
This is the Annual Report of Sepura plc for the 12 month period ended 27 March 2015 and complies with UK 
legislation and regulations. It is also available on the Company’s website at www.sepura.com/investors.
© Sepura 2015. The name ‘Sepura’ and its logo device, and all other brand or product names referred to in this 
Annual Report, are registered trademarks or trademarks pending registration (in accordance with the relevant 
national laws worldwide) of the Sepura Group of companies. All rights reserved.
Cautionary statement
The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide information to the members of the Company. The Annual 
Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial 
condition of the Group. By their nature, future events and circumstances can cause results and developments 
to differ materially from those anticipated. No undertaking is given to update the forward-looking statements 
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Nothing in this Annual Report should be 
construed as a profit forecast or an invitation to deal in the Ordinary shares of Sepura plc.
Directors’ liability and indemnity arrangements
Under the Companies Act 2006, a new safe harbour limits the liability of Directors in respect of certain 
statements in, and omissions from, this Annual Report. Under English law, the Directors would be liable to the 
Company (but not any third party) if any errors were made as a result of reckless or knowing misstatement or 
dishonest concealment of a material fact, but they would not otherwise be liable. This Annual Report has been 
drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon English law and the liabilities of the Directors 
shall be limited and restricted accordingly. Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 111
Notes 112 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Notes  Sepura plc
Radio House
St Andrews Road
Cambridge
CB4 1GR
T: +44 (0) 1223 876000
F: +44 (0) 1223 879000
