 Delivering on promises
annual report and accounts 2015
Servelec Group plc  annual report and accounts 2015 Who we are
Servelec is a UK-headquartered technology group, 
with significant intellectual property, providing 
software, hardware and services globally to the 
health and social care, oil and gas, energy and 
utilities sectors.
Market overview
see page 4
Our business model
see page 14
Risk management
see page 32
Strategic Report
1 2015 highlights
2 At a glance
4 Market overview
5 Our heritage
6 Chairman’s statement
8 Chief Executive’s statement
10 Chief Financial Officer’s statement
12 Key performance indicators
14 Our business model
15 Our strategy
16 Strategy in action
22 Segmental reviews – 
Servelec Health & Social Care
26 Segmental reviews – 
Servelec Controls
29 Segmental reviews – 
Servelec Technologies
32 Risk management
35 Corporate social responsibility
Contents
Governance
40 Board of directors and senior management
42 Corporate governance report
46 Nomination committee report
47 Audit committee report
50 Remuneration report
62 Directors’ report
65 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
Financial Statements
66 Independent auditor’s report
71 Group income statement 
71 Group statement of comprehensive income
72 Group statement of financial position
73 Group statement of changes in equity
74 Cash flow statement
75 Notes to the financial statements
97 Statement of director’s responsibilities for 
the Company financial statements
98 Company balance sheet
99 Company statement of changes in equity
100 Company statement of comprehensive 
income
101 Notes to the Company financial statements
107 Directors and advisers 1
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
2015 highlights
Operational highlights
• Successful completion of the 
London and South NPfIT on time
and on budget for our customers
• Acquisition of Aura Healthcare 
Limited completed
• First major competitive win of an 
Acute Patient Administration
System under the Shared 
Business Services framework
• Successful integration 
of Corelogic 
• Initial order of a major upgrade 
to a number of offshore 
platforms
• Increased addressable market 
in Power & Nuclear following 
the investment in the
management team
• Launch of S2000 nano battery 
powered RTU / logger
£63.1m
+22% (2014: 23%)
Financial highlights
Revenue (£’000)
15
14
13
63,095
51,753
41,995
£16.2m
+32% (2014: 8%)
Underlying Operating Profit
(i)
 (£’000)
£13.4m
+27% (2014: -3%)
Operating Profit from Continuing Operations (£’000)
15
14
13
16,151
12,225
11,277
15
14
13
13,395
10,507
10,852
£66.4m
+10% (2014: 85%)
Order Entry (£’000)
15
14
13
66,383
60,200
32,601
£19.6m
+13% (2014: 92%)
Cash Flow from Operating Activities (£’000)
15
14
13
19,591
17,361
9,064
115%
(2014: 141%)
Cash Conversion
(ii)
 (%)
15
14
13
115
141
76
17.1p
+35% (2014: n/a)
Earnings per Share (p)
15
14
17.1
12.7
Notes
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
Operating profit from continuing operations 13,395 10,507 10,852 
Exceptional costs 7 – 410 41 
Share based payments 25 626 434 – 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 14 2,130 874 384 
Underlying operating profit from continuing operations 16,151 12,225 11,277 
(i) Underlying operating profit excludes share based payments, exceptional costs and acquired intangible 
amortisation.
(ii) Cash conversion equals cashflow from operating activities divided by underlying operating profit plus amortisation 
of non-acquired intangible assets and depreciation of property, plant and equipment. 2
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Servelec Group plc was founded in 1977 and has a strong technology and 
engineering heritage. Today the company employs a highly skilled and 
knowledgeable workforce of circa 600 people, operating globally. The majority 
of the staff are based across two offices in Sheffield and one in London. One of 
the Sheffield offices functions as the Group’s headquarters.
At a glance
Servelec Health & Social Care specialises in 
the design, development, deployment and 
support of software within secondary care 
settings and is a market leader in the mental 
and community health sectors in England.  
It has over 20 years’ experience in developing 
clinically-driven, enterprise-wide solutions 
for use within the NHS and private 
healthcare organisations and has a software 
suite that covers Electronic Patient Records, 
Patient Administration Systems, Bed 
Management, Clinical Information Systems, 
and e-Prescribing systems. Within a Social 
Care setting Servelec provides an Adult and 
Child Social Care case management system, 
supporting all the activities of a Social Care 
practice (case recording, electronic care 
record, appointment booking) and also 
includes financial management systems  
and reporting tools.
Gross Profit
Revenue
Servelec Controls is the largest independent 
integrator of safety and production control 
systems to large blue-chip companies mainly 
in the oil and gas and power and nuclear 
industry sectors.
Servelec Technologies develops, manufactures 
and sells end-to-end telemetry products, 
telemetry / SCADA systems and business 
optimisation software to the utilities (water,  
oil and gas and transport), broadcast and 
industrial markets. It provides consultancy 
services and sells telemetry products (RTUs) 
and associated software solutions through its 
global distribution network.
Revenue
Gross Profit
Revenue
Gross Profit
Servelec Automation provides complex, mission-critical control systems and standalone 
products to large, blue-chip companies in the energy, water, transport and broadcast industries. 
It provides whole lifecycle services from consultancy through to design, implementation, 
delivery, installation and on-going customer support and maintenance, as well as the sale of 
component products such as RTUs (Remote Telemetry Units) and SCADA software.
52%
53 %
23%
19%
25%
28%
Servelec Health 
& Social Care
Servelec Controls Servelec Technologies
Servelec 
Automation
The group structure
For more information
see page 22
For more information
see page 26
For more information
see page 29 3
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Throughout our history we have delivered solutions globally and currently sell 
our products through established distribution channels across a global network. 
Servelec Health 
& Social Care
Servelec 
Controls
Servelec 
Technologies
Offices
UK  
Sheffield 
Manchester 
London 
Edinburgh 
Ireland  
Dublin 
Australia  
Sydney 
India  
Kochi 
Offices
UK  
Sheffield 
Aberdeen 
Warrington 
Glasgow 
Offices
UK  
Sheffield 
Dorking 
Australia  
Melbourne 
Belgium  
Waterloo 
France 
Lyon 
USA  
Florida 
Canada 
Calgary 
United Arab Emirates 
Abu Dhabi 
255
Employees
123
Employees
160
Employees
 Main office  Satellite office  Offshore development 4
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Market overview
The diverse nature of Servelec’s business and our flexible product portfolio 
allow us to operate in numerous market sectors across our segments. 
Traditionally, we have focused on industries with high barriers to entry  
where our expertise and high levels of intellectual property bring  
a competitive advantage.
Markets
Core Markets
Mental, community and child 
health, acute care and adult 
and child social care
Market position
Market leader in mental and community health 
sectors in the UK adult and child social care 
market. Poised to play a leading role in the 
Converged Care agenda nationally.
Market drivers
• Regulatory changes and tightening budgets 
are focusing this market on integration and 
interoperability
• Health & Social Care providers are under 
increased pressure to make efficiency 
savings whilst still delivering high standards 
of care
• In Social Care, Government policy is 
increasingly focused on giving clients 
greater choice and control over services 
in order to promote independence
• Local authorities will need to enable 
citizens to port their accounts without 
a break in their care
• There is an increasing expectation from 
patients to be able to access their 
records online
• A move towards Converged Care and 
sharing information securely across 
multiple care settings
Core Markets
Oil and gas, power 
and nuclear 
Market position
Leading supplier to Tier 2 companies in oil and 
gas market, growing position in power and 
nuclear with a focus on brownfield sites. 
Market drivers
• Regulatory requirements and operator cost 
saving initiatives focused on reducing the 
cost of extracting oil and gas from ageing 
offshore platforms 
• Health and safety drives a significant 
proportion of business
• The dollar price of oil will impact 
investment in new projects in 2016 
but drive the reduction in the price 
of production 
• The remote operations of platforms in 
response to increased health and 
safety legislation 
• The requirement to significantly extend 
the life of existing platforms in the face 
of cost constraints
• Regulatory requirement and significant 
government investment in high hazard 
reduction within legacy nuclear facilities 
resulting in new plant
• Replacement of obsolete technology with 
modern designs to maintain modern safe 
operational standards
• Investment for plant life extension of 
existing generating stations to support 
continued generation
• Improved efficiency and reductions in 
cost base to maximise asset performance 
in generation
Core Markets
Oil & gas, energy  
and utilities 
Market position
Market leader in UK water industry, 
established global distribution channels. 
Market drivers
• Pent up demand in the water industry 
following a slow start to AMP6 (Asset 
Management Plan), but the same 
regulatory spend will now take place within 
a truncated four year period
• The current UK water sector RTU estate 
requires regular refreshment and 
routine replacement 
• This AMP period investment is considerably 
greater than the last period with Servelec’s 
products timed well to capitalise on what 
water companies need
• Global RTU markets remain strong 
motivated by the drive for real-time data to 
make informed business decisions
• Customer demand for increased 
monitoring of networked data for 
business optimisation to deliver 
operational cost savings 
• Globally, the goal of reduced operational 
costs is a constant and Servelec’s 
business optimisation solutions achieve 
this objective
Servelec Health 
& Social Care
Servelec  
Controls
Servelec 
Technologies 5
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Our heritage
Key milestones
Servelec is built on a strong heritage of delivering integrated solutions to a 
diverse portfolio of customers. With its origins in the Sheffield steel industry 
the company has developed organically and through acquisition to become 
a trusted partner in multiple market sectors.
RiO launched
Exit National Program for IT (October) Launch of S2000 nano (H2) Acquired Aura (May)
Acquired Corelogic (December) Launched Flowsure and Optimiser
Acquired Systems Integration & Automation Ltd
Divisional structure implemented: Servelec Healthcare and Servelec Automation
Healthcare commences contract with BT Acquired Scomagg
Acquired by CSE Global of Singapore for £18.6m
Portals acquired by De La Rue; Management Buy-Out of Servelec backed by 3i
Entered healthcare market
Bought by Portals (part of Portals Computer Technology)
Commenced operations, grew out of control systems in Sheffield steel industry
IPO (December) Acquired Tynemarch UK and Semaphore Group Disposal of CSE - Controls, s.r.o
2015
2014
2013
2010
2008
2006
2001
2000
1995
1993
1988
1977 6
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Chairman’s statement
Servelec Group has produced a good performance in 2015, reflecting the 
benefits of its diversified revenue model. Organic growth is on target overall 
and the Group has continued on its acquisition path delivering further growth. 
The Group enters 2016 with a strong order book, an improving pipeline and  
an improved cash position.
Overview
Overall, the Group has performed well in 2015, with revenue for the  
year ended 31 December 2015 at £63.1m (2014: £51.8m), an increase of 
22% driven largely by performance across Health & Social Care. 
Underlying operating profit increased by 32% to £16.2m (2014: £12.2m) 
13% of which was organic. Profit before taxation increased 26% to 
£13.4m (2014: £10.6m) due in part to the performance of Corelogic 
which was acquired in December 2014. Earnings per share was 17.1p 
(2014: 12.7p), fully diluted EPS 16.7p (2014: 12.5p) an increase of 35% 
and 34% respectively compared to the previous year.
Health & Social Care delivered a 95% increase in revenue compared  
to 2014, which includes a full year of trading from Servelec Corelogic. 
This result included the full exit from the London Refresh which was 
delivered on time and on budget for 21 Trusts and Provider 
organisations. 2015 also saw Servelec win a major deployment in the 
Acute market with its Oceano product for a multi-site Trust covering 
three hospitals and 13 minor injury units. This is significant as it heralds 
Servelec’s expansion into the Acute market. Within Social Care 
significant market share was gained through the delivery of 13 new 
Mosaic systems and the continued upgrade of Frameworki customers 
to Mosaic. Operating profit in Health and Social Care increased to  
£12.1 million, in line with expectations and a 60% increase on 2014. 
Health and Social Care delivered an extremely positive performance in 
tender activity in “North New”, creating a strong order book for 2016. 
As the anticipated Converged Care agenda comes to the fore from 2016 
onwards, Servelec remains well positioned to take advantage of this 
with its strong customer relationships and diverse product portfolio.
The challenging macro market conditions within which the Automation 
division operates have been well publicised. The downturn in the oil and 
gas industry has had a significant impact on both segments as each is 
exposed to this sector. 2015 has been a year of diversification and 
product investment to counteract the downturn in oil and gas and the 
slower than anticipated upturn in investment by the UK water industry. 
Servelec Controls reported a 4% decrease in revenue to £14.4m (2014: 
£15.0m) with a slight reduction in operating profit to £3.4m (2014: 
£3.5m). Within Controls - Power and Nuclear the investment in the new 
management team is reaping benefits of identifying and targeting a 
larger addressable market in existing and additional sectors. This is 
starting to gain momentum specifically with Servelec’s move into the 
Richard Last
Chairman 7
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
refurbishment of Combined Heat and Power (CHP) plants for export  
to Turkey and an increased focus on winning business in the Nuclear  
and Power sectors. Servelec Technologies reported a 20% reduction  
in revenue to £16.1m (2014: £20.1m) and through rationalisation of the 
consolidated business reported a 10% reduction in profit to £3.5m 
(2014: 3.9m). Within Technologies, RTU sales have been impacted by 
both the oil and gas industry and the UK water market however we see 
this as a temporary dip and believe the opportunities for business 
optimisation solutions and investment in products will bring benefits  
in 2016 and beyond. 
As at 31 December 2015, Servelec had gross cash balances of £9.9m 
compared with £6.0m in 2014. During the year the Group had excellent 
profit to cash conversion at 115% (2014: 141%) due in part to the 
favourable timing of monies received from customers, but also 
demonstrating the Group’s focus on strong cash management.
Corporate development
In May 2015, Servelec acquired Aura Limited, a leading developer of 
healthcare software that helps automate bed management across 
hospitals, clinics and primary care centres, thereby enabling the 
improved patient care. Aura's suite of products is sold on a standalone 
basis and also integrated into Servelec's Oceano and RiO products 
thereby adding to their functionality. The acquisition has already 
provided Servelec with a valuable entry point into the Republic of 
Ireland and Northern Ireland markets through existing contacts and 
customer relationships.
Dividend
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 3.5p per ordinary share which, 
together with the interim dividend of 1.65p paid in October 2015, 
equates to a total dividend of 5.15p per ordinary share for the year 
ended 31 December 2015. The final dividend, which is subject to 
approval at the company’s AGM, will be paid on 27 May 2016 to 
shareholders registered at the close of business on 6 May 2016.
Board and employees
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our employees for their 
continued hard work and support during 2015. This has been another 
strong year for Servelec as a whole and this is down to the dedication 
and enthusiasm of individuals across the Group. 
“This is an excellent set of results, 
delivered alongside important 
operational steps forward, positioning 
the business well for 2016 and beyond.”
Outlook
The Board looks forward to 2016 with optimism as Servelec is well 
positioned for further growth and expansion despite the continuing 
challenges in the Oil and Gas market. Our Health & Social Care division 
will benefit from its strong order book and we look forward to winning 
new business in the North New and North Refresh programmes. We 
expect the business will build upon its major Oceano win in 2015 
providing a strong case study that will, we believe, support further 
growth opportunities in this sector. We anticipate a strong year to come 
from Servelec Corelogic as the market continues to replace older social 
care software systems and we will continue to invest in our relationships 
with new and existing customers.
The Automation division should start to reap the benefits of our 
investment in people and products. For Servelec Controls, our expertise 
in brownfield oil and gas sites and move into remote operations through 
automation is becoming well known within the sector and we are 
experiencing a greater level of interest from prospective clients. Given a 
slow expected rate of recovery in the oil and gas market we have been 
active in diversifying the use of our skills into other relevant sectors and 
we see strong opportunities with valuable addressable markets. 
Servelec Controls performed well in the second half of 2015 and we 
anticipate this continuing during 2016. Servelec Technologies have 
started to witness the upturn in AMP6 related orders, as evidenced by 
the significant recent wins with Southern Water and others. We believe 
our Technologies business will continue to make gains in international 
markets as the investments we have made in our products gain traction 
in the market place. 
The Board believes Servelec is positioned well within its core markets 
and is making gains in new sectors with strong growth potential. The 
Group has the necessary foundations to grow, develop its businesses 
and generate good returns for shareholders and other stakeholders.
Richard Last
Chairman
1 March 2016 8
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s statement
This year has been about delivering on the promises we made in 2014 and our 
overall result is in line with market expectations. The mix might be slightly 
different but this demonstrates the benefits of our diversified business model. 
The outlook is positive for the Group in 2016 with a strong order book and 
improving market conditions.
2015 performance
Group performance was strong during 2015, with revenues up 22% to 
£63.1m and Operating Profit up 27% to £13.4m. These results are in line 
with market expectations and whilst the mix may be a little different  
to what was originally anticipated, the nature of the business means  
the we can weather the ‘headwinds’ that may arise in segments of  
our market areas and by adapting, deliver an overall result which  
is on target.
Servelec Health & Social Care 
Servelec’s Health & Social Care division performed exceptionally well 
during 2015. Healthcare was driven, in the main, by the Refresh of 
systems for London and the South which Servelec delivered on time and 
on budget enabling completion of the National Programme for IT for 21 
Trusts and provider organisations that chose to stay with our RiO 
product. These 21 organisations added to our expanding client base to 
which we can upsell our services such as RiO Mobile, EPMA and 
Hosting. Attention turns fully to the other areas of England where we 
are seeking to further expand our Healthcare business into Mental 
Health, Community Health and Acute Trusts. This is as part of the 
run-down of the national programme contracts handled by Computer 
Science Corporation (CSC); North Refresh and those organisations who 
opted not to adopt the solution being offered to them, retaining their 
legacy system; North New. Taking additional market share for our Acute 
product offering (both RiO and Oceano) is of paramount importance. 
Building on our collaboration with University Hospitals Birmingham we 
are really pleased with our recent win for an Acute PAS with a multi-site 
Trust.
Our investment to grow within Social Care and onward into Converged 
Care through the acquisition of Corelogic is proving its worth. Our core 
Social Care product, Mosaic, is market leading and only has one real 
competitor in a market where customers are reviewing their potential 
supply chain for the next few years as Local Authorities, through 
changing Government legislation, are being pressured to upgrade their 
systems through necessity. Servelec Corelogic has transitioned to being 
an important part of the Servelec Group with increasing margins. During 
the period, we have strengthened Servelec Corelogic’s management 
team in customer service, sales, account management, finance, and 
product development under the leadership of Garry McCord. Garry 
moved across to lead Servelec Corelogic following a successful 20 years 
in Servelec Healthcare, demonstrating our dedication to training our 
employees and promoting from within where the skills set and 
opportunities allow. 
Alan Stubbs
Chief Executive Officer 9
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Servelec Health & Social Care has improved as a business during 2015 
and delivered on profitability, enhanced customer satisfaction and 
invested in the continual development of our people. Social Care in 
particular outperformed original expectations and with the market 
opportunities in Social Care, this is a trend that we can see continuing  
in 2016.
Servelec Automation
The constituent parts of Servelec Automation have seen differing 
fortunes during 2015. Servelec Controls is a business which is primarily 
focused on brownfield refurbishment, especially in areas where clients 
invest to improve operational efficiency and reduce manpower thus 
improving the profitability or indeed chances of survival for the 
business. The price of oil shows no sign of recovering, even in the 
mid-term and hence there is a massive reduction in oil and gas markets 
as operators move to reduce costs. Within the market context we 
believe our track record in reducing the operating expenditure of our 
clients through automation and enabling remote operations provides 
growth opportunities. Given the substantial drop in the oil price the 
2015 results for Servelec Controls held up. This is thanks to the 
diversification enacted by the management team, primarily through the 
investment in our Power and Nuclear management and sales team and 
the opportunity taken on during 2015 for the control system 
refurbishment for Combined Heat and Power (CHP) plants here in the 
UK that are being sold overseas.
The currently unfavourable market conditions in which it operates has 
resulted in Servelec Technologies performing below expectations. This 
has been a year of headwinds created by struggling global sales as a 
consequence of the suspended new oil and gas projects which impacted 
RTU sales in USA and Middle East, together with a slower than 
expected increase in sales under the AMP6 programme for water 
companies in the UK because of the reduction in their original 
determination following the general election. Despite these negative 
factors we have delivered a reasonable result and continued to invest in 
products and people, particularly our sales teams, and have been 
working hard to align our distribution channels and sales opportunities. 
None of this spend has been capitalised during the year. We are now 
poised to take advantage of the improving market conditions in the UK 
and other areas as these occur on a global basis.
“This has been a very positive year for 
Servelec. The Group has delivered on 
its promises of strong and predictable 
financial performance, supported by its 
diversified business model.”
Strategy and outlook 
Our overall strategy for the business remains unchanged and we have 
continued to deliver on all of the four pillars. 
• We have achieved demonstrable organic growth, both in existing 
markets and into new areas such as Social Care, Acute Healthcare, 
Power and Nuclear and CHP plants.
• Product development to enhance existing offerings has continued, 
specifically with the S2000 nano RTU from Servelec Technologies 
and the RIO mobile, Portal and Business Analytics in Health & Social 
Care. 
• We have continued to invest in our people to develop our 
distribution channels and routes to market; and
• The integration of recently acquired businesses, Aura and Corelogic, 
continues to add value for customers and shareholders and we 
foresee bolt-on acquisitions continuing in 2016 where they fit with 
our strategy and meet our strict financial criteria.
Overall this has been a very positive year for Servelec. The Group has 
delivered on its promises of strong and predictable financial 
performance, supported by its diversified business model. We finish the 
2015 financial year with an improved cash position, a strengthened 
order book and growing pipelines of opportunities for 2016 which 
underpin our budget for the year. Along with my colleagues on the 
Board I am positive about the outlook for 2016. Our portfolio of 
solutions provides compelling business cases for cost reduction and 
effective operations which is essential in the current climate. Servelec 
Automation looks poised for a year of growth as delayed projects get 
off the ground and Health & Social Care will continue to improve on 
performance to date, specifically in its Social Care business unit.
Alan Stubbs
Chief Executive Officer
1 March 2016 10
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Chief Financial Officer’s statement
The Group delivered strong growth in 2015, as excellent performances 
within Health & Social Care offset the tough market conditions in the 
Automation business.
Overview
Revenue for the year ending 31 December 2015 was £63.1m (2014: 
£51.8m), an increase of 22%. Underlying operating profit increased by 
32% to £16.1m (2014: £12.2m) and after allowing for the increased 
amortisation charge relating to acquisitions, profit before taxation also 
increased by 22% to £13.4m (2014: £10.6m). The acquisition costs 
incurred in 2015 were not material, whereas those incurred in 2014 were 
treated as exceptional costs.
Health & Social Care delivered an exceptional performance in 2015 with 
revenue up 95% (22% organic, with the remainder from the Corelogic and 
Aura acquisitions) to £32.5m (2014: £16.6m) and operating profit up 60% to 
£12.1m (2014: £7.6m). The key to the performance was the excellent work 
done by the delivery teams in Healthcare transferring the 21 customers 
from the National Program for Information Technology (NPfIT) to direct, 
within strict timescales all done on budget. This also enabled a smooth 
completion of the NPfIT contract and gives a strong message to those 
looking to exit from the North, Midlands and East NPfIT contracts that 
Servelec can deliver on its promises.
Corelogic (Social Care) was acquired in December 2014 and so the year to 
31 December 2015 saw a full year’s performance included in the results. 
During the year, Corelogic was integrated into the financial systems and 
processes of the Group and has added to the growth of the Health & Social 
Care segment. Corelogic has been implementing 13 new and upgrading  
10 customers in 2015 and is now building its sales team ready for the 
expected churn in the market over the next few years.
The Controls business has had a tough year due to the impact of the low 
oil price delaying customers’ decisions on major projects. Revenue 
dropped slightly to £14.4m in the year (2014: £15.0m) with a 
corresponding reduction in operating profit of 5% to £3.4m (2014: 
£3.5m). However, the Controls segment is poised to return to growth as 
customers now turn their attention to operational savings to reduce the 
cost of oil production. This was shown during the second half of 2015 as 
a major customer gave the initial order for the upgrade of systems on 
their offshore platforms. At the start of the year, the Controls segment 
invested in a new management team for the Power and Nuclear market. 
Although this has increased overheads for the segment there has also 
been a significant increase in the pipeline opportunities and a number of 
large orders is expected to be won in 2016.
Mike Cane
Chief Financial Officer 11
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Technologies revenue reduced by 20% in 2015 to £16.1m (2014: £20.1m) 
due to the slow start of AMP6. However, the impact on operating profit 
was mitigated by the overhead savings implemented at the end of 2014 
and so only reduced by 10% to £3.5m (2014: £3.9m). The reduction in 
Remote Telemetry Unit (RTU) sales in the Oil and Gas sector was 
expected to be more than offset in the year by the sales required at the 
start of AMP6 (the water industry’s five year budget cycle). 
Unfortunately, customers delayed ordering post the general election, 
however this is now leading to pent up demand as these purchases need 
to be implemented by the end of the AMP6 period in 2020.
Cash
Cash flow from operating activities was £19.6m (2014: £17.4m) driven 
by the final unwinding of the BT work in progress relating to the NPfIT 
contract. The £6m loan notes taken out as part of the acquisition of 
Corelogic in December 2014 were paid back on their due dates together 
with a repayment of a £0.9m loan acquired as part of the Aura 
acquisition in May 2015. Cash balances at the end of 2015 were £9.9m 
(2014: £6.0m).
Capital expenditure
During the year we invested £1.4m (2014: £1.3m) in IT and office 
equipment including further hosting environments for Healthcare 
customers. We anticipate further expenditure in this area as  
hosting services become more important to our customers in both 
Healthcare & Social Care.
Taxation
The underlying rate of taxation is 11% (2014: 18%) which is below the 
UK standard rate of corporation tax of 20.25%. The difference is partly 
due to a time based tax credit but also because the Group qualified for 
small company rates for R&D tax credit in 2014.
Earnings per share
Earnings per share increased to 17.1p for the year ended 31 December 
2015 (2014: 12.7p), reflecting the benefit of the acquisitions made at the 
end of 2014 and in 2015.
Outlook
Servelec is well positioned to take advantage of the considerable 
opportunities for growth and development which have been identified 
as well as continuing to search for earnings enhancing acquisitions.
Within Health & Social Care we are expecting the growth to be driven by 
the churn in the Social Care market as the Northern Refresh in 
Healthcare has been stretched over the next three years. Our strong 
product suites and track record of delivery provides our customers the 
confidence to select Servelec as their partner demonstrated by the 
recent Acute win with our Oceano product.
We also believe we are well placed to lead the Converged Care agenda 
by leveraging our high level of geographical alignment and market 
leading offerings across the health & social care markets.
The oil price has delayed contracts in the Controls business in 2014 and 
2015, however we can now see the market opening up and customers 
wanting to take advantage of our expertise in order to make savings in 
production by automating processes. Our investment in a new 
management team for the Power and Nuclear market has resulted in 
record order entry in this area of the Controls business and a 
significantly higher addressable market. We expect the Controls 
segment to return to profit growth in 2016.
Within Technologies, AMP6 provides significant pent up demand for our 
products and services. We are starting to see orders released by the 
large water operators in 2016 and see significant opportunities for our 
optimisation software products to deliver the savings and efficiencies 
demanded by the AMP. We launched our S2000 nano product at the 
end of 2015 and it is about to get type approval for the International 
market and is already on trial with a number of our distributors outside 
of the UK.
Overall we expect, and our products and expertise allow us, to capitalise 
on the opportunities in our chosen markets and our diversified business 
model enabling us to meet our growth expectations.
Mike Cane
Chief Financial Officer
1 March 2016
Revenue (£’000) Continuing Operations (£’000) Order Entry (£’000)
Group performance
15
14
13
63,095
51,753
41,995
13,395
10,507
10,852
66,383
60,200
32,601
15
14
13
15
14
13 12
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
£63.1m
+22% (2014: 23%)
Revenue (£’000)
15
14
13
63,095
51,753
41,995
Relevance and measurement This is reported in detail for the 
operating segments and is a key driver for the business to track 
our overall success in project delivery and market share growth. 
Performance Group revenue grew by 22% driven by Health & 
Social Care. Underlying Healthcare revenue grew by 22% and 
was complemented by a full year of Social Care revenue 
(+£11.2m). Controls revenue dropped 4% and T echnologies 
revenue was 20% lower than 2014 due to the slow start in 
AMP6.
£30.3m
+29% (2014: 27%)
Gross Profit (£’000)
15
14
13
30,280
23,447
18,413
Relevance and measurement This is the total profit before 
operational expenses. 
Performance Up 29% due to the growth in Health & Social Care 
offsetting the drop in T echnologies.
£16.2m
+32% (2014: 8%)
Underlying Operating Profit
(i)
 (£’000)
15
14
13
16,151 
12,225  
11,277 
Relevance and measurement This measures our operating 
profitability on an International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) basis, excluding share based payments, acquired 
intangible amortisation and exceptionals. 
Performance Driven by Health & Social Care’s 28% organic 
increase plus a full year of Social Care. Controls was slightly 
down (-4%) due to the investment in the new Power and 
Nuclear T eam. T echnologies dropped (10%) as the overhead 
savings offset the lower sales in 2015.
£13.4m
+26% (2014: -3%)
Profit Before Tax (£’000)
15
14
13
13,364 
10,590 
10,908  
Relevance and measurement This is profit from ordinary 
activities, before tax. 
Performance 26% growth in profit before tax represents the 
growth in underlying operating profit offset by an increased 
acquired amortisation charge following the acquisitions in 
Health & Social Care.
(i) Underlying operating profit excludes share based payments, excep tional costs and acquired intangible amortisation.
Key performance indicators
Financial highlights of the Servelec Group and comparative figures for the 
past three years. 13
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
£66.4m
+10% (2014: 85%)
Order Entry (£’000)
15
14
13
66,383 
60,200 
32,601 
Relevance and measurement This is the total contract value 
of orders received within the year.
Performance Order entry growth continued to benefit from 
the new orders in Health & Social Care due to the churn in 
these markets.
£65.1m
+5% (2014: 60%)
Order Bank (£’000)
15
14
13
65,070 
62,287 
38,927
Relevance and measurement This is the total future revenue 
we expect from orders received.
Performance Up 5%, reflecting Healthcare tender activity and 
incorporating £15.4m order bank from Corelogic, acquired in 
December 2014. Automation has reduced due to delays in oil 
and gas orders and the transition to AMP6 in the water 
industry.
£5.5m
+32% (2014: 109%)
R&D Investment (£’000)
15
14
13
5,532
4,204 
2,013 
Relevance and measurement This measures the level of 
investment we have made in developing new and existing 
products during the year.
Performance R&D investment has increased due to a full year 
of Social Care more than offsetting a 15% drop in technologies. 
This saving is largely due to product rationalisation. 14
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Servelec Group
High level of
 intellectual property
 management team
Proven and experienced
relationships with client base
Strong long-term 
Proven engineering
approach
Servelec Health & Social Care
Servelec Controls
Servelec Technologies
Our business model
Servelec is focused on profitable growth. We achieve this by operating only in 
areas where we can achieve strong, sustainable margins and cash generation. 
We work in particular market 
segments which are heavily 
regulated and driven by 
legislation and have consistently 
maintained our gross margins 
and profitability. We are a leading 
provider in mental and 
community health, social care 
and UK water and a leading 
supplier to Tier 2 companies to 
the UK oil and gas industry.
We focus our business on maintaining these positions by 
building strong client relationships in markets which have 
high barriers to entry. We utilise our technology and 
engineering skills, especially project management, to 
expand into adjacent markets and pride ourselves on 
delivering systems on time and on budget.
Distinct elements
High level of 
intellectual 
property 
Servelec has significant 
intellectual property across both 
its divisions which we continue to 
enhance. Servelec Health & Social 
Care’s core products include the 
RiO and Oceano products for 
mental health, community health, 
child health and acute care and 
Mosaic and Corius for the social 
care market. Servelec Automation 
has a range of products that 
provide end-to-end functionality, 
from information collection, 
collation, business optimisation 
and automated control.
Proven and 
experienced 
management 
team
Servelec’s executive management 
team is backed up by a strong, 
long-standing and experienced 
operational management team 
and a highly skilled and 
knowledgeable workforce. 
Strong 
long-term 
relationships 
with client base
Servelec has established very 
close commercial relationships 
with blue-chip customers in all of 
its end markets with some 
relationships dating back 30 years. 
Servelec’s customers include 
Welsh Water, Severn Trent Water, 
Centrica, BP, EDF Energy, BT, the 
NHS, and a large proportion of 
local authorities in the UK.
Proven 
engineering 
approach 
The origins of the Group’s business 
were in the design and 
manufacture of control systems 
for the Sheffield steel industry. 
This engineering ethos of 
delivering projects on time and on 
budget remains firmly in the 
culture of Servelec, both in 
software and hardware.
  15
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Our strategy
Our strategy is to deliver shareholder value by focusing on profitable markets 
with high barriers to entry, where our expertise and high level of IP brings a 
competitive advantage. Our strategy is made up of four distinct elements.
Group pillars
Drive 
organic 
growth 
We continue to organise the 
business to drive good levels of 
organic growth. We have a broad 
range of organic growth 
opportunities that fit with the 
capabilities of the business 
including brownfield 
refurbishment of platforms 
around our coastline, efficiency 
improvements and cost reductions 
for our utilities clients and 
continued delivery of true 
electronic patient records systems 
that meet the objectives set by 
the UK Government.
Our clients are important to us 
and we have been working with a 
number of them for many years. 
We always strive to maintain 
excellent customer relationships 
thus increasing our level of repeat 
business and recurring revenues. 
Continue 
to enhance 
our product 
capability
We will continue to invest in 
our products across the Group to 
ensure that we meet the needs of 
our clients now and in the future 
and our products continue to 
comply with relevant legislation, 
regulation or changing 
market requirements.
Develop our 
distribution 
channels to 
market 
Servelec has proven itself with 
strong positions in its home 
market. Servelec has a global 
distributor network which 
provides access to increased 
opportunities for the Group. We 
will continue to invest in our 
distribution channels to provide 
access to customers, wherever 
they are.
Acquire where 
beneficial to  
the business 
We continue to search for 
potential acquisitions that 
will provide both short-term and 
long-term benefit to the Group. 
We seek out companies that 
support our overall growth 
strategy and where we believe our 
expertise and experience provides 
enhanced growth potential for the 
acquired business. 16
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Strategy in action
The table below summarises progress made during 2015 against our four 
strategic pillars. Key deliverables are further expanded upon in case studies on 
the pages which follow.
Our strategy in action 
Case 
Study 
page
Drive organic 
growth 
Continue to 
enhance our 
product 
capability
Develop our 
distribution 
channels to 
market
Acquire where 
beneficial to 
the business 
Developing products to complement the Personalisation agenda 17 3 3
Accessing new sectors and geographical markets through acquisition 18 3
   Driving proven applications through established distribution channels to
expand customer base (Optimisation, S2000 nano, SCOPE-X productisation, L T2) 18 3 3 3
Selling additional products (Portals, Hosting and MIS) to existing customer base 3 3
  Expanding our business optimisation offering and driving sales in this area 3 3 3
  Identifying and addressing available market share in Power and Nuclear 19 3
Successful completion of Southern Refresh 19 3 3
  Investment in productisation of Flowsure 3
Successful integration of Aura and Corelogic 3
Aligning products to meet the Converged Care agenda 17 3 3
  Investment in management team to gain access to new markets 3
  Increasing sales through distribution channels 3
  Launching products that position us for future growth 20 3 3
  Launching the S2000 nano for harsh environments 3 3 3
  Expansion into CHP for export to counteract downturn in Oil & Gas 3
Expanding into the Acute Healthcare sector 20 3 3
Launching hosting service to new and existing customers 21 3 3
Health & Social Care 
Controls 
Technologies 17
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Developing products 
to complement the 
Personalisation agenda
Objective
Aligning our product portfolio with the need to drive down costs.
What we did in 2015
Servelec Corelogic has added a suite of online portals to its 
product portfolio to align with the emergence of the 
Personalisation agenda within social care and the need to drive 
down costs through the provision of self-service facilities. 
Another key element in its product portfolio is the Corius 
Business Intelligence (BI) platform that can compete with the 
market leading products yet is offered at a fraction of the price. 
Corius comes equipped with a suite of reports and dashboards 
that can quickly be deployed to provide in-depth analysis of all 
areas of care and support. Having BI capability that provides the 
ability to understand and make sense of large volumes of often 
disconnected data in real time is vital for organisations in the 
modern social care. 
2016 focus
• Our focus in 2016 will be to increase sales of our portals and 
Corius to gain further traction in the Social Care market.
Aligning products 
to meet the 
Converged Care agenda
Objective
The acquisition of Corelogic in December 2014 means that 
Servelec is well positioned to take advantage of the Converged 
Care agenda once it comes on board.
What we did in 2015
Servelec has recognised the challenges in providing this data 
sharing approach. We have developed a product and integration 
strategy that provides our customers with aligned care planning 
for regions that have both RiO and Mosaic customers and a 
broader integration strategy. This is supported by NHS Standards 
for interoperability between our own systems and those of third 
parties. 
2016 focus
• As the Converged Care strategy develops, Servelec is well 
positioned to take advantage and able to deliver an 
integrated system from across Servelec Health & Social Care. 18
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Strategy in action Continued
Driving proven applications 
through established 
distribution channels
Objective
Organic growth in the UK Water industry.
What we did in 2015
Servelec’s heritage and strong customer relationships in the UK 
water industry means it is well placed to maximise growth 
opportunities in this sector. In addition to the ongoing churn in
RTU replacement sales, Servelec identified the opportunity to
widen the scope of products and services we currently sell 
through existing channels in the industry.
Having successfully integrated the Semaphore and Tynemarch
businesses in 2014 the focus in 2015 centred upon product
integration allowing Servelec Technologies to market a complete 
solution for the collection, management, presentation and 
optimisation of data to make customer operations more efficient 
and effective.
2016 Focus
• Servelec is currently engaged in sales activity to identify and 
push through opportunities to sell this complete solution to 
existing and new customers in the water industry, directly 
and through distributors.
Accessing new sectors 
and geographical markets 
through acquisition
Objective
To gain access to the Ireland and Northern Ireland healthcare 
market through the acquisition of Aura.
What we did in 2015
Following its acquisition in May 2015, Aura Healthcare has been 
fully integrated into Servelec Healthcare. This has strengthened 
Servelec’s Oceano product suite with the integration of Flow (a 
state of the art touch screen based patient flow solution) and 
provided additional skills and knowledge for Servelec to 
capitalise on the Acute market. Servelec also won its first project 
in the Republic of Ireland with Flow.
2016 focus
• In 2016, Servelec will further embed its position in Republic of 
Ireland with Flow and also open up new country markets for 
RiO and Oceano. 19
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Successful completion 
of Southern Refresh
Identifying and addressing 
available market share 
Objective
To strengthen our presence in traditional markets and deliver 
organic growth.
What we did in 2015
Servelec Health & Social Care has continued to gain ground in 
winning new projects as part of the successful exit of the Refresh 
of London and the South which Servelec delivered on time and 
on budget. This allowed a full exit from the National Programme 
for IT for 21 Trusts and provider organisations who chose to stay 
with RiO. We have also won substantial North New projects 
(those trusts who didn’t take an NPfIT system) and we also 
announced a further win in an Acute setting to supply a PAS 
using our Oceano product. 
2016 focus
• North New will continue to churn throughout 2016 and we 
are well positioned to take full advantage.
• The majority of the churn is being transacted through the 
Shared Business Services framework which Servelec was 
successful in achieving listings in all six lots.
Objective
To widen access to our addressable market. 
What we did in 2015
Recognising that Servelec’s Controls business was often too 
reliant on a small number of slow-to-appoint customers, the 
division put in place a strategy to diversify into new areas and 
gain reach in its addressable market. Servelec introduced a new 
management team into its Power and Nuclear sector which has 
successfully identified and increased the addressable market. A 
tangible output of this was the diversification into the control 
system refurbishment market for Combined Heat and Power 
plants and this successfully partially offset the downturn in our 
Oil & Gas business. 
2016 focus
• To realise the full potential of new and existing clients in new 
markets, Servelec Controls is focussing on the addressable 
market in nuclear, energy and defence which is currently 
valued at £200m per annum.
• To focus on the drive for the upgrade and remote operation 
of oil & gas platforms. 20
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Strategy in action Continued
Expanding into the 
Acute Healthcare sector
Objective
To expand Servelec’s presence in untapped market sectors.
What we did in 2015
Servelec announced a further Acute win with a major Trust at the 
end of 2015. This major three site NHS Trust with 13 minor injury 
units provides care to entire county region for Acute and 
Community Services. This win not only signals Servelec’s 
assertiveness in breaking into the Acute market, but also builds 
upon its converged care strategy with all the health & social care 
organisation in the region providing care supported by Servelec 
solutions – RiO, Mosaic and Oceano. Sales of PICS has gained 
traction and this is further supporting Servelec’s push into the 
Acute sector (specifically in the clinical EPR areas) with the 
contract award of PICS at Royal Orthopaedic Hospital Trust. 
2016 focus
• Further wins in the Acute market as the North Refresh starts 
to churn, using this Trust as a valuable case study.
Launching products that 
position us for future growth
Objective
Investing in the right products to strengthen Servelec’s market 
position for the future.
What we did in 2015
During this period of delayed start within the UK water sector, 
Servelec has continued to invest in product development to be even 
better placed to maximise market share with the acceleration of 
AMP6 expenditure in 2016. Through close relationships with its clients 
and market intelligence, Servelec Technologies recognised a gap in 
the market for a WITS (Water industry Telemetry Standard) based 
Ultra Low powered RTU / Logger device for Combined Sewers and 
Overflows (CSO) applications and other underground monitoring. 
Current competitors gather data for users on an ad hoc basis and 
store the data offline. Servelec’s solution enables the S2000 nano to 
collect the data and store and use it in real time within their current 
Telemetry gathering systems. This provides an immediate benefit to 
react and prevent situations brought about by extreme conditions 
such as flooding or blockage. This considerably benefits our 
customers as blockages or floods can result in heavy penalties 
brought on by the industry regulator. 
2016 focus
• As the AMP6 sales upturn gains pace Servelec is well 
positioned to gain market share in this sector. 
• The current UK water sector RTU estate requires regular 
refreshment and routine replacement which provides a strong 
underlying portfolio of business.
• Optimisation provides the costs savings required under AMP6. 21
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Launching Hosting 
service to new and 
existing customers
Objective
Enhancing our service provision to NHS customer by offering 
cost effective hosting service.
What we did in 2015
Servelec has grown its hosting and managed services footprint 
considerably over the last two years. Most NHS Trusts now choose 
to have their Servelec applications hosted and supported through 
Servelec’s provision. Focus remains on growing this area of the 
business as NHS Trusts look for cost effective alternatives to in 
house procured and hosted clinical and administrative applications. 
2016 focus
• To increase sales of our hosting service to new 
and existing NHS and local government customers. 22
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Servelec’s strong position in health and social care positions it well to provide 
an integrated solution for customers as the market moves towards 
Converged Care.
Segmental reviews 
Servelec Health & Social Care
Sue Hawkswell
Managing Director,  
Servelec Healthcare
Garry McCord
Chief Executive Officer,  
Servelec Corelogic 23
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Financial highlights
Introduction
Servelec Health & Social Care specialises in the design, development 
and support of Electronic Patient Record (EPR) and Patient 
Administration Software (PAS) within secondary care settings and is a 
market leader in the mental and community health sectors in England. 
In May 2015, Servelec acquired Aura Healthcare, a provider of patient 
tracking and bed management software in the Acute health sector, 
which integrates with and enhances Servelec’s Acute Healthcare 
software offerings.
Servelec Corelogic is the UK market leading provider of next generation 
adult social care and children’s services case management software, 
integrated with financial management and reporting modules. Its 
flagship product, Mosaic is unique in the market as the only product  
to offer all three areas of modern social care (Adult, Children’s and 
Finance) within an integrated system. Servelec has added a suite of 
online portals to its product portfolio to align with the emergence of the 
Personalisation agenda within social care and the need to drive down 
costs through the provision of self-service facilities. 
2015 performance
Servelec Health & Social Care has performed exceptionally well during 
2015 with revenue at £32.5m, a 95% increase over prior year (organic 
growth of 22%). This result includes the completion of the National 
Programme for IT (NPfiT) which was delivered on time and on budget 
for 21 Trusts and Provider organisations. Within Social Care we have 
focused heavily on the delivery of new Mosaic systems and the 
continued upgrade of legacy clients to Mosaic. Segment profit was 
£12.1m, 60% higher than prior year. Following highly successful tender 
activity, the year finished with a strong order book for 2016, with many 
customers taking up Servelec’s recently launched hosting service, 
increasing from 12 to 18 in the year.
We remain the market leader in mental health and community health 
and understand the demands our customers face. We are providing 
increasing service delivery and better access to patient information  
to all our customers by upgrading them to the latest version of RiO,  
a software system that delivers clinical, administrative and case 
management support to Health & Social Care practitioners, whether 
working individually or as teams.
We also continue to support our customers as they mobilise their 
workforce, creating greater opportunities for our customers to improve 
patient care. We have seen RiO Mobile mature in 2015 following further 
product development and increased customer demand for mobile 
working. We also continue to work closely with all our customers to 
develop integration and information sharing solutions that meet the 
needs of the Converged Care agenda. 
In the Acute market, our Aura product set has widened our solution 
offering further, and we now have customers using this software  
in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. The Aura team also 
strengthens our Acute experience and puts us in a good position for 
2016 and beyond as we start to capture market share in the North 
Refresh. 
In Social Care a total of ten organisations were upgraded to Mosaic 
during 2015, with another 13 in ongoing upgrade projects. Also  
in 2015, we completed the Mosaic Integration System (MIS) which  
is a critical piece of our future strategy. The establishment of the MIS 
delivers a seamless information sharing platform between Health & 
Social Care to provide information exchange between Mosaic and RiO 
as part of the Converged Care strategy.
Revenue (£’000)
15 15 15
14 14 14
32,532 12,080 £34,622
16,657
7,573
£28,363
Operating Profit from  
Continuing Operations (£’000)
Order Entry (£’000) 24
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
We expect the demand for the portal capability to increase significantly 
during 2016 based on the groundwork carried out in 2015. A key functional 
aspect of our portal technology is its complete integration with the Mosaic 
case management system which is a significant unique selling point.
Throughout 2015, we invested £3.1m (2014: £1.3m) in research and 
product development across Health & Social Care to ensure that our 
portfolio of Mosaic, Corius, Portals and the MIS will position us to meet 
the challenges and future needs of our market and that our products 
support interoperability and paperless and mobile working.
Strategy
Our strategy is to maximise the growth across our markets by the pursuit  
of joint and separate opportunities across healthcare and social care. Our 
primary objectives are two-fold; first, to have a better understanding and 
more strategic relationship with our existing customers and, second, to 
offer the market the most innovative, flexible and cost-effective products 
thereby securing new business and further extending our customer base.
We will do this by:
• Maximising opportunities arising out of the North Refresh 
programme focusing on hospital based mental health, community 
health services and acute hospitals;
• Providing mobile and workforce mobilisation products that deliver 
secure access to patient data at the point of care for all involved 
professionals;
• Enhancing our product offerings to our clients to ensure that 
efficient, productive and safe healthcare is delivered in a cost 
effective manner;
• Supporting our customers in meeting their local interoperability and 
information sharing agendas;
• Delivering the most modern, cost effective solutions for adult social 
care and children’s services that help improve the quality of care 
within ever diminishing budgets;
• Actively participating in the integration and interoperability agenda 
with Government partners including HSCIC and NHS England;
• Supporting NHS and social care customers in their delivery against 
the paperless agenda and patient access targets;
• Taking a leadership role in helping to shape how technology will 
deliver converged care in partnership with Government and our 
health & social care customer community;
• Implementing a plan to strengthen our strategic partnerships with 
our existing customers.
The market in 2016
Healthcare
The UK healthcare sector, which is primarily the NHS, deals with around 
one million patients every day. Regulatory changes and tightening 
budgets are focusing this market on integration and interoperability. 
Servelec Health & Social Care is responding to this by collaboratively 
working with our customers to enable data-sharing underpinned by our 
technologies, which in turn provides our customers with high-value 
outcomes to support multi-agency working.
Health & Social Care providers are also under increased pressure to 
make efficiency savings whilst still delivering high standards of care. 
Within an Acute Hospital the Aura Flow product supports this by 
providing effective management of beds and tracking of patients. 
The end of the NPfIT contract for the North Midlands and North-East 
has been extended from mid-2016 until 2018 giving organisations 
additional time to procure and deploy replacement systems. This 
provides Servelec with a bigger window of opportunity to secure more 
business in the Acute sector over the coming two to three years.
Social care
The world of social care has changed dramatically over recent years 
against a background of demographic changes. Government policy is 
increasingly focused on giving clients greater choice and control over 
services in order to promote independence. This necessitates a re-think 
of business processes. The biggest changes to adult social care from a 
national policy perspective arise from the Care Act. This builds on the 
personalisation of adult social care and restates the importance of 
personal budgets, patients’ control over their care, and market 
diversification to provide more choice for people with social care funded 
packages as well as people funding their own care and support. 
These changes will have a significant impact on local authorities, leading to 
increased demands on current services, resources and infrastructure. Local 
authorities will need to enable patients to port their accounts without a 
break in their care. Further, there is an increasing expectation from patients 
to be able to access their records online. The national government is 
introducing ‘Digital by Default’ for all transactional services and patients will 
have the right to expect similar capabilities from local government.
2016 outlook
Healthcare
Tender activity continues to be a large focus of the business, with a 
significant number of trusts looking to procure systems with the end of 
the North and Midlands NPfIT programme.
Our position in the Acute market has been strengthened by the acquisition 
of the proven Aura Flow product which together with Oceano, our 
established modular EPR software system, and our first Acute win from the 
SBS framework provide very credible reference sites for future business.
As well as new business wins we also continue to provide support 
contracts to our 50 RiO customers and 53 Mosaic customers which 
provides an underlying revenue stream to other activities.
Social care
Our significant investment in our product portfolio will see Servelec retain 
its position as the leading provider of innovative software within our 
market; able to offer web-based, responsive and cost-effective all-inclusive 
solutions to meet all aspects of modern social care IT. We are expecting 
2016 to be a busy year for new business tenders. The majority of 
opportunities are expected to be released from the Crown Commercial 
framework and Servelec Corelogic is an approved supplier on this contract.
We are also confident that our stronger position concerning the 
provision of hosting will increase our client base for this service. 
Segmental reviews
Servelec Health & Social Care Continued 25
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Converged care
The pace of change in health & social care is rapid and this is being 
accelerated by the need to provide patients and service users with a 
converged approach to health & social care service delivery to deliver better 
care within the constraints of government spending. This approach is being 
championed by the major political parties and addresses the needs of a 
population that is living longer and as a result has more complex medical 
and social needs. Our customers need to provide Converged Care planning 
that brings the need of the patient together as one single care pathway, 
presenting challenges on budgets and cost containment but also on 
providing relevant and meaningful data across the care settings to support 
delivery. Servelec has recognised the challenges in providing this data 
sharing approach and has a product and integration strategy that provides 
our customers with aligned care planning for regions that have both RiO 
and Mosaic customers and a broader integration strategy supported by 
NHS Standards for interoperability between systems. The longer term 
strategy of complete regions that can seamlessly share information will  
be realised as Oceano take up increases. 
Research and development
We continue to focus our research and development teams on the provision 
of web-based solutions and applications that are aligned to NHS and 
Government policy drivers and increasingly supporting our customers 
within their transformation programmes. This will provide our customers  
in health & social care with technology solutions that will enable them to 
meet their requirements both operationally and strategically.
Healthcare market opportunities explained
London Refresh The London Refresh came to an end in October 2015 with all 
NHS trusts replacing systems provided through the NPfIT. 
Trusts in London primarily utilised the Camden framework 
for procurement of systems where Servelec was the 
incumbent. All trusts have now completed this procurement 
work and Servelec Healthcare has won 21 Trusts.
North New These are trusts in the North, North East and Midlands that 
do not have a full solution under the Computer Science 
Corporation contract for the NPfIT or needed to replace their 
system before the main North Refresh began in 2015. 
Servelec has won 14 contracts to date.
North Refresh The main tranche of refresh activity in the North, North East 
and Midlands, mostly relating to trusts who had systems 
from TPP or iSoft as part of the Computer Science 
Corporation contract for the NPfIT. Opportunities have 
extended from June 2016 by a period of up to two further 
years. Servelec are on a number of key frameworks that can 
be used by NHS trusts to procure their replacement systems.
Servelec Health & Social Care: product offerings
Servelec integrates with all GP systems – TPP Healthcare, EMIS, INPS
• Modern PAS/EPR 
developed specifically 
for the Acute market
• True Clinical Decision 
Support system 
developed with UHB 
proven system with full 
e-prescribing solution at 
its core
• Aura acquired May 2015
• Controls Patient flow
in hospitals 
• Augments core Oceano 
product, also sold on 
standalone basis
Mental Health Community Health Child Health
Market leading EPR for Mental, Community and Child Health 
• Social Care case management 
software encompassing:
• Child
• Adult
• Finance
• Fully integrated and ultra-flexible
• Ability to customise and configure 
locally, plus best practice 
configuration
Acute Care
Secondary Care Social Care
Primary Care
Solid base of customers, recurring revenues and proven ability to deliver 26
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
The UK is on the cusp of realising the benefits of investment in the energy 
market. Our experience and skills place us in an ideal position to play a key role 
providing mission critical systems solutions.
Segmental reviews 
Servelec Controls
Kevan Jones
Managing Director,  
Servelec Controls – Oil & Gas
Alex Moore
Managing Director,  
Servelec Controls –  
Power & Nuclear 27
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Introduction
Servelec Controls – Oil & Gas works alongside many of the world’s 
leading owners, operators and Engineering Procurement and 
Construction contractors (EPCs) in the UK Continental Shelf (UKCS)  
and beyond, providing systems and services that improve safety and 
efficiency and extend the working life of oil and gas infrastructure.
Servelec Controls – Power & Nuclear has over 40 years’ experience of 
executing projects within the nuclear environment during which time 
the business has built an excellent reputation for technical excellence in 
the supply of innovative systems for real-time control and information 
management within the power industry. 
2015 performance
2015 was a challenging year for the Controls business with revenue 
broadly level at £14.4m (2014: £15.0m) as orders related to the major 
upgrading of control systems for a number of oil and gas platforms  
were delayed. Controls segment profit of £3.4m (2014: £3.5m) reflects 
the high labour content and lower proportion of equipment provision 
costs in the revenue mix during the year.
Within the power and nuclear sector, Servelec Controls continued to 
enhance its market position. Adding to the reconfirmation of our 
position on the Sellafield controls framework in 2014, we were 
successful in securing a five year framework deal with Drax Power.  
The introduction of the new management team has created a clear 
vision of the marketplace and has led to a significant increase in 
addressable market opportunities. The pipeline of available work for 
Servelec has increased noticeably which will lead to greater success  
and revenues moving forward.
Strategy
We are focused on fully maximising the potential inherent within the  
UK oil and gas and power markets, whilst growing a global presence  
in oil and gas. We will deliver this by:
• Oil & Gas: (i) leveraging our strong position in this mature market 
through a focus on lucrative Aberdeen and London and south east 
markets and targeting overseas project packages via existing and 
new UK customers; (ii) investment in major turbine projects during 
2016/17; and (iii) adding new clients to the portfolio in all regions of 
the UK;
• Power & Nuclear: driving specialist power and nuclear expertise and 
experience into the business to maximise existing opportunities 
within the UK, not only in our traditional decommissioning markets 
but also applying our skills to complementary market segments.
The market in 2016
Oil & Gas
The UK oil and gas market is driven both by regulatory requirements 
and operator cost saving initiatives focused on reducing the cost of 
extracting oil and gas from ageing offshore platforms. Health and safety 
drives a significant proportion of business as official bodies have the 
authority to close down platforms which do not reach minimum health 
and safety requirements at significant cost to the operator. Although  
we expect the dollar price of oil will impact investment in new projects 
in 2016, we see this as a medium term opportunity for our business. 
Mandatory health and safety control and cost reduction drivers remain 
and opportunities to reduce the price of production will begin to come 
to the fore. In addition, we expect to continue discussions around the 
remote operation of platforms in response to increased health and 
safety legislation and the real requirement to significantly extend the 
life of existing platforms in the face of cost constraints.
The oil and gas market presents immense opportunities to Servelec, 
which has over 30 years’ experience in this sector within the UK. The 
challenges for global oil and gas providers are the same as in the UK, 
with providers seeking greater efficiencies and reduced operating costs 
to offset the lowering price of oil. These drivers play to Servelec’s 
expertise in brownfield refurbishment and asset life extension. There is 
potential for a radical change in the industry’s fiscal regime driven by 
the 2015 UK budget with investment in the future of the UK continental 
shelf of paramount importance to the UK economy. Oil and gas 
currently provides the majority of the UK total primary energy supply 
and demand is not expected to change by 2030. In order for this rate  
to be sustained further investment is required in the short term, with 
current levels of investment leading to significant shortfalls in energy 
supply as soon as 2020.
Financial highlights
15 15 15
14 14 14
14,421 3,356 £13,818
14,998 3,524 £13,350
Revenue (£’000)
Operating Profit from  
Continuing Operations (£’000)
Order Entry (£’000) 28
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Power & Nuclear
The UK power and nuclear market is a diverse and vibrant industry 
where innovation and efficiency are key drivers in delivering success. 
Safety and regulatory compliance is at the forefront of every decision 
and initiative. The market cornerstones are power generation, 
decommissioning of inactive sites, defence and reprocessing activities. 
During 2016 key areas of focus are:
• Existing nuclear power stations: increased focus on the life 
extension of existing nuclear generating sites due to historical delays 
with the new build programme.
• Nuclear decommissioning: the cycle of major decommissioning 
projects is now moving from design to implementation phases, 
where Servelec can add value and provide services to major EPC 
contractors.
• Defence: the market is growing for technology-based solutions 
within the existing and new fleet of submarines as well as the various 
sites around the UK which provide support systems and services.
• National infrastructure: the expansion of our existing offering to 
the national power infrastructure network. Looking ahead there will 
be a greater demand for controls system cyber security, a key area 
of growth and focus for us.
2016 outlook
Oil & Gas
The potential of the Control segment's market within oil and gas 
continues with the need for operating efficiencies driving a reduced cost 
of production increasing in a market no longer supporting a high oil 
price. This provides continuing opportunity for Servelec Controls in 2016 
and beyond. The UKCS is striving for major cost reduction programmes 
provided by increased automation and remote operation of on and 
off-shore facilities in the UK. The top ten oil and gas customers make up 
50% of the Controls business by revenue. Repeat business from these 
customers will ensure robust future revenue streams.
Technology and innovation is the way forward and Servelec is ideally 
positioned to offer solutions to improve efficiencies, reduce operating 
costs and improve safety. Servelec also has a clear competitive 
advantage in terms of labour rates through the deployment of a wholly 
employed workforce rather than the use of contractors. For Servelec 
the changing market, which has caused delays in the confirmation  
of contracts in 2015, provides an increase in future order intak e  
once the market realigns itself to the new challenges of current  
market conditions.
Power & Nuclear
Servelec’s expanding addressable market provides huge business 
prospects for Servelec Controls moving forward.
The new management team is providing tangible traction in moving the 
business forward. We have also enhanced our operational and technical 
capabilities adding to the rich and talented resource pool that was 
already in place. We have the right people with the right skills to provide 
solutions that maximise value for our clients in this market. The power 
and nuclear market is changing in terms of how various sites are 
operated and who manages them. Although this can potentially  
bring short-term delays in placing projects the outlook is one of 
vibrancy and diversity.
The power and nuclear market is one of expanding opportunity for 
Servelec Controls. Pipeline has increased significantly during 2015 which 
will bring greater opportunity for new business moving forward.
Contracts have been placed in the overall supply chain in 2015 with 
more being anticipated in the nuclear new build market. Servelec has 
the skills, capacity and experience to play a key role in this exciting long 
term programme via our main EPC partners. Our success in agreeing a 
five year framework deal with Drax Power will allow us to work with this 
key client to provide innovative solutions. We view this framework as a 
significant potential flow of work in the coming years. The diversity in 
our pipeline coupled with greater marketplace activity gives an 
encouraging view moving into 2016.
As we apply our core skills to different elements of the UK power and 
nuclear market we expect the source of our order intake to diversify and 
we believe the application of core skills to new problems represents a 
tangible opportunity for growth. 
“Technology and innovation is the way forward 
and Servelec is ideally positioned to offer 
solutions to improve efficiencies, reduce 
operating costs and improve safety.”
Segmental reviews 
Servelec Controls Continued 29
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Significant progress has been made in expanding Servelec’s business 
optimisation software portfolio ready to exploit pent up demand arising from the 
delayed start of the UK AMP6 water programme.
Segmental reviews 
Servelec Technologies
Andy Sullivan
Managing Director,  
Servelec Technologies 30
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Segmental reviews 
Servelec Technologies Continued
Introduction
Servelec Technologies is a leader in real-time business optimisation 
solutions to a range of market sectors and experts in making data work 
hard to make customer businesses more efficient and effective.
2015 performance
Despite strong growth in emerging sectors for the business, Servelec 
Technologies performed behind expectations in 2015 due to significant 
delays in the commencement of the UK Water AMP6 programme, coupled 
with a slower oil & gas sector. Revenue was down 20% on prior year at 
£16.1m (2014: £20.1m). The impact on segment profit was mitigated by 
overheads savings and so only reduced by 10% to £3.5m (2014: £3.9m).
Having successfully integrated the Semaphore and Tynemarch businesses 
in 2014 the focus in 2015 centred upon product integration allowing 
Servelec Technologies to market a complete solution for the collection, 
management, presentation and optimisation of data to make customer 
operations more efficient and effective.
The development of the FlowSure flow anomaly detection software 
solution brought together artificial neural networks with fuzzy logic 
technology to create a cost effective solution for identifying and size 
estimation of bursts and other water flow anomalies in water networks. 
Early pilot orders in 2015 are complemented by a strong interest from the 
UK and indeed global water markets. 
Further contracts were secured with GRT Gaz in France, and Infrabel  
in Belgium, extending the breadth and duration of these important  
product frameworks.
In terms of remote telemetry unit (RTU) hardware development,  
Servelec launched the S2000 nano low power RTU/logger created for  
harsh environments. This is a battery powered product capable of sending  
signals at routine intervals yet able to do so for five or more years on the 
same batteries.
During this period of delayed start within the UK water sector, Servelec has 
continued to invest in product development to be even better placed to 
maximise market share with the acceleration of investment in 2016.
Strategy
Our strategy is to become a global brand in real-time business optimisation, 
through the delivery of a unified product set, across a developing global 
distributor network. We will deliver this through:
• Ongoing productisation developing further intuitive, easy to use 
products and off the shelf solutions that will increase recurring licence 
fee revenue with a focus on high volume sales;
• Leveraging opportunities to cross-sell to existing customers, ensuring a 
seamless process and improved interface to create a low risk sale;
• Developing new markets focusing on North America, China and Brazil 
through a growing distributor network.
Research and development
We will continue to invest in the development of our product ranges against 
a five-year technology roadmap defined by our growth strategy.
The market in 2016
Within the UK water market, the current five-year investment period 
(AMP6) which began in April 2015 is yet to gain momentum, with water 
companies delaying investment to review how they can meet the cost 
savings required by the regulator, OFWAT. Further investment by 
Servelec in business optimisation software is aligned to support the 
water companies in meeting this challenge, with solutions to save 
money in their operations.
The current UK water sector RTU estate requires regular refreshment 
and routine replacement. This creates a strong underlying portfolio of 
business. New equipment is also required for thousands of previously 
un-adopted sites which must be acquired by the water companies 
within this current five-year investment period. Servelec has invested 
over the past four years to ensure that we have the right products to 
meet the requirements of the water companies, developed in close 
co-operation with these customers.
Global RTU markets remain strong, driven by the need for the collection 
and reliable transmission of data to improve business decisions. In the 
oil and gas sector, investments are still required to maintain 
infrastructure and Servelec is positioned well to maximise this business, 
despite lower oil prices.
Servelec has also delivered on a strategy of sector diversification and grown 
presence in other sectors for RTUs, including broadcast media, rail, power, 
financial services and the environment. This will be enhanced in 2016.
Financial Highlights
15 15 15
14 14 14
16,142 3,471 £17,943
20,098 3,855 £18,487
Revenue (£’000)
Operating Profit from  
Continuing Operations (£’000)
Order Entry (£’000) 31
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Pioneer, MISER, Flowsure
Business Optimisation Solutions
Kingfisher, TBox, Seprol
SCOPE-X
Servelec ‘Out-of-the-box’ RTU through to telemetry offering
Servelec  
SCOPE-X  
Telemetry
RTU
RTU
RTU
RTU
RTU
RTU
RTU
RTU
RTU
SCADA
SCADA
SCADA
Local  
station/facility
Central  
control station
Servelec’s well established Chinese presence continues to flourish, 
focusing on high technology solutions to the oil and gas market and 
other utilities.
Product development remains targeted towards the real-time 
acquisition of data with access to data on fixed and mobile platforms a 
s part of a situational awareness solution, coupled with performance 
dashboards which show business performance against business KPIs  
in real-time. 
In addition to an established global presence, Servelec is targeting 
significant growth in specific regions including North America, China 
and Brazil.
2016 outlook
The outlook for Servelec Technologies is very positive, with good 
visibility of future orders provided by AMP6 and continued confidence 
in the key market drivers for growth. The slow start to AMP6 does not 
alter the overall programme of work which now must be undertaken in 
a reduced timeframe.
We estimate our addressable market within AMP6 to be in the region of 
£200m. OFWAT’s continued focus on improved efficiency, reduction of 
water leakage and an overall lower cost of water production provides 
increased opportunities for Servelec Technologies. The releases of the 
FlowSure flow anomaly detection software and the S2000 nano battery 
powered RTU/logger for harsh environments have increased the 
addressable market for Servelec in AMP6 with the significant majority of 
the investments still to be undertaken. 
Outside the water industry, we continue to build on our success in transport 
(for example at a large UK airport and Infrabel, Belgian Airways) and 
onshore gas production and distribution (e.g. GRT Gaz and Negev Gas) 
where we have delivered new deployments of TFlo and Telecoms (e.g. TDF, 
Broadcast Australia and SURF Telecom).
The investment in the productisation of our software solutions in 2015 
provides further increased opportunities for global growth from associated 
product sales in 2016. The investment included the deployment of the 
SCOPE-X Telemetry/SCADA software running within a Servelec RTU.
Servelec Technologies: product offerings 32
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
SERVELEC BOARD
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Responsibility
– Group executives
– Business executives
– Monitored function
Compliance
– Financial
– Business development
– Health and safety
How
– Internal audit
– External audit
AUDIT COMMITTEE
        
 INTERNAL PROCESS AND ACCREDITATIONS
Risk management
Servelec Group adopts a formal risk identification and management process 
designed to ensure that risks are properly identified, prioritised, evaluated and 
mitigated to the extent that is possible. Risk management is embedded in the 
operation of the business.
Our approach
Business operations maintain risk registers compiled and monitored by the Group Quality and Compliance Manager. The Audit Committee reports 
to the Board on the risk management process including on matters of internal audit and the evaluation of potential impacts, both financial
and reputational. 33
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
The following risks are, in the opinion of the Board, the principal risks which affect Servelec Group. It is not intended to be a complete analysis of all 
risks and may change over time.
Risk Mitigation Movement Status
Regulatory
Changes to legislation may cause 
customers to divert their spending on the 
Group’s products.
• Active consultation with Government 
bodies and dialogue with customers on 
their expected project spend profiles.
• Continued health and safety legislation and 
the push for operating efficiencies ensures 
spending on automation and software 
solutions.
• Short term delays in AMP6 have impacted 
Technologies during 2015.
Public Sector Healthcare Spending
A key driver of the Group’s business is the 
level of UK Government spending on IT 
relating to healthcare delivery. The rate of 
growth in expenditure on healthcare 
related IT may reduce significantly.
• Active consultation with Government 
bodies. Continuous improvement of the 
product offering to meet the long-term 
government objectives.
• The ending of the NPfIT contracts in England 
is driving market spend in our core areas of 
expertise. Our success in the London Refresh 
will assist in us winning in the North Refresh 
in 2016 and beyond.
• The acquisition of Corelogic ensures the 
Group is well placed to benefit from any 
future changes in funding as the country 
moves to converged care, which is supported 
by all political parties.
Competitor Activity
The Group may face significant 
competition from both domestic and 
overseas competitors.
• Maintain strong customer relationships and 
high service levels.
• Internal review of bid feedback.
• Regular customer user groups to 
understand areas of improvement.
• Healthcare – The high win rate in the London
Refresh and North New markets together 
with good feedback on our framework 
submissions gives us confidence that we are 
meeting customer expectations.
• Competition for Acute and Social Care wins is 
increasing as these markets refresh their 
systems.
• Automation – we have received positive 
feedback from customers regarding our 
current product ranges.
Operational
The Group’s business involves providing 
customers with highly reliable software 
and hardware. If the software or hardware 
contain undetected defects the Group may 
fail to meet its customers’ performance 
requirements or otherwise satisfy the 
contract specifications.
• The Group has rigorous testing and review 
processes embedded in the design and 
development operations of the business. It 
maintains accredited Quality Assurance 
(QA) systems which are independently 
checked on a regular basis.
• We have successfully retained our QA 
accreditations during the year.
• The core financial systems for the Group 
have been rolled out to key acquisitions 
during the year.
Revenue recognition
The Group recognises revenue on projects 
based on the percentage complete of the 
individual project. A key element of this 
calculation is the estimation of the costs to 
complete on contracts, which is an inherent 
risk of project accounting.
• The Group has a strong management 
system and has regular contract reviews
with key management to assess the 
performance of individual contracts.
• Group policies are rolled out to new 
acquisitions.
People
The ability of the Group to retain and 
attract appropriately qualified and 
experienced staff is key to the continued 
success of the business.
• The Group believes it has a flexible benefits 
package and continually reviews the 
working environment and overall reward to 
staff.
• Each business regularly matches the future 
resource requirements to current staff 
identifying training and recruitment needs.
• Active Graduate Recruitment programme.
• Remuneration Committee to advise on any 
appointment with OTE over £150,000.
• The Group now employs a professional 
recruiter within its HR team.
Currency
The Group is exposed to translation and 
transaction foreign exchange risk.
• The Group matches the revenue and costs 
of all foreign currency transactions to 
eliminate, so far as possible, currency 
exposures.
• Foreign exchange policy is monitored by 
the finance department under policies 
approved by the Board.
• The uncertainty over whether the UK will 
remain in the EU is affecting the stability of 
sterling.
Information Technology
Loss of data from failure of systems or 
cyber attack.
• The Group adheres to security standard BS 
EN ISO27001:2013.
• We have a tried and tested business 
continuity plan, physical access controls 
and multiple backups off site. 
• We use third party hosting sites for customer 
hosted solutions. The office in Sheffield city 
centre also provides additional options for 
business continuity.
Oil Price
The US Dollar price of oil in the global 
market has reduced significantly at the end 
of 2014 and the beginning of 2015 which 
may delay the start of major projects
• Servelec Controls specialises in health and 
safety systems and automation which 
results in operational cost savings.
• The oil price has not re covered in 2015, 
however many customers now want to 
benefit from the cost savings generated by 
automating processes. 34
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Viability statement
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
2014, the directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three 
year period, taking into account the Group’s current position and the 
potential impact of the principal risks documented on page 33 of the Annual 
Report. The directors have also considered going concern on page 64.
The directors have determined that a three year period to 31 December 
2018 is an appropriate period over which to provide its viability 
statement. This is the period reviewed by the Group Board in our strategic 
planning process and is also aligned to our typical contract length (three 
to five years).
The Group operates across a broad cross section of markets, including 
Health and Social Care, Utilities and Energy sectors. Customers regularly 
repeat buy and are often secured with long term agreements, no single 
customer being greater than 10% of revenue.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had no borrowings and delivered an 
operating cash flow of £19.6m. 
In making this statement the Board carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its 
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. It was 
determined that none of the individual risks would in isolation compromise 
the Group’s viability and so a number of different severe but plausible 
principal risk combinations were considered, focusing around reduced new 
contract wins, potential delays in new contract awards and margin erosion.
As noted in note 29, the Group has committed to take out a three year 
banking facility in order to acquire the operations of Synergy from Tribal 
Group Plc. The Board has run additional sensitivities to model integration 
and covenant risks as part of the assessment of viability.
The Board has also reviewed the opportunities to take realistic mitigating 
actions and believe the internal controls operated within the Group would 
enable these actions to be taken within the period of review.
Based on this assessment the directors confirm that they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and 
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2018.
Risk management Continued
For more information see 'Going Concern' 
on page 64 35
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Corporate social responsibility
At Servelec Group Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is more than just being 
aware of our impact on the environment. It is also about the development of our 
employees, how we relate to our customers, and our relationship with suppliers 
and our local communities. 
Employer of choice
As an employer of choice, we have a whole lifecycle approach to 
employees’ careers. We recognise that benefits extend beyond pay and 
reward and as such offer interesting and rewarding career opportunities 
across the Group businesses. The return on this investment is demonstrated 
by our retention rates. We also continue to attract new talent through  
our successful recruitment programmes, including student and  
graduate recruitment. 
Employee engagement and reward
We recognise the value and importance of obtaining the views and 
suggestions of employees and we benefit from the collective knowledge 
and experiences of our entire workforce. Our staff partnership forum aids 
two-way communication, facilitating suggestions from employees across 
the whole Group. Our benefits package currently includes a complement of 
competitive holiday allowance, company pension scheme and life cover, 
flexitime, bonus scheme and save-as-you-earn share scheme. 
Career development opportunities
Equal access to ongoing development for our employees is essential. This is 
supported through our learning and development strategies of identifying 
training needs and monitoring the effectiveness of the training 
programmes. Our commitment towards developing the knowledge and 
skills of our workforce is integral to keeping the company at the forefront  
of its technical expertise. Many employees undertake further training and 
professional qualifications and we offer two scholarships each year to 
support this aim. 
Our commitment to progression is evident in the career paths of our 
employees. We have bi-annual reviews to assess for promotion which, 
together with our internal recruitment strategy, ensures that employees 
have a regular opportunity to progress. This assists the business in 
developing succession planning which is vital for the sustainability and 
growth of our business, now and in the future.
Student development opportunities  
and graduate recruitment
Through our excellent relationships with the universities that neighbour  
our UK sites, we operate successful student placement and graduate 
programmes. Students chosen to join the Group on placement soon 
become valued members of the team, getting involved in project work and 
making important contributions. We reward our hardworking students with 
a competitive salary and selected bursaries. A high proportion of students 
return to us to take up permanent employment once they have completed 
their studies. The knowledge and experience gained on placement supports 
a smooth integration following graduation. 
Our responsibility framework Our people
• Our people: Within Servelec Group, our employees are essential to 
the success of the business.
• Our environment: Servelec aims to improve its environmental 
footprint and create new value for customers through sustainable 
technologies, products and solutions.
• Our community: Servelec aims to make a positive contribution to 
the locations where it is based.
Servelec’s approach to CSR is overseen by the Company Secretary, who 
reports progress to the Board.
Financial 
satisfaction
Customer 
satisfaction
Employee 
satisfaction
Value 
triangle
Our community
Our environment 36
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Corporate social responsibility Continued
Gender diversity on
the Board
Gender diversity
Gender diversity within
Senior Management
Gender diversity at
management level
Gender diversity within
the workforce
MALE FEMALE
05/00 22/09
Equal opportunities
Servelec is committed to an equal opportunities policy of selecting, 
training, promoting and rewarding based on merit. We do not tolerate 
discrimination on the grounds of protected characteristics. 
Anti-slavery and human trafficking
Servelec is committed to ensuring that there is no slavery or human 
trafficking in its workforce or supply chain by carrying out all necessary 
measures, as outlined in our anti-slavery and human trafficking policy. 
93/35 438/135
Our values
Trustworthy 
we are straightforward and always act 
with integrity 
Sustainable 
we aim to meet the needs of the present and the 
future both environmentally and economically 
Dedicated
we are committed to delivering value for our 
customers, colleagues, shareholders and the 
wider community 
Objective
we are equitable and logical in our decision-
making and delivery 
Responsible
we act in accordance with good governance  
and hold ourselves accountable for our actions 37
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Our community
Community events
The Servelec is committed to corporate social responsibility and a key 
aspect of this is the company’s interaction with the community. Servelec 
supports its employees in their generosity and fundraising efforts by 
offering matched contributions for team fundraising in aid of registered 
charities. Over the past year, we have donated to several charitable 
organisations which have inspired our employees to organise and 
participate in fundraising efforts, ranging from local causes close to the 
hearts of our employees to larger national events like Red Nose Day. 
Community and charitable support
We are committed to making a sustainable positive impact on the 
communities in which we operate.
Servelec actively encourages our businesses around the world to act as 
good citizens in their local and wider communities. We support local 
decisions to support community and social projects, charitable 
organisations. As deemed appropriate on a local level, Servelec offers 
support and flexibility to allow our employees to become involved in 
volunteering projects close to their hearts.
Servelec’s charities and fund raising scheme supports employees in their 
generosity and fundraising efforts. Team fundraising for registered charities 
associated with the provision of a healthy lifestyle and environmental 
improvement in the community is matched by the company. Over the  
past year we have donated to several charities for a wide range of  
worthy causes.
Health and safety
Servelec, led by its Board of Directors, will do everything that is reasonably 
practicable to protect the health, safety and welfare of both the employees 
and any other person affected by our activities. The Board, led by the Chief 
Executive Officer, has overall responsibility for ensuring that we maintain 
high standards of health and safety. However, we rely on all of our 
employees, sub-contractors and stakeholders to ensure that safe working 
practices and behaviours are adopted, and to promote Health and Safety 
systems and ensure processes are embedded as a core activity.
The health and safety of our employees and all who may be affected by our 
activities is given the highest priority. We have not had a reportable 
accident in over 5 years. We endeavour to achieve high standards of health 
and safety and where non-conformance is identified we encourage 
reporting of the event so that we can learn from it and put in place 
preventative actions where appropriate. 
Health and safety audits are carried out to an annual plan to ensure 
compliance of our sites to the safety standards we set and to ensure that 
our employees operate in a safe manner.
We believe it is essential that all employees have a clear understanding of 
how workplace health and safety is managed, to ensure this Health and 
Safety Inductions are given to all new starters.
Senior management also has a crucial role in supporting a strong safety 
culture. We expect internal stakeholders to take an active interest in, and 
ownership of, safety in the workplace. This includes:
• An understanding of the legal aspects of occupational health and safety, 
specifically their legal obligations and responsibilities;
• Having and articulating a clear vision for the business, including the 
expectation that everyone has a stake in supporting the desired safety 
culture;
• An appreciation of the elements of safety management, and their 
interactions i.e. policies and procedures.
In order to improve and maintain a safe environment for our employees, 
safety notices are communicated throughout the organisation to improve 
the degree of knowledge that employees and managers have about the 
influence that they have on safety performance.
Our environment
Environment
Through ISO14001 we employ systems and procedures that ensure the 
company’s compliance with all relevant laws, regulations and other 
requirements relating to the environment.
Although Servelec’s own activities do not pose a serious environmental or 
ecological threat, we recognise the importance of our environmental 
responsibilities and are committed to the conservation of natural resources, 
conducting our business in a responsible manner and in complete 
compliance with local and national legislation.
We believe we can improve our environmental footprint and save energy. 
This creates new value for our customers through sustainable technologies, 
products and solutions. We continue to monitor the impact of our products, 
our operations, and our supply chain on the environment, and work to not 
only reduce negative external factors but create new opportunities for 
greater efficiencies. 
Our policy is to strive to achieve continual improvement in environmental 
performance.
We are committed to:
• Preventing pollution and reducing the overall impact of our operations 
on the environment;
• Maintaining an internal management structu re for the management of 
environmental issues which includes clearly defined responsibilities for 
environmental management;
• Complying with, and where possible exceeding applicable legal and 
other requirements relating to the organisation;
• Monitoring our environmental performance and setting objectives and 
targets for improvement. 38
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Corporate social responsibility Continued
We recognise the key role we have to play in both reducing and 
contributing to greenhouse gas emissions. The energy consumed at each 
work place is recorded, and calculated across the business, providing the 
opportunity to gauge the energy efficiency of each site. In doing this we 
consider factors that may increase the consumption of energy that are 
beyond the control of the business, such as climate, or the types of power 
demands of that location eg. office based against electrical workshops.
The 2015 carbon footprint figures are as follows:
CO2 reporting
 CO
2
e tonnes 
Fuel type 2015 2014*
Electricity and gas 1,001 768
Fuel for travel 375 360
Total 1,376 1,128
Greenhouse gas emission intensity ratio
2015 2014 
CO
2
e tonnes per £100,000 of turnover 2.18 2.18
* 2014 has bee n restated to ensure reporting on a consistent basis.
We are committed to raising employee awareness on environmental issues 
and the effects of their activities through company-wide promotion and 
communication of the 4 ‘R’s Reduce, Replace, Reuse, and Recycle. We 
recognise that simple, small measures taken in the workplace can have a 
large impact on reducing environmental damage.
Our stated objectives are to:
• Reduce our use of energy turning off lights and electronic equipment 
when not in use, installing energy saving light bulbs, and monitoring  
the use of air conditioning/heating;
• Reuse and Recycle materials in the office such as aluminium cans, 
paper, printer cartridges and IT equipment providing appropriate 
facilities to encourage a recycling culture within our offices;
• Support employees with local office initiatives that have a positive 
environmental focus.
We have developed innovative products that promote energy efficiency 
and reduce waste. These products can reduce GHG emissions by users of 
the products. Innovation is at the core of Servelec’s environmental 
sustainability initiatives. In developing advanced products, solutions, and 
updated business processes, we are multiplying the impact of the network 
to create sustainable business models and increased economic opportunity.
Our aim is to build environmental sustainability into each business function 
and process and, ultimately, into every business decision our employees 
make around the world. We believe that improved sustainability creates net 
benefits to our business, our customers, and the planet. Our relationship 
with our customers is now based on cost, quality, delivery, service,  
and sustainability.
Environmental sustainability 
The company’s Environment Management System (EMS) enables us to 
manage our environmental impacts and programmes in a comprehensive, 
systematic, and planned manner. Policies are developed under the 
following governing principles for environmental sustainability. Servelec 
seeks and maintains ISO14001 certification for sites with significant 
potential for environmental impact.
Waste recycling
Due to the nature of our business and our commitment to the environment 
we ensure that waste at all our sites (as required) is sorted and pre-treated 
prior to disposal. The Group’s objective is to adopt this approach across new 
acquisitions to further reduce the general waste to landfill.
Environmental policy
The company’s environmental and sustainability policy is designed to 
reflect the environmental needs and responsibilities of the company’s 
activities. In particular the policy indicates the organisation’s commitment 
to continual environmental improvement, the prevention of pollution.
Servelec recognises the importance of environmental protection and is 
committed to operating the Group’s business responsibly and in 
compliance with environmental law, regulation and approved codes of 
practice applicable to its business activities. Servelec’s environmental 
policy, which is reviewed each year, outlines the Group’s key environmental 
impacts, targets and commitments.
Cycle to work
The business continues to provide increasing awareness of environmental 
sustainability offering a number of flexible benefits, offering employees the 
opportunity to participate in a Cycle to Work Scheme, and encourage this at 
local level with local schemes like CycleBoost delivered on behalf of 
Sheffield City Council, promoting sustainable travel.
Climate change policy
Climate change has now been recognised as an international issue with 
national governments committed to taking action to reduce greenhouse 
emissions. As a global IT technologies business we have a role in supporting 
governments and communities to reduce the impacts of climate change. 
We are committed to reducing the greenhouse gas emissions from our 
operations in a way which supports national government strategies and is 
in line with our commitment to our customer to provide safe, efficient and 
reliable services.
Our key climate change commitments are:
• To assess the potential impact to our business from evolving climate 
change policies as part of our on-going risk management processes;
• To report annual on our greenhouse emissions from our business 
operations;
• To actively promote improved energy efficiency within our business.
Supply chains
We aim to actively work with our suppliers who commit to our values, 
especially in reference to fair employment and good environmental practice. 
We recognise the importance of the supply chain and we are committed to 
developing secure relationships based on mutual trust for mutual benefit. 39
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Contents
Governance
40 Board of directors and senior management
42 Corporate governance report
46 Nomination committee report
47 Audit committee report
50 Remuneration report
62 Directors’ report
65 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
Financial Statements
66 Independent auditor’s report
71 Group income statement 
71 Group statement of comprehensive income
72 Group statement of financial position
73 Group statement of changes in equity
74 Cash flow statement
75 Notes to the financial statements
97 Statement of director’s responsibilities for 
the Company financial statements
98 Company balance sheet
99 Company statement of changes in equity
100 Company statement of comprehensive 
income
101 Notes to the Company financial statements 40
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Board of directors
Senior Management 
Alan Stubbs
Chief Executive Officer
Having joined the Group as a software engineer in 
1984, Alan was appointed Managing Director of the 
Company in 2001. In June 2010, he was appointed 
Chief Operating Officer for parent company CSE 
Global before taking on the role of Chief Executive 
Officer of CSE Global in January 2011.
In December 2013, Alan left CSE Global to become 
Chief Executive Officer of Servelec Group plc following 
a successful IPO on the London Stock Exchange.
Appointed to the Board: 1995
Richard Last
Chairman
Richard joined the Company in 2008 as a Non-
Executive Director and was appointed Chairman of the 
Company later that year. He has over 20 years’ senior 
experience in information technology having worked at 
Board level for a number of publicly quoted and private 
companies in the technology sector.
Richard is Chairman and non-executive director 
of the following AIM listed companies: Gamma 
Communications plc, a communications company; 
Arcontech Group plc, a financial software business and 
Lighthouse Group plc, a financial services business. 
He is also non-executive director of USA based Corero 
Network Security plc an IT security company also 
listed on AIM. In addition Richard is Chairman and non-
executive director of The British Smaller Companies 
VCT2 Plc, a venture capital trust, and Chairman of 
Tribal Group Plc, a global provider of products and 
services to the international education, training and 
learning markets. Both are listed on the main London 
Stock Exchange. Richard is a Fellow of The Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Appointed to the Board: 2008
Mike Cane
Chief Financial Officer
Mike joined the company as Company secretary in 
October 2012 and Finance Director in March 2013. 
Prior to joining the Company, he was Finance Director 
of Bullock Construction Limited and SPI Limited. From 
2001 until 2007 he held the position of group financial 
controller at Cleanaway Limited. Mike is a member of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and 
Wales having qualified in 1991 whilst working at Price 
Waterhouse. He holds a Bachelor of Science (Hons) 
from the University of Manchester.
Appointed to the Board: 2013
Garry McCord
Chief Executive Officer,  
Servelec Corelogic 
Garry was appointed Chief Executive Officer of 
Servelec Corelogic in July 2015. A Servelec employee 
since 1994, he has undertaken a number of technical 
and operational roles within the company. Before 
joining Corelogic, he supported Sue Hawkswell as a 
member of the Healthcare senior management team, 
directing the Development and Delivery functions. 
Garry was responsible for the assembly and oversight 
of a number of efficient and high performing teams in 
these areas underpinning the success of the Healthcare 
division and helping it to obtain its market  
leading position.
Kevan Jones
Managing Director,  
Servelec Controls – Oil & Gas 
Kevan was appointed Managing Director of Servelec 
Controls in 2010, following the acquisition of SIA 
in 2010. In February 2015, Kevan moved to focus 
specifically on the Oil & Gas business. Kevan has 25 
years’ experience in international manufacturing and 
process engineering at senior management levels and 
has 13 years’ experience at director level in control 
system design within the oil and gas and power 
industries worldwide.
Sue Hawkswell
Managing Director,  
Servelec Healthcare
Sue was appointed Managing Director of Servelec 
Healthcare in 2009. She started her career in 
healthcare IT as a key architect in the development 
and delivery of patient- based information solutions 
to the NHS and brings over 25 years’ healthcare IT 
experience. This blend of experience and skill has 
helped steer Servelec Healthcare to a market  
leading position. 41
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Roger McDowell
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 
Roger joined the company as a Non- Executive Director 
on the 24 October 2013. The early part of Roger's 
career was spent as CEO of an independent distribution 
business, growing the company both organically and 
by acquisition, then leading the business through a 
main market listing.
Subsequently he has served as a Non-Executive 
Director or Chairman of numerous listed businesses 
and his extensive experience includes chairing all 
Board Committees. Roger is currently Chairman of 
Avingtrans plc, Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director of Tribal plc and Non-Executive Director of 
IS Solutions Plc, Swallowfield PLC, Proteone Sciences 
PLC (and Audit Chair) and PTSG Group PLC.
Appointed to the Board: 2013 
Bernie Waldron
Independent Non-Executive Director
Bernie joined the Company as a Non- Executive 
Director in 2013. Bernie has more than 30 years’ 
experience in the global technology marketplace 
including positions as director of strategy for IBM 
Corporation, based in New York, general manager of 
IBM’s industrial sector business for Europe, Middle 
East and Africa, and Executive Chairman of the 
former Maersk Data Group of companies, based in 
Copenhagen. He is now non-executive chair or director 
of a number of public and private companies.
Appointed to the Board: 2013 
Alex Moore
Managing Director,  
Servelec Controls – Power & Nuclear 
Alex was appointed Managing Director of Servelec 
Controls – Power & Nuclear in February 2015. Alex has 
a strong background in power engineering and joined 
Servelec from Ansaldo NES Limited where he held the 
position of Business Development Director. Previous to 
this role Alex was Nuclear Services Director at Capula, 
where he spent 11 years.
Andy Sullivan
Managing Director,  
Servelec Technologies 
Andy was appointed Managing Director of Servelec 
Technologies in 2013. A Chartered Electrical and 
Electronic Engineer, Andy has over 25 years’ 
experience in control and monitoring systems, 
product development & manufacture and consultancy, 
predominately in the utilities sector. Andy has 
operated at Senior Management and Managing 
Director level for the last 10 years.
Committee membership
Remuneration Committee 
Nomination Committee 
Audit Committee 42
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
• Roger McDowell, Chairman
• Richard Last
• Bernie Waldron
• Bernie Waldron, Chairman
• Richard Last
• Roger McDowell
• Richard Last, Chairman
• Roger McDowell
• Bernie Waldron
See page 47 for Audit Committee report. See page 50 for Remuneration Committee report. See page 46 for Nomination Committee report.
• Richard Last, Chairman
• Alan Stubbs, Chief Executive Officer
• Mike Cane, Chief Financial Officer
• Roger McDowell, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
• Bernie Waldron, Non-Executive Director
SERVELEC GROUP BOARD
AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Corporate governance report
Richard Last
Chairman
Letter from the Chairman
Dear Shareholder
The reports in this section of our Annual Report explain how the Board and each of its 
committees function and the issues that they have been addressing over the last 12 months.
The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and to maintaining 
a sound framework for the control and management of the Group. Since the Group’s listing at 
the end of 2013, work has continued to ensure full compliance with the provisions of the Code. 
The progress made in this area is also laid out in this report.
Richard Last
Chairman
The UK Corporate Governance Code
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance and maintaining a sound framework for the control and 
management of the Group. It follows an approach that complies with 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code dated September 
2014 (the “Code”). A copy of the Code can be found at www.frc.org.uk. 
During the year under review, the Company has complied with the main 
provisions of the Code and this Report describes how the Company has 
applied the relevant principles during the year.
Board and committee composition
The Board consists of three Non-Executive Directors (including the 
Chairman) and two Executive Directors. Biographies of all members of 
the Board appear on page 40 and 41. There have not been any changes 
to the Board during the financial year. 43
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
The role of the Board
The Board is responsible for leading and controlling the Group and has 
overall authority for the management and conduct of the Group’s 
business, strategy and development. This includes ensuring the 
maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk 
management (including financial, operational and compliance controls), 
for reviewing the overall effectiveness of systems in place and for the 
approval of any changes to the capital, corporate and/or management 
structure of the Group.
The Board delegates to management the day-to-day running of the 
Group within defined risk parameters. Board meetings are scheduled to 
coincide with key events in the corporate calendar including the interim 
and final results and annual general meeting.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for its 
approval and has delegated other specific responsibilities to its 
Committees. This schedule sets out key aspects of the affairs of the 
Company, which the Board does not delegate, including key strategic, 
operational and financial issues. All Directors have access to the advice 
and services of the Company Secretary who has responsibility for 
ensuring compliance with the Board’s procedures. All the Directors have 
the right to have their opposition to, or concerns over, any Board 
decision noted in the minutes. The Board has adopted guidelines by 
which Directors may take independent professional advice at the 
Group’s expense in the performance of their duties.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met informally without 
the executives present once a quarter during the year and will continue 
periodically to hold such meetings during 2016 and beyond.
Conflicts of interests
The duties to avoid potential conflicts and to disclose such situations for 
authorisation by the Board are the personal responsibility of each 
Director. Each Director is required to ensure that he keeps these 
situations under review and informs the Company Secretary on an 
ongoing basis of any change in their respective positions.
On 2 December 2013, the Company adopted new Articles of 
Association. Article 38 authorises the Directors, for the purposes of 
Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006, to authorise any potential 
conflict situation, being a situation in which a Director has, or can have, 
a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with 
the interests of the Company. The Director in question is not counted in 
the quorum at the relevant meeting of the Board and does not vote on 
the resolution.
The Board has an agreed procedure for dealing with conflicts of interest 
in relation to matters which are scheduled for Board consideration. 
Each Director has completed a ’Directors List’ which sets out details of 
situations where their interests may conflict with those of the Company 
(’situational conflicts’). These lists have been considered by the Board 
and situational conflicts authorised. In addition, Directors are reminded 
at the beginning of each Board meeting to notify the Board of any 
further conflicts of interest in accordance with Sections 175, 177 and 182 
of the Companies Act 2006.
The Articles of Association of the Company require it to indemnify 
officers of the Company, including officers of wholly-owned subsidiaries, 
against liabilities arising from the conduct of the Group’s business,  
to the extent permitted by law. The Group has therefore purchased 
directors’ and officers’ liability insurance during the year.
Board balance and independence
The Code recommends that at least half the Board of Directors of  
UK listed companies, excluding the Chairman, should comprise 
Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent in 
character and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances 
which may affect, or could appear to affect, the director’s judgement.
The Board regards all of the Non-Executive Directors as Independent 
Non-Executive Directors within the meaning of the Code and free from 
any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with 
the exercise of their independent judgement. The Board believes that 
the current directorate considerably enhances its ability to develop the 
Group’s operations.
Role of the Chairman and Chief Executive
The Board is chaired by Richard Last. The Chairman is responsible  
for the effective leadership of the Board, having regard for the  
interests of all stakeholders and promoting high standards of  
corporate governance.
Alan Stubbs is the Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for 
implementing the Board’s strategy and leading the senior management 
team. The role is distinct and separate to that of Chairman and clear 
divisions of accountability and responsibility have been agreed by the 
Board, and are set out in writing.
Role of the Senior Independent Director (SID)
Roger McDowell is the Senior Independent Director. The Code 
recommends that the Board of Directors of a Company with a premium 
listing on the Official List should appoint one of the Non-Executive 
Directors to be the Senior Independent Director to provide a sounding 
board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other 
Directors when necessary. The Senior Independent Director should be 
available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through 
the normal channels of the Chairman, CEO or other Executive Directors 
has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Role of the Company Secretary
Mike Cane is the Company Secretary. The role of the Company 
Secretary is to develop, implement and maintain good corporate 
governance practices. This includes supporting the Chairman and 
Non-Executive Directors as appropriate, managing Board and Board 
committee meetings, facilitating the induction of new Directors, 
ensuring that appropriate levels of directors’ and officers’ insurance is  
in place and that the Group is compliant with statutory and regulatory 
requirements. The responsibilities of the Company Secretary have been 
agreed by the Board and set out in writing. 44
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Information, meetings and attendance
The Board operates formally through regular scheduled Board meetings 
and there is also frequent communication between Directors outside 
these meetings including as members of the relevant committees.
The Board met formally 11 times during the year with a number of 
additional ad hoc meetings convened to deal with specific matters 
requiring Board consideration or approval as required.
Member Appointed Attended
Number of 
meetings
Richard Last 2008 11 11
Alan Stubbs 1995 11 11
Mike Cane 2013 11 11
Roger McDowell 2013 11 11
Bernie Waldron 2013 11 11
During the year the Board met to review the Company’s
long-term strategic direction and financial plans and monitor 
performance, including presentations from the Senior Management 
Team on strategy and performance of individual business divisions.  
In line with agreed strategy and plans, the Board agreed key objectives  
for the Chief Executive Officer. The Board met also to consider and 
ultimately recommend the acquisition of Aura Limited. In December, 
the Board received a formal presentation of the annual budget for the 
2016 financial year for approval.
 
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive 
accurate, timely and clear information. Prior to each scheduled Board 
meeting, a pack is circulated in respect of each financial period, which 
includes an update on key performance targets, trading performance 
against budget and includes detailed financial data and analysis.  
Board packs are generally distributed between three and seven days 
prior to each meeting to provide sufficient time for Directors to review 
papers in advance. If Directors are unable to attend a Board meeting  
for any reason, they nonetheless receive the relevant papers and are 
consulted prior to the meeting and their views made known to the  
other Directors. In addition, all Board members have full access to 
management reports at a Divisional level.
Board committees
The composition and constitution of the Board’s Committees is set  
out on page 42. Subject to those matters reserved for its decision,  
the Board has delegated to its Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees certain authorities. There are written terms of reference  
for each of these committees, available on the Corporate Governance 
page of the website www.servelec- group.com, and separate reports  
for each committee are included in this Annual Report and Accounts 
from page 46.
Development
There have been no new appointments to the Board since November 
2013. The Group has a formal induction and training process for  
new Directors, including meeting major shareholders and advisers  
as required.
During 2015, the Chairman agreed with each Director their individual 
training and development needs and developed specific training 
programmes, which included ‘deep dive’ product training with business 
directors, independent of the Executive Team.
Board evaluation 
The effectiveness of the Board is essential to the success of the Group. 
During the year an evaluation policy was developed and implemented.
The evaluation process was based on a series of questions devised for 
the purpose and circulated to the directors. The process reviewed issues 
such as: the assessment and monitoring of the Company’s strategy and 
risk appetite; diversity including the balance of knowledge and skills  
on the Board; succession; and performance of the Board Committees. 
The results were collated by the Company Secretary and considered  
by the Chairman or, in the case of the Chairman, by the Senior 
Independent Director. The Senior Independent Director, after 
consultation with the other directors, also conducted an appraisal 
interview with the Chairman.
The performance of the Board as a whole and of each of its principal 
Committees was considered. The results of the evaluation will form the 
basis of Board objectives for 2016.
Election of Directors
The Board can appoint any person to be a Director, either to fill a 
vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board provided that the total 
number of Directors does not exceed 10, the maximum prescribed in 
the Company’s Articles of Association. Any Director so appointed by the 
Board shall hold office only until the next annual general meeting and 
shall then be eligible for election by the shareholders.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, at every annual  
general meeting of the Company one-third of the Directors or the 
number nearest to but not less than one-third shall retire from office. 
The Directors to retire shall be those who have been longest in office 
since their last appointment or re-appointment. The Company intends 
to continue this practice but will review it regularly.
External appointments
The Executive Directors may accept outside appointments provided 
that such appointments do not in any way prejudice their ability to 
perform their duties as Executive Directors of the Company. None of 
the Executive Directors currently hold any such outside appointments 
and this position is reconfirmed at each Board meeting to monitor  
the position.
The Non-Executive Directors’ appointment letters are not specific about 
the maximum time commitment, recognising that there is always the 
possibility of an additional time commitment and ad hoc matters that 
may arise from time to time, particularly when the Group is undergoing 
a period of increased activity. The average time commitment inevitably 
increases where a Non-Executive Director assumes additional 
responsibilities such as being appointed to a Board committee or as a 
Non-Executive Director on the boards of any of the Group’s subsidiaries, 
associated or joint venture companies.
Corporate governance report Continued 45
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Communications with shareholders
The Board considers effective communication with its investors, 
whether institutional, private or employee shareholders, to be 
extremely important.
Investor relations activity and a review of the share register are standing 
items on the Board’s agenda. Reports from analysts and brokers are 
circulated to the Board. Members of the Board meet institutional 
investors regularly to provide an opportunity to discuss, in the context 
of publicly available information, the progress of the Group. The Group 
also holds investor days, and held such an event on converged care 
within the Health & Social Care Division in June 2015. Institutional 
investors and analysts are also invited to attend briefings by the 
Company following the announcement of the annual and interim 
results. The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are available to 
attend investor relations meetings or to attend meetings with investors 
or analysts independent of the Group’s management if required.
The Company reports formally twice a year with the half-year results 
announcement and the preliminary announcement of the full-year 
results. An interim statement is published on the Company’s website  
in August and the Annual Report and Accounts is published in March. 
These reports and other announcements the Company makes from 
time to time can be found on www.servelec-group.com.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s Annual General Meeting will take place on Thursday  
28 April 2016 at 9.30am, at the offices of Investec plc, 2 Gresham Street, 
London, EC2V 7QN. The chairmen of the Board’s committees will be 
present to answer questions put to them by shareholders. The Annual 
Report and Accounts and Notice of the Annual General Meeting will  
be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of  
the meeting.
To encourage shareholders to participate in the AGM process,  
the Company offers electronic proxy voting through the CREST service 
and all resolutions will be proposed and voted on at the meeting on an 
individual basis by shareholders or their proxies. Voting results will be 
announced through the Regulatory News Service and made available  
on the Company’s website.
By order of the Board
Richard Last
Chairman & Non-Executive Director 
1 March 2016 46
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Nomination committee report
Richard Last
Chairman, 
Nomination Committee
Chairman’s introduction
Dear Shareholder
The Board strongly believes that good 
governance and strong, responsible, 
balanced leadership by the Board are critical 
to creating long-term shareholder value and 
business success. The Nomination Committee 
is proactive in discharging its responsibilities, 
cognisant of the importance of succession 
planning and the need to align Board and 
executive leadership skills to the Company’s 
long-term strategy.
Richard Last
Chairman, Nomination Committee 
1 March 2016
Roles and responsibilities
Under normal circumstances the Nomination Committee will meet  
not less than twice a year to assist the Board in discharging its 
responsibilities relating to the composition and make-up of the Board 
and any committees of the Board. It is also responsible for periodically 
reviewing the Board’s structure and identifying potential candidates to 
be appointed as Directors or committee members as the need may 
arise. The Nomination Committee is responsible for evaluating the 
balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the size, structure and 
composition of the Board and committees of the Board, retirements 
and appointments of additional and replacement Directors and 
committee members and makes appropriate recommendations to  
the Board on such matters.
The full terms of reference are available on the corporate governance 
page of the Company’s website at www.servelec-group.com.
Committee membership and attendance
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the nomination 
committee consists of three Non-Executive Directors. The Nomination 
Committee is chaired by Richard Last and its other members are Roger 
McDowell and Bernie Waldron. There have not been any changes to the 
Committee membership during the year.
Member Appointed Attended
Number of 
meetings
Richard Last 2008 2 2
Roger McDowell 2013 2 2
Bernie Waldron 2013 2 2
Activities of the Nomination Committee in 2015
 The Nomination Committee met twice during the financial year to 
discuss Board composition, Board effectiveness, independence and 
succession planning.
During the year the Board reviewed its effectiveness by each board 
member individually completing a questionnaire which was reviewed  
by the Committee. This process will be repeated on an annual basis.
Diversity
The Company pursues diversity, including gender diversity, throughout 
the business. When recruiting at Board level, the Nomination 
Committee requires that executive search firms have signed up to their 
industry’s voluntary code of conduct (prepared in response to the 
Davies Review of Women on Boards). The Group follows a policy of 
appointing talented people on merit at every level and does not have a 
specific target for numbers of female directors. The Board will also 
ensure that its own development in this area is consistent with its 
strategic objectives and enhances Board effectiveness. 47
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Audit committee report
Roger McDowell 
Chairman 
Audit Committee 
Chairman’s introduction
Dear Shareholder
The Audit Committee plays a central role in the 
review of Servelec Group’s financial reporting 
and internal control processes. Our aim is to 
ensure that these processes deliver high quality 
and timely information. I would like to thank my 
independent colleagues for their support during 
the period under review.
2015 was a year of continued growth for the 
Group. The successful integration of Corelogic 
and the acquisition of Aura were key areas 
of focus for the Audit Committee. In addition, 
we continue to be vigilant in our monitoring of 
internal and external risk factors, having recently 
assisted the Board to conclude a thorough 
review of the risk register. As a Committee  
we seek not just to respond to external  
factors but to endeavour to support and 
challenge management to anticipate future  
risks and opportunities.
Amongst regulatory developments, the 
principal area of focus were the changes to 
the UK Corporate Governance Code and, in 
particular, the requirement to ensure that the 
Board focuses on longer term viability (the 
Viability Statement). The Committee, Board and 
management team have worked together to 
understand the new requirements and allocate 
sufficient resource to the enhanced levels of 
analysis, review and reporting necessary to 
ensure compliance with the new requirement.
The specific duties of the Committee, how we 
operate and the key areas of focus are detailed 
in the review below. We are very conscious of 
increasing shareholder expectation and scrutiny 
of our work and we would welcome feedback.
Roger McDowell 
Chairman, Audit Committee 
1 March 2016
Roles and responsibilities
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities 
with regard to:
• Financial reporting, including reviewing and monitoring the integrity 
of the Group’s annual and interim financial statements. The Board 
has also requested that the Committee advise them in ensuring that 
the financial statements, when taken as a whole, are fair, balanced 
and understandable and provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model 
and strategy. The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and 
approving the annual report and accounts and the half-yearly 
reports remains with the Board.
• External auditors, including reviewing and monitoring the extent of 
the non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, advising on the 
appointment of external auditors, overseeing the Group’s 
relationship with its external auditors and reviewing the 
effectiveness of the external audit process.
• Internal audits and controls, including reviewing the effectiveness of 
the Group’s internal control review function.
The Audit Committee will give due consideration to laws and regulations, 
the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements 
of the Listing Rules. The full terms of reference are available on the corporate 
governance page of the Company’s website at www.servelec-group.com.
Committee membership and attendance
There were no changes to the composition of the Audit Committee 
during the financial year. In accordance with the provisions of the Code, 
the Audit Committee is made up of three independent Non-Executive 
Directors. The Audit Committee is chaired by Roger McDowell and  
its other members are Richard Last and Bernie Waldron. The Board 
considers that Roger McDowell, by virtue of his former executive  
and current non-executive roles, has recent and relevant financial 
experience to act as Chairman of the Committee. Details of relevant 
experience of all members of the committee are set out on pages 40 
– 41. The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer attend 
meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation.
Member Appointed Attended
Number of 
meetings
Richard Last 2008 3 3
Roger McDowell 2013 3 3
Bernie Waldron 2013 3 3
Activities of the Audit Committee in 2015
The Committee met three times during the financial year. The meetings 
were held to review the results of the external audit for the previous 
financial year; discuss and agree scope of internal and external audits and 
reviews for the year, including the review of key areas of judgement.
The Audit Committee discharged its responsibility in relation to a 
Viability Statement which is referenced on page 34.
The Committee discharged its obligations in response of the financial 
year as follows:
External audit
During the year the Audit committee reviewed and approved the scope 
and timetable for the interim review and final audit. The Committee 
also reviews the policies to ensure ongoing compliance with the Code. 
This includes the policy against which to consider the independence of 
the external auditor consistent with the ethical standards published by 
the Audit Practices Board and a policy on the engagement of external 
auditors for the provision of non-audit services. 48
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Independence safeguards
In accordance with best practice and professional standards, external 
auditors are required to adhere to a rotation policy whereby the audit 
engagement partner is rotated after five years. Ernst & Young LLP have 
been in tenure for 14 years and the current audit engagement partner 
was appointed in 2013. The external auditors are also required 
periodically to assess whether, in their professional opinion, they are 
independent and those views are shared with the Audit Committee.  
The Committee has authority to take independent advice as it deems 
appropriate in order to resolve issues on auditor independence. No such 
advice has to date been required.
Independence assessment by the Audit Committee 
The Committee has considered the independence requirements, 
including ensuring that the rotation policy has been complied with. 
Furthermore, the Committee’s policy in relation to the provision of 
non-audit services by the external auditor is to ensure that the level of 
fees paid for such services does not jeopardise the external auditor’s 
independence and separate external firms are engaged for taxation 
advisory. The Committee has assessed the performance and 
independence of the external auditor and recommended to the  
Board the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor until the 
conclusion of the AGM in 2016.
Non-audit services provided by the external auditor 
There were no non-audit services provided by the auditor in 2015. 
Financial reporting
The Committee reviewed the interim and annual financial statements. 
As part of that review process, the members of the Committee were 
provided with a draft of the full annual report enabling them to ensure 
that the numbers therein are consistent with those in the financial 
statements or are sourced from appropriate data. More importantly, 
the Committee assessed whether the words used were consistent with 
their understanding of the Company’s business obtained through Board 
and Audit Committee meetings and other interaction they had had with 
management, using their experience to assess whether the annual 
report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable.  
This additional review by the Audit Committee, supplemented by advice 
received from external advisors during the drafting process assisted  
the Board in determining that the report is fair, balanced and 
understandable at the time that it was approved. The Committee 
considered the appropriateness of preparing the accounts on a going 
concern basis, including consideration of forecast plans and supporting 
assumptions and concluded that the Company’s financial position was 
such that it continued to be appropriate for accounts to be prepared on 
a going concern basis.
The Committee, together with the Board considered what were the 
significant risks and issues in relation to the financial statements and 
how these would be addressed.
Revenue Recognition
(i) Revenue recognition on long-term contracts relies on estimates of 
the completion costs for each project and so has an inherent risk of 
misstatement in the financial statements. The Group has a clear 
revenue and profit recognition policy (see note 2) and performs 
regular contract reviews with key staff. The Committee has reviewed 
the control procedures and performed detailed reviews of significant 
contracts and analytical review of the profit and loss account. 
The committee is satisfied that the internal processes and controls 
are appropriate.
(ii) Product sales are a significant part of the Group. The Committee 
has reviewed the controls over recording of product sales and are 
satisfied that they are appropriate.
Acquisition of Aura
The acquisition in May 2015 of Aura Limited was not deemed to present 
a significant risk due to the size of the acquisition relative to the overall 
Group. Notwithstanding this, a detailed review of the acquisition was 
performed by the external auditor as part of the half-year review and 
the Committee reviewed the methodology and assumptions underlying 
the valuations and the appropriateness of any fair value adjustments.
Internal controls and risk management
The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal controls for 
the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness. It carries out such a review 
at least annually, covering all material controls including financial, 
operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can  
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
Operating policies and controls are in place, and cover a wide range  
of issues including financial reporting, capital expenditure, information 
technology, business continuity and management of employees. 
Detailed policies ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial 
reporting and the preparation of financial statements including the 
consolidation process. The key elements of the Group’s ongoing 
processes for the provision of effective internal control and risk 
management systems, in place throughout the year and at the date  
of this report, include:
• Regular Board meetings to consider matters reserved for the 
Directors’ consideration;
• Regular management reporting, providing a balanced assessment 
of key risks and controls;
• An annual Board review of corporate strategy, including a review 
of material business risks and uncertainties facing the business;
• Established organisational structure with clearly defined lines of 
responsibility and levels of authority;
• Documented policies and procedures;
• Regular review by the Board of financial budgets, forecasts and 
performance reported to the Board monthly;
• A detailed investment process for major projects, including capital 
investment coupled with a post- investment appraisal process.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal controls,  
the Committee received self-assurance statements from senior 
managers responsible for the principal business units confirming that 
controls and risk management processes in their business units have 
been operated satisfactorily. These returns were reviewed by the Audit 
Committee and challenged where appropriate.
The Company Secretary is responsible for compiling and maintaining a 
risk register to monitor all of the risks facing the business. The key risks 
were summarised for review and approval by the Audit Committee for 
inclusion in the annual report and accounts.
In respect of the Group’s financial reporting, the Finance Department  
is responsible for preparing the Group financial statements using a 
well-established consolidation process and ensuring that accounting 
policies are in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards. All financial information published by the Group is subject  
to the approval of the Audit Committee.
There have been no changes in the Company’s internal control during 
the year that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to 
materially affect, the Company’s control over financial reporting.
Audit committee report Continued 49
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
The Board, with advice from the Audit Committee, is satisfied that an 
effective system of internal controls and risk management are in place 
which enable the Company to identify, evaluate and manage key risks 
and which accord with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on 
internal control updated by the FRC in 2005. These processes have  
been in place since the start of the financial year and up to the date  
of approval of the accounts. Further details of risk management 
frameworks and specific material risks and uncertainties facing the 
business can be found on pages 32 – 34.
Whistleblowing
The Group has in place a whistleblowing policy which encourages 
employees to report any malpractice or illegal acts or omissions or 
matters of similar concern by other employees or former employees, 
contractors, suppliers or advisors using a prescribed reporting 
procedure. The policy facilitates the reporting of any ethical wrongdoing 
or malpractice or suspicion which may constitute ethical wrongdoing or 
malpractice. Examples include bribery, corruption, fraud, dishonesty 
and illegal practices, which may endanger employees or third parties. 
There have been no instances of whistleblowing during the year  
under review.
Internal audit
We have considered the need for internal audit and have concluded  
that the focus of the role has been on quality assurance, rather than 
providing assurance on the adequacy of internal control and risk 
management processes across the Group’s operations. 
Accountability
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and 
accounts. They consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as  
a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to access the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy. The responsibilities of the 
Directors and external auditor are set out on page 65. As set out in the 
Directors’ Report, the Directors consider the Company’s business to be 
a going concern.
Roger McDowell 
Chairman, Audit Committee 
1 March 2016 50
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Remuneration report
Bernie Waldron
Chairman,  
Remuneration Committee 
Information not subject to audit:
Chairman’s annual statement
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to introduce the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the 2015 financial year-end. 
This Report has been prepared in accordance with the Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-
Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulation 2008. The Annual Report 
on Remuneration and the Annual Statement will be the subject of an advisory vote at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman’s statement (on pages 6 and 7) provides a summary of the progress the Group 
has made over the financial year. In order to continue building on this performance the 
Remuneration Committee is committed to structuring executive remuneration that supports 
the Group’s strategy and performance. Short-term performance is incentivised via an annual 
bonus, part of which will normally be deferred and paid in shares. Long-term performance is 
incentivised via a long-term incentive plan (LTIP) which is based on achieving Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR) and Earnings per Share (EPS) growth over a 3-year measurement period.  
Details of the bonus schemes and LTIP awards to the Executive Directors are summarised  
in the relevant sections of this report.
Servelec’s remuneration policy was accepted unanimously at the 2014 AGM and we are  
not proposing any changes to the remuneration policy for the current financial year.  
The Remuneration Committee will keep the policy under review to ensure that it remains 
appropriate to the delivery of long-term value for all stakeholders. The Committee remains 
confident that the policy accepted at the AGM provides the management team with sufficient 
encouragement and incentive to build on the success the Group has achieved to date.
Bernie Waldron
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
1 March 2016 51
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Director’s remuneration policy
This part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policy of the Company and has been prepared in accordance with The 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (“the Regulations”). The policy has been 
developed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014. The policy was accepted unanimously at last year’s AGM 
and we are not proposing any changes to the Remuneration Policy for the current financial year.
Policy on executive remuneration
The Group’s remuneration policy is designed to ensure that executive directors’ remuneration promotes the long-term success of the Company 
and that performance-related elements are sufficiently transparent, stretching and rigorously applied. The retention of key management and the 
alignment of management incentives with the creation of shareholder value are key objectives of this policy.
Setting base salary levels for Executive Directors at an appropriate level is a key to managerial retention. Therefore, the Remuneration Committee 
seeks to ensure that salaries are market competitive for comparable companies. Total compensation is set within a range around the median level 
for the Company’s peer group.
The Remuneration Committee is directly responsible for setting the remuneration of Executive Directors and giving guidance on the remuneration 
of other members of the senior management team.
The Committee ensures that remuneration structures neither encourage nor reward inappropriate risk-taking and are applied with due account 
taken of the Company’s risk policies and systems. In addition the Committee ensures that the incentive structures for Executive Directors and 
senior managements will not raise environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour. More generally, 
with regard to overall remuneration structures, there is no restriction on the Committee that prevents it from taking into account environment, 
social or governance matters.
Key elements of remuneration
Remuneration element Purpose Operation Potential Remuneration Performance metrics
Base Salary To attract and retain  
key executives.
Reviewed annually and 
fixed for 12 months 
commencing on 1 January 
each year. The review is 
influenced by:
• Role, experience and 
performance.
• Average workforce 
salary adjustments.
Comparison with the 
Company’s peer group 
salaries are benchmarked 
by reference to  
companies of similar size 
and complexity.
The Executive Directors’ 
salaries will be reviewed 
taking account of  
periodic benchmarking.
The CEO’s salary has 
increased to £300,000  
from 1 January 2016 
(previously £285,000).
The CFO’s salary has 
increased to £157,000  
from 1 January 2016 
(previously £150,000).
Not applicable.
Benefits To attract and retain  
key executives.
An Executive Director is 
entitled to life assurance,  
a company car, medical 
insurance and permanent 
health insurance.
No maximum is set but  
the Remuneration 
Committee will monitor 
the overall cost of the 
benefits package.
Not applicable.
Pension To attract and retain  
key executives.
The Executive Directors are 
members of the Group 
Retirement Benefits 
Scheme (a money purchase 
pension arrangement).
Contributions of 15% and 
4.5% per annum of salary 
are paid into the scheme 
on behalf of the CEO and 
CFO respectively.
Not applicable. 52
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Remuneration element Purpose Operation Potential remuneration Performance metrics
Annual Bonus To incentivise delivery of  
the Group’s annual financial 
and strategic targets.
Aligns Directors’ interests 
with shareholders.
Performance is measured 
on an annual basis for each 
financial year.
Targets are established at 
the beginning of each year 
that are based on the 
corporate targets. At the 
end of the year the 
Committee determines the 
extent to which these were 
achieved.
Bonus payments may be 
paid in cash. However, the 
Directors will normally be 
required to participate in 
the Deferred Share Bonus 
Plan with a third of any 
annual bonus being paid in 
shares that vest two years 
after the award is made.
Bonuses are capped at  
a maximum of 100%  
of salary.
Clawback may be applied 
to the number of shares,  
at the discretion of the 
Committee, if the financial 
results used to determine 
the value of the bonus are 
found to be misstated  
or if other exceptional 
circumstances exist, for 
example, a participant’s 
material misconduct.
Any bonus is discretionary 
and subject to achievement 
against targets set by the 
Remuneration Committee.
Measures and associated 
targets will be set and 
weighted each year in 
accordance with business 
priorities. Measures may 
include financial and 
non-financial metrics as well 
as the achievement of 
personal objectives.
The Committee has the 
discretion to adjust the 
formulaic bonus outcome 
both upwards and 
downwards to ensure 
alignment of pay with the 
underlying performance of 
the business over the 
financial year.
Long-Term Incentive Plan To motivate executives  
and incentivise delivery of 
performance over the 
long-term and to facilitate 
share ownership.
The LTIP is a performance 
and service-related 
conditional share  
award plan.
Initial awards were made 
on Admission and vest in 
the financial year 2017 on 
the date the Remuneration 
Committee determines  
the extent to which the 
performance condition  
has been met.
The Remuneration 
Committee would in 
normal circumstances 
expect to award LTIPs 
annually at a maximum  
of 100% of base salary.
Clawback may be applied 
to the number of shares,  
at the discretion of the 
Committee, if the financial 
results used to determine 
the value of the bonus are 
found to be misstated  
or if other exceptional 
circumstances exist, for 
example, a participant’s 
material misconduct.
The Remuneration 
Committee intends to award 
LTIPs of 100% of base salary 
to the Executive Directors in 
the six weeks following the 
results announcement, in 
line with the scheme rules.
For these planned awards, 
50% is linked to growth in 
earnings per share above 
inflation measured over a 
3-year performance period 
whilst the remaining 50% is 
linked to total shareholder 
return over a 3-year 
performance period.  
Further details are set out  
in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration on page 61.
For future awards, the 
Remuneration Committee 
will assess what measures 
and targets best support the 
long-term focus of the 
company, and it is therefore 
possible that these measures 
and targets will be different 
from those used previously.
Policy for other employee arrangements
Save As You Earn share 
option plan
To motivate and facilitate 
share ownership.
An ’all-employee’ share 
option plan, approved by 
HMRC, supervised by the 
Remuneration Committee.
Employees, including 
Executive Directors, may 
enter into a savings 
contract under which they 
agree to save up to a 
maximum of £500 per 
month (or such limit as 
may be permitted by the 
tax legislation governing 
SAYE schemes from time 
to time) for 3 to 5 years.
Not applicable.
 
Remuneration report Continued 53
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Remuneration element Purpose Operation Potential remuneration Performance metrics
Executive Share Option 
Plan
To motivate and facilitate 
share ownership.
Options to acquire shares 
may be granted to eligible 
employees at the 
discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Following Admission, 
options were granted to 
certain senior managers 
and employees, not 
Executive Directors.  
Part A of the ESOP has 
been approved by HMRC 
for tax purposes. It is not 
intended to grant awards 
under this scheme to 
Executive Directors.
The number of shares in 
respect of which options 
can be granted is limited  
in respect of any financial 
year to shares with a 
market value of no more 
than 100% of salary.  
The aggregate market 
value of shares at the date 
of grant in respect of which 
unexercised options can be 
held at any time under the 
HMRC-approved scheme 
cannot exceed £30,000.
The Remuneration 
Committee may impose one 
or more objective conditions 
on any option preventing its 
exercise unless and until such 
condition has been satisfied. 
The Remuneration 
Committee, prior to the 
grant of the option, will 
determine such performance 
conditions. No options have 
to date been granted to 
Executive Directors under 
this scheme. The 
Remuneration Committee 
intends to award this scheme 
to selected employees in the 
six weeks following the 
results announcement, in 
line with the scheme rules. 
Chairman and Non- 
Executive Directors
To attract and retain 
Non-Executive Directors of 
the right calibre.
The Chairman and Non- 
Executive Directors’ 
remuneration comprises  
only fees.
The Chairman’s fee is 
approved by the Board  
on the recommendation  
of the Remuneration 
Committee.
Fees for the Non-Executive 
Directors are approved by 
the Board on the 
recommendation of the 
Chairman and Executive 
Directors. The Non- 
Executive Directors are not 
involved in any discussion 
or decision about their  
own remuneration.
Additional fees, over and 
above the base fee for the 
Non-Executive Directors, 
are payable to the 
chairmen of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees 
and to the Senior 
Independent Non- 
Executive Director.
The Chairman and the 
other Non-Executive 
Directors are entitled to 
reimbursement of 
reasonable expenses.
Details of the fees currently 
payable are set out in the 
Annual Report on 
Remuneration on page 55. 
The fees are reviewed 
periodically taking into 
consideration the time 
commitment and 
responsibilities of the role 
and fees paid in other 
companies of comparable 
size and complexity.
Not applicable.
Malus and clawback
Malus is the possible reduction of deferred awards and clawback is the possible recovery of awards that have already been made to executives. 
Mindful of the provisions of current best practice and the guidance of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Committee has decided that awards 
under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, including any awards held during any additional holding period, may be reduced or cancelled at the 
Committee’s discretion in such cases as material misstatement of results, gross misconduct or fraud. 54
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Alignment of executive remuneration and the market
In 2013, the Company engaged h2glenfern, a remuneration advisory 
practice, to undertake a benchmarking exercise for use in considering 
remuneration levels and developing the Board’s remuneration policy  
in respect of both the Board and senior management. h2glenfern 
compiled a comparator group drawn from the Official List and AIM, 
which was agreed with the Board. The companies selected were 
well-known companies in the technology sector with market 
capitalisations and revenue/profit profiles in a broad range around 
Servelec’s market capitalisation and business size, recognising that 
Servelec will compete with these companies for executives and senior 
managers and be assessed against them and compete with them  
for investment.
The Committee intends to formally benchmark the remuneration levels 
of the Board every three years.
The resulting remuneration structure reflects the Company’s financial 
and corporate circumstances and plans and, the Board believes, will be 
effective and competitive and reflect the objectives of shareholders.
How employee pay is taken into consideration
When setting pay and benefits for Executive Directors and senior 
managers, the Remuneration Committee takes account of pay and 
conditions across the Group. The Company endeavours to provide 
competitive remuneration packages for all employees and carries out 
internal benchmarks for employees. Employees may be eligible to  
join the all employee ESOP at the discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee and all UK Employees are eligible to join the SAYE scheme.
The Company has not consulted with its employees in formulating  
this policy.
Shareholder views on remuneration
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will be available  
for contact with institutional investors concerning the Company’s 
approach to remuneration. The Company welcomes dialogue with its 
shareholders and will seek the views of its significant shareholders if and 
when any major changes are being proposed to the policy. When any 
significant changes are proposed to the remuneration policy, the 
chairman of the Remuneration Committee will consult with major 
shareholders in advance and, if requested, will arrange meetings to 
discuss these.
The policy approved at the AGM on 29 April 2014 has been developed 
taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance  
Code 2014.
Policy on recruitment
The Committee will consider the remuneration of new executive 
appointees to the Board by reference to the Remuneration Policy set 
out above. The Committee would not usually expect to pay sign-on 
payments or compensate new directors for any variable remuneration 
forfeited from any employment prior to joining the Board but may 
consider doing so depending on the circumstances, recognising that the 
Company needs to attract appropriately skilled and experienced 
individuals. Generally, any buy-outs of awards forfeited would be made 
on a comparable basis using the LTIP, within its parameters stated in 
the policy table, so as to align the new Executive Director’s interest with 
that of the shareholders. Salary will be set so as to be competitive with 
comparable companies and taking account of the experience and 
seniority of the appointee coming into the new role. New Executive 
Directors will receive benefits and pension contributions in line with 
Company’s existing policy and will be able to participate in the annual 
bonus scheme on a pro-rated basis for the portion of the financial year 
for which they are in post.
Remuneration report Continued
Policy on loss of office
Directors and senior executives leaving employment from the Group,  
other than in circumstances of gross misconduct, will be entitled to receive 
salary in accordance with their notice periods and pro-rated annual bonus 
based on performance to the date of leaving. The notice periods and the 
contractual rights on termination of each Director are set out in the section 
on service agreements on page 55. In this regard, it should be noted that 
the Chief Executive’s notice period (12 months on either side) may be 
extended to 24 months following a change of control of the Company.  
The Company’s share schemes also provide leaver provisions as follows:
SAYE (Save as You Earn)
An Executive Director who ceases to be a Director or employee of the 
group by reason of death, retirement, ill-health, injury or disability, 
redundancy, or the sale of the company or business for which he  
works will be a good leaver. As such he will be permitted to exercise  
his options.
If the Director ceases to be an Employee or Director either before the 
third anniversary of the grant of the award for any reason other than the 
good leaver reasons above or more than three years after the grant of 
the award as a result of being summarily dismissed, any Option granted 
to him shall lapse on such cessation.
ESOP (Executive Share Option Plan)
An Executive Director who ceases to be a Director or employee of the 
group by reason of death, retirement, ill-health, injury or disability, 
redundancy, or the sale of the company or business for which he works will 
be a good leaver. As such he will be permitted to exercise his options.
Where the cessation is on any other grounds, awards will lapse, 
provided that the Committee has discretion to treat the Executive 
Director as a good leaver.
Awards held by good leavers that are already capable of exercise at  
the date of cessation may be exercised between six and 12 months 
(depending of the reason for leaving) of the leaving date. If the good 
leaver ceases to be an employee or Director before the third anniversary 
of the grant of the award the Committee has discretion to allow the 
award to vest on the normal vesting date.
DSBP (Deferred Share Bonus Plan)
Share awards, which represent deferrals of previously earned bonus, 
lapse on the Executive Director resigning or giving notice of resignation. 
An Executive Director who ceases to be a Director or employee of the 
group by reason of death, retirement, ill-health, injury or disability, 
redundancy, or the sale of the company or business for which he works 
will be a good leaver. Awards will be subject to time pro-rating.
LTIP (Long-Term Incentive Plan)
An Executive Director who ceases to be a Director or employee of the 
group by reason of death, retirement, ill-health, injury or disability, 
redundancy, or the sale of the company or business for which he works 
will be a good leaver. Where the cessation is on any other grounds, 
awards will lapse, provided that the Committee has discretion to treat 
the Executive Director as a good leaver. Awards held by good leavers 
will continue and will vest on the normal vesting date, unless the 
Committee decides to accelerate vesting. Awards will remain subject to 
the performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines 
otherwise, subject to time pro-rating.
External appointments
It is the Board’s policy to allow Executive Directors to accept 
directorships of other quoted and non-quoted companies provided  
that they have obtained the consent of the Chairman of the Company. 
Any such directorships must be formally notified to the Board. 55
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Service agreements 
Alan Stubbs Mike Cane
Date of service agreement 12 November 2013 12 November 2013
Notice period 12 months’ notice given by either party. This notice 
period extends to 24 months following a change of 
control of the Company
6 months’ notice given by either party
Basic salary Currently £300,000 reviewed annually Currently £157,000 reviewed annually
Bonus Purely discretionary and not part of the contractual remuneration
Share schemes May participate in any share scheme adopted by the Company
Pension contributions Equivalent to 15% of salary contributed by the 
Company as a cash allowance into the Company’s 
Group Retirement Benefit money purchase scheme
Equivalent to 4.5% of salary contributed by the 
Company into the Company’s Group Retirement 
Benefit money purchase scheme
Contractual benefits Car, Life Assurance (4 x Salary), Medical and 
permanent health insurance, 12 months base pay  
for sickness
Car, Life Assurance (4 x Salary), Medical and 
permanent health insurance, 6 months base pay  
for sickness
Termination payments Company has discretion to pay a payment in lieu of notice to terminate the employment forthwith in the 
event of notice being given by either party. This will include the appropriate pro-rata amount for pensions 
contributions and contractual benefits
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
The remuneration of the Chairman of the Company and the Non-Executive Directors consists of fees that are paid via the payroll, with the 
exception of the Chairman who invoices the Company for his fees. The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to receive any 
compensation on termination of their employment and are not entitled to participate in the Servelec Share Schemes or any of the Group’s bonus 
or pension schemes. Neither the Chairman nor any of the Non-Executive Directors has a service contract with the Company; however each has 
entered into a letter of appointment with the Company.
Non-Executive Directors’ fees and letters of appointment
The Non-Executive Chairman has a letter of appointment stating that his appointment is expected to last at least three years from Admission to 
Listing. On their initial appointment, each of the Non-Executive Directors signed a letter of appointment with the Company for an initial period of 
three years from Admission. The letters of appointment of all serving Non-Executive Directors have been drafted in accordance with provision 
B.7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, thus obliging directors to be subject to election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting 
after their appointment and to re- election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years. The amendments have been drafted such that 
renewed appointment will not necessitate a new letter of appointment.
Each Non-Executive Director is expected to commit sufficient time in fulfilling their duties as a Director of the Company. A base fee is paid to each 
Non-Executive Director to reflect the time commitment and level of involvement they are required to make in the activities of the Board as a 
whole. In addition to their annual base fees, additional fees are paid for chairing the Board committees and for the role of Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director.
Base Fee
£’000
Senior
Independent
NED
£’000
Nomination 
Committee 
Chairmanship
£’000
Remuneration 
Committee 
Chairmanship
£’000
Audit 
Committee 
Chairmanship
£’000
Total
£’000
Richard Last 93.6 – 2.7 – – 96.3
Bernie Waldron 41.6 – – 2.7 – 44.3
Roger McDowell 41.6 5.2 – – 2.7 49.5
Unless otherwise determined, the Director concerned may give not less than 3 months’ notice of termination of the appointment. Copies of the 
Directors’ letters of appointment and service agreements are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office.
The key terms of the Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment are as follows:
Director
Date of original  
letter of appointment
Notice period from  
Director to the Company Duration of term*
Unexpired 
term
Total fees  
per annum
Richard Last 24 October 2013 6 months
3 years from  
Admission to Listing 9 months £96,250
Roger McDowell 24 October 2013 3 months
3 years from  
Admission to Listing 9 months £49,450
Bernie Waldron 30 October 2013 3 months
3 years from  
Admission to Listing 9 months £44,250
* Unexpired term: The Non-Executive Directors all have contracts that provide that each will serve for an initial 3-year period from the date of Admission to Listing on 2 December 
2013. Each offered themselves for election at the Company’s first AGM on 29 April 2014 and their appointments are subject to the provisions of the Articles of Association that 
require them to offer themselves for re-election at intervals of no more than 3 years. The unexpired term is calculated with reference to the date of Admission to Listing. 56
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Scenarios
Assumptions
Fixed • Consists of base salary, benefits and pension contributions.
• Base salary is that to be paid in 2016.
• Benefits measured as benefits figure in the single figure table.
• The pension is measured as the amount of the employer’s contribution.
On-Target Based on what the Executive Director would receive if performance was in line with target (excluding share price appreciation and 
dividends):
• Annual Bonus assumes annual targets set by the Remuneration Committee are met, which would pay out 50% of bonus maximum.
• LTIP: consists of the performance level at which 50% of the maximum face value vests.
Maximum Based on the maximum remuneration receivable (excluding share price appreciation and dividends):
• Annual Bonus: consists of the maximum bonus (100% of base salary).
• LTIP: assumes maximum vesting of awards based on the intended normal LTIP grant of 100% of salary .
Note:
These scenarios assume an annual maximum LTIP grant of 100% of salary, which is the policy of the Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration Committee does have the ability 
to grant LTIPs at up to 200% of salary (rising to 300% for exceptional circumstances), but as stated above, in normal circumstances it would only expect to make annual grants at a 
maximum face value of 100% of salary.
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
£’000
Min
Alan Stubbs – Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Target Max
L TIP
Annual Bonus
Fixed
374 374 374
150
300 150
300
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
Min
Mike Cane – Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Target Max
£’000
178 178 178
79
157 79
157
Remuneration report Continued 57
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Annual report on Remuneration
Introduction
This Annual Report on Remuneration sets out information about the remuneration of the Directors and senior management of the Company for 
the year ended 31 December 2015. This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8  
of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended) and 9.8.8R of the Listing Rules.  
An advisory resolution to approve this report will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM. The information on pages 57 to 61 has  
been audited.
Remuneration Committee Membership
The UK Corporate Governance Code provides that the Remuneration Committee should comprise at least two members who are independent 
Non-Executive Directors (other than the Chairman). Appointments to the Remuneration Committee are made by the Board on the 
recommendation of the Nomination Committee and are for a period of up to three years, which may be extended for further periods of up to three 
years, provided that the Director whose appointment is being considered still meets the criteria for membership. The Remuneration Committee 
consisted of the following Directors during the year ended 31 December 2015:
• Bernie Waldron (Chairman), Independent Non-Executive Director;
• Roger McDowell, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director; and
• Richard Last, Non-Executive Chairman.
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in determining its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, including making recommendations 
to the Board on the Company’s policy on executive remuneration, including setting the over- arching principles, parameters and governance 
framework of the Group’s remuneration policy and determining the remuneration and benefits package of each of the Executive Directors and the 
Company Secretary and providing guidance on the remuneration of the senior management group. The Remuneration Committee also ensures 
compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to remuneration wherever possible.
Terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee have been approved by the Board and are available on the corporate governance page on the 
Company’s website, www.servelec-group.com.
Activities of the Remuneration Committee in 2015
The Remuneration Committee met six times in 2015 to agree the remuneration report and to discuss target figures for Annual Bonus, LTIP and 
grant SAYE options. 
Advisers
Prior to Listing, the Company received independent advice from h2glenfern Remuneration Advisory (a division of h2glenfern Limited) on a number 
of remuneration issues including helping the Board develop its remuneration policy since when no additional independent advice has been sought. 
As mentioned earlier, the Committee intends formally to benchmark the remuneration levels of the Board every three years. No advice on 
Remuneration was therefore taken in 2015.
The Company Secretary ensures that the Remuneration Committee fulfils its duties under its terms of reference and provides regular updates to 
the Remuneration Committee on relevant regulatory developments in the UK.
The following information has been subject to audit:
Single total figure of remuneration
Directors’ remuneration is made up of payments from the UK. The UK payments have been accounted for in Servelec Group plc. The detailed 
emoluments received by the Executive and Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2015 are detailed below:
Year ended 31 December 2015
Salary/Fees
Taxable 
Benefits Bonus
(i)
Pension
(ii)
Total
Chairman
Richard Last 94,400 – – – 94,400 
Non Executive Directors
Roger McDowell 48,500 – – – 48,500 
Bernie Waldron 43,400 – – – 43,400 
Total Non Execs 186,300 – – – 186,300 
Executive Directors
Alan Stubbs
(ii)
285,000 28,805 50,000 42,750 406,555
Mike Cane 150,000 13,425 26,316 7,500 197,241
Total Execs 435,000 42,230 76,316 50,250 603,796
Total Remuneration 621,300 42,230 76,316 50,250 790,096
(i) 100% of bonus is paid in shares that vest 2 years after the award is made
(ii) From July 2015 an allowance equivalent to the pension contributions less employers NI was paid through the payroll to Alan Stubbs in lieu of his pension entitlement. 58
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Year ended 31 December 2014
Salary/Fees
Taxable 
Benefits Bonus
(iii)
Pension Total
Chairman
Richard Last 92,500 – – – 92,500 
Non Executive Directors
Roger McDowell 47,500 – – – 47,500 
Bernie Waldron 42,500 – – – 42,500 
Total Non Execs 182,500 – – – 182,500 
Executive Directors
Alan Stubbs 275,000 23,816 76,725 41,250 416,791 
Mike Cane 150,000 12,542 39,060 6,300 197,902
Total Execs 415,000 36,358 115,785 47,550 614,493 
Total Remuneration 597,500 36,358 115,785 47,550 797,193 
(iii) One third of bonus is paid in shares that vest 2 years after award is made.
Long-term incentive plan
Following Listing in December 2013, the Remuneration Committee granted performance and service-related conditional share awards to  
the Executive Directors under the LTIP. No further awards were therefore made in 2014. An award was made in 2015 and will be awarded  
annually thereafter.
The Committee intends to award LTIPs of 100% of base salary to the Executive Directors in the six weeks following the results announcement,  
in line with the scheme rules.
Save As You Earn Option Plan 
Director Award date
Awards held at 
31/12/14
Granted during 
the period
Exercised/ 
lapsed in the 
period
Exercise  
price (£)
Awards held  
at 31/12/15
Mike Cane 02/12/13 5,027 Nil Nil 1.79 5,027
29/10/15 Nil 3,474 Nil 2.59 3,474
Alan Stubbs 29/10/15 Nil 6,949 Nil 2.59 6,949
Total 5,027 10,423 15,450
Directors LTIP interests
Director Award date
Awards held at 
31/12/14
Granted during 
the period
Exercised/ 
lapsed in the 
period
Awards held at 
31/12/15
Alan Stubbs 02/12/13 307,263 Nil Nil 307,263
22/4/15 100,000 Nil 100,000
Mike Cane 02/12/13 92,179 Nil 92,179
22/4/15 52,632 Nil 52,632
Total 399,442 152,632 Nil 552,074
Deferred Share Bonus Plan Award date Type of award No of shares subject to award
Alan Stubbs 22/4/15 Option 9,026
Mike Cane 22/4/15 Option 4,582
Directors’ share interests
The number of Ordinary Shares of the Company in which the Directors were beneficially interested at 31 December 2015 was:
Director
31 December
2015
31 December
2014
Richard Last 418,994 418,994
Roger McDowell 139,665 139,665
Bernie Waldron 27,933 27,933
Alan Stubbs 838,000 838,000
Mike Cane 74,300 74,300
As at 1 March 2016 this has not changed.
Remuneration report Continued 59
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Share ownership guidelines
The Remuneration Committee has considered whether a share ownership guideline should be set for Executive Directors and has determined that 
no such guideline should be set.
The following information has not been subject to audit:
Percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer
The table below demonstrates the percentage of change in base salary, value of taxable benefits and bonus for the CEO compared to all 
employees of the Group.
Percentage change of CEO 2015 2014
% increase 
2015
% increase 
Employee rem 
Salary 285,000 275,000 4% –
BIKs 28,805 23,816 21% n/a
Bonus 50,000 76,725 (35)% (15)%
Pension 42,750 41,250 4% Nil
Total 406,555 416,791 (2)%
Notes:
(1) CEO remuneration is from the single total figure of remuneration table on page 57.
(2) The % increase in average remuneration for employees is calculated using wages and salaries (excluding share-based payments, overtime and allowances) for those employees 
employed in 2015 and 2014.
(3) The % increase in average performance related remuneration is based on the increase in bonus payments for employees of the group who were eligible for a bonus and 
employed for both periods.
(4) Benefits across the Group remained the same, other than amendments in accordance with HM Revenue & Customs guidelines. The average percentage change in taxable 
benefits does not produce a meaningful comparison.
(5) Pension rates have not changed across the period.
Relative importance of the spend on pay
The chart below shows the Company’s total employee remuneration and dividends distributed for the year under review and the prior year as well 
as the year-on-year change.
Key highlights:
• Total profit after tax from continuing operations was £11,898,000 (2014: £8,693,000).
• Staff costs for 2015 were £26,194,000 (2014: £22,419,000). The increase reflects a 4% increase in salaries for existing staff and an increase in 
overall staff numbers, predominantly from the full year of CoreLogic Semaphore.
• The Company is proposing final dividend of 3.5p for the year ending 31 December 2015.
Payments to departing directors
During the year, the Company has not made any payments to past Directors; neither has it made any payments to Directors for loss of office.
Comparison of company performance and CEO remuneration
The following chart shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive role. The current CEO, Alan Stubbs, was also appointed to  
Chief Executive Officer of CSE Global Ltd (the previous parent company) in January 2011 and the table includes remuneration for both roles.  
The Company was listed on the London Stock Exchange in December 2013.
Year ended 31 December (£’000)
CEO remuneration Paid by 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Salary and benefits UK 222 177 138 157 340 357
Singapore 34 133 167 180 – –
Annual bonus UK – – – – 77 50
Singapore 600 300 450 3,000 – –
Total remuneration 856 610 755 3,337 417 407
The TSR for Servelec Group plc was rebased on 2 December 2013 at the opening price of £2.07 per share. The issue price was £1.79 and this table 
excludes the additional value created for Servelec shareholders as a result of the difference between the issue price and the opening price. 60
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
TSR data
Application of the policy for 2016
The policy will apply to any remuneration made on or after 28 April 2016.
Salary
The salaries are effective from 1 January 2016 are:
£’000
Alan Stubbs 300
Mike Cane 157
Benefits (excluding pension contributions)
These will remain as life assurance, a company car, medical insurance and permanent health insurance.
Pension
Employer contributions to the Group Retirement Benefits Scheme money purchase pension arrangement will remain as stated in the policy.
The CEO has opted to have his pension contributions paid in cash less employer’s NI contributions. Mr Stubbs will therefore now receive £39,543  
as the cash equivalent of pension.
Annual Bonus
The Remuneration Committee has set stretching targets focused on both profit and cash performance for the Company. Although the target detail 
is considered commercially sensitive the measures and weightings for the year commencing 1 January 2016 are:
Operating profit Operating cashflow Maximum
Alan Stubbs 66.66% 33.33% 100% salary
Mike Cane 66.66% 33.33% 100% salary
Two-thirds of any bonus earned will be paid in cash and one-third in shares under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
170
 Servelec Group plc FTSE Small Cap (excl. Investment Trusts)
Share price (rebased to 1oo at 2 Dec 2013)
December 2013 December 2014 Apil 2014 August 2014 December 2015 Apil 2015 August 2015
Remuneration report Continued 61
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
LTIP
The Committee intends to award LTIPs of 100% of base salary to the Executive Directors within six weeks of the result announcement, in line with 
the scheme rules. These levels will be reviewed by the Remuneration Committee for each future LTIP cycle to ensure that they are both realistic 
and suitably challenging. The 2016 LTIP award performance criteria will be decided by the Remuneration Committee during this six week period.
The LTIP awards are subject to the following performance conditions. The vesting of 50% of an award will be subject to a condition that measures 
growth in earnings per share (’EPS’) of the Company above inflation over a 3-year performance period:
EPS growth
% Shares Subject L TIP granted 2013 L TIP granted 2015
NIL <8% RPI <14% RPI
30% 8% RPI 14% RPI
100% 12% RPI 18% RPI
Between 30% and 100% on straight line basis Between 30% and 100% on straight line basis
The vesting of the remaining 50% of an award will be subject to a condition that measures the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (’TSR’) over a 3 
year performance period.
TSR growth
% Shares Subject L TIP granted 2013 L TIP granted 2015
NIL <8% RPI <8% RPI
30% 8% RPI 8% RPI
100% 15% RPI 15% RPI
Between 30% and 100% on straight line basis Between 30% and 100% on straight line basis
The Remuneration Committee may reduce the number of shares to which the LTIP awards relate if the financial results used to determine the 
number of shares to which any award relates or to measure the satisfaction of a performance condition have been misstated or facts or 
assumptions used for those purposes are discovered to be incorrect or if the Remuneration Committee determines that other exceptional 
circumstances exist, for example, a participant’s material misconduct.
LTIP awards will normally vest on the latter of:
• The date the Remuneration Committee determines whether any performance condition and/or any other condition has been satisfied 
(and then only to the extent that the performance condition and/or any other condition has been satisfied; and
• The third anniversary of the grant date.
2015 Shareholder voting
At the Servelec AGM held on 28 April 2015 the shareholders approved the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2014. Below is the 
result in respect of the resolution, which required a simple majority of the votes to be cast in favour in order for the resolution to be passed.
Votes for Votes against
96.58% 3.42%
21,916 votes were withheld.
2016 shareholder voting
The annual remuneration report will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM to be held on Thursday 28 April 2016.
Approval
This Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Servelec Group plc. 
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Bernie Waldron
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
1 March 2016 62
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Directors’ report
The Directors are pleased to present the Annual Report and 
consolidated financial statements of Servelec Group plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2015.
The corporate governance report on pages 42 to 45 and the corporate 
social responsibility report (with regard to information about the 
employment of disabled persons, employee involvement and 
greenhouse gas emissions) are also incorporated into this report  
by reference.
The Company has chosen, in accordance with section 414C (11) of the 
Companies Act 2006 to include the disclosure of likely future 
developments in the strategic report (see pages 1 to 39).
Financial risk management
The Company’s objectives and policies on financial risk management 
including information on the Company’s exposures to market risk, 
including foreign currency, commodity price, interest rate, inflation rate 
and equity price risks, credit risk and liquidity risk can be found in note 
23 to the financial statements.
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect 
its future development, performance and position are set out in the 
Strategic Report on pages 1 to 38. The financial position of the Group, 
its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Financial 
Statements on pages 66 to 106. In addition, note 23 to the financial 
statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for 
managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of 
its financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to 
credit risk and liquidity risk.
Results and dividends
Results for the year are set out in the Group Income Statement on  
page 71.
The Directors are proposing the payment of a final dividend of 3.5p in 
respect of the year ended 31 December 2015.
Directors
The names and biographies of the current Directors of the Company are 
set out on pages 40 and 41 of this Annual Report.
Directors’ share interests
Particulars of the number of Ordinary Shares of the Company in which 
the Directors were beneficially interested on 31 December 2015 and at 
31 December 2014 are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 50 – 61.
Directors’ indemnities
The articles permit the Board to grant the Directors indemnities in 
relation to their duties as Directors, including third party indemnity 
provisions (within the meaning of the Companies Act) in respect of any 
liabilities incurred by them in connection with any negligence, default, 
breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the Company. No such 
indemnities have to date been granted.
Compensation for loss of office
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or 
employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment 
that occurs as a result of a takeover bid. Further details of the Directors’ 
service contracts can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 50 – 61.
Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance
Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance cover is in place at the date of 
this report. The Board remains satisfied that an appropriate level of 
cover is in place and a review of cover takes place on an annual basis.
Significant agreements: change of control
We have eight major contracts within the Servelec Group which contain 
clauses that give the corresponding customers the right to terminate in 
the event of a change of control subsequent to a takeover bid. Four of 
these contracts are with Servelec Health & Social Care, one is with 
Servelec Controls and the remaining contracts are with Servelec 
Technologies. For three of these contracts the customer’s right of 
termination subsists for a period of no longer than six months 
(post-takeover) following which the right to terminate expires. In three 
of the contracts, the right to terminate is conditional upon the customer 
exercising its discretion on reasonable grounds.
As disclosed in the Remuneration Report page 55, the Chief Executive 
Officer’s notice period extends from 12 months to 24 months following 
a change of control of the Company.
The Company does not have any agreements with any Non-Executive 
Director, Executive Director or employee that would provide 
compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a change 
of control.
Articles of association
The Articles of Association (adopted by special resolution on 18 October 
2013) may only be amended by special resolution of the shareholders. A 
copy of the articles is available on request from the Company Secretary.
Share capital: structure, rights and restrictions
Details of the Company’s share capital are set out in note 24 to the 
Financial Statements on page 92 . The Company has a single class of 
share capital divided into Ordinary Shares of £0.18 each. The Ordinary 
Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. The rights and 
obligations attaching to these shares are governed by UK law and the 
Company’s Articles of Association.
Voting rights attaching to shares
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and 
speak at any general meeting of the Company. On a show of hands 
every shareholder present in person or by proxy (or being a corporation 
represented by a duly authorised representative) shall have one vote, 
and on a poll every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy 
shall have one vote for every share held. The Notice of Annual General 
Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing 
a proxy or proxies.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights attaching to shares
The Articles provide a deadline for the submission of proxy forms 
(whether by an instrument in writing or electronically) of not less than 
48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or 
the adjourned meeting.
Shares in uncertificated form
Directors may determine that shares may be held in uncertificated form 
and title to such shares may be transferred by means of a relevant 
system or that shares should be cease to be so held and transferred. 63
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Variation of rights attaching to shares
The articles provide that rights attached to any class of shares may  
be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than 
three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares, or with the 
sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of 
the holders of those shares. At every such separate general meeting, 
the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at 
least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares (calculated 
excluding any shares held in treasury). The rights conferred upon the 
holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in 
the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the 
creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Restrictions on voting rights attaching to shares 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares  
other than:
• the standard restrictions for a UK-quoted company set out in article 
17.5 of the Articles of Association; 
• where, from time to time, certain restrictions may become imposed 
by laws and regulations (for example, insider trading laws); and
• pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority 
whereby certain Directors, officers and employees of the Company 
require the approval of the Company to deal in the Ordinary Shares.
No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights as to the control 
of the Company. There are no limitations on the holding of securities. 
There are no restrictions on voting rights or any arrangements by which, 
with the Company’s co-operation, financial rights carried by securities 
are held by a person other than the holder of the securities. There are  
no agreements between holders of securities that are known to  
the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of  
voting rights.
Authority to purchase own shares
By a resolution at the AGM on 28 April 2015, the Directors were 
authorised to purchase up to 10% of its issued Ordinary Share capital  
as at the date of admission to listing. This authority will expire at the 
Annual General Meeting in 2016 at which a resolution to renew the 
authority for a further year will be proposed. No shares have been 
purchased by the Company in the last twelve months.
As at 1 March 2016, being the latest practicable date prior to the 
publication of this report, the Company did not hold any shares  
in treasury.
Appointment and replacement of Directors
Unless determined by ordinary resolution of the Company, the number 
of Directors shall not be less than two or more than ten in number.  
A Director is not required to hold any shares in the Company by way  
of qualification.
The Board may appoint any person to be a Director and such Director 
shall hold office only until the next AGM, when he or she shall be eligible 
for appointment by the shareholders. The articles provide that at each 
AGM, one-third of the Directors for the time being (or, if their number  
is not a multiple of three, then the number nearest to but not less than 
one-third) shall retire from office. A Director who retires at any AGM 
shall be eligible for re-appointment. In addition, any director appointed 
by the Board shall hold office only until the next following AGM and 
shall then be eligible for appointment.
Power of Directors
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given  
by special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed  
by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company to,  
for example, borrow money; mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, 
property and uncalled capital; and issue debentures and other 
securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, 
liability or obligation of the Company.
Greenhouse gas emissions
The Company’s disclosures on greenhouse gas emissions can be found 
in the CSR section of the Strategic Report on page 38 and form part of 
the Directors’ Report.
Employment policies
Arrangements for consulting and involving Group employees on 
matters affecting their interests at work, and informing them of the 
performance of their employing business and the Group, are developed 
in ways appropriate to each business. A variety of approaches is 
adopted aimed at encouraging the involvement of employees in 
effective communication and consultation, and the contribution of 
productive ideas at all levels.
Employment policies are designed to provide equal opportunities 
irrespective of race, caste, national origin, religion, age, disability, 
gender, marital status, sexual orientation or political affiliation.  
Group policy is to ensure that disabled applicants for employment  
are given full and fair consideration having regard to their particular 
aptitudes and abilities, and that existing disabled employees are given 
equal access to training, career development and promotion 
opportunities. In the event of existing employees becoming disabled,  
all reasonable means would be explored to achieve retention in 
employment in the same or an alternative capacity, including arranging 
appropriate training. Further details in relation to the Group’s 
Employment policy is set out in the CSR section of the Strategic Report 
on page 36 .
Political donations
The Company has made no political donations during 2014 and intends 
to continue its policy of not doing so for the foreseeable future.
Major interests in shares
As at 31 December 2015, the Company had been advised, in accordance 
with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct 
Authority, of the following notifiable interests (whether directly or 
indirectly held) in 3% or more of its voting rights:
Notification received from
Number of
voting rights %
Schroders plc 12,933,509 18.638
Strategic Equity Capital 5,946,927 8.57
Henderson Global Investors 4,710,293 6.78
Legal & General Group Plc 3,853,612 5.54
Invesco Limited 3,726,329 5.37
NFU Mutual Insurance Society Ltd 3,482,200 5.02
Old Mutual Plc 2,642,840 3.81
SFM UK Management LLP 2,218,652 3.24
Since the year end there have been the following significant changes:
Notification received from
Number of
voting rights % 
Aviva plc 2,305,000 3.32 64
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Directors’ report Continued
Audit information
Each of the Directors at the date of the approval of this report confirms 
that:
• so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which 
the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
• he has taken all the reasonable steps that he ought to have taken as 
a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of  
the information.
The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with 
the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditors
The Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to 
continue in office and a resolution seeking to reappoint them will be 
proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual general meeting
The Company’s Annual General Meeting will be held at Thursday  
28 April 2016 at 9.30am, at the offices of Investec Plc, 2 Gresham Street, 
London, EC2V 7QN. Details of the meeting venue and the resolutions  
to be proposed are set out in a separate Notice of Meeting which 
accompanies the Annual Report. The Directors consider that all of the 
proposed resolutions are in the best interests of the Company and its 
shareholders as a whole. It is the Directors’ recommendation that you 
support the proposed resolutions and vote in favour of them, as each  
of the Directors intends to do.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. In making this assessment they 
have considered the Company and Group budgets, and cash flow 
forecasts for the period to December 2016. The Company has 
considerable financial resources, negligible liquidity risk and is operating 
within a sector that is experiencing relatively stable demand for its 
products. The Directors therefore have a reasonable expectation that 
the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual 
financial statements.
The Directors have also considered the viability of the Company over a 
three year period as reported on page 34.
Post Balance Sheet Event
On 1 March 2016, Servelec Group agreed to purchase the Synergy 
business from Tribal Group Plc (see Note 29).
The Directors’ Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of 
Servelec Group plc.
Signed on behalf of the Board.
Richard Last
Chairman and Non-Executive Director
1 March 2016 65
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  
in relation to the Group financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable United 
Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union.
Under Company Law the Directors must not approve the Group 
Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly 
the financial position of the Group and the financial performance and 
cash flows of the Group for that period. In preparing the Group Financial 
Statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 
’Accounting Policies, Change in Accounting Estimates and Errors’ 
and then apply them consistently;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information;
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions 
on the Group’s financial position and financial performance;
• state that the Group has complied with IFRSs, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial 
Statements; and
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 
fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Strategic Report, 
Directors’ Report, the Directors Remuneration Report, the Audit 
Committee Report and the Corporate Governance Statement in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable regulations, 
including the requirements of the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
Each of the Directors listed on pages 40 – 41, confirms that to the best 
of their knowledge:
• the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as 
adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair review of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and results of Servelec and its 
subsidiaries included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
• the Strategic Report (including the business model, the strategy, 
the business reviews, the divisional reviews, the risk management 
report and corporate Social Responsibility report) and the Directors’ 
Report (including the Corporate Governance Reports) include a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of Servelec and its subsidiaries included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that they face; and
• the Report (including the Financial Statements), taken as a whole, 
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for Shareholders to assess and provide Servelec’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
Signed on behalf of the Board
AR Stubbs MG Cane
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 66
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Our opinion on the financial statements
In our opinion:
• Servelec Group plc’s Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements (the “financial statements”) give a true and fair 
view of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice, including FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
Servelec plc’s financial statements comprise:
Group Parent company
Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 Balance sheet as at 31 December 2015
Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Related notes i to xiv to the financial statements
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Statement of comprehensive income for the year then 
ended
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended
Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended
Related notes 1 to 29 to the financial statements
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice), including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”.
Overview of our audit approach
Risks of material 
misstatement
• Revenue Recognition relating to long-term contracts. 
• Revenue Recognition relating to product sales. 
Audit scope • We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 6 components and audit procedures on specific balances 
for a further 2 components.
• The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 101% of profit before tax (2014: 
101%), 97% of re venue (2014: 95%), and 99% of total assets (2014: 100%).
• For the remaining components we have performed review and other procedures as appropriate.
Materiality • Overall Group materiality of £670,000 which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Servelec Group plc  67
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement 
We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of 
resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team. In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were 
designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk
What we concluded to the 
Audit Committee
Revenue recognition: 
long-term contract 
accounting
Refer to page 48 (Audit 
Committee Report) and page 
76 (notes). 
We focused on this area as 
revenue recognised from 
long-term contracts makes up 
approximately three quarters 
of the total Group revenue. 
Further, the timing of revenue 
recognition has inherent 
complexities when 
accounting for long-term 
contracts, as recognition 
relies on estimates of the 
costs to complete for each 
project. 
As such, there is the potential 
for error and for management 
to manipulate of the timing of 
revenue recognition.
With the exception of newly acquired entities (determined as entities acquired with in 
the previous 24 months), we performed audit procedures on the internal financial 
controls in place on all in scope entities to ensure the appropriate determination of the 
percentage completion of each contract. For newly acquired entities, being 1 of the 8 
in scope locations, we did not test controls and instead performed additional test of 
transactions, applying a lower testing threshold. This was assessed as the most 
effective audit approach whilst the entity is transitioned into the Group.
For all in scope entities, we performed analytical review procedures, which included 
comparing costs incurred, sales invoices raised and margins per contract to that at 
prior year. We met with the project manager for each significant contract to 
understand the progress during the period, the risk areas associated with each 
contract, appropriateness of forecast costs to complete including any contingency 
provisions, and comparison of margins and forecasts to the prior year position.  
All key terms were agreed to the contract for each significant contract.
We performed detailed tests of transactions, agreeing a sample of costs and income 
back to supporting evidence, such as invoices and contractual billing schedule. We also 
ensured that management’s policies and processes for making these estimates 
continue to be appropriate and are applied consistently to all contracts through our 
test of contract management controls and discussions held with Group management 
and project managers. We challenged and applied professional scepticism to 
judgements and accounting treatments made by management arising from 
contractual disputes and other risks. We recalculated forecast margin, work in progress 
and revenue for all contracts to ensure that the calculations were correctly performed 
and in line with the Group’s accounting policies as well as the requirements of IFRS.
We consider these to be the key judgemental areas driving the recognition of revenue 
and margins in respect of long term contracts. 
Based on our audit 
procedures we concluded 
that revenue is appropriately 
recognised in accordance 
with IAS 11 and IAS 18. 
Revenue recognised from long-term contracts makes up approximately 85%  
of the total Group revenue. 
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in  
8 locations, which covered 95% of the risk amount. 
Other procedures are performed on the remaining balance as discussed in  
”The scope of our audit” section of this report.
Revenue recognition:  
product sales
Refer to page 48 (Audit 
Committee Report) and page 
76 (notes). 
Revenue recognised from 
product sales makes up 
approximately one quarter of 
the total Group revenue. 
There is a risk concerning 
inappropriate revenue 
recognition when the risks 
and rewards of the product 
have not yet passed to the 
customer and revenue is 
recognised.
The component auditors carried out a fully substantive audit approach, which 
consisted of overall analytical review procedures on monthly revenue and margin 
analysis by product line and other substantive procedures. The other procedures 
performed included cut-off testing, review of credit notes raised post year end and 
detailed test of transactions back to supporting evidence.
We reviewed and discussed the planned approach to test revenue recognition with the 
component auditors. We reviewed the results of the testing performed and discussed 
further with the component auditors as deemed necessary. For the location 
designation full scope, we attended the audit closing meeting and reviewed the audit 
working papers to verify that the audit procedures carried out on revenue testing were 
in line with the approach agreed in order to address the significant risk identified.
Based on our audit 
procedures we concluded 
that revenue is appropriately 
recognised in accordance 
with IAS 18.
Revenue recognised from product sales makes up approximately 15% of the total 
Group revenue.
The component auditors performed full and specific scope audit procedures over 
this risk area in 2 locations, which covered 74% of the risk amount. 
Other procedures are performed on the remaining balance as discussed in  
”The scope of our audit” section of this report.
In the prior year, our auditor’s report included a risk of material misstatement in relation to Accounting for the acquisition of Corelogic. In the 
current year, this was no longer designated as a risk of material misstatement. 68
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
The scope of our audit 
Tailoring the scope
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each  
entity within the Group. Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We take into account size,  
risk profile, the organisation of the group, changes in the business environment and other factors when assessing the level of work to be performed 
at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of 
significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 14 reporting components of the Group, we selected 8 components covering entities  
within UK, Belgium and Australia, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 8 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 6 components (“full scope components”) which 
were selected based on their size or risk characteristics. For the remaining 2 components (“specific scope components”), we performed audit 
procedures on specific accounts within those components that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts 
in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile. The audit scope of these components may not have 
included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant tested for the Group. 
We consider revenue, profit before tax excluding non-recurring items and total assets to be key measures for the Group. 
2015 2014
Number of components subject to full audits 6 5
Number of components subject to specific scope audit procedures 2 2
Coverage of revenue from full scope components 93% 88%
Coverage of revenue from specific scope components 4% 7%
Coverage of revenue from full and specific scope components 97% 95%
Coverage of profit before tax excluding non-recurring items from full scope components 101% 101%
Coverage of profit before tax excluding non-recurring items from specific scope components 0% 0%
Coverage of profit before tax excluding non-recurring items from full and specific scope components 101% 101%
Coverage of total assets from full scope components 93% 87%
Coverage of total assets from specific scope components 6% 2%
Coverage of total assets from full and specific scope components 99% 89%
Of the remaining 6 components that together represent -1% of the Group’s profit before tax, none are individually greater than 1% of the Group’s 
profit before tax. For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation journals and 
intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group 
financial statements.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
Proﬁt before tax Revenue Total assets
101% Full 
scope 
components
0% Speciﬁc 
scope 
components
-1% Other 
procedures
93% Full scope 
components
4% Speciﬁc 
scope 
components
3% Other 
procedures
93% Full scope 
components
6% Speciﬁc 
scope 
components
1% Other 
procedures
Involvement with component teams 
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components 
by us, as the group audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other firms operating under our instruction. 
Of the 6 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on 5 of these directly by the primary audit team. For the specific scope 
component, as the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine 
that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Servelec Group plc
Continued 69
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or  
his designate visits each full scope location at least once every other year on a rotational basis. During the current year’s audit cycle, visits were 
undertaken by the primary audit team to the component team in Belgium, being the only full scope location not audited by the primary team.  
This visit involved:
• Discussing the audit approach and the relevant financial statement risks with the component team;
• Meeting with local management and attending the closing meeting; and
• Reviewing key audit working papers on the relevant financial statement risk areas.
The group team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working 
papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process. This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group 
level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in 
forming our audit opinion.
Materiality
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £670,000 (2014: £550,000), which is 5% (2014: 5%) of profit before tax excluding non-recurring 
items. We believe that profit before tax excluding non-recurring items of £nil (2014: £410,000) provides us with most relevant measure of Group 
profitability. 
Performance materiality
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level. It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability 
that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, our judgement was that 
performance materiality was 75% (2014: 75%) of our planning materiality , namely £502,000 (2014: £413,000). We have set performance materiality 
at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit that indicate a lower risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based 
on a percentage of total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of  
the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component. In the current year, the range of 
performance materiality allocated to components was £88,000 to £327,000 (2014: £82,500 to £390,000). 
Reporting threshold
An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of £33,500 (2014: £27,500), which is 
set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant 
qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that  
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with,  
the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 65, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with 
the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and 
the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.  70
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
ISAs (UK and 
Ireland) reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the 
annual report is: 
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the 
Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or 
• otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our 
knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors’ statement that they 
consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entity’s performance, business 
model and strategy; and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we 
communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
We have no 
exceptions to report.
Companies Act 
2006 reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate 
for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no 
exceptions to report.
Listing rules 
review 
requirements
We are required to review:
• the directors’ statement, set out on page 65, in relation to going concern; and
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance with the 
ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have no 
exceptions to report.
Statement on the Directors’ Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity
ISAs (UK and 
Ireland) reporting
We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw 
attention to in relation to:
• the directors’ confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment 
of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity;
• the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being 
managed or mitigated;
• the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate 
to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any 
material uncertainties to the entity’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve 
months from the date of approval of the financial statements; and
• the directors’ explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the 
entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, 
and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able 
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, 
including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing 
material to add or to 
draw attention to.
Stuart Watson 
Senior statutory auditor
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Statutory Auditor
Leeds
1 March 2016
Notes:
1. The maintenance and integrity of the Servelec Group PLC web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of 
these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on 
the web site.
2. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Servelec Group plc
Continued 71
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Group income statement
For the year ended 31 December
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Revenue 3,4 63,095 51,753
Cost of sales (32,815) (28,306)
Gross profit 30,280 23,447
Selling and distribution expenses (2,427) (1,875)
Administration and other expenses before amortisation (12,328) (10,191)
EBITA* 15,525 11,381
Amortisation on acquired intangible assets (2,130) (874)
Operating profit from continuing operations 6 13,395 10,507
Finance costs 11 (68) (9)
Finance income 10 37 92
Profit before taxation from continuing operations 13,364 10,590
Income tax expense 12 (1,466) (1,897)
Profit for the financial period 11,898 8,693
Earnings per share:
Basic earnings per share for continuing operations 8 17.1p 12.7p
Diluted earnings per share for continuing operations 16.7p 12.5p
* EBITA equals operating profit from continuing operations excluding acquired intangible amortisation.
Group statement of comprehensive income
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit for the financial period 11,898 8,693
Other comprehensive income to be reclassified through the income statement
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (233) (909)
Total comprehensive income for the financial period, net of tax 11,665 7,784 72
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Group statement of financial position
Note
31 Dec 2015
£’000
31 Dec 2014
£’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 13 3,048 2,613
Intangible assets* 14 47,739 47,277
Deferred tax asset 12 270 163
Total non-current assets 51,057 50,003
Current assets
Inventories 16 1,482 1,280
Trade and other receivables 17 22,151 27,674
Cash and cash equivalents 19 9,896 5,960
Total current assets 33,529 34,914
TOTAL ASSETS 84,586 84,917
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Trade and other payables* 20 17,372 24,514
Current corporation tax 285 2,053
Total current liabilities 17,657 26,567
Non-current liabilities
Provisions 21 189 324
Deferred tax liabilities 12 2,383 2,734
Total non-current liabilities 2,572 3,058
TOTAL LIABILITIES 20,229 29,625
Equity shareholders’ funds
Share capital 24 12,491 12,491
Share premium 24 3,563 3,563
Share-based payment reserve 25 1,173 546
Currency translation reserve (1,069) (836)
Retained earnings 48,199 39,528
Total equity shareholders’ funds 64,357 55,292
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 84,586 84,917
* Comparatives have been restated as a result of a hindsight adjustment for a business combination (note 27).
Approved by the Board on 1 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
AR Stubbs MG Cane
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 73
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Group statement of changes in equity
Note
Share capital
£’000
Share 
premium
£’000
Share-based
payment 
reserve
£’000
Currency 
translation 
reserve
£’000
Retained 
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance as at 1 January 2014 12,300 754 41 73 31,859 45,027
Profit for the period – – – – 8,693 8,693
Other comprehensive income – – – (909) – (909)
Share-based payments 25 – – 434 – – 434
Tax on share-based payments – – 71 – – 71
Issue of shares 24 191 2,809 – – – 3,000
Dividends 9 – – – – (1,024) (1,024)
Balance as at 31 December 2014 12,491 3,563 546 (836) 39,528 55,292
Profit for the period – – – – 11,898 11,898
Other comprehensive income – – – (233) – (233)
Share-based payments 25 – – 626 – – 626
Tax on share-based payments – – 1 – – 1
Issue of shares 24 – – – – – –
Dividends 9 – – – – (3,227) (3,227)
Balance as at 31 December 2015 12,491 3,563 1,173 (1,069) 48,199 64,357 74
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit before tax 13,364 10,590
Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows: 
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 13 852 405
Share based payment expenses 25 626 434
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 14 2,207 929
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment – –
Finance income 10 (37) (92)
Finance costs 11 68 9
Movement in provisions 21 (135) (205)
Working capital adjustments
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables and prepayments 6,043 2,580
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (202) (196)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables (3,195) 2,907
Cash flows from operating activities 19,591 17,361
Interest received 37 92
Interest paid (68) (9)
Income tax paid (3,814) (2,699)
Net cash flows from operating activities 15,746 14,745
Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangibles (1,382) (1,316)
Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking net of cash acquired 27 (84) (13,322)
Net cash flows from investing activities (1,466) (14,638)
Financing activities
Repayments of loans (6,901) –
Dividends paid (3,227) (1,024)
Proceeds from the issue of shares – –
Net cash flows from financing activities (10,128) (1,024)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 4,152 (917)
Net foreign exchange difference (216) (661)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of period 5,960 7,538
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 9,896 5,960
Cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December 75
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
1. General information
The principal activities of Servelec Group plc (“Company”) and its subsidiaries (together “the Group”) are the design, manufacture, installation and 
commissioning of patient record systems, social care case management software, process automation systems, wide area Telemetry systems 
including pipeline control systems, management information systems and the development, manufacture and sale of electronic and 
microprocessor monitoring equipment.
Servelec Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom with company number 3098411. The registered 
office is located at Rotherside Road, Sheffield, S21 4HL. The Company wholly owns the subsidiaries listed in note 26, which together form Servelec 
Group plc (“the Group”). The historical financial information presented in the financial statements is at and for the years ended 31 December 2015 
and 31 December 2014 and comprises a consolidation of the financial information of Servelec Group plc and all of its subsidiaries.
2. Summary of significant accounting policies
The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the Group financial information for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 
are set out below. These accounting policies have been consistently applied in all material respects to all the periods presented. The financial 
statements are presented in Sterling (£’000).
Basis of preparation
The consolidated historical financial information has been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS),  
as adopted for use in the European Union. The financial information has been prepared based on those standards and using the principal 
accounting policies outlined below.
The financial information has been prepared on a historical cost basis, excepted where stated otherwise.
The financial information has been presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand (£’000) unless otherwise stated and has been prepared 
on a going concern basis.
The statement of financial position has been categorised into current and non-current items in accordance with IAS 1 ’Presentation of Financial 
Statements’. To aid clarity, a number of items have been summarised both in the balance sheet and in the income statement. These are discussed 
in detail in the notes to the financial statements.
New standards and interpretations 
There are no IFRS or IFRIC interpretations effective for the first time this financial year that have had a material impact on the Group.
Adoption of new and revised standards
The directors also considered the impact on the Group of other new and revised accounting standards, interpretations or amendments.  
The following revised and new accounting standards may have a material impact on the Group are currently issued but not yet effective  
for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015:
• IFRS 15, “R evenue from Contracts with Customers” (effective date 1 January 2018)
• IFRS 16, “Leases” (effective date 1 January 2019)
• IFRS 9, “Financial Instruments” (effective date 1 January 2018)
The Group is in the process of assessing the impact that the application of these standards will have on the Group’s financial statements. 
Going concern
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the financial 
statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Further information in relation to the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 38.
Note 23 to the financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management 
objectives and its exposure to foreign exchange, credit and interest rate risk. Further details of the Group’s cash balances are included in note 19  
of the financial statements.
The Directors have assessed the future funding requirements of the Group and the Company and compared them to the level of cash in the 
business. The assessment included a detailed review of financial and cash flow forecasts for at least the 12-month period from the date of signing 
the Annual Report. The Directors considered a range of potential scenarios within the key markets the Group serves and how these might impact 
on the Group’s cash flow. The Directors also considered what mitigating actions the Group could take to limit any adverse consequences.  
The Group’s forecasts and projections show that the Group should be able to operate without the need for any borrowing facilities.
Having undertaken this work, the Directors are of the opinion that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Notes to the financial statements 76
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Consolidation
The financial information comprises a consolidation of the financial information of Servelec Group plc and all its subsidiaries. The financial 
statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control. The Group controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns 
from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. Thus, the Group controls an 
investee if and only if the Group has all of the following: power over the investee; exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with 
the investee; and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of the investor’s returns. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated 
from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses resulting from intra-group transactions and dividends are eliminated in full.
Segment information
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker. The chief 
operating decision maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segment has been identified  
as the main Board of Directors.
Revenue
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured, 
regardless of when payment is being made. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, taking into account 
contractually defined terms of payment and excluding taxes or duty.
Rendering of services
Revenue from the rendering of services is recognised with reference to the stage of completion. Stage of completion is measured by reference  
to costs incurred to date as a percentage of total estimated costs. Revenue on short-term projects is recognised once the service has been fully 
delivered to the client.
Sale of goods
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer,  
usually on delivery of the goods.
Long-term contracts
In the case of long-term contracts, revenue reflects the value of contract activity during the year in proportion to the costs incurred to date. 
Long-term contracts are valued at cost plus attributable profit less foreseeable losses. Attributable profit is included when the outcome of a 
contract can be assessed with reasonable certainty. The value of long-term contracts is accounted for within revenue and the excess of this value 
over payments received on account is included in receivables. Payments received on account in excess of this value are included in payables.
Licence income
Licences charged to customers for the use of proprietary software are assessed on a contract by contract basis and depending on the terms are 
either taken on delivery or spread on a usage basis over the term of the contract.
Interest income
For all financial instruments measured at amortised cost, interest income is recorded using the effective interest rate (EIR). EIR is the rate that 
exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments or receipts over the expected life of the financial instrument or a shorter period, where 
appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or liability. Interest income is included in finance income in the income statement.
Foreign currency
Functional and presentation currency
The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is also the parent company’s functional currency. For each  
entity the Group determines the functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured using that 
functional currency.
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the company operates.
Transactions and balances
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate ruling at the date of the 
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling  
at the balance sheet date. All differences are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of 
the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when 
the fair value was determined.
Notes to the financial statements 
Continued 77
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Group companies
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation are translated into Sterling at 
the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Income and expenses are translated at exchange rates ruling at the time of the transaction. 
The resulting exchange differences are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. Such cost includes  
the cost of replacing part of the property, plant and equipment and borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if the recognition criteria 
are met.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets over the estimated useful lives on the following bases:
• Plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings 10-25% per annum
• Motor vehicles 25% per annum
• Freehold property 2% per annum
The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at the end of each reporting period 
and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate. The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes 
in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part is derecognised upon disposal or where no future economic benefits are 
expected to arise from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in the income statement when the asset is derecognised.
Intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired 
subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in ’intangible assets’. Goodwill is tested annually for 
impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Gains and losses on the 
disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s 
cash generating units (’CGUs’) that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree 
are assigned to those units.
Computer software and licences
Third party software licences purchased and software recognised when acquired as part of a business combination are amortised in equal amounts 
over a period of 5 to 7 years, which is estimated to be their useful life.
Customer relationships
Intangible assets classified as customer relationships are recognised when acquired as part of a business combination and are measured initially  
at fair value. Customer relationships are amortised evenly over their expected useful lives of 10 to 15 years.
Order backlog
Intangible assets classified as order backlog are recognised when acquired as part of a business combination and are measured initially at fair value. 
Order backlogs are amortised evenly over their expected useful lives of between 1 and 6 years.
Research and development costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditures are capitalised and recognised as an intangible asset when the Group  
can demonstrate: 
• it is technically feasible to complete the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale;
• its intention to complete and use or sell the asset;
• how the asset will generate probable future economic benefits;
• adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset; and
• the ability to reliably measure the expenditure during development.
Costs that qualify for capitalisation include both internal and external costs, but are limited to those that are directly related to the specific project. 
Development costs are included at capitalised costs less accumulated amortisation and any recognised impairment loss.
Amortisation is calculated to write down the cost of the asset on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which range from up to  
5 years. Useful lives are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted if appropriate. 78
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Impairment of non-financial assets
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable 
amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Where the asset does not generate cash 
flows that are independent from other assets, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit (CGU) to which the 
asset belongs. For tangibles and intangibles the allocation is made to those CGU units that are expected to benefit from the asset.
Any impairment charge is recognised in the income statement in the period in which it occurs. Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses 
due to a change in the original estimate, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount.
 
Financial instruments
Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or 
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months 
after the end of the reporting date. These are classified as non-current assets. The Company’s loans and receivables comprise ’trade and other 
receivables’ and cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position. Subsequent to initial recognition, these assets are carried at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Financial liabilities
The Company initially recognises its financial liabilities at fair value and subsequently they are measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
Impairment of financial assets
An assessment of whether there is objective evidence of impairment is carried out for all financial assets at the balance sheet date.  
This assessment may be of individual assets (’individual impairment’) or of a portfolio of assets (’collective impairment’). A financial asset is 
considered to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of 1 or more events that occurred after the initial 
recognition of the asset (a ’loss event’) and that loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset that 
can be reliably estimated.
For individual impairment the principal loss event is 1 or more missed payments, although other loss events can also be taken into account, 
including arrangements in place to pay less than the contractual payments, fraud and bankruptcy or other financial difficulty indicators.  
An assessment of collective impairment will be made of financial assets with similar risk characteristics. For these assets, portfolio loss  
experience is used to provide objective evidence of impairment.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the charge to the income statement reflects the movement in the level of provisions made,  
together with amounts written off net of recoveries in the period.
Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Company’s financial statements in the period in which the 
dividends are approved by the Board of Directors. Dividends are paid at the discretion of the Board of Directors.
Share-based payments
The Group operates equity settled, share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant  
of the options is calculated using a Black-Scholes pricing model and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period. The total amount to be 
expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options or performance shares granted. At each balance sheet 
date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable. It recognises the impact of the revision of 
original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period. No expense is 
recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest except for awards where vesting is conditional upon market or non-vesting conditions which are 
treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied provided that all other performance or service 
conditions are satisfied.
Pensions
The Group operate a defined contribution scheme. Assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the company in independently 
administered funds. The amount charged against profits represents the contribution payable to the schemes in respect of the financial period.
Leases
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at its inception date.  
The arrangement is assessed for whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent upon the use of a specific asset or assets or the  
arrangement conveys the right to use the asset or assets, even if that right is not explicitly specified in an arrangement.
Operating leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.  
Operating lease payments are recognised as an operating expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Notes to the financial statements  
Continued 79
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position comprise cash at bank, short-term deposits held at call with banks and other 
short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of 3 months or less, and bank overdrafts. In the balance sheet, bank overdrafts  
are shown as borrowings in current liabilities.
Current taxation
Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the 
taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantially enacted by the balance 
sheet date.
Income tax relating to items recognised in comprehensive income or directly in equity is recognised in comprehensive income or equity and not  
in the income statement.
Deferred taxation
Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of  
assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, with the following exceptions:
• where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
• in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future; and
• deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which deductible 
temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the 
liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Discontinued operations
The Group classifies non-current assets and disposal groups as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered principally through a sale 
transaction rather than through continuing use. Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of 
their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. The criteria for held for sale classification is regarded as met only when the sale is highly 
probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale, 
which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Discontinued operations are excluded from the results of continuing operations and are presented as a single amount as profit or loss after tax 
from discontinued operations in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are not depreciated or amortised once classified as held for sale. 80
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Business combinations and goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the 
consideration transferred measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. For each business 
combination, the Group elects whether to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate share of the 
acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and included in administrative expenses.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-
controlling interests over the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If the consideration transferred is less than the fair value of  
the net assets acquired, the gain is recognised directly in the income statement.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in 
accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation  
of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the previously held equity interest is remeasured at its acquisition date fair value and any 
resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Contingent consideration 
classified as an asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: R ecognition and Measurement, 
is measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income. If the contingent 
consideration is not within the scope of IAS 39, it is measured in accordance with the appropriate IFRS. Contingent consideration that is classified 
as equity is not remeasured and subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent 
liabilities. Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount 
of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
Estimates and assumptions
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have a significant risk of 
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are described below. The Group based 
its assumptions and estimates on parameters available when the financial statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and assumptions 
about future developments, however, may change due to market changes or circumstances beyond the control of the Group. Such changes are 
reflected in the assumptions when they occur.
Contract costs
As set out in the revenue recognition accounting policy note, revenue from long-term contracts is recognised in proportion to the costs incurred  
to date. Costs to complete on contracts are based on management estimates and are reviewed on a monthly basis for appropriateness. Changes to 
estimates can result in variations in the percentage complete of a contract and therefore the amounts charged to the Group’s income statement.
Business combinations
As set out in the business combinations and goodwill accounting policy note, intangible assets and goodwill is calculated based on management 
estimates of fair value calculated with reference to the information available at the time.
Exceptional items
The Group discloses exceptional items in a separate note (note 7) being those material items of income and expense which, because of the nature 
and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements 
of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better trends in financial performance.
3. Revenue
Revenue recognised in the income statement is analysed as follows:
2015
£’000
2014 
£’000
Sale of goods 8,567 11,780
Rendering of services 20,600 7,215
Long-term contracts 33,928 32,758
63,095 51,753
No revenue was derived from exchanges of goods or services.
Notes to the financial statements 
Continued 81
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
4. Segment information
For management purposes, the Group is organised into business units according to the nature of the products and services, and has two divisions 
and three reportable segments as follows:
The Health & Social Care division develops high quality, enterprise-wide systems for implementation across community health, mental health, 
child health, social care and hospital based services. The segment supplies software and IT solutions and services into the healthcare and social 
services markets. It is made up of two business units, Healthcare and Social Care, which have been aggregated as the Board consider that they 
have similar economic characteristics.
The Automation division is made up of two operating segments, Controls and Technologies.
The Controls segment is engaged in the provision of complex, mission critical control and safety systems to the oil and gas, power and  
nuclear industries.
The Technologies segment specialises in wide area telemetry control systems, business optimisation consultancy and remote telemetry units to 
the water, oil and gas and rail industries.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purposes of making decisions about resource allocation and 
performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss, which in certain respects, as explained in the table 
below, is measured differently from operating profit or loss in the consolidated financial statements. This measurement basis excludes the effect  
of central services, non-recurring expenditure, purchased intangible amortisation and group financing costs which are not allocated to  
operating segments.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s-length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
The following tables present revenue and profit information for continuing operations regarding the Group’s business segments for the years 
ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014.
Automation
Year ended 31 December 2015
Servelec 
Health &
Social Care
£’000
Servelec
Controls
£’000
Servelec
Technologies
£’000
Central
£’000
Total
£’000
Segment revenue 32,532 14,421 16,142 – 63,095
Cost of sales (16,347) (8,694) (7,774) – (32,815)
Gross profit 16,185 5,727 8,368 – 30,280
Overheads (4,105) (2,371) (4,897) (2,756) (14,129)
Share-based payments – – – (626) (626)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (note 6, 13) – – – (2,130) (2,130)
Segment operating profit from continuing operations 12,080 3,356 3,471 (5,512) 13,395
Year ended 31 December 2014
Servelec 
Health & 
Social Care
£’000
Automation
Servelec
Controls
£’000
Servelec
Technologies
£’000
Central
£’000
Total
£’000
Segment revenue 16,657 14,998 20,098 – 51,753
Cost of sales (8,029) (9,616) (10,661) – (28,306)
Gross profit 8,628 5,382 9,437 – 23,447
Overheads (1,055) (1,858) (5,582) (2,727) (11,222)
Exceptional costs (note 7) – – – (410) (410)
Share-based payments – – – (434) (434)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (note 6, 13) – – – (874) (874)
Segment operating profit from continuing operations 7,573 3,524 3,855 (4,445) 10,507
Operating assets and liability information are measured on a Group basis and so have not been disclosed at segment level. 82
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
4. Segment information continued
Adjustments and eliminations
Segment profit for each operating segment excludes net finance costs of £68,000 (2014: £9,000). 
Geographical information
Revenue from external customers
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
United Kingdom 51,948 40,765
Europe (excluding UK) 4,123 6,037
Middle East 643 687
Africa 198 549
Far East 4,378 1,076
Australasia 1,547 1,667
North America 258 972
Total 63,095 51,753
Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets and are all located in the United Kingdom .
5. Staff costs
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Wages and salaries 22,473 19,141
Social security costs 2,449 2,358
Pension costs for the defined contribution scheme 1,272 920
Total 26,194 22,419
The average monthly number of employees during the period was made up as follows:
2015 2014
Production 481 403
Marketing, sales and distribution 28 20
Administration 70 46
Total 579 469
6. Group operating profit
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
This is stated after charging/(crediting)
Research and development costs written off 5,532 4,204
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment – owned assets 852 405
Amortisation of intangible assets (included within administration & other expenses) 77 55
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 2,130 874
Total depreciation and amortisation expense 3,059 1,334
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates included in operating costs:
– EY – Audit of Group Financial Statements 55 47
– EY– Audit of Company Subsidiaries 78 75
Total audit 133 122
Audit related assurance services 15 15
Total fees 148 137
Fees payable to the other auditors of the associates included in operating costs:
– Foster Raffan - Audit services 30 10
– Foster Raffan - Non-audit services – 11
– BDO 36 13
– Ellacotts 9 –
– Bullimores 13 –
Net loss on foreign currency translation (52) (91)
Operating lease rentals payable 1,109 782
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense (note 16) 35 41
Notes to the financial statements 
Continued 83
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
7. Exceptional items
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Recognised in arriving at operating profit from continuing operations:
Acquisition costs (note 27) – 310
Aborted acquisition costs – 100
Total exceptional items – 410
During the year the Group did not incur any material costs (2014: £410,000) in respect of successful and aborted acquisitions.
8. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted 
average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic earnings per share computation:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent 11,898 8,693
Thousands Thousands
Basic weighted average number of shares 69,394 68,387
Dilutive potential Ordinary Shares 1,697 1,417
Diluted weighted average number of shares 71,091 69,804
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 17.1p 12.7p
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 16.7p 12.5p
The following transactions involving ordinary shares has occurred since the reporting date and the date of completion of the historical information
18 January 2016
111 new ordinary shares issued under the Company’s SAYE scheme.
16,273 new ordinary shares issued by way of satisfaction of deferred consideration of the acquisition of Aura Healthcare Limited (note 27(b)).
9. Dividends paid and proposed
Declared and paid during the year
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Equity dividends on Ordinary Shares
Final dividend for 2014: 3.0p (2013: nil) 2,082 –
Interim dividend for 2015: 1.65p (2014: 1.5p) 1,145 1,024
Dividends paid 3,227 1,024
Final dividend for 2015 of 3.5p per share (2014: 3.0p)
Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM. 
10. Finance income
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Bank interest 34 89
Other interest 3 3
Total interest income for financial assets measured at amortised cost 37 92
11. Finance costs
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Interest on loan notes (59) (7)
Other interest (9) (2)
Total interest expense for financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (68) (9) 84
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
12. Income tax expense
(a) Tax charged in the income statement
2015 
£’000
2014
£’000
Current income tax
UK & foreign corporation tax 3,012 2,364
Amounts overprovided in previous years (968) (319)
Total income tax on continuing operations 2,044 2,045
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary difference (605) (148)
Adjustment in respect of prior periods 27 –
Total deferred tax (578) (148)
Tax expense in the income statement on continuing operations 1,466 1,897
(b) Tax relating to items charged or credited to other comprehensive income
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Deferred tax
Tax on share based payments 1 71
Total deferred tax 1 71
Tax expense in the statement of other comprehensive income 1 71
(c) Reconciliation of income tax credit/charge
The income tax expense in the income statement for the period differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.25%, (2014: 21.5%). The 
differences are reconciled below:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit before taxation from continuing operations 13,364 10,590
Tax on profit on ordinary activities at 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) 2,706 2,277
Expenses not allowable for tax purposes 383 133
Income not taxable (29) –
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (941) (318)
R&D tax credits (312) (175)
Losses arising in period not recognised (28) –
Other timing differences (183) (20)
Other (130) –
Total tax expense reported in the income statement 1,466 1,897
The large companies rates was reduced to 20% from 1 April 2015. Finance (No. 2) Act 2015 received Royal Assent on 26 October 2015 and enacted a 
reduction in the main rate of corporation tax to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 18% from 1 April 2020. Deferred tax has provided at relevant rates 
dependent upon the timings of reversal. 
(d) Deferred tax
Deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows:
31 Dec 2015
£’000
31 Dec 2014
£’000
Deferred tax liability
Intangible Assets 2,159 2,643
Accelerated capital allowances 224 91
2,383 2,734
Deferred tax asset
Other timing differences 270 163
Notes to the financial statements  
Continued 85
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
12. Income tax expense continued
(e) Deferred tax in the income statement
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Intangible assets (603) (48)
Deferred tax liability on accelerated capital allowances 132 (27)
Other timing difference (107) (73)
(578) (148)
13. Property, plant and equipment
Freehold 
property
£’000
Motor vehicles
£’000
Plant, 
machinery, 
fixtures & 
fittings
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2014 639 160 2,358 3,157
Acquisitions – – 220 220
Additions – – 1,316 1,316
Disposals – (161) – (161)
Foreign currency adjustment 1 3 (46) (42)
At 31 December 2014 640 2 3,848 4,490
Acquisitions – – 69 69
Additions – – 1,235 1,235
Foreign currency adjustment – (2) (47) (49)
At 31 December 2015 640 – 5,105 5,745
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 January 2014 54 153 1,470 1,677
Charge for the period 13 3 389 405
Disposals – (159) – (159)
Foreign currency adjustment (3) 3 (46) (46)
At 31 December 2014 64 – 1,813 1,877
Charge for the period 13 – 839 852
Foreign currency adjustment – – (32) (32)
At 31 December 2015 77 – 2,620 2,697
Net book value
Freehold
property
£’000
Motor
vehicles
£’000
Plant, 
machinery, 
fixtures & 
fittings
£’000
Total
£’000
At 31 December 2014 576 2 2,035 2,613
At 31 December 2015 563 – 2,485 3,048 86
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
14. Intangible assets
Goodwill
£’000
Licences
£’000
Computer 
software
£’000
Customer 
relationships
£’000
Order 
backlog
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost:
At 1 January 2014 16,399 126 2,158 2,831 689 22,203
Acquisitions (i) 16,750 – 2,214 6,286 1,796 27,046
Additions – 1 11 – – 12
At 31 December 2014 (i) 33,149 127 4,383 9,117 2,485 49,261
Acquisitions 1,926 – 646 – – 2,572
Additions – 85 62 – – 147
At 31 December 2015 35,075 212 5,091 9,117 2,485 51,980
Amortisation
At 1 January 2014 – 49 102 620 334 1,105
Charge for the period – 25 410 439 55 929
At 31 December 2014 – 74 512 1,059 389 2,034
Charge for the period (ii) – 41 928 840 398 2,207
At 31 December 2015 – 115 1,440 1,899 787 4,241
Net book value
Goodwill
£’000
Licences
£’000
Computer
software
£’000
Customer 
relationships
£’000
Order backlog
£’000
Total
£’000
At 31 December 2014 33,149 53 3,871 8,058 2,096 47,227
At 31 December 2015 35,075 97 3,651 7,218 1,698 47,739
(i) Goodwill on acquisitions in 2014 has been restated as a result hindsight adjustment for a business combination (note 27).
(ii) £2,130,0 00 (2014: £874,000) of amortisation in the year relates to acquired intangible assets.
Customer relationships have a remaining amortisation period of 14 years (31 December 2014: 15 years). Computer software has a remaining amortisation 
period of 5 years (31 December 2014: 5 years). Order backlog has a remaining amortisation period of 7 years (31 December 2014: 8 years).
Licences have a remaining amortisation period of 4 years (31 December 2014: 5 years).
15. Impairment test for goodwill
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for annual impairment testing purposes to five cash-generating units, as 
follows:
31 Dec 2015
£’000
31 Dec 2014
£’000
Corelogic 16,750 16,750
Aura 1,926 –
Servelec Systems 456 456
Semaphore 3,819 3,819
Tynemarch 916 916
Controls 11,208 11,208
35,075 33,149
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in use calculations. These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on 
financial budgets approved by management covering a 3-year period extrapolated for a further 2 years assuming annual growth rates of 2% in 
perpetuity. The pre-tax cash flows for the 5-year period have been discounted back to the period end using weighted average costs of capital of 
11.7% to 18.1%. This exercise has confirmed that there is no impairment. Cash flows beyond the 5-year period are extrapolated using the estimated 
growth rates stated in the key assumptions.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations
The calculation of value in use for each of the CGUs is most sensitive to the following assumptions:
• Discount rate  11.7%
• Growth rate 2% from year 4 to perpetuity
• Gross margins in line with current values
Discount rate
Discount rates represent the current market assessment of the risks specific to each CGU, taking into consideration the time value of money and 
individual risks of the underlying assets that have not been incorporated into the cash flow estimates. The discount rate calculation is based on the 
specific circumstances of the Group and its operating segments and is derived from its weighted average cost of capital (WACC).
Management has applied the same assumptions, as noted above, to all CGUs apart from Tynemarch where a discount rate of 18.1% was used.
Notes to the financial statements 
Continued 87
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
15. Impairment test for goodwill continued
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
Corelogic
Corelogic’s recoverable amount currently exceeds its carrying value by £4,395,000.
The value in use of this cash generating unit is approximately equal to its carrying amount if a discount rate of 13.2% is applied to the calculation. 
Other cash generating units 
With regards to the assessment of value in use of the other cash generating units, management believes that no reasonable possible change in  
any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying amount of the unit to materially exceed its recoverable amount.
16. Inventories
31 Dec 2015
£’000
31 Dec 2014
£’000
Raw materials and consumables 480 420
Work in progress 212 256
Finished goods and goods for resale 790 604
Total inventories 1,482 1,280
During the year ended 31 December 2015 £nil (2014: £41,000) was recognised as an expense for inventories carried at net realisable value. This is 
recognised in cost of sales.
All inventories are carried at cost less a provision to take account of slow-moving and obsolete items. Changes in the provision for slow-moving  
and obsolete stock were as follows:
31 Dec 2015
£’000
31 Dec 2014
£’000
At beginning of period 811 928
Acquisitions (35) –
Charged to income – 41
Amount utilised (274) (158)
At end of period 502 811
17. Trade and other receivables
31 Dec 2015
£’000
31 Dec 2014
£’000
Trade receivables 13,389 15,494
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (341) (444)
Trade receivables – net 13,048 15,050
Amounts due from customers for contract work 7,386 11,331
Prepayment and accrued income 999 738
Other debtors 718 555
Total trade and other receivables 22,151 27,674
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on terms of 30 days.
At 31 December 2015, trade receivables of an initial value of £341,000 (31 December 2014: £444,000) were impaired and fully provided for .
See below for the movements in the provision for impairment:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
At 1 January 444 505
Charged for period – –
Utilised (103) (61)
At 31 December 341 444
The ageing analysis of trade receivables was as follows:
31 Dec 2015
£’000
31 Dec 2014
£’000
Neither past due nor Impaired 5,624 9,862
Past Due but not Impaired Less than 30 days 4,166 3,277 
30-60 days 2,001 899
60-90 days 421 613
Greater than 90 days 836 399
13,048 15,050 88
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
18. Contracts in progress
Total income and expense recognised under IAS 11 on contract in progress in the year: 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Costs incurred for the period 23,607 21,206
Recognised profits 30,310 18,767
Contract revenue for the period 53,917 39,973
53,917 39,973
Less progress billing and advances (59,706) (40,751)
(5,789) (778)
Brought forward 9,269 10,047
Carried forward 3,480 9,269
Aggregate amount of costs incurred and recognised profits (less losses) to date 53,917 39,973
Retention asset 12,051 15,010
Advances received (8,837) (5,741)
3,214 9,269
Retention assets are included in trade receivables. Advances are presented as part of amounts due to customers for contract work.
19. Cash and cash equivalents
31 Dec 2015
£’000
31 Dec 2014
£’000
Cash at bank and in hand 2,953 3,161
Cash on short-term deposits 6,943 2,799
Total cash and cash equivalents 9,896 5,960
Cash at bank earns interest at a floating rate based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods, depending on 
the immediate cash requirements of the group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
20. Trade and other payables
31 Dec 2015
£’000
31 Dec 2014
Restated*
£’000
Amounts due to customers for contract work
*
8,837 6,441
Trade creditors 2,383 2,896
Other taxes and social security 2,378 3,074
Other creditors 705 953
Accruals and deferred income 3,069 5,150
Loan notes – 6,000
Total trade and other payables 17,372 24,514
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms and other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average 
term of 2 months.
Loan notes of £6,000,000 in relation to the acquisition of Corelogic were repaid during the year (see note 27).
* Amounts due to customers for contract work has been restated as a result of a hindsight adjustment for a business combination (see note 27).
Notes to the financial statements 
Continued 89
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
21. Provisions
Dilapidations
£’000
Contingent 
Consideration
£’000
Total 
Provisions
As at 1 January 2014 160 360 520
Acquired during the year 9 – 9
Arising during the year 10 – 10
Released during the year – (215) (215)
As at 31 December 2014 179 145 324
Acquired during the year – 50 50
Utilised during the year – (50) (50)
Arising during the year 10 – 10
Released during the year – (145) (145)
As at 31 December 2015 189 – 189
31 Dec
2015
£’000
31 Dec
2014
£’000
Non-current provisions 189 324
Dilapidations
This provision relates to potential dilapidation costs on property leases. The provision is management’s best estimate of potential future costs 
expected to be incurred on exit of the leases, which is not anticipated until 2029 at the earliest.
Contingent consideration
A provision was established for the potential additional costs relating to an earn out on the Tynemarch acquisition – see note 23.
22. Commitments and contingencies
Operating lease commitments
The Company has entered into an operating lease in respect of the Eckington premises of £272,000 per annum (Dec-14 – £240,000). In 2009 the 
company entered a Deed of Variation with the landlord, whereby in exchange for an extension of the existing premises an extension of the lease 
was entered into. The extended lease will expire in 2029 and a rent review was made in October 2010 and every 5 years thereafter. In 2014 
the company entered into an operating lease in respect of the Sheffield city centre premises of £170,000 per annum. The lease expires in 2029, 
has a break clause in 2021 and rent reviews in 2021 and 2024. There are no restrictions placed upon the Company by entering into these leases. 
The lease expenditure charged to the income statement during the 12 months ended 31 December 2015 is £1,109,000 (Dec -14: £782,000). 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 analysed by the period in which the y 
fall due are as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Less than 1 year 1,036 1,034
Between 1 and 5 years 2,667 2,720
More than 5 years 2,321 2,731
6,024 6,485
Capital commitments
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Contracted but not provided – 164
The Company has given counter indemnities amounting to £100,000 (31 December 2014: £122,000) in respect of performance bonds issued by 
banks on behalf of Group companies, in the normal course of business. 90
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
23. Financial instruments and financial risk management objectives and policies
Fair values
The Group’s financial instruments comprise cash and cash equivalents (note 19), trade receivables (note 17) trade payables (note 20) and 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings. The carrying value of these assets and liabilities does not differ materially from their fair value.
Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group is exposed to market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. The Group’s senior management oversees the management of these risks.  
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s management of capital, and the Group’s 
objectives, policies and procedures for measuring and managing risk. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment  
and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework.
Capital risk management
The prime objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains the financial flexibility needed to allow for value-creating 
investments as well as healthy balance sheet ratios.
The Group is profitable and has high cash conversion. As a result capital risk is not significant for the Group and measurement of capital 
management is not a tool used in the internal management reporting procedures of the Group.
The Group currently has no bank loans. Should additional cash be required to fund specific projects or acquisitions the Group would fund short-
term requirements by external borrowings.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.  
Key market risks affecting the Group include interest rate risk and currency risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk include loans  
and borrowings and deposits.
Interest rate risk
The Group has only limited exposure to interest rate risk as it does not have any external borrowings.
Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign 
exchange rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Group’s operating activities  
(when revenue or expense is denominated in a different currency from the Group’s functional currency) and the Group’s net investments in  
foreign subsidiaries.
Exposure to foreign currency risk is monitored by the Finance Department under policies approved by the Board. An assessment of the risks is 
provided to the Board at regular intervals and is discussed to ensure the risk mitigation procedures are compliant with Group policy and that any 
new risks are appropriately managed.
The exposure to a short-term fluctuation in exchange rates on the investment in foreign subsidiaries is not expected to have a material impact on 
the results of the Group.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss. 
The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily for trade receivables) and from its financing activities, including deposits 
with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments.
The Group’s principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables, which represent the Group’s maximum 
exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets. The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade and other receivables.  
The requirement for an impairment is analysed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major customers. Additionally, minor receivables  
are grouped together into homogenous groups and assessed for impairment collectively. The calculation is based on actual historical data.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults. 
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, which is net of impairment losses, represents the Group’s maximum 
exposure to credit risk.
At 31 December 2015 there was no single customer owing a significant proportion of net trade receivables (31 December 2014: £6,594,000 from 
one customer which accounted for approximately 24% of net trade receivables).
Notes to the financial statements 
Continued 91
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
23. Financial instruments and financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Liquidity risk
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the group’s financial liabilities at 31 December 2015 and 2014 based on contractual 
undiscounted payments.
On demand
£’000
Less than 1 
year
£’000
Total
£’000
31 December 2014
Trade and other payables 4,649 19,165 17,814
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – 6,000 6,000
4,649 19,165 23,814
31 December 2015
Trade and other payables 4,760 12,612 17,372
Management review the liquidity position of the Group on a regular basis from KPI and other management information. All liabilities are due  
within 1 year and it is therefore considered unlikely that any would be settled significantly earlier than indicated.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in the 
financial statements.
Carrying amount Fair value
2015
£’000
2014*
£’000
2015
£’000
2014*
£’000
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents 9,896 5,960 9,896 5,960
Trade and other receivables 21,152 26,936 21,152 26,936
Liabilities
Current
Trade and other payables (14,994) (15,440) (14,994) (15,440)
Loan notes – (6,000) – (6,000)
Non-current
Dilapidation provision (189) (179) (189) (179)
Contingent consideration – (145) – (145)
For all financial instruments other than contingent consideration , their carrying amount approximates to fair value. Contingent consideration is a 
level 3 financial instrument under the IFRS 13 hierarchy.
The fair value of contingent consideration has been estimated based on management’s profit projections.
* Trade and other payables restated as a result of a hindsight adjustment (note 27).
Contingent consideration
£’000
Fair value of contingent consideration at 1 January 2015 145
Changes in fair value taken to the profit and loss account* (145)
Fair value of contingent consideration at 31 December 2015 –
* Provision for contingent consideration has been released due to the post acquisition criteria not being satisfied. 92
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
24. Issued capital and reserves
Authorised shares
31 Dec 2015
Thousands
31 Dec 2014
Thousands
Ordinary Shares of 18 pence each 69,394 69,394
Ordinary shares issued and fully paid
31 Dec 2015
Thousands
31 Dec 2015
£’000
31 Dec 2014
Thousands
31 Dec 2014
£’000
Share capital
Shares at beginning of the period 69,394 12,491 68,332 12,300
Shares issued – – 1,062 191
Shares at end of period 69,394 12,491 69,394 12,491
On 15 December 2014, the Group issued 1,061,665 18p shares as part of the consideration for the purchase of the Corelogic Group of companies 
(see note 27).
31 Dec 2015
£’000
31 Dec 2014
£’000
Share premium
Shares at the beginning of the period 3,563 754
Shares issued – 2,809
3,563 3,563
25. Share-based payments
Group executive share option plan
In November 2013 Servelec Group plc introduced an executive share option plan. Share options are granted to employees, as determined by the 
Remuneration Committee and only vest in accordance with the performance conditions for each executive as determined by the Remuneration 
Committee. The options cannot be exercised within 3 years and have a maximum life of 10 years. The option will be settled by the issue of new 
shares and there are no cash settlement alternatives.
Date Granted
Number 
Granted Exercise Price
Vesting Period 
Years
Expiry Period 
Years
Options granted during the year 23 April 2015 474,996 £2.83 3 10
Save-as-you-earn (SAYE) scheme
In November 2013 Servelec Group plc introduced a SAYE scheme which was conditional upon admission to the London Stock Exchange. Under the 
scheme employees may elect to save between £5 and £500 (2013: £250) per month.
Date Granted
Number 
Granted Exercise Price
Vesting Period 
Years
Expiry Period 
Years
Options granted during the year 29 October 2015 300,369 £2.59 3 10
Long-term incentive plan
In November 2013 Servelec Group plc introduced an LTIP share option scheme for granting options to senior executives, as determined by the 
Remuneration Committee. The exercise price of the options is nil. The options only vest in accordance with the performance conditions for each 
executive as determined by the Remuneration Committee. The options cannot be exercised within 3 years and have a maximum life of 10 years. 
The option will be settled by the issue of new shares and there are no cash settlement alternatives.
Date Granted
Number 
Granted Exercise Price
Vesting Period 
Years
Expiry Period 
Years
Options granted during the year 22 April 2015 152,632 £nil 3 10
Deferred share bonus plan (DSBP)
Share awards were granted to senior executives, as determined by the Remuneration Committee. The exercise price of the awards will be subject 
to time pro rating.
Date Granted
Number 
Granted Exercise Price
Vesting Period 
Years
Expiry Period 
Years
Options granted during the year 22 April 2015 13,608 £nil 2 10
Further details of the vesting conditions are in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 50 to 61.
Notes to the financial statements 
Continued 93
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
25. Share-based payments continued
The following table summarises the number and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of and movements in, share options during the year.
2015
No
2015
WAEP(£)
2014
No
2014
WAEP(£)
Outstanding as at 1 January 1,228,101 1.21 1,294,363 1.18
Granted during the year 941,605 2.25 111,899 2.56
Performance condition expired (107,154) 2.62 (178,161) 1.83
Outstanding at 31 December 2,062,552 1.61 1,228,101 1.21
• There are no options exercisable at the year end.
• The following table lists the inputs to the models used.
2015 2014
Dividend yield 1.5% 1.5%
Volatility 0.3 0.3
Expected life of option 3.5 years 3.5 years
Share price at: –
9 January 2014 – £2.40
29 November 2014 – £2.72
23 April 2015 £2.80 –
The expected life of the options has been estimated as 6 months following exercise date. As there is little historical data the volatility has been 
estimated at 0.35 based on similar quoted companies.
The fair value of the share options is measured at the grant date taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were 
granted. The cost of the options is recognised over expected vesting period. Until the liability is settled it is re-measured at each reporting date 
with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss.
The expense recognised during the year to 31 December 2015 is £626,000 (31 December 2014: £434,000).
26. Related party disclosures
Identity of related parties
Servelec Group plc is the ultimate parent company.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group include:
Company Country of registration and number Class
Shares held 
(%)
Servelec Healthcare Limited England (No. 1323205) Ordinary 100
Servelec Systems Limited England (No. 6879601) Ordinary 100
Servelec Controls Limited England (No. 4608506) Ordinary 100
Servelec Controls (Motherwell) Limited Scotland (No. SC050341) Ordinary 100
Seprol Limited England (No. 1610543) Ordinary 100
Tynemarch Holdings Limited England (No. 3397034) Ordinary 100
Tynemarch Systems Limited England (No. 1774901) Ordinary 100
Servelec Technologies Limited England (No. 08661987) Ordinary 100
Semaphore Belgium SA Belgium (No. RLE (Nivelles) 0886.847.541) Ordinary 100
Servelec Technologies Pty Ltd.
(formerly Semaphore Australia Pty Limited) Australia (No. CAN 006805910) Ordinary 100
Servelec Technologies Inc USA (No. F09000000761) Ordinary 100
Servelec Corelogic Limited England (No. 03811329) Ordinary 100
Corelogic Global Limited England (No. 07264571) Ordinary 100
Servelec Corelogic Systems Private Limited
(formerly Framework Systems and Solutions Private 
Limited) India (No. U72200KL2010FTC026591) Ordinary 100
Servelec Corelogic Pty Ltd Australia (No.160793966) Ordinary 100
Servelec Aura Limited (formerly Aura Healthcare Limited) England (No. 08077134) Ordinary 100
Aura Healthcare Consulting Limited England (No. 8076847) Ordinary 100
Immix Health UK Limited England (No. 8039248) Ordinary 100
Aura Healthcare Ireland Limited Ireland (No. IE537865) Ordinary 100 94
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
26. Related party disclosures continued
Servelec Healthcare Limited supplies software and IT solutions and services into the healthcare markets. Servelec Systems Limited is involved in 
the design, manufacture, installation and commissioning of control and management information systems, the development, manufacture and 
sale of electronic and microprocessor monitoring equipment. Servelec Controls Limited, a systems integrator, is principally engaged in the supply 
of computer based information solutions and services. Servelec Controls (Motherwell) Limited became a non-trading subsidiary with effect from 
1 April 2011 and Seprol Limited is dormant. Tynemarch Holdings Limited is a holding company and Tynemarch Systems Limited delivers 
optimisation software and consultancy, predominantly in the water industry.
Semaphore Belgium SA, Servelec Technologies Pty Limited and Servelec Technologies Inc. companies involved in the design, manufacture and sale 
of electronic and micro processor monitoring equipment.
Servelec Corelogic Limited and Servelec Corelogic Pty Ltd supply adult and children’s social care case management software, together with 
associated financial management modules. Corelogic Global Limited is a dormant company and Servelec Corelogic Systems Private Limited 
supplies development resources to the Group.
Servelec Aura Limited and Aura Healthcare Ireland Limited supply bed flow management software.
Transactions with related parties
The Company did not trade with any other related parties in the year.
Compensation of key management personnel
Key management includes the Directors. The compensation paid or payable to key management for employee services is shown below:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 1,509 1,426
Pension contributions 68 60
Share based payments 474 320
Total compensation paid to key management personnel 2,051 1,806
Directors’ emoluments are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 50 – 61.
27. Business combinations
a). Acquisition of Corelogic Limited
On 12 December 2014, the Group acquired 100% of the voting shares of Corelogic Limited (now Servelec Corelogic Ltd) and its subsidiaries 
Corelogic Global Limited, Corelogic Mosaic Pty and Framework Systems and Solutions Private Limited, a software company which supplies adult 
and children’s social care case management software, together with associated financial management modules to the UK and Australia markets.
Following the fair value accounting for the business in 2014, a hindsight adjustment was identified as a result of work done on the revenue 
recognition of contracts. The adjustment resulted in a hindsight adjustment of £700,000. This impacted goodwill (note 13) and amounts due  
to customers for contract work (note 20). There was no impact to the income statements in 2014.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the Corelogic Group of companies as at the date of acquisition were:
Fair value 
recognised on 
acquisition
£’000 
Hindsight 
adjustment
£’000
Fair value 
recognised on 
acquisition 
£’000
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 220 220
Cash and cash equivalents 1,168 1,168
Trade and other receivables 1,953 1,953
Software 2,214 2,214
Order Backlog 1,796 1,796
Customer relationships 6,286 6,286
Liabilities
Trade and other payables (4,128) (700) (4,828)
Provisions (9) (9)
Deferred tax liability (2,060) (2,060)
Total identifiable net assets at fair value 7,440 (700) 6,740
Goodwill arising on acquisition 16,050 16,750
23,490 23,490
Notes to the financial statements 
Continued 95
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
27. Business combinations continued
The goodwill of £16,750,000 comprises the value of the assembled workforce and expected value of synergies. Goodwill is allocated entirely to 
the Health & Social Care segment. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
All receivables are expected to be collected and fair value equals gross value.
The deferred tax liability mainly comprises the accelerated depreciation for tax purposes of tangible and intangible assets.
£’000
Purchase consideration
Shares issued 3,000
Loan notes issued 6,000
Cash paid 14,490
Total consideration 23,490
Analysis of cash flows on acquisition:
Transaction costs of the acquisition (included in cash flows from operating activities) (310)
Net cash acquired with the subsidiary (included in cash flows from investing activities) (13,322)
Net cash flow on acquisition (13,632)
The fair value of the consideration given is £23,490,000.
Transaction costs of £310,000 have been expensed and are included in administrative expenses and exceptional items (note 7).
The Group issued 1,061,665 shares as part consideration for the acquisition of Corelogic Limited. The fair value of the shares is the published price 
of the shares of the Group at the acquisition date. Therefore the fair value of the consideration given in shares is £3,000,000.
The Group issued loan notes to the value of £6,000,000 as part consideration for the acquisition of Corelogic Limited. The details are set out below:
Loan Note Repayable Date
Interest 
Payable
£2,000,000 31 March 2015 2%
£4,000,000 30 June 2015 2%
The interest payable converts to 10% from the issue date if the loan note is not repaid on the due date. All loan notes were repaid by the due date.
b). Acquisition of Aura Healthcare Limited
On 5 May 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the voting shares of Aura Healthcare Limited (now Servelec Aura Limited) to supplement the current 
healthcare offering. Servelec Aura Limited is a developer of software for the healthcare sector that controls bed management and patient flows 
across hospitals, clinics and primary care centres enabling improved care of patients.
The provisional fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Aura Healthcare Limited as at the date of acquisition were:
Net assets as 
at date of 
acquisition
£’000
Fair value 
adjustments
 £’000
Further
Adjustment (i)
£’000
Fair value 
recognised on 
acquisition
£’000
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 69 – – 69
Trade and other receivables 520 – – 520
Software – 646 – 646
Liabilities
Trade and other payables (1,651) 161 (513) (2,003)
Bank overdraft (84) – – (84)
Loans (901) – – (901)
Deferred tax liability – (94) (29) (123)
Total identifiable net liabilities at fair value (2,047) 713 (542) (1,876)
Goodwill arising on acquisition – – – 1,926
Total consideration 50
(i) A review of revenue recognition post acquisition has identified £513,000 of adjustments to the provisional fair value of amounts due to customers for contract work, disclosed in 
the Interim Financial Statements. 96
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
27. Business combinations continued
The goodwill of £1,926,000 comprises the value of the assembled workforce and expected value of synergies. Goodwill is allocated entirely to the 
Health & Social Care segment. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
All receivables are expected to be collected and fair value equals gross value.
£’000
Purchase consideration
Cash paid –
Contingent consideration 50
Total consideration 50
Analysis of cash flows on acquisition:
Transaction costs of the acquisition (included in cash flows from operating activities) (73)
Net cash acquired with the subsidiary (included in cash flows from investing activities) (84)
Net cash flow on acquisition (157)
The fair value of the consideration given is £50,001. The contingent consideration is dependent upon receipt of a purchase order for Flow,  
which was received during the year. This was satisfied by the issue of shares on 18 January 2016 (note 8).
A further maximum amount of £300,000 will become payable, contingent on the attainment of certain performance conditions over a 3 year period 
ending April 2018, which will be satisfied by the issue of shares at the prevailing share price at the time of issue. This amount will be treated as 
remuneration and therefore has not been included in the total consideration figure. 
Transaction costs of £73,000 have been expensed and are included in administrative expenses.
28. Pensions
The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group in 
independently administered funds. The total pension cost payable by the Group amounted to £1,272,000 (2014: £920,000).
29. Post Balance Sheet Events
On 1 March 2016, Servelec Group agreed to purchase the Synergy business from Tribal Group Plc for a cash consideration of £20,250,000 on a 
cash free debt free basis.
The transaction is subject to shareholder approval of the seller and is expected to complete by the end of March 2016. The acquisition is to be 
funded by a £20,000,000 credit facility from Lloyds bank over a fixed term of three years.
Just prior to completion the trade and assets will be transferred into a new company (Newco) and all relevant staff will TUPE across.  
Servelec Group will then acquire 100% of the shares of Newco for the cash consideration.
Synergy’s suite of solutions delivers improved support for children, young people and families within local Government and will provide authorities 
with a single view of a child. It will be acquired by Servelec Corelogic Limited and fit within Servelec’s existing Health & Social Care segment. 
As the transaction has not completed by the reporting date it is not possible to fair value the assets and goodwill.
Notes to the financial statements 
Continued 97
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors’ report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare 
the Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards and applicable law). Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they  
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing those  
financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the 
financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable  
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Statement of director’s responsibilities 
for the Company financial statements 98
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Company balance sheet
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes
2015 
£’000
2014
£’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Tangible fixed assets (v) 489 454
Intangible assets (vi) 1,018 1,244
Deferred tax asset 150 150
Investments (vii) 58,534 58,484
Total non-current assets 60,191 60,332
Current assets
Debtors (ix) 17,983 3,245
Cash and cash equivalents – 2,726
Total current assets 17,983 5,971
Total assets 78,174 66,303
Equity and Liabilities
Current liabilities 
Creditors (x) 27,147 21,756
Total current liabilities 27,147 21,756
Non-current liabilities 
Provisions (xi) 180 315
Deferred tax liabilities 43 19
Total non-current liabilities 223 334
Total liabilities 27,370 22,090
Equity shareholders’ funds 
Share capital (xii) 12,491 12,491
Share premium (xiii) 3,563 3,563
Share-based payment reserve 1,173 546
Retained earnings 33,577 27,613
Total equity shareholders’ funds 50,804 44,213
Total equity and liabilities 78,174 66,3003
Approved by the Board on 1 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
AR Stubbs MG Cane
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 99
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Company statement of changes in equity
Note
Share capital
£’000
Share 
premium
£’000
Share-based 
payment 
reserve
£’000
Retained 
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance as at 1 January 2014 12,300 754 41 19,722 32,817
Profit for the period – – – 8,915 8,915
Share-based payments – – 434 – 434
Tax on share-based payments – – 71 – 71
Issue of shares 191 2,809 – – 3,000
Dividends – – – (1,024) (1,024)
Balance as at 31 December 2014 12,491 3,563 546 27,613 44,213
Profit for the period – – – 9,191 9,191
Share-based payments – – 626 – 626
Tax on share based payments – – 1 – 1
Issue of shares – – – – –
Dividends – – – (3,227) (3,227)
Balance as at 31 December 2015 12,491 3,563 1,173 33,577 50,804 100
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Company statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2015
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit for the financial year attributable to members of the Parent Company 9,191 8,915
Total comprehensive income for the year 9,191 8,915 101
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with FRS 101 
The parent company financial statements of Servelec Group plc (the “Company”) for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue 
by the board of directors on 1 March 2016 and the balance sheet was signed on the board’ s behalf by A Stubbs and M Cane. Servelec Group plc  
is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales. The Company’s ordinary shares are traded on the London  
Stock Exchange.
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework (FRS 101).  
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention.
No profit and loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The results of Servelec Group plc are included in the consolidated financial statements of Servelec Group plc which are available from Rotherside 
Road, Sheffield S21 4HL.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015. 
The financial statements are prepared in Sterling and are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds (£000).
(i) Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The Company has transitioned to FRS 101 from previously extant UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice for all periods presented. 
Transition tables showing all material adjustments are disclosed in note (xiii). The accounting policies which follow set out those policies 
which apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS 101:
(a) the requirements of paragraphs 45(b) and 46-52 of IFRS 2 Share based Payment
(b) the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, 
(c) the requirements of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement,
(d) the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ to present comparative information in respect of:
(i) paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1;
(ii) paragraph 73(e) of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment;
(iii) paragraph 118(e) of IAS 38 Intangible Assets;
(e) The requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 3(c) and 134-136 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements; 
(f) The requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows;
(g) The requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors;
(h) The requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures;
(i) The requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a 
group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member; and
(j) The requirements of paragraphs 134(d)-134(f) and 135(c)-135(e) of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Intangible fixed assets
Intangible assets are recognised at cost. Software licences are amortised in equal amounts over a period of 4 – 6 years, which is estimated to be 
their useful life.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible assets are recognised at cost. Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated 
residual value based on prices prevailing at the date of acquisition of each asset evenly over its expected useful life, as follows:
Plant and machinery  – 25% per annum 
Fixtures and fittings  – 25% per annum
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may 
not be recoverable.
Investments
Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
Notes to the Company financial statements 102
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
(i) Accounting policies continued
Deferred taxation
Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets 
and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, with the following exceptions:
• where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
• in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future; and
• deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which deductible 
temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the 
liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Transactions and balances
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate ruling at the date of the 
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling  
at the balance sheet date. All differences are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of 
the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when 
the fair value was determined.
Pension costs
The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme. Assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Company in independently 
administered funds. The amount charged against profits represents the contribution payable to the schemes in respect of the financial period.
Share-based payments
The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant  
of the options is calculated using a Black-Scholes pricing model and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period. The total amount to be 
expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options or performance shares granted. At each balance sheet 
date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable. It recognises the impact of the revision of 
original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period. No expense is 
recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest except for awards where vesting is conditional upon market or non-vesting conditions which are 
treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied provided that all other performance or service 
conditions are satisfied.
(ii) Deferred Tax
The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Deferred Tax Asset 150 150
Deferred Tax Liabilities (43) (19)
The standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom for the year is 20.25% (2014: 21.5%). The Finance Act 2013 received Royal Assent on  
17 July 2013 and enacted a reduction in the main rate of corporation tax to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014 and a further reduction of 1% will be 
applied to bring the main rate of corporation tax to 20% from 1 April 2015. Deferred tax has therefore been provided at 20%.
(iii) Dividends Paid and Proposed
Declared and paid during the year
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Equity dividends on Ordinary Shares
Final dividend for 2014: 3.0p (2013: nil) 2,082 –
Interim dividend for 2015: 1.65p (2014: 1.5p) 1,145 1,024
Dividends paid 3,227 1,024
Final dividend for 2015 of 3.5p per share (2014: 3.0p)
Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM.
(iv) Profit attributable to the members of the parent company
The profits dealt with in the financial statements of the parent company is £9,192,000 (2014: £8,915,000).
Notes to the Company financial statements
Continued 103
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
(v) Tangible fixed assets
Company
Plant and machinery,  
fixtures and fittings
£’000
Cost:
At 1 January 2014 1,101
Additions 300
Transfers (note vi) (117)
At 31 December 2014 1,284
Additions 151
At 31 December 2015 1,435
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 January 2014 767
Charge for the year 91
Transfers (note vi) (28)
At 31 December 2014 830
Charge for the year 116
At 31 December 2015 946
Net book value:
At 31 December 2014 454
At 31 December 2015 489
(vi) Intangible fixed assets
Company
Licences
£’000
Cost:
At 1 January 2014 1,496
Additions 11
Transfers (note v) 117
At 31 December 2014 1,624
Additions 62
At 31 December 2015 1,686
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 January 2014 79
Charge for the year 273
Transfers (note v) 28
At 31 December 2014 380
Charge for the year 288
At 31 December 2015 668
Net book value:
At 31 December 2014 1,244
At 31 December 2015 1,018
(vii) Investments in subsidiary companies
Company
Ordinary Share in 
subsidiary undertakings
£’000
Cost:
At 1 January 2014 34,994
Additions 23,490
At 31 December 2014 58,484
Additions 50
As at 31 December 2015 58,534 104
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
(vii) Investments in subsidiary companies continued
Shares in the subsidiaries 
Company Country of registration and number Class and percentage of shares held
Servelec Healthcare Limited England (No. 1323205) Ordinary 100%
Servelec Systems Limited England (No. 6879601) Ordinary 100%
Servelec Controls Limited England (No. 4608506) Ordinary 100%
Servelec Controls (Motherwell) Limited Scotland (No.SC050341) Ordinary 100%
Seprol Limited England (No. 1610543) Ordinary 100%
Servelec Technologies Limited England (No. 08661987) Ordinary 100%
Servelec Semaphore Belgium S A Belgium (No. RLE (Nivelles) 0886.847.541) Ordinary 51%
Tynemarch Holdings Limited England (No. 3397034) Ordinary 100%
Servelec Corelogic Limited England (No. 03811329) Ordinary 100%
Servelec Aura Limited  
(formerly Aura Healthcare Limited) England (No. 8076847) Ordinary 100%
On 12 December 2014, the Company acquired 100% of the share capital of Corelogic Limited (now Servelec Corelogic Ltd) and its subsidiary 
companies. (See note 27.)
On 5 May 2015, the Company acquired 100% of the share capital of Aura Healthcare Limited (now Servelec Aura Ltd) and its subsidiary companies. 
(See note 27.)
A full list of the Groups subsidiaries are detailed in note 26. The investments made by the Company in 2015 are summarised below.
£’000
Aura Healthcare Limited (note 27b) 50
(ix) Debtors
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Trade debtors –
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 17,821 2,972
Prepayments and accrued income 87 131
Other debtors 75 22
Corporation tax – 120
17,983 3,245
(x) Creditors:
Amounts falling due within one year
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Bank Overdraft 2,934 7,607
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 23,091 6,766
Trade creditors 294 538
Current corporation tax 254 –
Other creditors 15 44
Accruals and deferred income 559 801
Loan notes – 6,000
27,147 21,756
(xi) Provisions:
Dilapidations
£’000
Contingent 
consideration
£’000
Total 
provisions
£’000
At 1 January 2014 160 360 520
Arising during the year 10 – 10
Released during the year – (215) (215)
As at 31 December 2014 170 145 315
Acquired during the year – 50 50
Utilised during the year – (50) (50)
Arising during the year 10 – 10
Released during the year – (145) (145)
As at 31 December 2015 180 – 180
Analysed as
31 Dec 2015
£’000
31 Dec 2014
£’000
Non-current provisions 180 315
Notes to the Company financial statements
Continued 105
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
(xi) Provisions continued
Dilapidations
This provision relates to potential dilapidation costs on property leases.
Contingent consideration
A provision was established for the potential additional costs relating to an earn out on the Tynemarch acquisition – see note 23.
(xii) Issued share capital
Authorised shares
31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014
Ordinary Shares of 18 pence each 69,394 69,394
Ordinary shares issued and fully paid
31 Dec 2015
Thousands
31 Dec 2015
£’000
31 Dec 2014
Thousands
31 Dec 2014
£’000
Share capital
Shares at beginning of the period 69,394 12,491 68,332 12,300
Shares issued – – 1,062 191
Shares at end of period 69,394 12,491 69,394 12,491
On 15 December 2014, the Group issued 1,061,665 18p shares as part of the consideration for the purchase of the Corelogic Group of companies 
(see note 27).
(xiii) Share-based payments
Group executive share option plan
In November 2013 Servelec Group plc introduced an executive share option plan. Share options are granted to employees, as determined by the 
Remuneration Committee and only vest in accordance with the performance conditions for each executive as determined by the Remuneration 
Committee. The options cannot be exercised within 3 years and have a maximum life of 10 years. The option will be settled by the issue of new 
shares and there are no cash settlement alternatives.
Date Granted
Number 
Granted Exercise Price
Vesting Period 
Years
Expiry Period 
Years
Options granted during the year 23 April 2015 474,996 £2.83 3 10
Save-as-you-earn (SAYE) scheme
In November 2013 Servelec Group plc introduced a SAYE scheme which was conditional upon admission to the London Stock Exchange. Under the 
scheme employees may elect to save between £5 and £500 (2013: £250) per month.
Date Granted
Number 
Granted Exercise Price
Vesting Period 
Years
Expiry Period 
Years
Options granted during the year 29 October 2015 300,369 £2.59 3 10
Long-term incentive plan
In November 2013 Servelec Group plc introduced an LTIP share option scheme for granting options to senior executives, as determined by the 
Remuneration Committee. The exercise price of the options is nil. The options only vest in accordance with the performance conditions for each 
executive as determined by the Remuneration Committee. The options cannot be exercised within 3 years and have a maximum life of 10 years. 
The option will be settled by the issue of new shares and there are no cash settlement alternatives.
Date Granted
Number 
Granted Exercise Price
Vesting Period 
Years
Expiry Period 
Years
Options granted during the year 22 April 2015 152,632 £nil 3 10
Deferred share bonus plan (DSBP)
Share awards were granted to senior executives, as determined by the Remuneration Committee. The exercise price of the awards will be subject 
to time pro rating.
Date Granted
Number 
Granted Exercise Price
Vesting Period 
Years
Expiry Period 
Years
Options granted during the year 22 April 2015 13,608 £nil 2 10
No options were granted in the year.
Further details of the vesting conditions are in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 50 – 61. 106
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
(xiii) Share-based payments continued
The following table summarises the number and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of and movements in, share options during the year.
2015
Number
2015
WAEP(£)
2014
Number
2014
WAEP(£)
Outstanding as at 1 January 1,228,101 1.21 1,294,363 1.18
Granted during the year 941,605 2.25 111,899 2.56
Performance condition expired (107,154) 2.62 (178,161) 1.83
Outstanding at 31 December 2,062,552 1.61 1,228,101 1.21
• There are no options exercisable at the year end.
• The following table lists the inputs to the models used.
2015 2014
Dividend yield 1.5% 1.5%
Volatility 0.3 0.3
Expected life of option 3.5 years 3.5 years
Share price at:
9 January 2014 – £2.40
29 November 2014 – £2.72
23 April 2015 £2.80 –
The expected life of the options has been estimated as 6 months following exercise date. As there is little historical data the volatility has been 
estimated at 0.3 based on similar quoted companies.
The fair value of the share options is measured at the grant date taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were 
granted. The cost of the options is recognised over expected vesting period. Until the liability is settled it is re-measured at each reporting date 
with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss.
The expense recognised during the year to 31 December 2015 is £626,000 (31 December 2013: £434,000).
(ix) Contingent liabilities
The Company has given cross guarantees for all sums owed by Servelec Systems Limited, Servelec Healthcare Limited, Servelec Controls Limited, 
Seprol Limited and Servelec Controls (Motherwell) Limited. This has been secured by a debenture over all of Servelec Group plc assets.
At 31 December 2015 the amount outstanding was £nil (2014: £nil).
(x) Pensions
The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group in 
independently administered funds. The total pension cost payable by the Company amounted to £127,000 (2014: £101,000).
(xi) Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption of ISA24 not to disclose related party transactions with Group companies.
(xii) Financial commitments
The Company has annual commitments under an operating lease in respect of the head office premises of £272,000 (2014: £240,000). The lease 
expires in 2029 and a rent review as made in October 2010 and every 5 years thereafter.
Capital commitments
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Contracted but not provided – 164
(xiii) FRS101 Transition
There were no adjustments or disclosure differences identified in transitioning from UK Gaap to FRS101.
(xiv) Post balance sheet events
On 1 March 2016, Servelec Group agreed to purchase the Synergy business from Tribal Group Plc for a cash consideration of £20,250,000 on a cash 
free debt free basis.
The transaction is subject to shareholder approval of the seller and is expected to complete by the end of March 2016. The acquisition is to be 
funded by a £20,000,000 credit facility from Lloyds bank over a fixed term of three years.
Just prior to completion the trade and assets will be transferred into a new company (Newco) and all relevant staff will TUPE across.  
Servelec Group will then acquire 100% of the shares of Newco for the cash consideration.
Synergy’s suite of solutions delivers improved support for children, young people and families within local Government and will provide authorities 
with a single view of a child. It will be acquired by Servelec Corelogic Limited and fit within Servelec’s existing Health & Social Care segment. 
As the transaction has not completed by the reporting date it is not possible to fair value the assets and goodwill.
Notes to the Company financial statements 
Continued 107
Servelec Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
FSC L OGO TO BE 
PLACED HERE
Directors and advisers
Directors Richard Last, Chairman and Non Executive Director
Alan Russell Stubbs, Chief Executive Officer
Michael Geoffrey Cane, Chief Financial Officer
Roger Steven McDowell, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Bernerd Joseph Waldron, Independent Non-Executive Director
Company Secretary Michael Cane
Registered Office of the Company Rotherside Road
Eckington
Sheffield
South Yorkshire
S21 4HL
Sponsor, financial adviser,  
sole bookrunner and broker
Investec Bank plc
2 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7QP
English legal advisers to the LLP Company Walker Morris LLP
Kings Court
12 King Street
Leeds
West Yorkshire
LS1 2HL
Reporting Accountant and Auditors Ernst & Young LLP
1 Bridgewater Place
Water Lane
Leeds
West Yorkshire
LS11 5QR
Registrars Capita Registrars Limited
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent
BR3 4TU
Financial public relations advisers to the 
Company
Tulchan Communications LLP
85 Fleet Street
London
EC4Y 1AE Servelec Group plc
Rotherside Road
Eckington
Sheffield
S21 4HL
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1246 437 400
www.servelec-group.com
Servelec Group plc  annual report and accounts 2015
