  
Accelerating 
change
Speedy Hire Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Speedy is the UK’s leading tools, equipment 
and plant services company operating 
across the construction, infrastructure and 
industrial markets. Our growth strategy is 
simple: focusing on enhancing our reputation 
for safety and sustainability; becoming the 
most efficient at everything we do; delivering 
service excellence to our customers; and 
recruiting and retaining the best people 
through becoming an employer of choice. To 
maintain our leading position we aim to think 
like our customers to anticipate their needs, 
ensure that we deliver the highest quality 
products, solutions and services, and lead  
the innovation agenda in our market space. 
Who we are
Speedy provides 
innovative products,  
solutions and services 
to a changing market.
Delivering our strategy
In this report we highlight our achievements 
in FY2015 using the following five strategic 
identifiers:
For more information
see page 12 
1 Safety and sustainability
2
 
Growth
3
 
Efficiency
4
 
Service excellence 
5
 
People   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01
Strategic report
Contents
Strategic report 
Speedy at a glance 02
Chairman’s statement 04
Chief Executive Officer’s review 06
Key performance indicators 10
Our business model and strategy  12
How we have done it  14
Testimonials  24
Sustainability 26
Financial review 28
Principal risks and uncertainties 31
Governance 
Chairman’s letter to shareholders 35
Directors’ report 36
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 39
Board of Directors 40
Corporate governance 42
Audit Committee report  48
Nomination Committee report  54
Remuneration report  56
Independent auditor’s report  74
Financial statements 
Consolidated income statement 79
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 80
Consolidated balance sheet 81
Consolidated statement of changes in equity  82
Consolidated cash flow statement 83
Reconciliation of net debt 83
Notes to the Financial statements  84
Company balance sheet 116
Company statement of changes in equity 117
Company cash flow statement 118
Notes to the Company financial statements 119
Five-year summary 122
Corporate information 
Shareholder information 123
Registered office and advisers IBC
Governance Financial statements
Strategic report
02
Governance
34
78
Financial 
statements
Corporate information  
02 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
A business of scale and 
national presence 
Our vision
To be the leading provider of tools, 
equipment, plant and complementary 
support services to our customers.
Our spirit 
The values which reflect our spirit are:
 > As one
 > Safe
 > Innovative
 > Driven
In order for us to provide our  
customers with unrivalled service, 
we recognise the need to engage and 
support all our employees to ensure  
that they have the necessary skills  
to do what is being asked of them.
Our people share our vision  
and our spirit.
Revenue
£375m
Hire assets
£212.3m
Employees
c.3,800
Customers
50,000+
Trading locations
220+
Equipment availability
24/7
Key figures
Speedy at a glance
02 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report
 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 03
Largest hire  
company in 
the UK and 
Ireland
Full listing on  
the London  
Stock Exchange
1,100+ vehicles
Largest asset breadth 
and depth in the industry 
(£212.3m Net Book Value)
Unique value 
proposition – 
products, specialist 
solutions and services
Sustainable profit growth agenda
In February 2014, we set out a three-point turnaround plan: to fix the 
business, improve operational performance, and transform the Company 
over the medium term with the aim of delivering sustainable profit growth. 
Fix Improve Transform
 Middle East
 Sales & Marketing
 Network optimisation
 IT & MI system
 Culture
 Core hire growth
 Asset utilisation
 Cost base
    B r o a d er s er v i c e s
 Express network
 Core hire versus rehire
Sustainable profit growth
Sustainable 
profit 
growth
Transform
Improve
Fix
Ongoing
Completed
To do 04 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chairman’s statement
Transforming our business, 
shaping our future
Jan Åstrand
Non-Executive Chairman
1 Excluding exceptional items and amortisation.
2 Excluding exceptional items, amortisation and International.
Overview
I am delighted to report on a year of significant progress  
at Speedy.
Shortly after he was appointed CEO, Mark Rogerson set out a 
clear three-point ‘FIT’ plan to return the Group to health and 
build sustainable profit growth. Despite some very challenging 
historical issues, Mark and his leadership team have made 
significant progress.
It is particularly pleasing that despite the many challenges  
the Company has had to face, particularly with regard to 
the Middle East, we have reported a 50% increase in PBT
1
. 
Underpinned by a further good performance in the UK & 
Ireland, Group revenues
1
 increased by 7.2% to £375 million 
(2014: £349.7 million) and Group EBITA
2
 increased by 19.5% 
to £26.4 million (2014: £22.1 million). Earnings per share
1
 
increased by 57.6% to 3.23 pence (2014: 2.05 pence). As at  
31 March 2015, net debt was £105.3 million giving a net debt  
to EBITDA
1
 ratio of 1.45x (2014: 1.23x).
PBT
1
 increased by 50%, but was significantly affected by the 
losses in our International Division. We are therefore pleased  
to have exited fully from the general and spot hire market in the 
Middle East ahead of our 2016 deadline and are in discussions 
regarding the disposal of our oil and gas services operations 
which have returned to a break even position in March 2015. 
This is a very significant achievement. After de-risking the 
Middle East, completing the upgrade to the backbone of our 
network and having embedded our new IT and MI system, we 
are now in a position to concentrate our resources on the UK 
where we enjoy a market leading position and where there is 
considerable scope for sustainable profit growth. We will now 
increase our efforts to deliver further improvements in asset 
utilisation and cost management as well as professionalising 
the sales and marketing activities; all of which will contribute 
to an improvement in profits and ROCE.
On 18 September 2014 we announced the re-financing of the 
Group and secured a new £180 million five-year asset-based 
revolving facility at an improved margin and with agreements 
in place to support additional funding, if required. Alongside 
our focus on cash generation, the new facility will provide  
us with the flexibility to support our strategy for sustainable  
profit growth.   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 05
Strategic report
“It is particularly pleasing that despite the many 
challenges the Company has had to face, particularly 
with regard to the Middle East, we have reported a 
50% increase in PBT.”
Dividend
Our improved performance this year, and confidence in the 
future prospects for the Group, has resulted in the Board 
recommending a final dividend of 0.40 pence per share  
(2014: 0.35 pence). If approved at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting the total dividend for the year would be  
0.70 pence per share (2014: 0.61 pence).
Board and people
I was appointed Chairman on 11 November 2014 following 
Ishbel Macpherson’s decision to step down from the Board  
on the same date. Russell Down joined the Board as Group 
Finance Director on 6 April 2015 succeeding Lynn Krige who 
stepped down from the Board on 16 October 2014. Michael 
Averill, a non-executive Director since 1 May 2008, stepped 
down from the Board with effect from 26 February 2015.  
Dr Chris Masters, who was appointed a Non-Executive Director 
on 13 July 2011, succeeded Michael as Senior Independent 
Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, also 
with effect from 26 February 2015. I would like to thank all our 
people for their professionalism, commitment and dedication 
over the past year. These have been challenging times and 
there is still a great deal to do but, thanks to some outstanding 
contributions and no little personal sacrifice, we can all look 
forward to a successful future for Speedy.
Outlook
In the UK we have a market leading position and see major 
opportunities ahead. Our initiatives to harness these 
opportunities are already well underway. We are, once again, 
in a position to deliver sustainable profit growth and our 
confidence for the future is underpinned by an increase in the 
recommended final dividend. I look forward to reporting on 
further progress.
Jan Åstrand
Non-Executive Chairman 06 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Focus on leadership  
and effectiveness
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Mark Rogerson MBE
Chief Executive Officer
Overview
Speedy has achieved a great deal this year, especially 
given that a number of legacy issues have been much more 
challenging than originally expected. To have delivered a result 
ahead of market expectations is a good achievement.
Following my appointment in January 2014, I set out a three-
point turnaround plan: to fix the business, improve operational 
performance, and transform the company over the medium-
term with the aim of delivering sustainable profit growth. 
Fixing the business meant principally addressing five key 
issues: stabilising the Middle East; returning the Group to 
growth; expediting the delivery of our Network Optimisation 
Programme; delivering a new IT and MI system; and developing 
a new cultural environment where safety, governance and 
compliance, service, and employee conduct and ethics are  
our priority: 
 > we are pleased to have fully exited the general hire market in 
the Middle East and to have not only achieved a break even 
position in the Oil & Gas Services Business, but to have also 
built enterprise value. 
 > in the UK and Ireland we recorded increases in Revenue 
and EBITA before exceptional costs of 7.1% and 14.4% 
respectively. We secured a significant number of new 
contracts during the period and revenues from the Group’s 
Strategic and Major accounts (generating some 51% of total 
revenues) rose by 18%. 
 > we have delivered the planned improvements to our UK 
network ahead of the scheduled timeline, successfully 
implemented a new IT system, and have made significant 
progress in establishing a new culture across the business. 
These achievements are a great credit not only to the wider 
management team but to all our people throughout the 
business who have frequently had to operate under stretching 
and challenging conditions. 
We have now commenced the journey to improve our business 
further targeting three specific areas in the short-term: growing 
our core hire revenue; optimising our assets; and creating  
cost efficiencies.
Looking to the future, we have identified three areas to focus 
on within our transformation agenda: broadening our service 
offering to our largest customers; reinventing the Express 
network; and meeting customer demand through more demand 
led CapEx allocation and targeted growth.    Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 07
Strategic report
“ I am wholly convinced about the significant 
potential of Speedy, not only to be the 
market leader in our industry, but also  
to build shareholder value.”
We have also continued a number of initiatives including our 
‘Own City’ campaigns, which have driven revenue performance 
in key cities primarily through meeting the demand from the 
major projects of our Strategic and Major customers. However, 
it is evident that Speedy’s previous strategy of moving away 
from the local markets comprising 50,000+ Regional/Local 
customers (whist retaining the infrastructure and cost base 
to support this market) needs to be addressed. We are now 
starting to re-engage with this customer base through  
targeted marketing campaigns. However, this is no small task. 
Although it will take time to reverse the decrease we have seen 
in market share, this does represent a significant opportunity 
for the future.
Network Optimisation Programme 
The programme to reconfigure the backbone of the Group’s 
national network and logistics capabilities into an integrated 
distribution model was fully overhauled during the year. 
We have incorporated a new ‘National Distribution Centre’ 
(NDC) into the programme and re-profiled our Multi Service 
Centre (MSC) footprint, enabling us to accelerate and deliver 
the programme well ahead of the original schedule. This was 
absolutely essential to provide much needed improvements  
in our Engineering function, to enable us to begin to operate  
in a modern, cost-effective manner and drive cost benefits.
Our new NDC located in Tamworth will serve as the central hub 
for overnight distribution to our UK Multi Service Centres. This 
will ensure that the right products are distributed on time to 
our network of Superstores and Express Stores, while at the 
same time achieving greater efficiencies by closely aligning our 
fleet capability with the national network so that we can deliver 
our products to our customers faster and at lower cost. 
During the year we opened five new Multi Service Centres and 
seven new Superstores, the end result being a much improved 
network comprising of a new National Distribution Centre, eight 
supporting Multi Service Centres and 38 Superstores which 
now form the backbone of our operational network. Those who 
have seen first-hand the work we have completed here will 
have witnessed a very real transformation in our business. To 
have executed this redesigned programme within 12 months 
has been an exceptional achievement and a great credit to 
everybody involved. 
IT & Management Information System
Our IT system had not been upgraded for nine years, and 
establishing a much improved IT system was an urgent and 
long overdue priority. We have had to overcome some very 
significant operational and management issues. However, we 
now have in place a new system which is providing us with 
much greater levels of transparency and granularity of data 
Major progress in delivering our three-point  
‘FIT’ turnaround plan 
Fixing the business
Middle East
We announced last November the completion of our  
review of the Middle East operations with a view to further 
de-risking the business and stemming losses. It was clear 
that the continued under-performance was the result of a 
legacy cost base, weak demand for general and spot hire, and 
a business model unsuited to its marketplace. Conversely, 
we identified good value in our Oil & Gas Services Business, 
which had the potential to deliver strong revenue growth from 
long-term contracts. We have executed a restructuring of this 
business under very difficult conditions ahead of the targeted 
completion date of end Q1 FY2016: 
 > we have exited the general and spot hire market in the 
Middle East, and have sold, disposed of, or returned to the  
UK some circa 4,500 assets. We have sold our Oman business 
and closed our Egypt and Qatar offices; and 
 > we have completed the mobilisation of our largest Oil & Gas 
Services contracts and exploited opportunities from recently 
signed contracts to build value. We have now de-risked  
the Middle East business from both the loss perspective  
and also from the fact we have reduced the NBV of assets 
by some £20m and created a much simpler and easier 
to manage business. As previously announced, we are 
progressing a process with a third party relating to the 
disposal of this business. 
Growth through customer focus 
We have appointed a new Group Sales and Marketing Director 
and restructured the sales teams to provide clear ownership of 
our Strategic and Major customers who collectively account for 
51% of our revenues. At the same time we have implemented a 
simplified and geographically aligned regional sales structure, 
and have re-defined our value proposition within our target 
market segments. This has contributed to an increased bid and 
tender win rate, and we are starting FY2016 with a number of 
new contracts at either award or preferred bidder status. 
Our Strategic and Major customers are increasingly looking 
to us to provide a broader range of operational support 
services and solutions. The provision of such services, 
alongside the hire and sale of plant and equipment is already 
a major differentiator between us and our peer group. We are 
developing this range of value-added, complementary services, 
such as on-site training, asset management and testing, repair, 
inspection and maintenance.  08 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Chief Executive Officer’s review  
We have also aimed to attract additional top talent. Our leadership 
team has been bolstered with a host of new people from 
diverse backgrounds this year including: BAE, Hyder Consulting, 
SCAPA, Manchester Airport Group and Hilti. In addition, we 
have successfully retained the best people, promoting where 
appropriate to strengthen the wider leadership team. A positive 
trend which is emerging is the number of ex-Speedy employees 
who are approaching us to re-join the Company.
Improving operational performance
Speedy today has a customer base of 50,000+ customers, a 
1,100-strong fleet, a national network comprising more than  
220 stores, a Net Book Value of £212m of hire equipment and  
3,800 people. Our task now is to complement this scale by 
focusing on three things over the course of the next financial 
year which will drive significant operational performance 
improvement, namely: grow our core hire revenue; optimise  
our asset management; and drive cost efficiencies. 
Grow core hire 
Our growth strategy must be market led and everything must 
begin with the customer. We have been extremely successful 
in building long-term relationships with our Strategic and Major 
clients which now give us much greater visibility of their business 
needs and equipment demand. We will continue to build on 
these relationships and target our CapEx accordingly to meet 
the demand from this customer segment. However, the Regional 
customer base is becoming an increasingly competitive arena, 
particularly in London and the South East, but it is clear from 
Customer Engagement Surveys that there is a continued strong 
demand for our services. Our focus is now on improving customer 
attraction and retention through:
 > building new Sales channels including an enhanced telesales 
capability and a series of Marketing-led customer focused 
campaigns that demonstrate the breadth of our innovative  
and safe product range;
 > pricing to reflect market conditions; 
 > introducing an improved commercial governance process 
enabling us to generate and secure a pipeline of quality 
opportunities; and
 > improving Sales productivity and performance management 
through better sales training and a market leading reward 
scheme.
Asset optimisation
Having put in place a strong backbone to our property network 
and a new IT infrastructure, the priority now is to optimise the 
breadth and depth, depot stocking levels and availability of 
equipment to drive asset utilisation up and costs down, whilst 
improving customer fulfilment. 
around our assets, as well as giving us a platform for future 
development of more efficient customer processes. In addition, 
the new system has significantly enhanced our data analytics 
and reporting capabilities. 
Culture 
We have spent a significant amount of time this year on 
a programme to focus on four key cultural aspects of the 
business namely: ensuring we keep our people and our 
customers safe; behaving in an ethical way; putting our 
customers at the heart of everything we do; and attracting, 
retaining and engaging good people with strong business 
ethics. We have all worked tirelessly in these areas this year, 
and I am proud of the results. 
 > Safety
During the year we have made transformational progress in our 
safety journey. We launched an inaugural Annual Leadership 
Safety Day, mobilising all of our leaders to visit sites across 
the country, and embarked on a new behavioural safety 
training programme. We have also launched safety awareness 
campaigns with our customers and have won multiple awards 
for the safety of our fleet. 
 > Governance and compliance
In light of the well-documented issues in the Middle East,  
we have addressed a number of key business risks and have 
re-established controls through a much improved management 
system that now clearly defines policies, processes and 
procedures. To reinforce the importance of business ethics,  
we created a new, comprehensive Code of Business Ethics 
booklet. This was posted to each of our 3,800 employees’ 
homes and as a wider leadership team, we have been  
cascading and socialising the importance of this message 
across the business.
 > Service excellence
One of our major strategic themes has been the delivery of 
service excellence to our customers. We have implemented 
a number of strategic changes to our back office customer 
support functions, including a re-invigoration of the Speedy 
Direct sales support function, and introduced new operational 
support structures for our Strategic accounts. During the year 
we were awarded the Babcock Supply Chain Excellence Award 
and the J Murphy & Sons Innovation Award.
 > People
An important task this year has been re-engaging and  
re-energising our people to get the best from our exceptionally 
talented and committed workforce. We have implemented a 
robust programme of multi-media employee communications, 
which have had a noticeably positive effect on morale.     Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 09
Strategic report
“We have delivered a good result despite 
having had to address a number of major 
issues over the past 12 months. We have 
successfully executed and completed  
a number of key programmes.”
 > Asset breadth and depth
Speedy has an asset base which has been 20 years in the 
making. The net result is that, in some areas, it is less than 
optimal in the current marketplace. Using sophisticated 
analytical tools, we have identified the optimum number of 
product lines, but more importantly the stock levels we need 
within each SKU. 
 > Asset holdings 
We are in the process of significantly improving our asset 
holding strategy. The top 50 or so most utilised products  
will now be stocked in each of our Express stores, the next  
350 most utilised products in our Superstores and the next  
650 in the regional MSCs, with our remaining products being 
held at the National Distribution Centre. This will help to ensure 
that we spend less time trying to find products in our network; 
the aim being to never having to say no to a customer. 
 > Asset availability
The new NDC and MSC structure in our network will also  
enable us to improve our engineering capabilities by 
consolidating our asset servicing. This will enable us to improve 
our processes to ensure that our asset flow and economies 
improve availability through the deployment of lean and 
consolidated engineering processes.
Drive cost efficiencies
As we continue to refine our network, IT system, processes  
and asset strategy, visibility of opportunities to improve 
operating costs is now starting to emerge and we can  
begin a much more scientific and focused approach to 
cost improvement. Specifically: Engineering Productivity  
(where we are developing lean processes that will enable 
increased productivity by turning our assets through the  
Test and Repair functions); Logistics (where we are dovetailing 
our asset holding strategy into our logistics efficiency 
programme); and Corporate overheads (where we have a 
continual commitment to reviewing our residual cost base  
and maximising productivity).
Transforming the Company
Having successfully addressed the ‘Fix’ issues and with 
traction being made on our initiatives to improve operational 
efficiency, we have begun turning our attention to transforming 
the business over the medium-term to achieve long-term 
sustainable profit growth. 
The total UK rental market is estimated to be worth c.£6bn per 
year. With pre-exceptional revenues of £375m, Speedy is the 
largest player and is well known as the market leader, covering 
the broadest range of customers, services and assets. The 
market is expected to continue to grow in coming years with 
market commentators having predicted a c.3% growth p.a. 
between 2015 and 2017. In order to build on our market leading 
position, and the opportunity that the market presents us, we 
have identified three key areas for development:
 > Organic growth
Strategic and Major customer demand gives us good visibility 
of product demand and, as such, we can identify shortfalls 
in our core hire holdings. This will enable us to make more 
informed CapEx decisions to ensure we are buying more of the 
right equipment which will drive up core hire utilisation and 
rebalance our mix of direct and rehire. 
 > Reinventing our Express Network
We have 50,000+ Regional/Local customers who account 
for 49% of our revenues, and who represent a potentially 
significant prize. We are now re-evaluating the use of our 150+ 
strong Express Store network to enable us to provide a much 
more convenient and relevant service to these customers. 
 > Broader services 
Our market-leading position with our Strategic and Major 
customers gives us significant opportunities to provide a 
broader range of non-hire services. We are seeing an increasing 
demand resulting from this customer base requiring fewer 
suppliers in their supply chains to provide a broader range  
of services. For us this includes, but will not be limited to 
training, fuel management, logistics, property sharing,  
security, welfare support and health and safety support. 
Outlook
We have delivered a good result despite having had to  
address a number of major issues over the past 12 months.  
We have successfully executed and completed a number  
of key programmes and have started making good progress  
on a number of improvement initiatives. 
The UK is investing in a major infrastructure regeneration 
programme on an unprecedented scale and our customers  
are demanding a broader range of services and products 
from their suppliers. Meanwhile we have identified a major 
opportunity in re-connecting with our 50,000+ Regional/Local 
customer base. 
We have an increasingly strong platform to build on, we have  
a strong brand and a leading market position and we are now 
well placed to deliver sustainable profit growth over the 
medium and long-term.
Mark Rogerson MBE
Chief Executive Officer 10 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial KPIs
KPI Why this KPI is important  
to our strategy
How we have done FY2015 performance
Revenue
1
 £m
2
 
A measure of the work we are 
undertaking.
£375
M 
 
FY15
FY14
FY13
375.0
349.7
340.0
EBITA
1
 £m
2
 
3
 
A measure of the profit we generate 
from our revenue.
£26.4
M
 
 
26.4
22.1
22.9
FY15
FY14
FY13
EBITA
1
 margin % 
2
 
3
 
Highlights how successful Speedy  
is in maximising its return from the 
revenue generated.
7.0
% 
 
7.0
6.3
6.7
FY15
FY14
FY13
EBITDA
1
 £m 
2
 
3
A measure of operating return  
before depreciation.
£72.7
M
 
 
72.7
68.7
72.0
FY15
FY14
FY13
EBITDA
1
 margin % 
2
 
3
Highlights value generated either 
through operational efficiency  
or the quality of the revenue.
19.4
% 
 
19.4
19.6
21.1
FY15
FY14
FY13
Return on capital 
employed
2
 % 
2
 
3
A measure of how well Speedy  
is delivering a return from the  
capital invested.
8.0
%
 
 
8.0
7.0
7.5
FY15
FY14
FY13
Net debt to EBITDA
1
 
3
 
A measure of how leveraged the  
balance sheet is. 1.5
X 
 
1.5x
1.2x
1.0x
FY15
FY14
FY13
Net debt to hire fleet
3
 
As Speedy invests in its hire fleet,  
this assesses the appropriateness  
of the Group’s capital structure.
0.42
X
 
 
0.42x
0.37x
0.34x
FY15
FY14
FY13
Measuring progress 
against our strategy
Key performance indicators
1 Before exceptional items.
2   The calculation used is EBITA divided by the average of our opening and closing capital employed  
(where capital employed equals shareholders’ funds plus net debt).
3 Before exceptional items and amortisation.   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11
Strategic report
Financial KPIs
KPI Why this KPI is important  
to our strategy
How we have done FY2015 performance
NBV of property,  
plant and equipment £m
2
 
As our assets are our core revenue 
generator, this effectively measures  
the scale of investment to support 
revenue.
£253.3
M
 
 
253.3
255.1
241.7
FY15
FY14
FY13
Earnings per share
3
 
2
 
3
A measure of the return generated  
for each holder of our ordinary shares. 3.23
PENCE 
 
3.23
2.05
2.08
FY15
FY14
FY13
Non-financial KPIs
KPI Why this KPI is important to 
our strategy
FY2015 target How we have done Achieved?
Keeping people safe
1
 
5
We recognise that we and our 
customers work in some of the 
UK’s most dangerous industry 
sectors and therefore we have  
a responsibility towards 
keeping people safe.
0.1 accidents  
per 100,000  
hours worked
In FY2015 we  
achieved 0.07
Influencing our people 
5
We must ensure that skills  
and experience are retained 
within the business and that  
we attract new employees, 
providing the workforce  
of the future.
Achieve Best 
Companies 
accreditation
Accreditation  
achieved, being  
ranked as  
One to Watch
Impact on  
climate change –  
CO 2e per capita 
3
 
4
We must play our part in the 
low-carbon economy, create 
efficiencies within our business 
and be a responsible business 
to invest in, work for and do 
business with.
7.5 tonnes  
per capita
In FY2015 we  
achieved 7.05 tonnes 
per capita
We measure our progress through 
KPIs that are closely aligned with  
our strategy.
1 Safety and sustainability
3
 
Efficiency
5
 
People
2
 
Growth 
4
 
Service excellence 
For more information
see page 12
Delivering our strategy 12 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our business model and strategy
Our business model and strategy
QUALITY
CUSTOMER
INNOVATION
CUSTOMER
INNOVATION
QUALITY
QUALITY
CUSTOMER
INNOVATION
CUSTOMER
QUALITY
QUALITY
CUSTOMER
INNOVATION
Customer
Making sure that we are always thinking 
like our customers and anticipating  
their needs to deliver the right mix  
of products, solutions and services.
Quality
A focus on quality, not only with regard 
to the products we deliver, but also in the 
way we service our customers from end 
to end.
Innovation
Leading the market in delivering 
innovation, from the products we 
develop with our supply chain, to the 
processes that make it easy for our 
customers to do business with us. 
Focus on our customers…
…with a compelling product,  
solution and service mix
Our business model
Major customers
Our next largest 150 national 
customers, many of whom 
utilise a broad range of 
products and solutions  
across diverse sectors.
Specialist  
solutions
Consultancy and technical 
delivery of solutions in Power, 
Plant, Rail, Lifting and Survey.
Strategic customers
Our ten largest customers 
by revenue, who utilise an 
integrated range of products, 
solutions and services.
Support services
Services that complement our products and solutions, 
including product testing, repair, inspection, maintenance,  
fuel management, training and our Partnered Services provision.
Regional and Local customers
Our largest customer base by number, comprising businesses 
ranging from regional contractors and SMEs to sole traders, 
often working in construction-related trades and industries  
all of whom utilise our core product range.
Essential  
products
Tool and equipment rental.
BUSINESS EFFICIENCY
PEOPLE
SAFETY SUSTAINABILITY
Specialist 
solutions
GROWTH
Major 
customers
Essential
products
Regional
and local 
customers
Strategic
customers
Support 
services
QUALITY
CUSTOMER
INNOVATION
SERVICE EXCELLENCE   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13
Strategic report
All of this happens in our chosen markets
Construction
Working with central Government 
departments, local authorities and 
private businesses to support general 
commercial construction, along with  
both new build and housing stock  
repair and maintenance.
Infrastructure
Providing products and services to 
growing sectors including energy, 
transport (rail, highways, ports and 
airports) and utilities (water and waste).
Industrial
Supporting manufacturing, specifically 
fast-moving consumer goods, technology, 
mining, and the oil and gas industry (both 
on and off shore).
Our business model focuses on five key drivers: safety and sustainability; 
growth; efficiency; service excellence; and people. It blends the products, 
solutions and services we provide to our Strategic, Major and Regional and 
Local customers with our focus on thinking like our customers, bringing 
quality to everything we do and leading the innovation agenda in our 
market space.
How we engineer progress – our strategy for growth
1
Leading the 
industry in safety 
and sustainability
For more information
see page 14
Being a growth 
engine
For more information
see page 16
Being the most 
efficient at 
everything we do
For more information
see page 18
Being preferred 
by our customers
For more information
see page 20
Becoming  
an employer  
of choice
For more information
see page 22
2
3 4
5 Leading the industry in 
safety and sustainability
1
Major Accident Frequency Rate 
(MAFR)
per 100,000 hours worked
0.07
2014: 0.08
RIDDOR Accidents
per 100,000 hours worked
0.18
2014: 0.39
 Safety and sustainability is at the 
heart of everything we do – it is part 
of our DNA. It is fundamental to our 
business and we aim to lead the 
industry in our approach.
Steve Giblin
Group HSSE Director
How we have done it
14 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15
Strategic report
Safety from the top
A number of our senior leaders embarked upon formal 
behavioural science training in the final quarter of FY2015, 
which is the first phase of behavioural safety training in Speedy 
and a key component in our journey to further reduce our 
HSSE risk. Following this we are developing in-house Speedy 
behavioural safety training with our own brand called ‘Speedy 
Intelligent Safety’. We believe that by leading the sector  
and developing cutting edge training solutions, this can  
be positively shared with customers and suppliers.
In February 2015 Speedy conducted a Leadership Intervention 
Day where nearly 100 of our senior leaders visited over 200 
locations across the UK and conducted workplace inspections 
in conjunction with employee engagement activities, enabling 
our employees at all levels to feed back their views on safety 
and the conditions of the facilities in which they work.
Our approach
The nature of Speedy’s operations is such that employees 
are regularly exposed to hazards on customer sites and in the 
workplace. Speedy aims to manage these hazards and thereby 
minimise risks to employees and our customers through the 
deployment of a robust safety management system which 
includes appropriate policies and procedures. We are therefore 
pleased to report that after announcing in last year’s Annual 
Report a Major Accident Frequency Rate (MAFR) of 0.08, we can 
report a further reduction to 0.07 per 100,000 hours worked. 
The reported number of accidents leading to lost time has also 
shown a decrease – our target for FY2015 for RIDDOR accidents 
(those reported to the Health and Safety Executive) was 0.5 
(per 100,000 hours worked) and we are pleased to announce 
we significantly bettered this with a rate of 0.18. In Q4 we 
went an entire quarter without a RIDDOR accident, which is 
testament to the work we have done.
This is a notable achievement, but we also recognise that as 
the number gets lower it becomes much harder to beat each 
year. As a result, we have instigated a number of improvements. 
Although regrettable and not acceptable, accidents represent 
learning opportunities, so accurate reporting is an essential 
part of building a robust safety management system. A number 
of specific actions have been taken to encourage the reporting 
of incidents, including the introduction in FY2015 of a new 
common near-miss/unsafe condition reporting system at every 
operational site. 
Sustainability 
Sustainability is just as important to Speedy, and we cover the 
work we have done on this during the year in our Sustainability 
section on pages 26 and 27.
Awards and accreditations
Speedy is proud to be an active member of the major 
industry accreditation schemes and is committed to 
working with them to drive forward the standards of 
best practice. Current accreditations include ISO 9001 
for Quality Management, ISO 14001 for Environmental 
Management and OHSAS 18001 for Health & Safety 
Management through Intertek Certification Ltd. 
Speedy is also accredited to Achilles Building 
Confidence with a 5-star rating for the third year 
running. Building Confidence is an online registration 
and accreditation standard used by 17 buyer 
organisations and over 1,500 suppliers in the UK 
construction sector. We have also recently attained 
a 5-star rating for our Achilles RISQS accreditation 
(formerly Link-up). This demonstrates that Speedy 
has not received any non-conformances for two years 
through this scheme. We are renowned within the 
industry for our safety credentials, and in FY2015  
have won multiple awards for the safety of our fleet.
Speedy is proud to 
be an active member 
of the major industry 
accreditation schemes Being a growth engine
2
A focus on our Strategic and Major customers
Strategic  
Accounts
20%
Revenue Share
31%
Revenue Share
49%
Revenue Share
Regional Accounts
Local Accounts 
Major 
Accounts
Cost 
Convenience 
Connectivity
New channels to market
Safety 
Quality 
Innovation
End-to-end services
Our strategy for achieving 
sustainable profit growth is 
through the implementation 
of a more focused Customer 
Segmentation strategy centred on three distinct account 
groups: Strategic, Major, and Regional and Local customers. 
During FY2015, our growth has been delivered mainly 
through two key initiatives: focusing on our Strategic and 
Major customer segments and delivering our ‘Own City’ 
campaign strategy.
Ed Cowell
Group Sales & Marketing 
Director
How we have done it
16 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17
Strategic report
Contract wins
Our ten largest customers, our Strategic customers, account  
for c.20% of Group revenues and the next 150 largest 
customers, our Major customers, deliver a further c.31% of  
our revenues. We have delivered growth in FY2015 by focusing 
on these distinct segments, with our differentiated proposition 
of providing a comprehensive range of products, specialist 
solutions and complementary services to these customers,  
who are responsible for delivering some of the largest and most 
complex construction and infrastructure projects in the UK. 
During FY2015 we won a number of new contracts. In 
December 2014 we announced a new three-year industry- 
leading deal with the Balfour Beatty Group to deliver a lean 
and efficient plant hire service into the Balfour Beatty Group 
throughout the UK in conjunction with A-Plant, Nationwide 
Platforms and Vp. This new approach to delivering plant hire 
to the Balfour Beatty Group is being managed from a newly 
integrated and co-located Centre of Excellence in Sheffield, 
where a collaborative team are working together to deliver 
a new level of plant excellence. In addition, we have won 
significant contracts including ABC Electrification,  
supporting overhead line electrification programmes  
for the rail industry, and UKDN Waterflow to provide tools, 
equipment and plant hire.
Delivering our ‘Own City’ campaign strategy
Our ‘Own City’ campaigns continue to successfully drive revenue 
performance in key cities across the UK. We apply a concentration 
of force within these campaigns, ensuring that both our sales and 
operational teams are working as one to win business and deliver on 
our promises. After a successful start in H1, we extended the roll-out 
of this approach in H2, and we have delivered growth across the UK. 
Three-year industry-
leading contract with the 
Balfour Beatty Group
Regional and Local customers
We have 50,000+ Regional and Local 
customers who account for c.49% of our 
revenues. Having analysed our customer 
base in detail, we have identified a 
significant group of around 3,000 
customers within this segment who 
operate at a regional level. We plan to  
re-engage with these customers in order 
to provide further growth opportunities 
for the business in FY2016 and beyond.
Phase 1 growth
London 
Phase 2 growth
Edinburgh 
Glasgow 
Manchester 
Liverpool 
Birmingham 
Oxford 
Bristol 
Phase 3 (FY2016)
Newcastle 
Bradford 
Leeds 
Sheffield 
Nottingham 
Derby 
Bath 
Southampton  Being the most efficient  
at everything we do
3
Network Optimisation Programme
We have reconfigured the backbone of the Group’s national network 
and logistics capabilities into an integrated distribution model during 
the year. We established a new National Distribution Centre (NDC) into 
the programme and re-profiled our Multi Service Centre (MSC) footprint, 
enabling us to accelerate and deliver the programme ahead of schedule.
The new National Distribution Centre
Our new NDC, located in Tamworth, will serve as the central hub 
for overnight distribution to our UK MSCs. This will ensure that 
the right products are distributed on time to our network of 
Superstores and Express Stores, while at the same time achieving 
greater efficiencies by closely aligning our fleet capability with 
the national network, so that we may deliver our products to 
customers faster and at lower cost.
New Multi Service Centres and Superstores
To complete the backbone of our network, during the year we 
opened five new MSCs and seven new Superstores. These MSCs 
and Superstores will improve our asset holding capability. In 
addition, they act as engineering centres, with specific sites 
designated as Centres of Excellence for our specialist solutions 
offerings in Power, Plant, Rail, Lifting and Survey. 
   Key to delivering our strategy for 
sustainable profit growth is making the 
business efficient at all levels. As well  
as helping us achieve our sustainability
targets, being efficient at everything we do will enable us to  
work smarter and improve the management of our cost base.
Tracey Atkin
Chief Operations Officer
How we have done it
18 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19
Strategic report
Asset Optimisation Programme
To realise the full potential of our improved infrastructure 
network, we have initiated an Asset Optimisation Programme 
to identify how best to optimise our asset base to ensure that 
we buy, turn, service, distribute and dispose of our assets in 
the most efficient manner. To spearhead this programme we 
launched a new centrally located Asset Information Cell (AIC) 
in March 2015. The AIC will enable us to better structure our 
asset holdings, making sure we have an optimum level of the 
assets we need, in the right place at the right time, and reduce 
our holdings of other assets where appropriate. This will enable 
us to improve utilisation, maximise our capital discipline, 
and begin to build customer advocacy by delivering a market 
leading level of service excellence to our customers. 
Logistics Optimisation Programme
In conjunction with the launch of the AIC, we also launched 
a new cluster operational structure across the UK. We have 
divided the UK into 15 cluster areas, each serviced by one of 
our MSCs, and each containing Superstores and Express stores. 
Using intelligence from our centralised AIC, this will enable 
us to dovetail our asset holding strategy into our logistics 
efficiency programme with the aim of both engineering and 
moving our assets efficiently around these cluster networks. 
This cluster programme will be rolled out throughout FY2016.
Delivering a best in class network for 
our customers and people
NDC
MSC
MSC
MSC
MSC
MSC
3
MSC
MSC
MSC
4
5
6
7
13
14
8
9
12 11
15
10
16
19
17
22
33-
35 36
32
23
21
24
31
37
38
30
29
27
28
25 26
18
1
2
20
Key stats
Superstores
New Superstores opened
Û
7 
TOTAL 38
 
Multi Service Centres
New Multi Service Centres opened
Û
5 
TOTAL 8
 
National Distribution Centre
New National Distribution  
Centre opened
Û
1 
National Distribution Centre 
Tamworth
NDC
Multi Service Centres
MSC
Superstores
Scotland and 
Ireland
1  Belfast
2  Dublin 
3  Inverness
4  Aberdeen
5  Edinburgh
6  Glasgow
7  Grangemouth
The North
8  Newcastle
9  Middlesborough
10 Liverpool  
11 Warrington
12 Manchester
13 Leeds
14 Sheffield
15 Stoke
16 Nottingham
17 Birmingham
18 West Bromwich
19 Leicester
20 Wolverhampton
The South
21 Oxford 
22 Cambridge 
23 Ipswich
24 Coventry
25 Maidstone
26 Croydon
27 Crawley
28 Brighton
29 Southampton 
30 Portsmouth
31 Cardiff
32 Heathrow
33 West London
34 Central London
35 East London
36 Dartford
37 Bristol 
38 Exeter 
Glasgow
Teeside
Warrington
Normanton
Sheffield
Newport
Uxbridge
Erith Being preferred  
by our customers
4
Service
excellence
Refocusing on our specialist solutions
New operational structures
Embedding a new IT operating system
Delivering service excellence 
will both increase levels of 
satisfaction amongst our existing 
customers and improve our brand 
reputation, enabling us to retain 
those customers and win new 
ones. Thinking like our customers 
and anticipating their needs, 
whilst operationally delivering on our promises, is core  
to us delivering this level of service.
Ed Cowell
Group Sales & Marketing 
Director
Tracey Atkin
Chief Operations Officer
How we have done it
20 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21
Strategic report
New operational support structures
For our Strategic customers, we have created Operational 
Support Team structures that create clear lines of support and 
communication. These structures are designed to help us win 
more business, operationally deliver our promises and improve 
problem resolution. To enable us to grow our existing accounts, 
we have taken away the day-to-day operational workings 
from our Account Managers, enabling them to concentrate on 
understanding how we can further support our customers on 
their range of contracts. The Operational Management Team 
then takes responsibility for the day-to-day delivery of our 
contractual obligations i.e. ensuring the right products are  
on site at the right time and in the right working order.  
Finally, to enable the improvement of the problem resolution 
process, each Strategic customer has a service desk located  
at our Head Office, dedicated to resolving any operational 
issue. This approach has helped us to deliver new levels of 
service, achieving up to 99% perfect delivery with certain 
strategic customers.
Our core themes to support service excellence
Focusing on delivering service excellence to our customers is a key component 
in our strategy to deliver sustainable profit growth. Our customers simply want 
our products to be delivered to the right place, at the right time, at the right 
price and in the right working order and, if there is an issue, for it to be dealt 
with promptly. During FY2015 we have concentrated on a number of core 
themes to improve our levels of service.
Refocusing on our specialist solutions
In recent years, due to a strategy that created a ‘One Speedy’ 
approach, the business had begun to lose its reputation for the 
specialist solutions that we have traditionally provided to the 
market in Power, Plant, Rail, Lifting and Survey. To regain this 
reputation for delivering these solutions to our customers in 
these key areas, we have focused on bringing these specialisms 
back to the market, establishing Centres of Excellence across 
the UK in our new MSC and Superstore network and ensuring 
we have the technical expertise in the business to fulfil our 
customers’ requirements. 
Embedding a new IT operating system
We have rolled out an upgrade of our IT operating system 
across the business during FY2015. This system will provide 
us with a platform from which we can establish much greater 
levels of transparency and granularity of data around our asset 
holding, as well as ensuring more efficient customer processes 
which will help make it easier for our customers to do business 
with us. Becoming an  
employer of choice
5
Promoting young talent
Training and development
Improved communication
 We are committed to ensuring that not 
only do we have the right people with 
the right skills working in our business, 
but that we also become a place where 
people want to come and work.
Steve Jones
Head of HR, Reward and 
Development
Improved employee benefits
During FY2015 we delivered a host of new flexible employee 
benefits and rewards, including: an improved pension scheme; 
enhanced maternity pay; improved structure to working hours 
to better promote work-life balance; upgraded technology 
through phones and devices to work with; a wellbeing 
programme; and a new car salary sacrifice scheme.
Improved communication
A programme of face-to-face engagement by the senior 
leadership team has been undertaken during the year through 
regular operational site visits, and management roadshows 
and conferences. We launched an inaugural annual Leadership 
Intervention Day that saw almost 100 of our senior and wider 
leadership community visit our entire operational and back-
office network to undertake a safety audit, as well as gain 
feedback on how we can continuously improve the safety and 
hygiene of our working environments. We have also improved 
the quality and consistency of centralised communications, 
keeping our people updated and engaged on our progress 
through regular multimedia communications. 
Employee benefits: 
keeping everyone 
happy
How we have done it
22 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 23
Strategic report
Listening to our people
As well as direct feedback through 
face-to-face communications, we 
launched our first Best Companies 
employee survey to gather data 
that will help us understand where 
we can improve and enable us 
to become a true employer of 
choice. The positive feedback 
from employees through the 
survey has enabled us to achieve 
an accreditation with the Best 
Companies scheme, but has also 
provided us with a host of data  
that will enhance our people 
agenda as we move into FY2016. 
Promoting young talent
We are committed to our apprenticeship programme, and  
we are proud of our excellent residential apprentice training 
centre located in York as well as our on-the-job training 
programme. This year we also introduced a new business 
graduate training programme. This programme gives recent 
graduates exposure to the whole business as part of their 
professional development. In addition to this, each business 
graduate is personally sponsored by a member of the  
executive team, something that is unique in our industry. 
Training and development
We have established a training academy at our new  
National Distribution Centre in Tamworth. New joiners  
to the business are now inducted through a bespoke programme 
relevant to their role, with up to a week in residence for the 
more operational roles around the business. We have also 
stepped up the level of training and development for our 
c.3,800 employees, including the delivery of over 4,400  
internal training courses, a comprehensive Behavioural  
Safety programme for our senior business leaders, 96 of  
our Depot Managers undertaking the HAE accredited 
Management and Leadership programme, 48 of our  
operational managers undertaking LEAN training to improve 
efficiencies and processes in the business, and a new 
programme designed to qualify relevant employees to  
NVQ business administration level.
Employee Excellence Awards
We re-launched our annual company awards this year to tie 
in directly with our journey to excellence. Building the awards 
around our five key themes of Safety and Sustainability, 
Growth, Efficiency, Service Excellence and People, the 
Excellence Awards focus on both measurable performance and 
on ideas and initiatives that improve how we can differentiate 
ourselves through thinking like our customers, delivering 
quality and leading the innovation agenda in our market space.  24 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
This is what  
our clients say 
Testimonials
“Thank you for your fast 
response and help.”
Just a quick note to 
thank you and your team 
at Speedy Services on 
behalf of MGJV & Morgan Sindall 
for your fast response and help in 
supplying generators to the Neiley 
Wastewater Treatment works at 
such short notice. This has helped 
the site team to resolve the issues, 
take the pressure off and assure the 
treatment processes are maintained 
until the mains power is restored 
tomorrow.”
Terry Meadows
Senior SHE Manager 
Infrastructure North, Morgan Sindall
Having worked with Speedy on  
the enabling, construction and 
transformation phases of the Queen 
Elizabeth Olympic Park, I have found the on-site 
facility service to be a great asset to the project. 
By Speedy providing the on-site service it has 
allowed us immediate access to tools, equipment 
and advice, which in other circumstances could 
have resulted in an increased waiting/standing 
time and loss of productivity. We have always 
found the on-site managers to be very 
professional and they integrated with our 
workforce well.”
Andrew Ayres
Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park Transformation Project, 
BAM Nuttall Ltd
Specialist expertise – Power
On-site facilities – Olympic Park   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25
Strategic report
“I would like to 
thank Speedy,  
for helping us  
to deliver an 
outstanding survey 
field course.”
I would like to thank Speedy, for helping us  
to deliver an outstanding survey field course  
to 60 Architectural Technology students here  
at Nottingham Trent University (NTU). Speedy planned and 
presented information through interesting, professionally 
delivered lectures, in a way that the students found 
accessible, and will help them to undertake practical  
work outside. This was a new venture, bringing in a 
professional surveyor to introduce students to concepts  
of measurement and levelling of sites.” 
Gavin Tunstall
Course Leader for Architectural Technology School of Architecture,  
Design and the Built Environment, Nottingham Trent University
Carillion has been in Nottingham on the BSF Schools 
projects for the last five years, and the service has 
always been excellent from Speedy. The move to the 
new Superstore has meant an improved service with everything  
in one central, easily accessible place. All products can be seen  
and assistance from the staff can always be obtained as they  
are on the premises, ‘under one roof’. Delivery and collection  
times have always been fast. When it comes to safety, the 
knowledge of the staff and their products is second to none,  
offering alternative products where necessary to find a  
suitable solution.”
Paul Cartwright
IMS Manager  
Nottingham BSF, Carillion Building
“The move 
to the new 
Superstore 
has meant 
an improved 
service.”
Specialist expertise – Surveying
I refer to the generous support 
that Speedy provided at our recent 
Community Project at Woodgreen 
Allotments in Sandwell. Despite wet and freezing 
weather, our team of volunteers were able to 
complete the project last week. I think you will 
agree, the transformation of the area is quite 
remarkable. Without the plant and equipment 
provided by yourselves this would not have 
been possible. On behalf of my colleagues and 
other volunteers who assisted, may I take this 
opportunity to thank you for your contribution.” 
Mark Smith
Interserve Construction Ltd
Corporate responsibility
Superstore – Nottingham 26 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
One Plan
In our 2014 Annual Report we reported on sustainability in our 
One Plan section. During the year, we have decided to further 
integrate sustainability into all parts of our business. To ensure 
that the aims of One Plan are not separate from our overall 
strategy, we are now reporting on sustainability within our 
five key themes and have therefore dispensed with a separate 
brand for this activity. Our approach to safety, being one of our 
five key drivers for growth, is set out on pages 14 and 15. 
Environmental leadership
Speedy is determined to play its part in the global challenges 
presented by climate change. As the market leader in the  
sector, our approach is based on innovation, leadership and  
the sharing and exchanging of best practice.
Externally, we believe our approach is industry-leading, 
providing tools and equipment, support services and 
measurement data. We place a strong emphasis on  
education and training to address site behaviour, assisting  
customers to better manage their environmental impact. 
Internally, we take a proactive approach to environmental 
management, measuring and managing our carbon footprint 
and targeting key areas such as logistics and procurement  
to reduce our carbon emissions and minimise waste. 
Social excellence
We take our social responsibilities very seriously and are 
committed through our business model to driving social 
excellence along with environmental leadership. We aim 
to create positive social value through a range of activities 
including charitable donations and employee engagement, 
as well as through creative and innovative community 
engagement.
Positive impact on society
The Speedy apprenticeship programme looks to provide quality 
opportunities to encourage young people into our industry  
and provide the skilled labour force we need to take our 
business forward.
We offer a successful graduate programme where we match 
graduates to an executive team member. This embeds our 
learning culture from the top down, as well as from the  
ground up, and provides the graduates with unparalleled 
access to the workings of the business and an incredible  
development opportunity.
We support national charities including WellChild, The 
Lighthouse Club, the Andrew Flintoff Foundation and Habitat 
for Humanity. Our community approach is based on long-term 
strategic partnerships with charity partners close to the  
heart of our people, who deliver measurable impact in the 
communities they serve.
Cape Town – Our Challenge
In September 2014, ten of our people from across the UK once 
again embarked on a life changing experience, this time to 
support the work of Habitat for Humanity in Cape Town –  
a 12,200 mile round trip from Speedy’s head office in  
Newton-le-Willows.
Nearly nine million South Africans live in inadequate housing 
in vast informal settlements known as ‘Townships’ where 
residents often reside in overcrowded shacks pieced together 
with cardboard, corrugated iron, scraps of wood and plastic.
The Speedy team embarked upon a community house building 
project alongside the house recipients to build a brand new 
integrated community called Pelican Park. Some of the tasks 
included mixing mortar, putting up window panes and door 
frames, bricklaying and bagging walls, pouring cement floor 
slabs and moving bricks and mortar. The activities were very 
physical and required a lot of energy, focus and motivation 
but Speedy morale remained high and the team rose to the 
challenge and completed not one house but four, including 
starting on the foundations of another four.
Sandy Muir, the Habitat for Humanity team leader who 
accompanied Speedy on the trip, said: “We are extremely 
grateful to have Speedy’s support and would like to thank 
the team for volunteering their time and everyone for their 
donations.”
We take a proactive approach  
to environmental management
Sustainability   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27
Strategic report
“ We take our social responsibilities very  
seriously and are committed through our 
business model to driving social excellence  
along with environmental leadership.”
Equality and diversity
Speedy is an equal opportunities employer and our people  
and applicants are treated fairly and equally regardless of their 
age, colour, creed, disability, full or part time status, gender, 
marital status, nationality or ethnic origin, race, religion or 
sexual orientation. Applications from disabled people are 
always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the 
applicant concerned.
A breakdown by gender of the number of persons who 
were Directors of the Company, senior managers and other 
employees as at 31 March 2015, is set out below. 
 > Directors – Female 0:4 Male 
 > Senior management team – Female 14:56 Male 
 > All Speedy employees (UK) – Female 545:2,780 Male
Human rights
Speedy’s Human Rights Policy applies to all employees and 
commits Speedy to upholding the provision of basic human 
rights and eliminating any discriminatory practices. The policy 
emphasises our commitment to human rights in the way we do 
business, seeking to create and maintain a work culture which 
allows equal human rights to all persons whilst prohibiting 
actions contrary to this, such as forced or child labour.
For more information about our approach to Corporate 
Responsibility please visit www.speedyservices.com/investors 
Total tonnes of CO
2
e
25,650.49
TONNES
CO
2
e per capita
7.05
TONNES
Greenhouse Gas report
This report is for the calendar year 2014. Due to timescales for 
publication of this report, accurate figures for the financial year  
are not available at the time of going to print.
The figures cover our UK operations and International operations in 
relation to the equity share of our MENA and Kazakhstan businesses 
through to 31 December 2014.
Methodology 
We have reported on all of the emission sources required under 
the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) 
Regulations 2013. These sources fall within our consolidated financial 
statements. We do not have any responsibility for any sources that  
are not included in our consolidated statements except those quoted 
in the Omissions section.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard (revised edition), Scopes 1 & 2, and emission factors from UK 
Government’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2013.
The boundary of this report has been based on equity share and 
includes Kazakhstan (50% share) and MENA (49% share).
Omissions
The combustion of diesel for the testing of equipment could not 
be established for this reporting period. However, processes and 
procedures will be established in FY2016 to capture this data for 
future years. 
Data confidence 
The data used to report the GHG emissions was reviewed and 
examined and gives a ‘High’ level of confidence. This was established 
using the ‘GHG Protocol guidance on uncertainty assessment in  
GHG inventories and calculating statistical parameter uncertainty’.
Scope 1 – Combustion of Fuel
and Operation of Facilities 
20,262.82 tonnes (79%)
Scope 2 – Electricity, Heat, Steam
and Cooling Purchased for own use 
5,387.67 tonnes (21%) 28 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial review
Performance has  
shown promising signs 
Russell Down
Group Finance Director
Group financial performance
Revenue
1
 for the year to 31 March 2015 was £375.0m  
(2014: £349.7m) which included planned fleet disposals of 
£13.7m (2014: £9.5m); excluding these disposals, revenue  
was up 6.2% (2014: 2.2%). Exceptional revenue on disposal  
of Middle East assets amounted to £11.0m (2014: £nil).
In line with our strategy to offer a full range of services to 
customers, the proportion of partnered services revenues 
increased again during the year. As a consequence of the lower 
margins in this business the gross profit percentage
1
 declined 
to 57.9% (2014: 61.4%).
The Group reported EBITA of £26.4m before exceptional 
items (2014: £22.1m), an increase of 19.5%. The result was 
affected by losses in the International division of £5.6m (2014: 
£4.3m). The International division operated at break even 
in March 2015 following significant restructuring activities 
during the year. Excluding the results from International, EBITA 
(before exceptional costs) increased by 21.2% to £32.0m 
(2014: £26.4m). Profit before taxation, exceptional items and 
amortisation increased by 50% to £21.9m (2014: £14.6m). 
Profit after taxation was £0.2m (2014: £4.0m).
            Revenue
1
 (£m)          EBITA
1
 (£m)
2015 2014 2015 2014
UK & Ireland 351.3 328.1 37.4 32.7
International 23.7 21.6 (5.6) (4.3)
Corporate costs – – (5.4) (6.3)
Total 375.0 349.7 26.4 22.1
1 Pre-exceptional items.
UK & Ireland performance
Revenue grew by 7.1% to £351.3m (2014: £328.1m). The Group 
won c.51% of its revenue from Strategic and Major clients 
during the year and secured a number of new contract wins and 
renewals with clients on infrastructure and property projects 
including Hinkley Point and Battersea Power Station. In line 
with our strategy to offer a full service to clients, Partnered 
Services revenue has grown as a proportion of total revenue 
which diluted gross margins. Overhead costs have however 
been tightly controlled and consequently the EBITA margin 
increased to 10.6% (2014: 10.0%).   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29
Strategic report
“The Group won c.51% of its revenue from Strategic 
and Major clients during the year and secured a 
number of new contract wins and renewals with 
clients on infrastructure and property projects.”
The Group utilises interest rate hedges to manage fluctuations 
in LIBOR. At the year end, hedges with a notional value of £70m 
(2014: £55m) were in place, equivalent to approximately 66.4% 
of net debt outstanding. The fair value of these hedges was a 
liability of £0.4m at year end and they have varying maturity 
dates to March 2018. The incremental interest cost arising from 
these hedges amounted to £0.3m during the year (2014: £0.5m).
Taxation
The Group’s income statement shows a tax charge for the year 
of £1.9m (2014: £3.0m), an effective tax rate of 90.4% (2014: 
42.9%). The main reason for the high effective tax rate is that 
certain of the losses and exceptional charges in the International 
Division are not subject to tax. The effective rate of tax on 
adjusted profit before tax amounts to 24.7% (2014: 28.8%). 
Tax paid in the year ending 31 March 2015 amounted to £5.2m 
(2014: £5.8m).
Shares, earnings per share and dividends
At 31 March 2015, 521,869,253 shares were outstanding, of 
which 6,252,907 were held in the Employee Benefits Trust.
Basic earnings per share before amortisation and exceptional 
items was 3.23 pence (2014: 2.05 pence). After amortisation 
and exceptional items, earnings per share was 0.04 pence 
(2014: 0.78 pence). 
The Board remains committed to the payment of dividends 
when prudent to do so. Subsequent to the year-end, it has 
recommended a final dividend of 0.40 pence per share (2014: 
0.35 pence) which represents a total cash cost of approximately 
£2.1m. If approved by shareholders, this gives a total dividend 
for the year of 0.70 pence per share (2014: 0.61 pence). It is 
proposed that the dividend will be paid on 12 August 2015  
to shareholders on the register at 12 June 2015.
Capital expenditure and disposals
Total capital expenditure during the year amounted to £87.7m, 
of which £68.6m (2014: £65.8m) related to equipment for 
hire. The Group’s property network has been redeveloped and 
optimised during the year and consequently capital expenditure 
related to land and buildings increased to £13.7m (2014: £6.2m). 
The balance principally relates to investment in IT.
The hire fleet is continually reviewed to optimise asset holdings 
for the target markets and to recycle capital employed in low-
utilisation assets. Disposal proceeds of £39.8m (2014: £18.7m) 
increased during the year as a result of the sale of equipment 
held in the Middle East. Reflective of the increased sale 
proceeds, net capital expenditure reduced to £48.5m (2014: 
£57.8m). At 31 March 2015, the average age of the fleet was 
estimated at 4.0 years (2014: 3.9 years).
International performance
The International division has been restructured during the 
year with the closure of operations in Egypt and Qatar and the 
sale of the business in Oman after the year end. The Group 
has withdrawn from the spot hire business in the UAE with the 
consequent relocation and disposal of assets; the remaining  
Oil & Gas activities in the region are currently operating at 
break even. Good growth prospects exist with our key clients  
in the Oil & Gas sector, although discussions are continuing 
with a potential purchaser. Pre-exceptional revenue in the 
division grew by 9.7% reflecting mobilisation on existing  
and new oil and gas contracts, offset in part by the closure  
of other operations. The region incurred an EBITA loss of  
£5.6m for the year (2014: £4.3m).
Exceptional costs
Exceptional items totalled £17.1m before taxation  
(2014: £4.7m) as the Group has continued its activities  
to restructure the UK depot network and exit from the  
Middle East. A summary of costs treated as exceptional is 
provided below; full details are provided in note 3 to the 
Financial statements:
 > the programme to reconfigure and upgrade the UK depot 
network has accelerated during the year; costs associated 
with this principally relate to onerous lease provisions and 
amount to £6.4m; 
 > in the International division significant asset disposals have 
been undertaken as part of the strategy to exit the core 
hire business and close other business activities; losses on 
disposal of assets amount to £6.2m; and 
 > restructuring and redundancy costs in the UK and Middle 
East, finance costs and professional fees amount to £4.5m. 
Interest and hedging
Net interest expense totalled £5.4m (2014: £7.4m). £0.3m of 
this cost related to the cancellation of the international debt 
facility and has consequently been treated as exceptional 
finance costs.
Borrowings under the Group’s bank facility are priced on the 
basis of LIBOR plus a variable margin, while any unutilised 
commitment is charged at 40% of the applicable margin. 
During the year, the margin payable on the outstanding debt 
fluctuated between 1.8% and 3.25% dependent on the 
Group’s performance in relation to leverage and the weighting 
of lending between receivables and plant and machinery.  
The effective average margin in the year was 2.6%. The  
current applicable margins are 2.0% on receivables and  
2.5% on plant and machinery. 30 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Financial review 
Capital structure and treasury
Speedy’s long-term funding is provided through a combination 
of shareholders’ funds and bank debt.
In September 2014 the Group refinanced its £220m credit 
facility with a £180m asset-based revolving credit facility 
which expires in September 2019. 
At 31 March 2015 the gross amount utilised under the facility 
was £122.9m. The undrawn available amount, based on 
eligible receivables and plant and machinery under the facility, 
amounted to £55m. The average gross borrowings under both 
facilities during the year ended 31 March 2015 was £129.7m. 
The current facility includes quarterly leverage and fixed 
charge cover covenant tests. The Group was compliant with 
these tests throughout the year. 
The Group will continue to closely monitor cash generation, 
whilst balancing the need to invest in the quality of its UK hire 
fleet and depot network. 
Return on capital
The return on capital (based on EBITA before exceptional  
items) generated by the Group’s operations excluding its 
International division was 10.8%, up from 9.5% in FY2014.  
The losses generated by the International division resulted  
in a consolidated return on capital employed for the Group  
of 8.0% (2014: 7.0%).
Russell Down
Group Finance Director
Cash flow and net debt
Net cash flow generated from operating activities amounted 
to £3.0m in the year (2014: £4.8m). Free cash flow (before 
dividends and financing activities) was an outflow of £16.2m 
(2014: £8.2m) primarily as a result of increased investment in 
the depot network, combined with a working capital outflow 
from trade receivables, as the Group now has a greater 
proportion of revenue from larger clients with longer payment 
terms. This outflow has been offset by a £21.1m increase 
in asset disposal proceeds, primarily from the International 
division. Dividend payments in the year amounted to £3.4m 
(2014: £2.9m).
Accordingly, net debt has increased from £84.4m at the 
beginning of the year to £105.3m at 31 March 2015, a £20.9m 
increase. Similarly, net debt to EBITDA has increased to 1.45x 
(2014: 1.23x). Net debt as a percentage of hire fleet NBV  
has increased to 49.6% from 37.4% as at 31 March 2014.
Balance sheet
Net assets at 31 March 2015 totalled £234.0m (2014: £239.3m).
Net assets per share amount to 44.8 pence (48.5 pence based 
on tangible assets). Net property, plant and equipment was 
£253.3m at 31 March 2015, of which equipment for hire 
represents approximately 83.8%. Net debt/net property, 
plant and equipment of 0.42x at 31 March 2015 (2014: 0.33x) 
underlines the strong asset backing within the business.
Gross trade receivables totalled £110.4m at 31 March 2015 
(2014: £91.6m). Bad debt and credit note provisions totalled 
£6.3m at 31 March 2015 (2014: £5.3m), equivalent to 5.7% of 
the debtor book (2014: 5.8%). The increase in total provisions 
reflects the marginal increase in debtor weeks (calculated on  
a count-back basis) to 10.4 weeks at year end compared to  
9.2 weeks at 31 March 2014.   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31
Strategic report
Effective 
management 
of risks 
The business strategy in place and the nature of the industry  
in which we operate expose the Group to a number of risks.  
As part of the risk management framework in place, the Board 
has considered the nature, likelihood and potential impact of 
each of the significant risks it is willing to accept in achieving 
its strategic objectives.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility 
for reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls, 
including the systems established to identify, assess, manage 
and monitor risks. These systems, which ensure that risk is 
Risk Potential impact Strategy for mitigation
Safety, health and 
environment
1
 
5
Serious injury or death
Speedy operates, transports and provides for rental 
a wide range of machinery. Without rigorous safety 
regimes in place there is a risk of injury or death to 
employees, customers or members of the public.
Environmental hazard
The provision of such machinery includes handling, 
transport and dispensing of substances, including  
fuel, that are hazardous to the environment in the 
event of spillage.
The Group is recognised for its industry-leading position 
in promoting enhanced health and safety compliance, 
together with a commitment to product innovation. The 
Group’s systems, health and safety, and environment 
teams measure and promote employee understanding 
of, and compliance with, procedures that affect safety 
and protection of the environment. Customer account 
managers are responsible for addressing service and 
safety issues.
Revenue and trading 
performance
2
Competitive pressure
The Hire market is fragmented and highly competitive. 
Whilst we continue to develop strategic relationships 
with strategic and major customers, it is important 
that we continue to develop our local and regional 
accounts.
Reliance on high value customers
As revenue from strategic customers grows there 
is a higher risk to future revenues should preferred 
supplier status be lost when such agreements  
may individually represent a material element  
of our revenues.
The Group monitors its competitive position closely, to 
ensure that it is able to offer its customers the best solution 
for their requirements. The Group provides a wide breadth 
of offerings, supplemented by its partnered services 
division for specialist equipment. The Group monitors the 
performance of its major accounts against forecasts, strength 
of client future order books and individual expectations 
with a view to ensuring that the opportunities for the Group 
are maximised. Market share is measured and competitors’ 
activities are reported on and reacted to where appropriate. 
The Group’s integrated services offering further mitigates 
against this risk as it demonstrates value to our customers, 
setting us apart from purely asset hire companies.
No single customer currently accounts for more than 10%  
of revenue or receivables.
Partner and supplier  
service levels 
1
 
3
 
4
Supply chain
Speedy procures assets and services from a wide range 
of sources, both UK and internationally based. Within 
the supply chain there are risks of non-fulfilment.
Partner reputation
A significant amount of our revenues come from our 
partnered services offering, where the contact point 
with the customer is through a third party partner.
Speedy’s ability to supply assets with the expected 
customer service is therefore reliant on the 
performance of others with the risk that if this is not 
effectively managed, the reputation of Speedy and 
hence future revenues may be adversely impacted.
A dedicated and experienced Supply Chain function is in 
place to negotiate all contracts and maximise the Group’s 
commercial position. Supplier accreditations are recorded 
and tracked centrally through a supplier portal where 
relevant and set service related KPIs are included within 
standard contract terms.
Regular reviews take place with all supply chain partners.
managed at the appropriate level within the business, can  
only mitigate risk rather than eliminate it completely.
Direct ownership of risk management within the Group  
lies with the senior management teams. Each individual is 
responsible for maintaining a risk register for their area of  
the business and is required to update this on a regular basis.  
The key items are consolidated into a Group risk register  
which is reviewed at Board level.
The principal risks and some of the mitigating controls in place 
are summarised below.
1 Safety and sustainability
3
 
Efficiency
5
 
People
2
 
Growth 
4
 
Service excellence 
For more information
see page 12
Delivering our strategy
Principal risks and uncertainties 32 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Risk Potential impact Strategy for mitigation
Operating costs 
2
 
3
Fixed cost base
Speedy has a fixed cost base including people, 
transport and property. When revenues fluctuate this 
can have a disproportionate effect on the Group’s 
financial results.
The Group regularly reviews remuneration packages and 
aims to offer competitive reward and benefit packages, 
including appropriate short and long-term incentive 
schemes.
The Group has a purchasing policy in place to negotiate 
supply contracts that, wherever possible, determine 
fixed prices for a period of time. In most cases, multiple 
sources exist for each supply, decreasing the risk of 
supplier dependency and creating a competitive supply- 
side environment. All significant purchase decisions 
are overseen by a dedicated supply chain team with 
structured supplier selection procedures in place. 
Property costs are managed by an in-house team  
of specialists who undertake routine maintenance  
works and manage the estate in terms of rental costs.  
We operate a dedicated fleet of commercial vehicles  
that are maintained new or nearly new to support our 
brand image. Fuel is purchased through agreements 
controlled by our supply chain processes.
Information technology  
and data integrity
3
IT system availability
Speedy is increasingly reliant on IT systems to support 
our business activities. Interruption in availability or 
a failure to innovate will reduce current and future 
trading opportunities respectively.
Data accuracy
The quality of data held has a direct impact on how 
both strategic and operational decisions are made. 
If decisions are made based on erroneous data there 
could be a direct impact on the performance of  
the Group.
Data security
Speedy, as with any organisation, holds data that is 
commercially sensitive and in some cases personal 
in nature. There is a risk that disclosure or loss of 
such data is detrimental to the business, either as a 
reduction in competitive advantage or as a breach  
of law or regulation.
Annual and more medium-term planning processes are in 
place; these create future visibility as to the level and type 
of IT support required for the business strategy. Business 
units create business cases and projects for a formal 
Investment Committee to agree spend where necessary 
and then implement any new/upgraded systems.
The introduction of improved data reporting with 
dedicated analysts within the business provides  
improved business information and better data  
quality and consistency.
Mitigations for IT data recovery are described below  
under Business continuity as these risks are linked.
Speedy’s IT systems are protected against external 
unauthorised access. All mobile devices have access 
restrictions and, where appropriate, data encryption  
is applied.
End-to-end processes 
2
 
3
 
4
Process efficiencies
Speedy has grown successfully over many years, 
both through acquisition and organic growth. This, 
combined with our specialist divisions structure,  
could result in processes that do not adequately 
support our customers’ needs. 
We have a Programme Management Office to review  
our processes, align these to our IT systems and  
improve efficiency whilst simultaneously enhancing  
our customers’ experience.
Principal risks and uncertainties 
Effective management of risks
continued    Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33
Strategic report
1 Safety and sustainability
3
 
Efficiency
5
 
People
2
 
Growth 
4
 
Service excellence 
For more information
see page 12
Delivering our strategy
Risk Potential impact Strategy for mitigation
Economic vulnerability 
2
 
Economy
Any changes in construction/industrial market 
conditions could affect activity levels and 
consequently the prices that the Group can charge 
for its services. Any reduction in Government 
expenditure which is not offset by an increase in 
private sector expenditure could adversely affect 
the Group. 
The Group monitors and assesses market conditions by 
reference to a number of external sources, together with 
internal data which reports customer, sector, product and 
geographical demand. The Group assesses changes in both 
Government and private sector spending as part of its wider 
market analysis. The impact on the Group of any such change 
is assessed as part of the ongoing financial and operational 
budgeting and forecasting process. Our strategy is to 
develop a differentiated proposition in our chosen markets 
and to ensure that we are well positioned with clients and 
contractors who are likely to benefit from those areas in 
which increased activity is forecast.
Corporate culture 
2
 
5
Operational empowerment and culture
We operate an internal structure that is aligned 
around separate specialisms to better serve our 
customer base. Each division is challenged with 
managing their business and delivering results  
with a degree of empowerment within overriding 
Group policies. 
A concise guide to the Group’s business ethics, including our 
Code of Conduct, was prepared and issued to all employees 
during the year; this is called “Do Things Right, Doing the 
Right Thing”. A copy is also provided to new employees.
All Speedy employees are expected to abide by our Code 
of Conduct, which forms a condition of employment. 
Training is provided, via a combination of online and 
face-to-face means, to all management grades in areas 
such as compliance with the Bribery Act 2010 and 
relevant competition laws. Group policies are in place that 
both support and oversee key aspects of our operation 
in particular the areas of treasury, purchasing, asset 
management, accounting and debt management. Review 
and exception reporting activities are in place, which are 
designed to ensure that individuals cannot override risk 
mitigation procedures which have been put in place by  
the Group. 
All of the above are supported by a well-publicised and 
robust whistleblowing policy with rigorous follow up  
of all concerns raised.
Business continuity
4
Business interruption
Any significant interruption to Speedy’s operational 
capability, whether IT systems, physical restrictions 
or personnel based, could adversely impact current 
and future trading as customers could readily 
migrate to competitors.
This could range from short-term impact in 
processing of invoices that would affect cash flows 
to the loss of a major site such as our National 
Distribution Centre.
Preventative controls, back-up and recovery procedures 
are in place for key IT systems. Changes to Group systems 
are considered as part of wider change management 
programmes and implemented in phases wherever possible. 
The Group has critical incident plans in place for all its 
central UK and International sites. Insurance cover is 
reviewed at regular intervals to ensure appropriate coverage 
in the event of a business continuity issue.
Asset holding  
and integrity 
2
 
3
 
4
Asset range and availability
Speedy’s business model relies on providing assets 
for hire to customers, when they want to hire them. 
In order to maximise profitability and ROCE, demand 
is balanced with the requirement to hold a range of 
assets that is optimally utilised.
A better understanding of customer expectation of the 
relative timescales for delivery across our range of assets 
links directly into our network and asset optimisation plans, 
enabling us to reduce holdings of less time-critical assets  
by centralising the storage locations. 
The introduction of an Asset Information Cell will manage 
integrity of records and assist operational effectiveness  
and decision making. 34 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
Governance 
Chairman’s letter to shareholders 35
Directors’ report 36
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 39
Board of Directors 40
Corporate governance 42
Audit Committee report  48
Nomination Committee report  54
Remuneration report  56
Independent auditor’s report  74
“The Board is committed to 
maintaining high standards  
of corporate governance.”   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35
Governance
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Governance 
Report for FY2015. This section of the Annual Report highlights 
the Company’s governance processes, alongside the work of 
the Board and Board Committees. 
During the year, we have assessed our compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2012 (the Code) and disclosures 
in this year’s Annual Report describe how the Code’s main 
principles are applied. We consider that the Code’s principles 
are central to the effective management of the business, to 
maintaining the confidence of our investors and are in the best 
interests of all of our stakeholders. 
During FY2015 we continued to make changes at Board and 
senior management level, including my own appointment as 
Non-Executive Chairman. I was appointed as Non-Executive 
Chairman in November 2014, Chris Masters became Senior 
Independent Director in February 2015 and Russell Down 
joined the Board as Group Finance Director in April 2015.  
Ishbel Macpherson, Lynn Krige and Michael Averill stepped 
down from the Board during the year. These changes have 
refreshed the Board and I feel that we are well placed to deliver 
appropriate returns to our shareholders, whilst continuing to be 
underpinned by effective corporate governance.
The senior management changes below Board level also 
continued during the year. As noted in our 2014 Annual Report, 
there was a significant turnover of senior management during 
the final quarter of FY2014 and this refresh of the Group’s 
senior management team was completed during the year. With 
these changes, I am confident that the Group has the right 
people at the right level to enhance shareholder value in the 
long term.
Whilst new to my role with the Group, I am encouraged by 
what I have seen during my first six months with the Company. 
The Board has a strong understanding of our business and 
brings valuable insight and experience to the table. My role 
as Chairman will include ensuring that we effectively harness 
this experience, along with the experience of our senior 
management team, and work collaboratively to promote the 
Company’s success.
Jan Åstrand
Non-Executive Chairman
Chairman’s letter  
to shareholders
Jan Åstrand
Non-Executive Chairman 36 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report
The Chairman’s statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Strategic 
report on pages 2 to 34, the Corporate Governance review on 
pages 42 to 47 and the reports of the Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees on pages 48 to 73 are incorporated 
by reference into this report and are deemed to form part of 
this report.
The Strategic report was approved by the Board and authorised 
for issue on 11 May 2015.
Results and dividends
The consolidated profit after taxation for the year was £0.2m 
(2014: £4.0m). This is after a taxation charge of £1.9m (2014: 
£3.0m) representing an effective rate of 90% (2014: 43.0%). 
An interim dividend of 0.30 pence per share was paid during 
the year. The Directors propose that a final dividend of 0.40 
pence per share be paid, which, if approved, would make a total 
dividend distribution in respect of the year of 0.70 pence per 
share (2014: 0.61 pence) and will be paid on 12 August 2015  
to all shareholders on the register at 12 June 2015.
Related party transactions
Except for Directors’ service contracts, the Company did not 
have any material transactions or transactions of an unusual 
nature with, and did not make loans to, related parties in the 
periods in which any Director is or was materially interested.
Buy-back of shares
At the Annual General Meeting held on 16 July 2014, a special 
resolution was passed to authorise the Company to make 
purchases on the London Stock Exchange of up to 10% of  
its ordinary shares.
As at 11 May 2015, no shares had been purchased under this 
authority. Shareholders will be requested to renew this authority 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July 2015.
Financial instruments
The Group holds and uses financial instruments to finance its 
operations and manage its interest rate and liquidity risks.  
Full details of the Group’s arrangements are contained in  
note 19 of the Financial statements.
Going concern
The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial 
resources and has access to sufficient borrowing facilities to 
continue operating for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, 
as detailed in note 1 to the Financial statements (basis of 
preparation), the Directors continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial statements.
Substantial shareholders
As at 25 April 2015, the Company had been notified, including 
under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following 
holders of shares with 3% or more of the total voting rights in 
the issued share capital of the Company.
Shareholder name
Percentage of
voting rights
Schroder Investment Management 11.19
Toscafund Asset Management 11.15
Fidelity Worldwide Investments 8.99
BlackRock 6.33
Kames Capital 6.23
Standard Life Investments 6.07
Aberforth Partners 5.74
Directors
The Directors who served during the year and the interests  
of Directors in the share capital of the Company are set out on 
page 72. Ishbel Macpherson, Michael Averill and Lynn Krige 
resigned as Directors during the financial year.
Jan Åstrand and Russell Down have been appointed to the 
Board since the date of the last Annual General Meeting and 
offer themselves for election in compliance with the Company’s 
Articles of Association. James Morley is retiring by rotation 
and will offer himself for re-election at the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting.
The Board unanimously supports the re-election of James 
Morley and the election of Jan Åstrand, both of whom are 
considered independent, and Russell Down.
No Director had any interest, either during or at the end of 
the year, in any disclosable contracts or arrangements, other 
than a contract of service, with the Company or any subsidiary 
company. No Director had any interest in the shares of any 
subsidiary company during the year.
Equal opportunities
The Group employs 3,399 people in the UK and Ireland and 
443 people internationally. The Group has a clear policy 
that employees are recruited and promoted solely based 
on aptitude and ability. The Group does not discriminate in 
any way in respect of race, sex, marital status, age, religion, 
disability or any other characteristic of a similar nature. In the 
case of disability, all reasonable adjustments are considered 
to enable employment or continue employment as well as to 
ensure that any disabled employees receive equal treatment  
in matters such as career development, promotion and  
training. Managers at all levels are trained and developed to 
adhere to and promote this goal, including receiving training  
Directors’ report 
Governance   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37
Governance
Takeover Directive information
Where not provided elsewhere in this report, the additional 
information required for shareholders as a result of the 
implementation of the Takeover Directive into English law  
is set out below.
Share capital
As at 31 March 2015, the Company’s share capital comprised a 
single class of ordinary shares of 5 pence each. As at 31 March 
2015 the issued share capital was £26,093,463 comprising 
521,869,253 ordinary shares of 5 pence each. There are no 
special rights or obligations attaching to the ordinary shares.
Restrictions on share transfers
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that the 
Company may refuse to transfer shares in the following 
customary circumstances:
 > where the share is not a fully paid share;
 > where the share transfer has not been duly stamped with  
the correct amount of stamp duty;
 > where the transfer is in favour of more than four joint 
transferees;
 > where the share is a certificated share and is not 
accompanied by the relevant share certificate(s) and  
such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require  
to prove the title of the transferor; or
 > in certain circumstances where the shareholder in question 
has been issued with a notice under Section 793 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
These restrictions are in addition to any which are applicable  
to all UK listed companies imposed by law or regulation.
Shares with special rights
There are no shares in the Company with special rights with 
regard to control of the Company.
Restrictions on voting rights
The Notice of AGM specifies deadlines for exercising voting 
rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation 
to resolutions to be passed at the Annual General Meeting. 
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or 
withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the 
Annual General Meeting and published on the Company’s 
website after the meeting.
specifically on diversity matters. Further information on  
equal opportunities within the Group is set out at page 27  
in the Strategic report.
Employee involvement
The Group aims actively to promote employee involvement in 
order to achieve a shared commitment from all employees to 
the success of the businesses in which they are employed.
The Board believes in the effectiveness of financial incentives. 
It is the Group’s policy that employees should generally be 
eligible to participate in some form of incentive scheme as 
soon as practicable after joining the Group, following the 
conclusion of any relevant probationary period. Details of 
annual incentive arrangements for Executive Directors are 
summarised in the Remuneration Committee’s report on pages 
60 to 62. The payments made to departing Directors in FY2015 
are set out in the Remuneration Committee’s report on page 71.
The Group has a people strategy in place aimed at being an 
employer of choice, as can be seen on pages 22 and 23 of 
the Strategic report. The Group actively makes a number of 
commitments to its employees including in respect of pay, 
engagement and development. The Board sees employee 
engagement as a key part of its success and this is measured on a 
formal basis. During FY2015, the Company undertook the Times 
100 Best Companies Survey for the first time in a number of 
years, asking employees for their views of the Company and the 
way it was being run. The results were positive, with the Company 
achieving ‘One to Watch’ status. The Company’s intention is to 
ensure that any concerns highlighted through this process are 
addressed through ongoing engagement with our employees.
Disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all the  
steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make 
himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information  
and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of  
that information.
Auditors
KPMG LLP was appointed at the Annual General Meeting of the 
Company held on 16 July 2014 and its appointment expires 
at the conclusion of this year’s Annual General Meeting. The 
Board is recommending KPMG LLP be reappointed as auditors 
and a resolution concerning this will be put to the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting in July 2015.  38 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Change of control – significant agreements
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is 
a party that may take effect, alter or terminate upon a change 
of control following a takeover bid other than in relation to: (i) 
employee share schemes; and (ii) the Company’s borrowings, 
which would become repayable on a takeover being completed.
Shares in the Company are held in the Speedy Hire Employee 
Benefits Trust for the purpose of satisfying awards made under 
the Company’s Performance Share Plan. Unless otherwise 
directed by the Company, the Trustees of the Trust abstain from 
voting on any shares held in the Trust in respect of which the 
beneficial interest has not vested in any beneficiary. In relation 
to shares held in the Trust where the beneficial interest has 
vested in a beneficiary, the beneficiary can direct the Trustees 
how to vote.
Compensation for loss of office
There are no agreements between the Company and its 
Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of 
office or employment (whether through resignation, purported 
redundancy or otherwise) that occurs in the event of a bid for 
the Company or takeover.
Directors’ indemnities
Throughout the financial year and at the date of approval of 
the Financial statements, the Company has purchased and 
maintained Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance in respect 
of itself and its Directors. As permitted by the Companies Act 
2006, the Company has also indemnified each of the Directors 
who held office during the year.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s Annual General Meeting will be held at the 
offices of Pinsent Masons LLP at 30 Crown Place, Earl Street, 
London EC2A 4ES on 15 July 2015 at 11.00 am. A formal Notice 
of Meeting, an explanatory circular and a form of proxy will be 
sent separately to shareholders.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf 
by James Blair, Company Secretary.
By order of the Board on 11 May 2015.
James Blair
Company Secretary
Directors’ report
continued
Governance
Agreements which may result in restrictions  
on share transfers
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders which may result in restrictions on the transfer  
of securities and/or on voting rights.
Appointment and replacement of Directors
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that all Directors 
must stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting 
after having been appointed by the Board.
Each Director must also stand for re-election at the third 
Annual General Meeting following their last election or  
re-election. If the number of Directors standing for re-election 
is less than one-third of the current Board (which excludes any 
Directors appointed by the Board who are standing for election 
for the first time) then additional Directors must also stand 
for re-election in order that one-third of the Board is standing 
for re-election, save that where the number of Directors is not 
three or a multiple of three, the number of Directors which  
is nearest to but does not exceed one-third must stand for  
re-election. There are currently five statutory Directors, of 
which two are excluded as they are standing for election for 
the first time. This requires that one of the remaining Directors 
must stand for re-election and James Morley has agreed to 
stand for re-election. In addition, Jan Åstrand and Russell Down  
will stand for election as it is the first Annual General Meeting 
since they were appointed as Directors by the Board.
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association may be amended by 
special resolution of the Company’s shareholders.
Directors’ powers
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 July 2015, 
shareholders will be asked to renew the Directors’ power  
to allot shares and buy back shares in the Company and  
to renew the disapplication of pre-emption rights.   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39
Governance
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and 
Parent Company financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group Financial 
statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU 
and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent 
Company financial statements on the same basis. 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the 
Financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent 
Company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing 
each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, 
the Directors are required to: 
 > select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently; 
 > make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; 
 > state whether they have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and 
 > prepare the Financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Parent Company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and 
enable them to ensure that its Financial statements comply 
with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility 
for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to 
safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect 
fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance 
Statement that comply with that law and those regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of Financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect  
of the Annual Financial Report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 > the Financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
 > the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description  
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy.
Jan Åstrand Mark Rogerson
Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer
11 May 2015
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities  
in respect of the Annual Report and  
Financial Statements 40 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Jan Åstrand
Non-Executive  
Chairman
Appointment to the Board  
and Committee memberships
Appointed to the Board in November 2014 
as Non-Executive Chairman and Chairman 
of the Nomination Committee. Member of 
the Audit and Remuneration Committees, 
from February 2015.
Skills and experience
Jan brings to the Board enormous 
experience and a focused, strategic 
approach as Speedy concentrates on the 
delivery of sustainable profit growth. He 
was a Non-Executive Director of Lavendon 
Group PLC from 2010 until early in 2014, 
latterly as Senior Independent Director. He 
has also held previous non-executive roles 
as Chairman of CRC Group PLC and Car Park 
Group AB in Stockholm as well as being 
Senior Independent Director of PHS Group 
PLC. Jan’s executive experience includes 
roles as President and Chief Executive of 
Axus International Inc. (previously known 
as Hertz Leasing International), Vice 
President, Finance & Administration and 
Chief Financial Officer of Hertz (Europe) 
Limited and Chief Financial Officer of 
Commodore International. 
External appointments
Chairman of easyHotel plc and Non-
Executive Director of Northgate plc.
Russell Down
Group Finance  
Director
Appointment to the Board 
Appointed to the Board in April 2015. 
Skills and experience
Russell was formerly Group Finance 
Director (from 2008 to 2015) at Hyder 
Consulting Plc (‘Hyder’), the multinational 
design and engineering consultancy. 
He spent 17 years in total at Hyder in a 
number of senior roles, including five 
years as Group Financial Controller. Russell 
is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales, having 
qualified with KPMG, and has previously 
worked for container leasing company 
Cronos as Director of Accounting.
Mark Rogerson MBE
Chief Executive  
Officer
Appointment to the Board 
Appointed to the Board as Chief Operating 
Officer in December 2013 and promoted  
to Chief Executive Officer in January 2014.
Skills and experience
Mark has a wealth of experience in 
both the construction and engineering 
industries from his recent time at Costain 
Group PLC (‘Costain’). He also has a deep 
understanding of client facing service 
industry needs from his eight years with 
international services company Serco 
Group plc (‘Serco’). At Costain he served on 
their Operating Board as Managing Director 
of the Natural Resources division, where he 
had responsibility for the major sectors of 
nuclear, oil and gas, and water and waste. 
During his eight years with Serco, Mark held 
a number of Senior Executive roles; his 
final role was as Serco’s Global Operational 
Efficiency Director. Mark started his career 
with the RAF and held various operational 
roles; he was awarded an MBE for services 
to the public sector. He holds fellowships 
at the Royal Aeronautical Society, the 
Institute of Directors and the Royal 
Institute of Chartered Surveyors.
Board of Directors 
Governance   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41
Governance
Chris Masters CBE
Senior Independent  
Director 
Appointment to the Board  
and Committee memberships
Joined the Board in July 2011. Appointed 
Senior Independent Director and Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee in February 
2015. Member of the Audit and Nomination 
Committees.
Skills and experience
Chris brings considerable experience and 
provides extensive insight on the assets 
rental and support services environments 
both in the UK and globally. He has  
20 years of experience as an executive 
board member of listed companies and was 
Executive Chairman of Aggreko plc, a global 
leader in the rental of power generation and 
temperature control equipment, from 1997 
to 2002. Prior to this, he held several senior 
roles at Christian Salvesen PLC, including 
Managing Director, Industrial Services 
Division from 1984 to 1989 and Group 
Chief Executive from 1989 to 1997. He has 
also held the positions of Non-Executive 
Chairman at Babbie Group (from 2002 to 
2004), SMG Plc (from 2004 to 2007) and 
Sagentia Group Plc (from 2006 to 2010).
Chris is considered by the Board to be 
independent.
External appointments
Non-Executive Chairman of Energy Assets 
Group plc and a Senior Independent 
Director of The Crown Agents. Member 
of the Court of Edinburgh University, 
Independent Co-Chair of the Scottish 
Science Advisory Council and Fellow  
of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
James Blair
General Counsel and  
Company Secretary
Appointment and  
Committee responsibilities
Appointed as Company Secretary to the 
Board and the Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees in April 2012.
Skills and experience
James has over 20 years’ experience as  
a corporate, commercial and finance 
lawyer at law firms and major organisations 
in the UK, New Zealand and internationally. 
He also holds qualifications in accountancy 
and as a company secretary through the 
Institute of Chartered Secretaries and 
Administrators. James was formerly a 
senior legal adviser at United Utilities 
Group PLC, Dalkia plc and MITIE Group 
plc during the eight years prior to joining 
the Company. He started his career as a 
corporate lawyer at Buddle Findlay,  
New Zealand before working in London  
for Allen & Overy, the London Stock 
Exchange and Credit Suisse.
James Morley
Non-Executive  
Director
Appointment to the Board  
and Committee memberships
Joined the Board in April 2009. Appointed 
Chairman of the Audit Committee in May 
2009 and is a member of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees.
Skills and experience
James brings to the Board a wealth of 
accountancy, finance and managerial 
experience from a variety of businesses.  
He is a chartered accountant with over  
25 years’ experience as a board member  
at both listed and private companies.  
He was Chief Operating Officer at Primary 
Group Limited (2006-2007), Group Finance 
Director, Cox Insurance Holdings Plc  
(2002-2005), Group Finance Director,  
Arjo Wiggins Appleton Plc (1999-2001), 
Group Executive Director Finance,  
Guardian Royal Exchange Plc (1990-1999) 
and Deputy Chief Executive and Finance 
Director, Avis Europe Plc (1976-1989). 
Previously James has been a Non-Executive 
Director of the Bankers Investment Trust,  
WS Atkins plc, The Trade Indemnity Group 
and Acumus Limited.
James is considered by the Board to be 
independent.
External appointments
Non-Executive Director at Clarkson plc, 
Costain Group PLC, The Innovation Group 
plc and Minova Insurance Holdings.
Executive  
  
0-3 years 
   
Non-Executive
   
4-7 years 
 
Board composition 42 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Highlights
 > The appointment of Jan Åstrand as Chairman and Chairman  
of the Nomination Committee in November 2014;
 > The recruitment of Russell Down as Group Finance Director; 
and
 > Continuation of the Group’s policy of holding a two-day 
Board meeting off site solely to discuss the strategy and 
direction of the Group, held in October 2014.
UK Corporate Governance Code compliance
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of 
corporate governance. The Board first reported its compliance 
with the Combined Code in 2004. Since then, other than as 
explained below, it has complied in full with the Combined 
Code (now the UK Corporate Governance Code) and continued 
to develop its approach to corporate governance and the 
effective management of risk in the context of an evolving 
business. The Company first reported fully against the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2012 in its 2014 Annual Report 
and continues to report against the UK Corporate Governance 
Code 2012 this year.
We explain in this section how the Company has applied the 
principles of good governance and the code of best practice set 
out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2015 (FY2015), the 
Company has been in full compliance with the provisions  
set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, other than  
in respect of paragraph B.6.3 of the Code, which requires 
the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent 
Director, to undertake a performance review of the  
Chairman. As Jan Åstrand was only appointed as Chairman 
on 11 November 2014, the other Non-Executive Directors 
considered that it was inappropriate to carry out a  
performance review of the Chairman for FY2015.
Directors
The Board
In the year ended 31 March 2015, the Board met ten times.  
The Board also meets as required on an ad hoc basis to deal 
with urgent business, including the consideration and approval 
of transactions and, during FY2015, the refinancing of its 
funding arrangements and changes in Board composition.  
The table to the right lists the Directors’ attendance at the 
Board meetings and Committee meetings during the year 
ended 31 March 2015.
During the year, Jan Åstrand was appointed as a Director  
on 1 November 2014 and as Chairman and Chairman of  
the Nomination Committee, commencing both roles with  
effect from 11 November 2014. Ishbel Macpherson stepped 
down from the Board on that date. Michael Averill stepped 
down as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of  
the Remuneration Committee on 26 February 2015, and  
Chris Masters was appointed to both roles with effect from  
the same date.
The Company announced, on 9 January 2015, that Russell 
Down would join the Board on 6 April 2015 as Group Finance 
Director and he did so with effect from that date. Lynn Krige 
stepped down as Group Finance Director on 16 October 2014 
and the Group’s finance function was overseen by Tracey Atkin, 
who had recently held the role of UK & Ireland Finance Director, 
until Russell Down joined the Board.
Board and Committee attendance
Board
 (10)
Audit 
Committee 
(5)
Nomination
 Committee
 (3)
Remuneration
Committee 
(6)
Executive Directors
Mark Rogerson MBE 10/10 – – –
Lynn Krige  
(stepped down on 
16 October 2014) 5/5 – – –
Non-Executive 
Directors
Ishbel Macpherson 
(resigned on  
11 November 2014) 6/6 – 2/2 –
Jan Åstrand 
(appointed on  
1 November 2014) 5/5 – 1/1 1/1
Michael Averill 
(resigned on  
26 February 2015) 9/9 5/5 3/3 5/5
Chris Masters CBE 9/10 4/5 3/3 6/6
James Morley 10/10 5/5 3/3 6/6
The Executive Directors of the Company may, and generally 
do, attend meetings of the Committees at the invitation of the 
Chairman of the respective Committee.
Corporate governance 
Governance   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43
Governance
Matters requiring Board or Committee approval are generally 
the subject of a proposal by the Executive Directors, which 
is formally submitted to the Board, together with supporting 
information, as part of the Board or Committee papers 
circulated prior to the relevant meeting. Where practicable, 
papers are generally circulated at least five days in advance  
of such meetings, to allow proper time for review and ensure 
the best use of the Directors’ time. The implementation of 
matters approved by the Board, particularly in relation to 
matters such as significant acquisitions or other material 
projects, sometimes includes the establishment of a sub-
committee comprising at least one Non-Executive Director.
The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are held by 
Jan Åstrand and Mark Rogerson, respectively. In addition to the 
Chairman, the Board includes two independent Non-Executive 
Directors: Chris Masters and James Morley. Together they bring 
a strong and independent non-executive element to the Board. 
The Senior Independent Director is Chris Masters.
The Audit Committee is chaired by James Morley. Its other 
members are Chris Masters and Jan Åstrand. As the Company 
had only two Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, 
Jan Åstrand was appointed a member of the Committee in 
February 2015. The Board considered that Jan Åstrand was 
independent on his appointment as Chairman, satisfying the 
requirement of paragraph C.3.1 of the Code.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Chris Masters. 
Its other members are James Morley and Jan Åstrand. As the 
Company had only two Non-Executive Directors excluding  
the Chairman, Jan Åstrand was appointed a member of  
the Committee in February 2015. As noted above, the  
Company considered that Jan Åstrand was independent on  
his appointment as Chairman, satisfying the requirement  
of paragraph D.2.1 of the Code.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Jan Åstrand.  
Its other members are Chris Masters and James Morley.
The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors meet at 
least twice a year without the Executive Directors present. In 
addition, the Chairman regularly briefs the other Non-Executive 
Directors on relevant developments regarding the Company 
and Group as necessary. The Senior Independent Director 
and the other Non-Executive Directors meet at least annually 
without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairman’s 
performance as part of the Board annual appraisal process  
and will do so during FY2016 as part of this process.
The Board has approved a schedule of matters reserved for 
decision by it. This schedule, which forms part of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code Compliance Statement, was 
formally adopted by the Board on 30 March 2011 and most 
recently reviewed and amended on 26 March 2015. It is 
available for inspection at the Company’s registered office  
and on the Company’s website. The matters reserved for 
decision by the Board can be subdivided into a number of  
key areas including, but not limited to:
 > financial reporting (including the approval of interim and 
final Financial statements, interim management statements 
and dividends);
 > approving the form and content of the Group’s Annual 
Report and Financial statements (following appropriate 
recommendations from the Audit Committee) to ensure that 
it is fair, balanced and understandable overall and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy;
 > the Group’s finance, banking and capital structure 
arrangements;
 > Group strategy and key transactions (including major 
acquisitions and disposals);
 > Stock Exchange/Listing Authority matters (including the  
issue of shares, the approval of circulars and communications 
to the market);
 > approval of the policies and framework in relation to 
remuneration across the Group (following appropriate 
recommendations from the Remuneration Committee);
 > oversight of the Group’s risk appetite, risk acceptance and 
programmes for risk mitigation;
 > approval of the Group’s risk management and internal control 
processes (following appropriate recommendations from the 
Audit Committee);
 > the constitution of the Board itself, including its various 
Committees, and succession planning (following appropriate 
recommendations from the Nomination Committee); and
 > approving the Group’s policies in relation to, inter alia, the 
Group’s Code of Conduct and whistleblowing, the Bribery 
Act, the environment, health and safety and corporate 
responsibility. 44 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate governance
continued
Governance
Board balance and independence
Currently there are, in addition to the Chairman, two  
Non-Executive Directors on the Board out of a total of five 
Directors, and their respective experience, details of which 
are set out on pages 40 and 41, clearly indicates that they 
are of sufficient calibre and number for their views to carry 
appropriate weight in the Board’s decisions.
The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors are 
independent, on the basis of the criteria specified in paragraph 
B.1.1 of the Code and, generally, are free from any business or 
other relationship which could materially interfere with the 
exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board is both balanced and diverse in respect of its 
experience and skills. Following Ishbel Macpherson and Lynn 
Krige stepping down from the Board during the year, the Board 
does not currently have any female representation. The Board 
remains committed to maintaining and building on its diversity, 
including appointing women at Board and senior management 
levels based on merit.
James Morley is also a Non-Executive Director of Costain Group 
PLC (‘Costain’), which is a customer of the Group. The Group’s 
trading with Costain is conducted entirely on arm’s length terms 
and in the ordinary and normal course of the Group’s business. 
Additionally, the Board considers that the sums involved are 
not material as Costain accounted for less than 1.5% of the 
Group’s revenue in FY2015. This potential conflict of interest 
has been approved by the Board in accordance with both 
Board procedures and the procedures established under the 
Companies Act 2006. It has been resolved by the Board that, 
in the event that the Board should ever be required to discuss 
or make decisions in relation to the Group’s relationships with 
Costain, James Morley would not take part in, or receive any 
information in relation to, those discussions. James Morley has 
not been involved in any commercial negotiations between the 
Group and Costain and would not be involved in any way in any 
such contract, bid or tender process.
Appointments to the Board
The Board has established a Nomination Committee. Its terms 
of reference are also included in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code Compliance Statement. The Committee meets formally 
as necessary, but at least twice a year. This is detailed in more 
depth in the Nomination Committee report on pages 54 and 
55. The principal functions of the Nomination Committee are 
to consider and review the structure and composition of the 
Board and membership of Board Committees. It also considers 
candidates for Board nomination including job description, 
The minutes of all meetings of the Board and each Committee 
are taken by the Company Secretary. In addition to constituting 
a record of decisions taken, the minutes reflect questions 
raised by the Directors relating to the Company’s businesses 
and, in particular, issues raised from the reports included in 
the Board or Committee papers circulated prior to the relevant 
meeting. Any unresolved concerns are recorded in the minutes.
On resignation, written concerns (if any) provided by an 
outgoing Non-Executive Director are circulated by the 
Chairman to the remaining members of the Board. No such 
concerns were provided by either Ishbel Macpherson or 
Michael Averill on their resignations during the year.
Appropriate Directors’ and Officers’ insurance cover is  
arranged and maintained via the Company’s insurance brokers, 
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Ltd, and is reviewed annually. 
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies 
to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest of 
directors where the Articles of Association contain a provision 
to that effect. The Company’s Articles of Association give the 
Board authority to authorise matters which may otherwise 
result in the Directors breaching their duty to avoid a conflict 
of interest. Directors who have an interest in matters under 
discussion at a Board meeting must declare that interest and 
abstain from voting. Only Directors who have no interest in 
the matter being considered are able to approve a conflict of 
interest and, in taking that decision, the Directors must act 
in a way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to 
promote the success of the Company. The Directors are able to 
impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they 
feel this is appropriate. Any conflicts considered by the Board 
and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes 
and in the register of conflicts which is reviewed annually by 
the Board. The Board considers that its procedures to approve 
conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest are 
operating effectively.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
A statement as to the division of the responsibilities between 
the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is included in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code Compliance Statement. The Board 
considered that the Chairman, on his appointment, met the 
independence criteria set out in paragraph B.1.1 of the Code. 
The Board has an established policy that the Chief Executive 
Officer should not go on to become Chairman.   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45
Governance
Procedures are in place to enable Directors to take independent 
professional advice, if necessary, at the Company’s expense, 
in the furtherance of their duties. The procedure to enable 
such advice to be obtained is included in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code Compliance Statement.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary, whose role is to ensure that information 
is received by the Board in a timely manner, all procedures are 
followed and applicable rules and regulations are complied 
with. The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary  
is a matter specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
Performance evaluation
In last year’s Annual Report the Company noted that it  
intended to carry out an external review of the Board’s 
processes, procedures and effectiveness during FY2015.  
As a result of the various changes made and pending to the 
Board composition during FY2015, it was determined that 
it would not be appropriate or cost effective to carry out an 
external review of the Board. The Board instead conducted  
an internal evaluation during the final quarter of FY2015.  
The results of this evaluation showed, as expected, a relatively 
new Board, but with a positive view that its current composition 
was appropriate and was well equipped to serve the best 
interests of the Group.
As Jan Åstrand had only been appointed to the role of 
Chairman for a short period, the other Non-Executive Directors 
determined that it was not appropriate to carry out a formal 
review of his performance during the period, but that this 
would form part of future reviews of the effectiveness of  
the Board.
Re-election
Under the Company’s Articles of Association, all Directors  
are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual 
General Meeting following appointment and all Directors  
are subject to retirement by rotation provisions requiring  
re-election at intervals of no more than three years. 
Biographical details of all the Directors are included in this 
report in order to enable shareholders to take an informed 
decision on any re-election resolution. The letters of 
appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors and 
the Chairman confirm that appointments are for specified 
terms and that reappointment is not automatic. James Morley 
commenced his second three-year term and Chris Masters 
commenced his first three-year term in 2012. James Morley 
will commence his third three-year term and Chris Masters will 
commence his second three-year term in 2015. James Morley 
will seek re-election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
re-election to the Board for those candidates retiring by 
rotation and succession planning generally. A specification for 
the role of Chairman, including anticipated time commitment, 
is included as part of the written statement of division of 
responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer. Details of the Chairman’s other material commitments 
are set out on page 40 and are disclosed to the Board in 
advance and included in a register of the same maintained  
by the Company Secretary.
The terms and conditions of appointment of all the Non-
Executive Directors, and those of the Chairman, are available 
for inspection at the Company’s registered office during normal 
business hours. Each letter of appointment specifies the 
anticipated level of time commitment including, where relevant, 
additional responsibilities derived from involvement with the 
Audit, Remuneration or Nomination Committees. Details of 
other material commitments are disclosed to the Board and a 
register of the same is maintained by the Company Secretary.
No Director is a Non-Executive Director or Chairman of a  
FTSE 100 company.
Information and professional development
Before each scheduled Board meeting all Directors receive 
appropriate information regarding the Group, comprising  
a financial report and briefings from senior executives.  
The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director also 
brief Directors on results, key issues and strategy. During 
Board meetings, the Non-Executive Directors regularly make 
further enquiries of the Executive Directors and seek further 
information which is provided either at the relevant meeting  
or subsequently.
The Board also recognises the importance of tailored induction 
training on joining the Board and ongoing training and 
education, particularly regarding new laws and regulations 
which relate to or affect the Group. Such training and education 
is obtained by the Directors individually through the Company, 
through other companies of which they are Directors or through 
associated professional firms.
The Non-Executive Directors have, during the course of the 
year, attended briefings and seminars relevant to their role, 
including updates on best practice in audit, remuneration and 
corporate regulatory issues and economic affairs in general, 
as well as bringing knowledge and information gathered from 
their other business interests. 46 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate governance
continued
Governance
Procedure
The Board has constituted a Remuneration Committee which 
met six times during the year. Its terms of reference are 
included in the UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance 
Statement and are fully compatible with the provisions of 
paragraph D.2.1 of the Code. The Remuneration Committee 
consists of the Non-Executive Directors, including the 
Chairman, who are independent of management and free from 
any business or other relationship which could materially 
interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. 
The Chief Executive Officer does attend by invitation but is not 
present for discussions relating to his own remuneration. The 
Remuneration Committee has appointed NBS to advise it in 
relation to the design of appropriate executive remuneration 
structures. NBS has no other connection with the Company.
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include 
setting remuneration policy, ensuring that remuneration 
(including pension rights and compensation payments) and the 
terms of service of the Executive Directors are appropriate and 
that Executive Directors are fairly rewarded for the contribution 
which they make to the Group’s overall performance. It is 
also responsible for the allocation of shares under long-term 
incentive arrangements approved by shareholders and in 
accordance with agreed criteria. In addition, it monitors current 
best practice in remuneration and related issues.
The Board’s policy is that all new long-term incentive 
schemes (as defined in the Listing Rules) and significant 
changes to existing schemes should be specifically approved 
by shareholders, while recognising that the Remuneration 
Committee must have appropriate flexibility to alter the 
operation of these arrangements to reflect changing 
circumstances. As noted above, the Company’s new LTIP  
was strongly supported by shareholders at the 2014 Annual 
General Meeting.
A more detailed summary of the work of the Remuneration 
Committee during the year and the Group’s continued 
remuneration policy for the next two years is contained  
on pages 56 to 73.
Directors’ remuneration
The performance-related elements of the remuneration of 
the Executive Directors form a significant proportion of their 
potential total remuneration packages. The performance-related 
elements of the schemes in which the Executive Directors 
are entitled to participate are set out in more detail in the 
Remuneration Report. The Remuneration Committee, with the 
advice of New Bridge Street (part of Aon PLC) (NBS), reviews on 
a regular basis the Company’s remuneration policy including 
the design of performance-related remuneration schemes. Such 
performance-related elements have been designed with a view 
to aligning the interests of the Executive Directors with those of 
shareholders and to incentivise performance at the highest level.
The Remuneration Report and the Group’s remuneration policy 
were both put to the 2014 Annual General Meeting for approval 
and were each approved by over 98% of shareholders voting. 
A new long-term incentive plan (LTIP) was also proposed at 
the 2014 Annual General Meeting and was approved by nearly 
98% of shareholders voting. 
The policy of the Board is that the remuneration of the Non-
Executive Directors should be consistent with the levels 
of remuneration paid by companies of a similar size. The 
levels of remuneration also reflect the time commitment and 
responsibilities of each role, including Chairmanship of Board 
Committees. It is the policy of the Board that remuneration for 
Non-Executive Directors should not include share options or 
any other share-based incentives. 
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is dealt with  
by a Committee of the Board specifically established for  
this purpose comprising the Chief Executive Officer and  
the Group Finance Director without the presence of the  
Non-Executive Directors. It is the policy of the Board to  
review the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors 
periodically. The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors 
was not increased during FY2015, save that Chris Masters 
did receive an increase of £7,500 to reflect his new position 
as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. Details of the remuneration  
of Non-Executive Directors is set out on pages 67 and 68.
The service contracts of all Executive Directors provide  
for termination by the Company on one year’s notice.   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47
Governance
operational and compliance controls and risk management 
systems, and accords with the recommendations contained 
in the Turnbull Guidance. A formal report is prepared by the 
external auditors, KPMG LLP (KPMG), highlighting matters 
identified in the course of its statutory audit work, and is 
reviewed by the Audit Committee in the presence of KPMG and, 
by invitation, the Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance 
Director, the Group Financial Controller and the Head of Risk 
and Assurance. The Committee also considers formal reports 
prepared and presented by the internal audit function. The 
findings and recommendations of the Committee are then 
formally reported to the Board for detailed consideration.
Relations with shareholders
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance 
Director routinely attend brokers’ and analysts’ presentations 
in relation to the Company’s interim and full-year results. 
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance 
Director, with assistance from the Company’s brokers, collate 
feedback from such presentations and report the findings to 
the next meeting of the Board. The Chairman is also available 
to discuss matters with major shareholders in relation to, inter 
alia, strategy and corporate governance issues. The Senior 
Independent Director, Chris Masters, is available to attend 
meetings with major shareholders in order to understand 
their issues and concerns should the normal communication 
channels with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Group 
Finance Director be considered ineffective or inappropriate.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting
The Company’s Annual General Meeting procedures include, 
as a matter of course, specifying the level of proxies lodged on 
each resolution and the balance for and against each resolution 
and votes withheld after each has been dealt with on a show 
of hands. It is also the Company’s policy to propose a separate 
resolution at the Annual General Meeting on each substantive 
separate issue, including in relation to the Annual Report and 
Accounts and the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
All Committee Chairmen are available at the Annual  
General Meeting.
The Company’s standard procedure is to ensure that the Notice 
of AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least  
20 working days before the meeting, in compliance with 
paragraph E.2.4 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Accountability and audit
Financial reporting
The Directors’ report and Independent auditor’s report appear 
on pages 36 to 38 and pages 74 to 77 respectively and comply 
with the provisions of paragraphs C.1.1 and C.1.3 of the Code.
Audit Committee and auditors
The Board has established an Audit Committee which met 
five times during the year. The terms of reference of the Audit 
Committee are set out in full in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code Compliance Statement. Such terms of reference are 
compatible with the provisions of paragraph C.3.2 of the 
Code. The Board is satisfied that the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee, James Morley, has appropriate recent and relevant 
financial experience.
In addition to its work in relation to the Group’s systems of 
internal control set out above, the Committee is responsible for 
reviewing the integrity of the Company’s accounts, including 
the annual and interim results, and recommending their 
approval to the Board.
The Committee meets on a regular basis with the external 
auditors and internal audit function, without the Executive 
Directors being present, to review and discuss issues arising 
from internal and external audits and to agree the scope and 
planning of future work. The effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal audit function is one of the matters reviewed in 
conjunction with the external auditors.
The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making 
a recommendation on the appointment, reappointment and 
removal of the external auditors. The policy of the Audit 
Committee is to ensure auditor objectivity and independence  
is safeguarded at all times. As further detailed on page 52,  
the Audit Committee considers that the Company’s auditors  
are independent.
A more detailed description of the work of the Audit Committee 
during the year is contained in the separate report of the 
Committee on pages 48 to 53.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the Company’s internal control 
procedures and processes and for reviewing the effectiveness 
of such systems.
The Board, via the Audit Committee, conducts a review, at 
least annually, of the Group’s systems of internal control. Such 
a review considers all material controls, including financial,  48 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Audit Committee report 
The Audit Committee presents its report in relation to the 
financial year ended 31 March 2015.
Audit Committee objectives and terms  
of reference
The Audit Committee’s key objectives are the review of the 
effectiveness of the Group’s financial reporting and internal 
controls, together with the procedures for identification, 
evaluation and reporting of key risks to the Group. The role of 
the Audit Committee in monitoring the integrity of the Group’s 
financial affairs is important to our shareholders and to other 
stakeholders in the Group, both internal and external, and 
accordingly we work closely with management and our external 
and internal auditors to adopt best practice approaches to 
policies and controls. Following further work undertaken by 
management in FY2015, as noted below, the Audit Committee 
feels that the Group’s internal and external processes are 
robust and appropriately aligned to delivering good financial 
reporting and governance.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee can be found  
at www.speedyservices.com/investors and are also available 
in hard copy from the Company Secretary.
Composition of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors: 
James Morley (Chairman), Chris Masters and Jan Åstrand.  
James Morley and Chris Masters are considered by the Board 
to be independent. Biographies of each of the members of the 
Audit Committee are set out on pages 40 and 41. Because of 
the size of the Board, the Company believes it is appropriate 
that Jan Åstrand, despite being Chairman of the Company, 
is also a member of the Audit Committee. Jan Åstrand was 
considered independent on his appointment as Chairman and  
it is felt that his skills and experience will enhance the work  
of the Audit Committee. 
James Morley is a chartered accountant with over 25 years’ 
experience as a board member at both listed and private 
companies. He currently holds non-executive directorships 
at Costain Group PLC, Clarkson plc and Minova Insurance 
Holdings. Previously James was also a Non-Executive Director 
of the Bankers Investment Trust, WS Atkins plc and The Trade 
Indemnity Group. The Board is satisfied that James Morley has 
recent and relevant financial experience.
Governance
James Morley
Chairman of the Audit Committee   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49
Governance
“The Audit Committee works with the Board and 
senior management to review the Group’s financial 
reporting and internal controls, to give our shareholders 
confidence in our processes.”
The Audit Committee undertakes its activities in line with an 
annual programme of business. The Audit Committee’s duties 
include, inter alia:
Internal controls and risk
 > monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls;
 > evaluating the Board’s process for identifying and managing 
significant risk in the business;
 > considering the effectiveness and resourcing of the internal 
audit function;
 > directing the scope of the internal audit programme;
 > appointing or replacing the Head of Risk and Assurance;
 > reviewing matters reported through the Group’s ‘Speedy 
Speak Up’ whistleblowing policy; and
 > monitoring performance of the Group’s senior finance 
personnel and ensuring their development.
External auditors
 > monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process 
including recommending the appointment and remuneration 
of the external auditors;
 > considering and, if thought appropriate, approving the use  
of the external auditors for non-audit work;
 > considering the independence of the external auditors, 
taking into account: (i) non-audit work undertaken by them; 
(ii) feedback from various stakeholders; and (iii) the Audit 
Committee’s own assessment; and
 > monitoring and considering the provisions and 
recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code  
in respect of external auditors.
Financial statements
 > monitoring the integrity of the Group’s Financial statements and 
formal announcements relating to the Group’s performance;
 > considering liquidity risk, in particular, and the use of the 
going concern basis for preparing the Group’s Financial 
statements; and
 > evaluating the content of the Annual Report and Financial 
statements, to advise the Board as to whether it may 
reasonably conclude that the Annual Report and Financial 
statements is fair, balanced and understandable overall and 
provides the information necessary to enable shareholders 
to assess the performance, business model and strategy  
of the Group.
Attendance
The Audit Committee’s agenda is linked to events in the Group’s 
financial calendar, and the Committee met on five occasions 
during the year including one meeting specifically to review 
internal controls. Details of the attendance at Committee 
meetings are set out below. 
Audit Committee members and meetings attended
Name Position
Meetings
attended
J Morley Chairman Non-Executive Director 5/5
J Åstrand (appointed  
26 February 2015)
Non-Executive Director 0/0
M Averill (resigned  
26 February 2015)
Non-Executive Director 5/5
C Masters Non-Executive Director 4/5
Operation and responsibilities of the  
Audit Committee
The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director, 
together with representatives from the external auditors, the 
Group Financial Controller and the Head of Risk and Assurance, 
are invited to attend meetings of the Audit Committee, 
although the Committee reserves time for discussions without 
any invitees being present. The external auditors and the Head 
of Risk and Assurance meet privately with the Audit Committee 
at the start of most meetings, to advise the Committee of 
any matters which they consider should be brought to their 
attention without the Executive Directors present. The external 
auditors and the Head of Risk and Assurance may also request a 
meeting with the Audit Committee if they consider it necessary. 
The Risk and Assurance department carries out the Group’s 
internal audit function. The Chairman of the Audit Committee 
also holds private meetings both with the Head of Risk and 
Assurance and the external auditors.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit 
Committee. The members of the Audit Committee can, where 
they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain 
independent professional advice at the Company’s expense. 50 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
Audit Committee report
continued
The Committee also considered the presentation of the 
disposals and the remaining International division assets 
in the Financial statements. The Committee concluded 
that revenue and costs relating to asset disposals were 
sufficiently material to the results of the wider business to 
warrant separate disclosure in the Income Statement. The 
disposal of the Omani business was concluded subsequent to 
the year end, and accordingly the assets and liabilities have 
been included as held for sale at the balance sheet date. The 
Committee concluded, on the basis of the review carried out 
by management, that the accounting treatment adopted in 
the Financial statements fairly represents the activities of the 
International division within the year.
Review of the implementation of AX12
Following the implementation of the Group’s upgraded IT 
system (Microsoft Dynamics AX12), the Committee requested 
that management obtain an independent review of its 
performance. A number of consultants were engaged to look 
at aspects of the system, including the consulting division of 
KPMG LLP (KPMG Consulting) who, in view of their detailed 
knowledge and understanding of Microsoft Dynamics systems, 
were asked to undertake work around asset and invoice 
reconciliation. Senior management and the Committee satisfied 
themselves and received sufficient assurances from KPMG,  
as auditor, that its independence would not be threatened  
by virtue of carrying out such work.
The review included a number of interviews, discussions and 
workshops with the Company’s IT, assets and finance teams, 
and the consultants were given access to a test environment in 
order to run enquiries and analyse the system. The findings of 
this work demonstrated that the migration from the Company’s 
former AX3 platform to the upgraded AX12 system had been 
successfully completed. The asset integrity within the system 
was generally good, and where issues had been identified 
these were already known to the Company and actions were 
underway to resolve them. The findings of the review were 
considered by senior management and the Audit Committee 
and the Committee is satisfied that no material inaccuracies 
were identified and, consequently, that the implementation  
of AX12 raised no material financial reporting concerns. 
Existence and valuation of hire equipment
The hire fleet comprises several million individual assets, 
represents the largest asset on the balance sheet, and 
underpins the Group’s key revenue streams.
The control environment surrounding the management of 
assets is critical to maintaining an up-to-date record of the 
assets and ensuring that they are correctly valued within the 
Financial statements. This was particularly important given the 
In accordance with its annual programme of business, the  
Audit Committee’s terms of reference were reviewed in the  
year and the Board agreed with the proposal that they be 
updated to reflect current best market practice. 
As part of its annual programme of business the Audit 
Committee regularly receives updates from the external 
auditors as to developing accounting standards, and annually, 
with the Board, receives a dedicated briefing on developing 
governance trends. In addition, members are expected to 
participate personally in relevant briefing and training sessions 
during the year. The Committee remains particularly interested 
in the debate regarding the proposed accounting standard for 
leasing which has continued to take place during the year and 
which could have a significant impact on the Group’s business, 
should the proposed reforms be brought into force. 
Significant issues considered by the  
Audit Committee during FY2015
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed and evaluated:
 > the International division;
 > the implementation of AX12; 
 > the existence and valuation of hire equipment;
 > the potential for impairment of goodwill, other intangible 
assets and property, plant and equipment;
 > the carrying amount of trade receivables; and
 > the going concern basis for the preparation of the  
Financial statements.
The role and response of the Audit Committee to these, along 
with any corresponding impact on the Group’s Financial 
statements, are discussed in more detail in this report.
The International division
As outlined in the Chief Executive Officer’s report, the Group 
restructured its International division during the year by 
closing down its Qatari and Egyptian businesses, disposing 
of the Omani business following the year end, and focusing 
the remaining business on its core oil and gas market. This 
restructuring required the Audit Committee to review the 
accounting treatment of the International division, in particular 
to consider whether there was a need to impair the residual 
carrying value of the International division.
The Committee considered the review of the International 
division prepared by management in light of discussions with 
a potential purchaser for the core oil and gas business. The 
impairment test prepared by management indicates that the 
net present value of future cash flows exceeded the carrying 
value of assets and consequently there was no requirement  
for an impairment provision.   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51
Governance
experienced by the business and the economic climate in which 
the customers operate.
Going concern basis for the preparation of the  
Financial statements
The Group has adopted a going concern basis for the 
preparation of the Financial statements. Judgement over the 
future cash flows of the business and their interaction with the 
available liquidity from the Group’s borrowing facilities must 
be applied in concluding whether to adopt a going concern 
basis of preparation. The Audit Committee has challenged 
forecast cash flows, the assumptions applied to derive the  
cash flows and availability of finance from existing facilities.
During the year, the Group has remained in compliance with its 
financial covenants under the Group’s banking facilities which 
were renewed during FY2015. Net debt has risen in the year, 
partly reflecting increased capital expenditure and partly the 
temporary impact of the invoicing issues noted above, leading 
to an increase in debtor days from FY2014. However, based 
on the expectations of future cash flows and the continued 
availability of the banking facilities, the Committee has 
concluded that the available borrowing facilities are adequate 
for both existing and future levels of business activity.  
The Committee therefore considers that it is appropriate to 
continue to adopt a going concern basis in the preparation  
of the Financial statements.
Internal control and risk management
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal 
control and risk management and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. The detailed review of internal controls has  
been delegated by the Board to the Audit Committee.
During the year, the Group undertook a clearly defined project 
to remedy a number of control and risk matters, identified by 
a combination of the Group’s auditors, the Risk and Assurance 
Department and management representation letters returned 
during FY2015. The Audit Committee monitored this process 
and assisted management with improving the Group’s control 
and risk management framework. 
The Risk and Assurance Department incorporates the Group’s 
internal audit function. The Head of Risk and Assurance reports 
to the Board and to the Audit Committee. The internal audit 
function is involved in the assessment of the quality of risk 
management and internal control. It helps to promote and 
develop further effective risk management in all areas of the 
business, including the embedding of risk registers and risk 
management procedures within individual business areas. The 
Audit Committee receives detailed reports from the Risk and 
Assurance Department at each meeting.
upgrade in the Group’s IT system during FY2015. In order to 
gain assurance that the control environment is operating in a 
satisfactory manner and as noted in the previous section, the 
Audit Committee requested internal audit to review the asset 
management processes and also requested KPMG to review 
certain aspects relating to the Group’s IT system upgrade, as 
noted above. The findings of these reviews were considered  
by the Audit Committee.
In addition to considering the appropriateness of the Group’s 
depreciation policies, the Audit Committee assesses the 
valuation of hire equipment taking into consideration valuation 
work performed by independent equipment valuers, along  
with a consistent track record of the Group in disposing of  
hire equipment at a small profit when taken in aggregate.
The potential for impairment of goodwill, other intangible 
assets and property, plant and equipment
The Committee considers on an ongoing basis whether any 
impairment in the value of assets would be appropriate. 
In considering this position the Committee considers the 
discounted value of future cash flows compared with the 
carrying value of the assets. In order to form a judgement over 
the reasonableness of the discount value of future cash flows, 
the Audit Committee challenge management’s view of the 
future cash flows, applying sensitivities where appropriate, 
and concludes on an appropriate discount rate to apply in order 
to discount the cash flows. In addition, and where appropriate 
to do so, the Audit Committee takes account of the external 
valuation reports prepared in connection with the Group’s 
financing arrangements. The Audit Committee has concluded 
that no impairment provision is required. 
The carrying amount of trade receivables
The Group trades with a large number of customers across 
a number of sectors and the carrying amount of receivables 
from these customers comprises a substantial current asset. 
Significant judgement is required in determining the extent 
to which these current assets will prove irrecoverable, and a 
provision for this is reflected in the carrying value of those 
current assets. The implementation of the upgrade of the 
Group’s IT system led to a number of temporary invoicing issues 
which meant debtor days increased from FY2014. As a result of 
this, the Audit Committee was required to pay particular regard 
to the recoverability of the Group’s receivables. Stabilisation  
of the Group’s IT systems and continuing focus by management 
are bringing debtor days back towards more customary levels.
The Audit Committee considers the levels of such provisions 
and any changes to the provisioning policy recommended by 
the Directors, taking into account trends within the ageing 
profile of the receivables balance, levels of non-collectability  52 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
Audit Committee report
continued
The Group has an established policy to control the provision of 
non-audit services by the external auditors in order to ensure 
that their objectivity and independence are safeguarded. This 
policy provides that preference should be given to retaining 
consultants other than from the external auditors unless strong 
reasons exist to the contrary, but the Company does not set a 
hard cap on such fees and does not feel that a hard cap would 
be beneficial. The policy further requires that the provision of 
any non-audit services by the external auditors or any of the 
other top four accounting firms is subject to prior approval by 
the Audit Committee, to ensure that the impact of such work 
on future tendering for audit services is controlled. The Audit 
Committee closely monitors the amount the Company spends 
with the external auditors on non-audit services.
During the year non-audit services were provided to the Group 
by the external auditors and other accounting, or consulting, 
firms and the Group anticipates that this will continue. The 
amount payable to the external auditors for audit services 
was £201,950, whilst £329,823 was payable to the external 
auditors for non-audit services where they were best placed 
to undertake the work due to their knowledge of the business 
or as a by-product of the audit function. This was in respect of 
work relating to the renewal of the Group’s banking facilities, 
and performing an independent review of the Group’s 
upgraded IT system. A split of the audit and non-audit fees 
is set out in note 4 to the Group Financial statements. The 
rolling three-year figures were £648,550 for audit services and 
£662,248 for non-audit services. The auditors have confirmed 
to the Committee that all non-audit work carried out for 
the Group is performed by separate teams and appropriate 
safeguards are in place to ensure that the audit team’s 
independence is not compromised. 
The Audit Committee considered the external auditors’ 
performance during the year and reviewed the level of fees 
charged, which are considered appropriate given the size of 
the Group. The Audit Committee is satisfied that the level 
and scope of non-audit services undertaken by the external 
auditors has not impaired their independence and objectivity.
Review of internal audit
The Audit Committee reviews on an ongoing basis the 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function. This review 
includes the level of resource devoted to internal audit, as 
well as the degree to which the function can operate free from 
management restrictions. The Audit Committee considered the 
results of the audits undertaken by the internal audit function 
and in particular considered the response of management  
to issues raised by internal audit, including the time taken  
to resolve matters reported. 
In addition, the Audit Committee produces and circulates each 
year a questionnaire to Directors and senior managers asking 
questions and inviting comments on the internal audit function, 
as it also does in respect of the external auditors and the Audit 
Committee itself. These responses are considered by the Audit 
Committee, and used to determine whether internal audit is 
working effectively and what changes, if any, need to be made 
as a result. The Internal Audit Charter was reviewed in FY2015 
and it was determined that this remained fit for purpose.
Review of the work, effectiveness and  
independence of the external auditors
The Audit Committee reviews annually the relationship 
between the Group and the external auditors and has 
responsibility for monitoring the external auditors’ 
independence and objectivity. This work includes an 
assessment of their performance and cost-effectiveness, a 
review of the scope of their work, as well as their compliance 
with ethical, professional and regulatory requirements. 
The Audit Committee also reviews any major issues which 
arise during the course of the audit and their resolution, key 
accounting and audit judgements, and any recommendations 
made to the Board by the auditors and the Board’s response. 
The Audit Committee ensures that external audit partners are 
rotated from time to time in accordance with applicable UK 
rules. The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that  
an appropriate relationship is maintained between the Group 
and the external auditors.
During the year we have continued to consider the 
effectiveness of the external auditors by questionnaires 
circulated to Directors and relevant senior managers, in 
a process similar to that used to review the internal audit 
function, as noted above. This review showed that the 
improvements made in the FY2014 audit process were well 
received, and remained in place for the FY2015 audit process.    Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53
Governance
Appointment of auditors
Having considered the results of the Audit Committee’s work, 
the Board is recommending the reappointment of the external 
auditors for FY2016. PricewaterhouseCoopers will continue 
to perform its audit function in respect of the Group’s Middle 
Eastern operations. KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to 
continue as external auditor of the Group. Separate resolutions 
proposing its reappointment and the determination of its 
remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting 
to be held on 15 July 2015.
As noted previously, the Group’s external audit contract was 
last tendered in April 2001. The Audit Committee continues 
to monitor the continuing deliberations by the European 
Commission and the Competition Commission in respect 
of auditor services and retendering. The Audit Committee 
recognises the change made by the UK Financial Reporting 
Council regarding the retendering of audit services at least 
once every ten years for companies in the FTSE 350 and above. 
KPMG LLP’s own procedures require the rotation of the lead 
audit partner after five years, and the current audit partner will 
come to that at the end of FY2016. The Company intends to 
consider retendering audit services at an appropriate juncture 
and the current view of the Committee is that the appropriate 
time to carry out such a retender would be during FY2017.
Code of Conduct
The Company remains committed to the highest standards 
of business conduct and expects its Directors, employees, 
consultants and other stakeholders to act accordingly. The 
Company has a well-established Code of Conduct which 
incorporates our ‘Speedy Speak Up’ whistle-blowing policy. 
These policies are actively promoted within the Group. New 
employees are required, as part of their induction, to undergo 
face-to-face training on the Code of Conduct and this training 
is reinforced for existing employees with management 
responsibility via an online training course which is completed 
on an annual basis.
During the year the Company published a new Business Ethics 
Guide entitled ‘Do Things Right, Doing the Right Thing’ to all  
of its employees. This guide acts as a summary of the Group’s 
key policies, including the Code of Conduct. The Company  
also collated its management structures and policies into a 
more detailed Corporate Governance Framework, ensuring  
that senior managers of the Group have ready access to  
such policies. 
Communicating with shareholders
The Company places considerable importance on 
communication with its shareholders, including both 
institutions and private shareholders. The Group’s Chief 
Executive Officer is closely involved with investor relations. 
The Group’s new Group Finance Director will also be closely 
involved and the Group’s Chairman intends to regularly meet 
with investors. The views of the Company’s major shareholders 
are reported to the Board and are regularly discussed at 
meetings of the Board and at the various committees of the 
Board, including, where appropriate, the Audit Committee.
Approval of Annual Report and Financial statements
Having reviewed the Annual Report and Financial statements 
and verified its contents with key stakeholders, the Audit 
Committee advised the Board that in its opinion the Annual 
Report and Financial statements was fair, balanced and 
understandable overall and provides all the information 
necessary to enable shareholders to assess the performance, 
business model and strategy of the Group.
This report was approved by the Board on 11 May 2015.
James Morley
Chairman of the Audit Committee 54 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
The Nomination Committee presents its report in relation  
to the financial year ended 31 March 2015. Chaired by  
Jan Åstrand, the key functions of the Nomination Committee 
are to review the structure and composition of the Board, to 
identify and propose to the Board suitable candidates to fill 
Board vacancies, and to undertake succession planning for 
Board and senior management positions.
Composition of the Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises the three Non-
Executive Directors: Jan Åstrand (Chairman), Chris Masters and 
James Morley, all of whom are considered by the Board to be 
independent. Biographies of the members of the Nomination 
Committee are set out on pages 40 and 41.
Ishbel Macpherson, previously Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee, resigned on 11 November 2014 and was replaced 
in this role by Jan Åstrand with effect from that date. 
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee  
are published on the Company’s website at  
www.speedyservices.com/investors and are available  
in hard copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
Attendance
The Nomination Committee met on three occasions during 
the year. Details of the attendance at Nomination Committee 
meetings are set out in the table below. At the invitation of the 
Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings of 
the Nomination Committee and a representative of the Group’s 
Human Resources function is also commonly invited to attend 
such meetings, particularly where discussions are taking place 
around succession planning within the Group.
Nomination Committee members and meetings attended
Name Position 
Meetings
attended
J Åstrand Chairman 
(appointed 11 November 
2014)
Non-Executive Director 1/1
I Macpherson (resigned  
11 November 2014)
Non-Executive Director 2/2
M Averill (resigned  
26 February 2015)
Non-Executive Director 3/3
C Masters Non-Executive Director 3/3
J Morley Non-Executive Director 3/3
Governance
Nomination Committee report
Jan Åstrand
Chairman of the Nomination Committee   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55
Governance
who was until recently the UK & Ireland Finance Director. The 
Nomination Committee and the Board agreed a role description 
and appointed Odgers Berndston to produce a shortlist of 
suitable candidates. The resulting shortlist, of particularly 
credible candidates, was subsequently interviewed by the 
Chief Executive Officer and ultimately by the Chairman and 
Audit Committee Chairman. Russell Down was identified 
as the preferred candidate for the role and the Nomination 
Committee recommended his appointment to the Board. This 
recommendation was accepted by the Board in January 2015.
In addition to changes at Board level, the Nomination 
Committee focused on the identification of the most talented 
individuals for key management roles across the Group. 
These individuals were initially identified through a strict 
process undertaken by the Chief Executive Officer and the 
Group’s executive committee. The resulting identification of 
replacements for key management roles and categorisation of 
individuals according to their potential to progress into these 
roles over time was subsequently proposed to and considered 
by the Nomination Committee. The Nomination Committee 
intends to support the Board and the Executive Directors in 
developing these key individuals, allowing them exposure to 
the Board and ensuring that the Group has a robust succession 
planning process in place.
The Nomination Committee has recommended the election  
of Jan Åstrand and Russell Down to the Board, and the  
re-election of James Morley, as detailed in the Directors’  
report on page 36. 
This report was approved by the Board on 11 May 2015.
Jan Åstrand
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
“We have undergone a number of changes to the Board during  
the year, including my appointment as Chairman of the Board and 
the Nomination Committee and Russell Down’s appointment as 
Group Finance Director. We consider that the refreshed Board has  
an appropriate balance of independence and skills to promote  
the success of the Group.”
Operation of the Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee generally meets on two occasions 
during a year, although it can meet more regularly if required. 
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Nomination 
Committee. The members of the Nomination Committee can, 
where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, 
obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s expense.
The Nomination Committee’s duties include, inter alia:
 > ensuring that there is a formal and transparent procedure 
for the appointment of new Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors to the Board and making recommendations to the 
Board on such appointments;
 > reviewing the size and composition of the Board along  
with membership of Board committees;
 > evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience 
on the Board;
 > ensuring that succession planning is in place for the Board 
and senior management;
 > ensuring that Non-Executive Directors are able to devote 
sufficient time to discharge their duties; and
 > recommending to the Board whether Directors who are 
retiring by rotation in accordance with the Company’s 
Articles of Association should be put forward for re-election.
During the year the Nomination Committee undertook all  
of the duties set out above, with a particular focus on 
identifying and nominating Jan Åstrand as Chairman of  
the Board and Russell Down as Group Finance Director.
Following Ishbel Macpherson’s decision to step down as 
Chairman of the Company, Michael Averill led a formal and 
rigorous process to identify and appoint her successor. The 
Nomination Committee and the Board agreed a role description 
and appointed Odgers Berndston to produce a shortlist of 
suitable candidates. A number of high-calibre candidates were 
identified and interviewed, with Jan Åstrand identified as the 
preferred candidate for the role. The Nomination Committee 
recommended Jan Åstrand’s appointment to the Board and this 
recommendation was accepted by the Board in October 2014.
The Nomination Committee also undertook an extensive and 
rigorous process for the appointment of a new Group Finance 
Director, following the Board and Lynn Krige mutually agreeing 
that she would step down from the Board and her subsequently 
leaving the Group in October 2014. Prior to the appointment 
process being concluded and Russell Down joining the Board, 
the Group’s finance function was overseen by Tracey Atkin,  56 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
Remuneration report 
Remuneration Committee members and meetings attended
Name Position 
Meetings
attended
C Masters Chairman 
(appointed Chairman  
on 26 February 2015)
Non-Executive Director 6/6
M Averill (resigned  
26 February 2015)
Non-Executive Director 5/5
J Åstrand (appointed 
26 February 2015)
Non-Executive Director 1/1
J Morley Non-Executive Director 6/6
Chris Masters CBE
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57
Governance
Composition of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors:  
Chris Masters (Chairman), James Morley and Jan Åstrand. They 
are all considered by the Board to be independent. Biographies 
of the members of the Committee are set out on pages 40 and 
41. Because of the size of the Board, the Company believes it  
is appropriate that, despite being Chairman of the Company,  
Jan Åstrand is also a member of the Committee. Details relating 
to their membership of the Committee and attendance at the 
meetings during the year are as set out to the left.
At the invitation of the Chairman the Chief Executive Officer 
may attend meetings of the Committee, except when his own 
remuneration is under consideration. No Director is involved 
in determining his own remuneration. The Company Secretary 
acts as the secretary to the Committee. 
Performance and reward for FY2015
The Group’s remuneration policy has been, and will continue to 
be, performance-related and retention-focused. Remuneration 
packages are aimed at reflecting the responsibility and 
contribution of the individual, whilst ensuring that the Group 
is able to attract, retain and motivate the best people in a 
competitive marketplace. In return, Executive Directors are 
expected to demonstrate their commitment and leadership 
to the Group and take responsibility for their actions and 
decisions. The Group’s policy is structured so that salaries are 
positioned at competitive levels against the relevant market, 
but with the potential to earn upper quartile incentive pay 
for sustained and exceptional performance which is linked 
to demanding annual and long-term performance conditions, 
aimed at promoting the long-term success of the Group. 
The Committee considers that the remuneration paid to the 
Executive Directors fairly reflects their performance during 
the year. The threshold PBT target for FY2015 was exceeded 
and this, together with the Committee’s assessment of the 
strategic targets, has resulted in an annual bonus payment of 
60% of salary for Mark Rogerson. The 2011 Performance Share 
Plan (PSP) awards, where performance is based on a three-year 
performance period, vested at 66.8% in 2014 as a result of the 
extent to which relative total shareholder return performance 
targets were met. The 2012 PSP awards are currently expected 
to vest at 100% in 2015 on the same basis, although no current 
Executive Directors hold 2012 awards.
Annual statement
This report, which has been prepared by the Remuneration 
Committee (Committee) and approved by the Board for the 
financial year ended 31 March 2015, sets out the remuneration 
policy for the Directors of the Company. The report has been 
divided into two sections:
 > the Remuneration Policy Report, which sets out the Group’s 
policy on the remuneration of Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors; and
 > the Annual Report on Remuneration, which discloses details 
of the Committee, how the Remuneration policy will operate 
for FY2016 and how the policy was implemented in FY2015.
The Remuneration policy was subject to a binding vote at the 
2014 Annual General Meeting (AGM) whilst the 2014 Annual 
Report on Remuneration was subject to an advisory vote. 
Both were approved by more than 98% of shareholders that 
voted. The Company’s new long-term incentive plan was also 
proposed at the 2014 AGM and approved by nearly 98% of 
shareholders that voted. The Annual Report on Remuneration 
will be the subject of an advisory vote at the 2015 AGM.
Remuneration Committee objectives and  
terms of reference
The Committee’s key objectives are: to make recommendations 
to the Board on the Group’s framework and policy for the 
remuneration of Directors and senior executives; to determine 
the basis on which the employment of executives is terminated; 
and to determine whether awards made under performance-
related and other share incentive schemes should be made, the 
overall amount of those awards, and the individual awards to 
executives including the performance targets to be used. More 
details around the objectives of the Committee and the work 
done by the Committee during the year can be found in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration, which commences on page 65.
The terms of reference of the Committee can be found at  
www.speedyservices.com/investors and are also available  
in hard copy from the Company Secretary.
“Our remuneration policy is aimed at 
attracting, motivating and retaining the 
best people for our business.” 58 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
Remuneration report
continued
Remuneration policy for FY2016
The Committee is not proposing to make changes to the 
remuneration policy for FY2016. The key points to note are:
 > Mark Rogerson’s base salary was set at £320,000 following 
his promotion from Chief Operating Officer to Chief 
Executive Officer from 27 January 2014. As noted in our 
2014 Annual Report, Mark Rogerson’s base salary was set 
below that of his predecessor and market levels in general 
and it remains the Committee’s intention to move the 
salary to market levels over time, subject to Group and 
individual performance. Following a review of performance 
since appointment, Mark Rogerson’s salary was increased 
to £375,000 from 1 April 2015 although £10,000 will be 
withheld until 30 September 2015 and will only be payable 
subject to certain financial performance targets being met. 
It is the Committee’s intention that a further salary review 
will be carried out for 1 April 2016 with the intention being 
that the salary is moved further towards market levels, 
again subject to a review of both individual and Group 
performance; 
 > Russell Down was appointed as Group Finance Director with 
effect from 6 April 2015 with a base salary of £275,000 
and it is expected that any future increases will be linked to 
Group/individual performance and reflect general market 
trends;
 > pension policy will remain unchanged, with the Company 
contribution (or salary supplement in lieu) limited to no  
more than 20% of base salary; 
 > annual bonus opportunity will remain capped at 100%  
of base salary, with the majority based on Group profit 
before tax and the minority based on personal, strategic  
and financial targets. Clawback and financial underpin  
provisions will apply;
 > the 2014 Performance Share Plan (PSP), approved at the 
2014 AGM, will continue to operate as the Company’s 
primary long-term incentive arrangement, whereby awards 
over shares will normally vest three years from grant, subject 
to continued employment and performance conditions based 
on relative total shareholder return and earnings per share 
growth. It is currently intended that award levels in FY2016 
will be over shares worth no more than 100% of salary; and
 > share ownership guidelines will continue to operate at 100% 
of salary although to the extent that award levels increase 
in the future, the Committee will consider a commensurate 
increase in the guidelines.
Shareholder engagement
The Committee takes an active interest in shareholder views on 
the Company’s executive remuneration policy and is mindful 
of the concerns of shareholders and other stakeholders and we 
will continue to take into account the views of our shareholders 
as appropriate. There is no intention to change our current 
remuneration policy at this time and consequently we will not 
be seeking any such approval at the Company’s 2015 AGM.
In conclusion, we firmly believe that our remuneration policy 
for FY2016 onwards is appropriately aligned with the strategic 
goals of the Group in delivering shareholder value and 
supporting the long-term success of the Group.
This report was approved by the Board on 11 May 2015.
Chris Masters
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
    Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59
Governance
Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors
The charts below show how the composition of the Executive 
Directors’ remuneration packages varies at three performance 
levels, namely, at minimum (i.e. fixed pay), target and maximum 
levels, under the policy set out in the charts below.
Mark Rogerson, Chief Executive Officer
Russell Down, Group Finance Director
The charts above are based on:
 > salary levels effective 1 April 2015;
 > an approximated annual value of benefits;
 > an annualised pension contribution (as a % of salary);
 > a 100% of salary maximum annual bonus (with target 
assumed to be 50% of the maximum); and
 > a 100% of salary PSP award (with target assumed to be 50% 
of the maximum). No share price appreciation in respect of 
the PSP awards has been assumed.
 
Remuneration Policy Report
This part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report sets out the 
remuneration policy for the Group. This policy, which has 
operated from 1 April 2014, was approved at the Company’s 
2014 AGM and became formally effective from that date. 
The policy set out below is a restatement of the policy set 
out in the Company’s 2014 Annual Report and Accounts and 
approved by shareholders at the Company’s 2014 AGM.
Policy overview
In setting the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, 
the Committee takes into account the following:
 > the need to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors 
and senior management;
 > internal pay and benefits practice and employment 
conditions within the Group as a whole; and
 > periodic external comparisons to examine current 
market trends and practices and equivalent roles in 
similar companies taking into account their size, business 
complexity, international scope and relative performance.
There are five main elements of the remuneration package for 
Executive Directors:
 > base salary;
 > annual bonus;
 > long-term incentives;
 > pension arrangements; and
 > benefits.
The key principles of the policy are:
 > base salaries between lower quartile and median, but with 
the potential to earn upper quartile rewards for sustained 
exceptional performance provided that stretching and 
demanding performance conditions, designed to promote 
the long-term success of the Group, are met;
 > a reward structure that balances short-term and long-term 
performance; and
 > competitive incentive arrangements underpinned by a 
balance of financial and operational performance metrics 
and linked to corporate and individual performance, ensuring 
a focus on business performance and alignment with the 
interests of shareholders.
As a result, the Committee has determined that the 
remuneration of Executive Directors will provide an 
appropriate balance between fixed and performance-related 
pay elements. The Committee will continue to review the 
remuneration policy to ensure it takes due account of best 
remuneration practice and that it remains aligned with 
shareholders’ interests.
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
Basic salary, beneﬁts and pension Bonus PSP award
100% £453
0 250 500 750 1,000 1,250
55%
38.3%
22% 22% £818
30.9% 31% £1,183
£000
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
100% £345
0 £000 250 500 750 1,000 1,250
56%
39%
22% 22% £620
31% 31% £895
Basic salary, beneﬁts and pension Bonus PSP award 60 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
Remuneration report
continued
Summary Director policy table
The table below summarises the remuneration policy for Directors, as effective from the Company’s 2014 AGM:
Element
Purpose and
link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Salary > Reflects the value of the 
individual and their role
 > Reflects skills and 
experience over time
 > Provides an appropriate 
level of basic fixed 
income avoiding 
excessive risk arising 
from over reliance on 
variable income
 > Normally reviewed 
annually, effective  
1 April
 > Paid in cash on 
a monthly basis; 
pensionable
 > Comparison against 
companies with similar 
characteristics and 
sector comparators 
taken into account in 
review
 > There is no prescribed 
maximum annual basic 
salary or salary increase
 > The Committee is 
guided by the general 
increase for the broader 
employee population 
but may decide to 
award a lower increase 
or a higher increase for 
Executive Directors to 
recognise, for example, 
an increase in the scale, 
scope or responsibility 
of the role and/or to 
take account of relevant 
market movements
 > Where an Executive 
Director’s salary is set 
below market levels at 
appointment, future 
salary increases may 
include a ‘catch up’ 
element over and above 
the factors listed above
n/a
Bonus > Incentivise delivery 
of specific Group, 
divisional and personal 
annual goals
 > Maximum bonus only 
payable for achieving 
demanding targets
 > Normally payable in 
cash (although the 
Committee reserves the 
right to deliver some or 
all of the bonus in shares 
which may be deferred)
 > Non-pensionable
 > 100% of salary p.a. > Group profit before 
tax will apply for the 
majority
 > Personal and strategic 
KPIs may be applied  
for the minority
 > One-year performance 
period
 > Clawback provisions 
apply
Pension > Provide competitive 
retirement benefits
 > Defined contribution 
and/or cash in lieu of 
pension
 > Up to 20% of basic  
salary p.a.
n/a   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61
Governance
Summary Director policy table continued
Element
Purpose and
link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Performance 
Share Plan
 > Aligned to main 
strategic objectives of 
delivering long-term 
value creation
 > Align Executive 
Directors’ interests with 
those of shareholders
 > Retention
 > Annual grant of 
conditional awards or nil 
or nominal cost options
 > The Committee 
reviews the quantum 
of awards annually and 
monitors the continuing 
suitability of the 
performance measures
 > A two-year post vesting 
holding period may be 
applied to the grant  
of awards
 > 150% of salary p.a. 
normal limit
 > 200% of salary 
exceptional limit  
(e.g. for recruitment  
or retention)
 > Participants may 
benefit from the value 
of dividends paid over 
the vesting period (and 
any holding period 
operated) to the extent 
that awards vest. This 
may be delivered in 
cash or additional 
shares at the time 
awards vest
 > Performance normally 
measured over three 
years
 > Relative Total 
Shareholder Return 
(TSR) targets and/or 
absolute Earnings Per 
Share (EPS) targets
 > Performance underpins 
may apply
 > 25% vests at threshold 
increasing to 100% 
vesting at maximum
 > Clawback provisions 
apply
Share 
ownership 
guidelines
 > To provide alignment 
of interests between 
Executive Directors  
and shareholders
 > Executive Directors are 
required to build and 
maintain a shareholding 
equivalent to at least 
one year’s base salary 
(although this may be 
increased if PSP award 
levels are increased 
in the future) through 
the retention of vested 
share awards or through 
open market purchases
 > At least 100% of salary n/a
All Employee 
Share Plans
 > Encourages long-term 
shareholding in the 
Company
 > Invitations made by 
the Committee under 
the tax-advantaged 
Sharesave Scheme
 > As per prevailing  
HMRC limits
n/a
Other  
benefits
 > Provide insured 
benefits to support the 
individual and their 
family during periods  
of ill health or death
 > Car allowance to 
facilitate effective 
travel
 > Modest accommodation 
allowances (where 
appropriate and 
necessary)
 > Benefits provided 
through third party 
providers
 > Allowances normally 
paid on a monthly basis
n/a n/a 62 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
Remuneration report
continued
Summary Director policy table continued
Element
Purpose and
link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Non-Executive 
Directors
 > To provide fees 
reflecting time 
commitments and 
responsibilities, in line 
with those provided 
by similarly sized 
companies
 > Fees are set by the 
Board (excluding Non-
Executive Directors)
 > Fees are normally 
paid monthly and are 
normally reviewed 
annually
 > Expectation that 
individuals build and 
maintain a shareholding 
equal to 100% of fees
 > There is no prescribed 
maximum fee or fee 
increase
 > The Board (excluding 
Non-Executive 
Directors) is guided 
by market rates, time 
commitments and 
responsibility levels
n/a
Notes:
>  The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus scheme reflect the Committee’s belief that any incentive compensation should 
be appropriately challenging and tied to both the delivery of profit growth and strategic objectives.
>  The performance conditions applicable to the 2015 Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards were selected by the Remuneration Committee on the basis 
that they reward the delivery of long-term returns to shareholders and the Group’s financial performance and are consistent with the Company’s 
objective of delivering superior levels of long-term value to shareholders. The TSR performance condition is monitored on the Committee’s behalf  
by New Bridge Street whilst the Group’s EPS growth is derived from the audited financial statements.
>  The Committee operates the PSP and its all employee share plans in accordance with the plan rules, the Listing Rules and HMRC legislation and the 
Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of the plan.
>  Consistent with HMRC legislation, the all-employee Sharesave scheme does not have performance conditions.
>  For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors’ Remuneration Policy, authority was given to the Company to honour any commitments entered 
into with current or former Directors (such as the payment of the prior year’s annual bonus or the vesting/exercise of share awards granted in the past). 
Details of any payments to former Directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63
Governance
How shareholders’ views are taken into account
The Committee continues to take an active interest in 
shareholder views on our executive remuneration policy 
and is mindful of the concerns of shareholders and other 
stakeholders. This was reflected in our voting results at the 
2014 AGM, which were over 98% in favour of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and the Remuneration Policy resolutions. 
Major shareholders and representative bodies were consulted 
in 2014 in respect of the 2014 Performance Share Plan, which 
was approved at the 2014 AGM.
Service contracts
Relevant dates of service contracts and notice periods for the 
Executive Directors are set out as follows:
Executive Director Date of contract Notice period
M Rogerson 25 November 2013 12 months
R Down 8 January 2015 12 months
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have 
contracts of service, but their terms are set out in letters of 
appointment. Appointments are subject to termination by 
three months’ notice on either side. The letters of appointment, 
copies of which are available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office during normal business hours, specify an 
anticipated time commitment of 50 days per annum in relation 
to Jan Åstrand, 25 days per annum in relation to Chris Masters 
and 24 days in relation to James Morley. Relevant appointment 
letter and term dates of the Non-Executive Directors are set out 
as follows:
Non-Executive 
Director
Appointment
letter date
Month of
last election
Expected month
of expiry of
current term
J Åstrand
1
9 October 2014 n/a July 2018
I Macpherson
2
17 July 2007 July 2013 n/a
M Averill
3
16 May 2008 July 2013 n/a
J Morley 31 March 2009 July 2014 July 2015
C Masters 10 June 2011 July 2014 July 2017
1 Appointed with effect from 1 November 2014.
2 Resigned with effect from 11 November 2014.
3 Resigned with effect from 26 February 2015.
How employees’ pay is taken into account
Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group were considered 
when finalising the current policy for Executive Directors and 
continue to be considered in relation to implementation of 
this policy. In order to do so, the Committee regularly interacts 
with the HR function and senior operational executives. 
Given that the requirement to consider the wider pay and 
employment conditions elsewhere in the Group is considered 
by the Committee to be a key objective, it is embedded in the 
Committee’s terms of reference.
How the Executive Directors’ remuneration policy 
relates to the wider Group
The remuneration policy described above provides an  
overview of the structure that operates for the most senior 
executives in the Group. Employees below executive level  
have a lower proportion of their total remuneration made up  
of incentive-based remuneration, with remuneration driven  
by market comparators and the impact of the role of the 
employee in question. Long-term incentives are reserved for 
those judged as having the greatest potential to influence  
the Group’s earnings growth and share price performance.
Long-term service awards
Consistent with the Group’s approach of recognising the 
contribution of its employees at all levels in the business,  
the Group operates a long-term service award scheme under 
which employees serving 10, 20 and 25 years receive a range  
of additional benefits, including additional days of annual  
holiday entitlement.
These benefits are popular amongst employees and the  
Group believes that they fulfil a business need by encouraging 
and rewarding the loyalty and motivation of long-serving 
employees and by rewarding those employees with higher 
levels of experience. 64 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
Remuneration report
continued
Approach to leavers
No Executive Director has the benefit of provisions in his 
or her service contract for the payment of pre-determined 
compensation in the event of termination of employment. 
It has been the Committee’s general policy that the service 
contracts of Executive Directors (none of which are for a fixed 
term) should provide for termination of employment by giving 
12 months’ notice or by making a payment of an amount equal 
to 12 months’ basic salary and pension contributions in lieu 
of notice together with any accrued bonus entitlement. It is 
the Committee’s policy that no Executive Director should 
be entitled to a notice period or payment on termination of 
employment in excess of the levels set out in his or her service 
contract. In determining amounts payable on termination, the 
Committee also considers, where it is able to do so, appropriate 
adjustments to take into account accelerated receipt and the 
Executive Director’s duty to mitigate his loss. In addition, 
legal fees in connection with a departure may be payable. The 
service contracts of Mark Rogerson and Russell Down contain 
express provisions relating to their duty to mitigate their loss 
and for accelerated receipt in the event of termination.
Annual bonus may be payable with respect to the period of the 
financial year served although it will be pro-rated for time and 
paid at the normal payout date. Any share-based entitlements 
granted to an Executive Director under the Company’s share 
plans will be determined based on the relevant plan rules. 
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, 
ill health, disability, retirement or other circumstances at 
the discretion of the Committee, ‘good leaver’ status may be 
applied. For good leavers, awards will normally vest at the 
normal vesting date, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant 
performance conditions at that time and reduced pro-rata to 
reflect the proportion of the vesting period actually served. 
However, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to 
determine that awards vest at cessation of employment.
External appointments
The Board allows Executive Directors to accept appropriate 
outside commercial Non-Executive Director appointments 
provided the aggregate commitment is compatible with 
their duties as Executive Directors. The Executive Directors 
concerned may retain fees paid for these services, which 
will be subject to approval by the Board. No Non-Executive 
Directorships in a listed company were held by the Executive 
Directors during the year and details of other appointments 
held by Executive Directors are set out in their biographies  
on page 40.
 
Approach to recruitment and promotions
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would 
be set in accordance with the terms of the Company’s prevailing 
approved remuneration policy at the time of appointment and 
take into account the skills and experience of the individual, 
the market rate for a candidate of that experience and the 
importance of securing the relevant individual.
Salary would be provided at such a level as required to attract 
the most appropriate candidate and may be set initially at 
a below mid-market level on the basis that it may progress 
towards the mid-market level once expertise and performance 
has been proven and sustained.
The annual bonus potential would be limited to 100% of salary 
and grants under the Performance Share Plan (PSP) would 
be limited to 150% of salary (200% of salary in exceptional 
circumstances). In addition, the Committee may offer additional 
cash and/or share-based elements to replace deferred or 
incentive pay forfeited by an executive leaving a previous 
employer. It will, where possible, ensure that these awards are 
consistent with awards forfeited in terms of vesting periods, 
expected value and performance conditions.
For an internal Executive Director appointment, any variable 
pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be 
allowed to pay out according to its original terms.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may 
agree that the Company will meet certain relocation and/or 
incidental expenses as appropriate.
Fee structure and quantum for Non-Executive Director 
appointments will be based on the prevailing Non-Executive 
Director fee policy.   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65
Governance
During FY2015, the Committee reviewed the following matters 
at its meetings:
 > determination of FY2014 bonuses for the Executive Directors 
and senior managers;
 > determination of executive remuneration structure for 
FY2015;
 > interim and final progress of employee share plan 
performance measures against targets and consequent 
approval of any vesting of awards;
 > progress of bonus achievement for FY2015 executive 
bonuses;
 > 25-year long service awards for FY2015;
 > terms of reference for, and effectiveness of, the Committee;
 > ongoing appropriateness and effectiveness of remuneration 
and benefits policies;
 > performance of external remuneration advisers;
 > use of equity for employee share plans in relation to dilution 
headroom limits; and
 > determining remuneration arrangements for Board level  
and senior management joiners and leavers.
The Committee’s terms of reference are published on the 
Group’s website at www.speedyservices.com/investors and are 
available in hard copy on application to the Company Secretary.
Advisers
During the year, the Committee received advice from New 
Bridge Street (part of Aon plc), an independent remuneration 
consultancy, in connection with remuneration matters 
including the provision of general guidance on market and  
best practice, the development of the Group’s performance-
related remuneration policy and the production of this report. 
New Bridge Street has no other connection or relationship  
with the Group, and provided no other services to the Group 
during FY2015. Fees paid to New Bridge Street for FY2015 
totalled £38,450 (excluding VAT) in respect of advice provided 
to the Committee, including in connection with the production 
of this report. The Committee also sought advice from the 
Group’s legal advisers, Pinsent Masons LLP, in connection 
with the production of this report, the operation of the 2004 
Performance Share Plan, the 2014 Performance Share Plan  
and the Sharesave (SAYE) Schemes.
Annual Report on Remuneration
Remuneration Committee role and membership
The Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors:  
Chris Masters (Chairman), James Morley and Jan Åstrand. They 
are all considered by the Board to be independent. Biographies 
of the members of the Committee are set out on pages 40 
and 41. Details of their membership of the Committee and 
attendance at the meetings during the year are as set out on 
page 56.
At the invitation of the Chairman the Chief Executive Officer 
may attend meetings of the Committee, except when his own 
remuneration is under consideration. No Director is involved 
in determining his own remuneration. The Company Secretary 
acts as the secretary to the Committee. The members of the 
Committee can, where they judge it necessary to discharge 
their responsibilities, obtain independent professional advice 
at the Group’s expense.
The Committee’s duties include:
 > to make recommendations to the Board on the Group’s 
framework and policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, 
Executive Directors, Company Secretary and senior 
executives;
 > to review and determine, on behalf of the Board, executive 
remuneration and incentive packages to ensure such 
packages are fair and reasonable;
 > to review Directors’ expenses;
 > to determine the basis on which the employment of 
executives is terminated;
 > to design the Group’s share incentive schemes and other 
performance-related pay schemes, and to operate and 
administer such schemes;
 > to determine whether awards made under performance-
related and share incentive schemes should be made, the 
overall amount of the awards, the individual awards to 
executives and the performance targets to be used;
 > to ensure that no Director is involved in any decisions  
as to his/her own remuneration; and
 > to review regularly the ongoing appropriateness and 
effectiveness of all remuneration policies. 66 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Governance
Remuneration report 
continued
Following a review of performance since appointment,  
Mark Rogerson’s salary was increased to £375,000 from  
1 April 2015 although £10,000 will be withheld until  
30 September 2015 and will only be payable subject to certain 
financial performance targets being met. It is the Committee’s 
intention that a further salary review will be carried out for  
1 April 2016 with the intention being that the salary is moved 
further towards market levels, again subject to a review of both 
individual and Group performance. 
Russell Down has been appointed as Group Finance Director, 
taking office with effect from 6 April 2015 with a base salary 
of £275,000 and it is expected that any future increases from 
this will be linked to Group/individual performance and reflect 
general market trends. 
Benefits in kind and pension
The Group operates a policy whereby Executive Directors 
and senior management are offered a car or cash alternative 
(as appropriate), health insurance, life cover, accommodation 
allowance (where appropriate) and pension contributions, or 
cash in lieu of pension contributions (further details of which 
are set out on pages 60 and 61).
The Group does not operate a defined benefit pension scheme 
and has no plans to introduce such a scheme.
Performance-related annual bonus
The Committee’s general policy continues to be that Executive 
Directors and senior managers in the Group should be included 
in some form of incentive scheme as soon as practicable after 
joining the Group.
For FY2016, the maximum bonus opportunity will continue to 
be limited to 100% of salary. The bonus opportunity will be 
split as follows: 
 > the majority based on Group profit before tax; and 
 > the minority based on personal, strategic and financial targets.
Implementation of the 
Remuneration Policy for FY2016
The sections of the Annual Report on Remuneration that have 
been audited by KPMG LLP are page 67 from Non-Executive 
Directors to page 72 up to and including Directors’ interests 
in the share capital of the company, but excluding paragraphs 
concerning Details of Long-Term Incentive Plan awards 
outstanding, Dilution, Percentage change in Chief Executive 
Officer’s remuneration and Shareholder voting at AGM.
Base salary
Base salaries for each Executive Director are reviewed 
annually by the Committee, taking account of the Director’s 
performance, experience and responsibilities. The Committee 
has regard to salary levels paid by UK listed companies:  
(i) which operate within the same broad business space as 
the Group and with which the Group competes for key talent; 
and (ii) with similar market capitalisation and geographic 
operations. This approach ensures that the best available 
benchmark data for each Director’s specific position is 
obtained. It should be noted that comparative pay data is 
used carefully, recognising the risk of an upward ratchet in 
remuneration caused by over-reliance on such data which does 
not then correlate with any increase in performance. When 
determining Executive Directors’ base salaries, the Committee 
also has regard to economic factors, remuneration trends and 
the general level of salary increases awarded throughout the 
Group. Current base salaries are as follows:
1 April 2015 1 April 2014 % increase
M Rogerson £365,000
1
£320,000 14%
R Down £275,000 n/a n/a
1 £365,000 plus a further £10,000 contingent on performance.
Mark Rogerson’s base salary was set at £320,000 following 
his promotion from Chief Operating Officer to Chief Executive 
Officer from 27 January 2014. As noted in our 2014 Annual 
Report, Mark Rogerson’s base salary was set below that of 
his predecessor and market levels in general and it was the 
Committee’s intention to move the salary to market levels  
over time, subject to Group and individual performance.    Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67
Governance
Non-Executive Directors
Current fee levels for Non-Executive Directors are as follows:
Role
Committee
Chair Role
1 April
2015
1 April
 2014
J Åstrand Chairman Nomination £125,000 n/a
C Masters
Senior 
Independent 
Director Remuneration £44,500 37,000
J Morley
Non-Executive 
Director Audit £42,000 £42,000
Jan Åstrand’s fee was set upon him joining the Company  
in November 2014. The increase in Chris Masters’ fee  
reflects being appointed Senior Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, which took effect 
on 26 February 2015.
Outstanding performance will be required for a maximum 
bonus to become payable, with no bonus payable unless  
a number of financial (e.g. adjusted profit before tax) and  
non-financial thresholds are achieved. A clawback provision 
will continue to operate.
Long-Term Incentive Plans
The 2014 Performance Share Plan (PSP), approved at the  
2014 AGM, will continue to operate as the Company’s primary 
long-term incentive arrangement, whereby awards over shares 
will normally vest three years from grant, subject to continued 
employment and performance conditions based on relative 
total shareholder return (TSR) and earnings per share (EPS) 
growth. It is intended that Executive Director award levels in 
FY2016 will be over shares worth no more than 100% of salary.
In respect of performance targets for awards to be granted  
in FY2016:
 > 50% of each award will be subject to an EPS condition. 
25% of this part of an award vests for threshold EPS (before 
amortisation and exceptional costs) with full vesting of this 
part of an award for maximum EPS or better. A sliding scale 
operates between these points. The threshold and maximum 
EPS targets had not been finalised at the date this report was 
signed, with full disclosure of the target range to be provided 
in the RNS stock exchange announcement issued following 
the grant; 
 > 50% of each award will be subject to a TSR condition based 
on the Group’s performance against FTSE 250 companies 
(excluding investment trusts) as at the date of grant. 25% 
of this part of an award vests if the Company’s TSR is at a 
median of the ranking of the TSRs of the comparator group, 
with full vesting of this part of an award for upper quartile 
performance or better. A sliding scale operates between 
these points;
 > in addition to the above, no part of the award subject to the 
TSR condition will vest unless the Committee is also satisfied 
that the TSR performance of the Company is reflective of the 
Group’s underlying performance; and
 > clawback provisions and a two-year post vesting holding 
period will continue to be applied to Executive Directors. 68 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
Remuneration report
continued
Directors’ remuneration for FY2015
The emoluments of the Directors of the Company for the year under review were as follows:
Financial
year
Fees/basic
salary
£’000s
Benefits
£’000s
6
Pension
£’000s
Annual bonus
£’000s
7
Value of 
long-term
 incentives
£’000s
8
Total
remuneration
M Rogerson 2015 320 53 28 192 – 593
2014 108 7 – – – 115
L Krige
1
2015 141 7 22 – 142 312
2014 252 13 38 - – 303
J Åstrand
2
2015 52 – – – – 52
2014 – – – – – –
I Macpherson
3
2015 64 – – – – 64
2014 105 – – – – 105
M Averill
4
2015 49 – – – – 49
2014 45 – – – – 45
J Morley 2015 42 – – – – 42
2014 42 – – – – 42
C Masters
5
2015 38 – – – – 38
2014 37 – – – – 37
Former Directors
(who did not serve in FY2015) 2014 463 23 67 – 583 1,136
Totals 2015 706 60 50 192 142 1,150
2014 1,052 43 105 – 583 1,783
1 Lynn Krige resigned from the Company with effect from 15 October 2014.
2 Jan Åstrand joined the Company on 1 November 2014.
3 Ishbel Macpherson resigned from the Company with effect from 11 November 2014.
4 Michael Averill resigned from the Company with effect from 26 February 2015.
5 Chris Masters was appointed as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 26 February 2015.
6  Taxable benefits comprise a car or cash alternative, health insurance, life insurance and, until 31 March 2015, a housing allowance for Mark Rogerson. 
This housing allowance totalled £18,000 in FY2015. From 1 April 2015, no housing allowance is payable to Mark Rogerson. Mark Rogerson also received 
£22,000 in lieu of pension contributions.
7  For FY2015 the maximum bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors was 100% of salary, with 75% of the opportunity based on adjusted profit 
before tax (PBT) targets and 25% based on strategic objectives. Details of actual performance against targets is as follows:
Measure Weighting Threshold Stretch Result
Adjusted profit before tax 75% £21.8m PBT £26.8m PBT
35% of salary, (based on an adjusted PBT
of £21.9m, max 75%)
Strategic target 25%
Key personal indicators relating to  
completing actions and implementation  
of a revised internal controls regime
25% of salary (based on an assessment  
by the Committee that the key performance 
indicator has been completed in full, max 25%)
100% Bonus achieved for FY2015 60% of salary
8 The PSP award granted on 24 June 2011 was based on performance to 23 June 2014. The vesting percentage was as follows:
Metric Performance condition Threshold target Stretch target Actual Vesting
Total Shareholder Return Relative TSR against the FTSE 250 
(excluding investment trusts): 20%  
of an award vests at median increasing 
pro-rata to full vesting at the upper 
quartile.
54.4% TSR 95.9% TSR 78.7% TSR 66.8%
    Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69
Governance
An underpin also applied to the primary TSR measure, under which the Committee could have reduced the number of shares  
that provisionally vest if the TSR performance was not considered to be truly representative of the Group’s underlying 
performance over the performance period. When considering the Group’s underlying performance, the Committee took  
account of performance against a range of targets, including operating cash flow, profit against targets, working capital 
management and share price progression. Based on the vesting percentage above and the Committee’s view that the underpin 
was met, the shares vested on 23 June 2014. Details of the shares under award and the value at vesting is as follows:
Executive
Number of
shares at grant
Number of
shares lapsed
Number of 
shares vested
Dividend
equivalent
shares
Total
shares
delivered
Value at   
vesting
2
(£’000)
L Krige
1
399,575 132,659 266,916 8,333 275,249 142
1 Lynn Krige resigned from the Company with effect from 15 October 2014.
2 The share price at the date of vesting was 51.75 pence.
The PSP numbers presented for the FY2014 comparatives are based on the 2010 PSP awards which vested at 82% of potential.
Long-term incentive plan awards granted in the year
The first annual award to Executive Directors under the 2014 Performance Share Plan was granted on 24 November 2014. Only 
Mark Rogerson received an award (Lynn Krige had left the Company by the time of the grant date). Details of the PSP award 
granted are set out below:
Executive Date of grant
Basis of
award
Maximum 
shares under
 award
Face value
of awards
1
Performance 
period
2
Vesting period
% vesting
at threshold
performance
M Rogerson 24/11/14 100% of 
salary
567,879 £320,000 TSR: Three
years ending
31 March 2017
EPS: Three
years ending
31 March 2017
Three years
from grant
25% of 
an award
1  The number of shares under award was originally agreed based on a 56.35 pence share price, based on the five-day average share price up to  
24 July 2014 (the day before the Remuneration Committee’s intended grant date for the main 2014 PSP awards). However, as the grant date for  
these awards was delayed until November 2014, the Committee considered it appropriate to honour the number of shares under award it had 
provisionally agreed to grant. In addition, while the vesting period remains at three years from grant, the Committee agreed that the two-year  
post vesting holding period for Mark Rogerson would be reduced by circa three months to reflect the delay to the awards. 
2  50% of the award is subject to an EPS condition. 25% of this part of the award vests for EPS (before amortisation and exceptional costs) of 3.5 pence, 
with full vesting of this part of the award for EPS of 4.5 pence or better. A sliding scale operates between these points. 50% of the award is subject to a 
TSR condition based on the Company’s performance against FTSE 250 companies (excluding investment trusts) as at the date of grant. 25% of this part 
of the award vests if the Company’s TSR is at a median of the ranking of the TSRs of the comparator group, with full vesting of this part of the award for 
upper quartile performance or better. A sliding scale operates between these points. Regardless of the Company’s TSR performance, no portion of the 
part of the award which is subject to TSR performance may vest unless the Committee is also satisfied that the Company’s TSR performance is reflective 
of its underlying performance over the performance period.  70 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance
Remuneration report
continued
Details of Long-Term Incentive Plan awards outstanding
Details of the Executive Directors’ interests in share-based awards are as follows:
Executive Director
Interest at 
1 April 2014
Options/awards
granted during
the year
Options/awards
exercised during 
the year
Options/awards
lapsed during
the year
Interest at 
31 March 2015
Exercise
price
(pence)
Normal date from which 
exercisable/vested
to expiry date 
(if appropriate)
L Krige
SAYE 2012 14,294 – – (14,294) nil 27.2 Feb 2016 – July 2016
PSP 2011
1
 
2 3
399,575 – (266,916) (132,659) nil nil Jun 2014 – Sep 2014
PSP 2012
1
 
2
 665,247 – – (149,482) 515,765 nil Jun 2015 – Sep 2015
PSP 2013
1
 
2 
 415,851 – – (232,586) 183,265 nil Jun 2016 – Sep 2016
COIP 2013
4
 171,042 – (83,024) 88,018 nil Jun 2016 – Sep 2016
Total 1,666,009 – (266,916) (612,045) 787,048
M Rogerson
PSP 2013
1
 
2
 407,587 – – – 407,587 nil Dec 2016 – Apr 2017
PSP 2014
5
 
6
– 567,879 567,879 nil Nov 2017 – Nov 2024
SAYE 2014 – 16,187 – – 16,187 55.6 Feb 2018 – Jul 2018
Total 407,587 584,066 – – 991,653
1  The 2011, 2012 and 2013 Performance Share Plan awards, made under the 2004 Performance Share Plan, were granted as options to acquire shares  
for an aggregate £1 exercise price for all the award shares. No consideration was paid for the grant of these options.
2   The 2011, 2012 and 2013 Performance Share Plan awards were subject to a TSR-based performance condition measured over a three-year period 
beginning on 24 June 2011, 20 June 2012 and 21 June 2013, respectively. 20% of each award vests if the Company ranks at the median compared to 
the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) measured over the three-year performance period, with full vesting at the upper quartile (and straight-line 
vesting between these points). An underpin also applies to this primary TSR measure, under which the Committee may reduce the number of shares that 
provisionally vest by reference to performance against the relative TSR condition if this performance is not considered to be truly representative of the 
Company’s underlying performance over the performance period. When considering the Company’s underlying performance, the Committee will take 
account of performance against a range of targets including operating cash flow, profit against targets, working capital management and share price 
progression.
3  On exercise of her 2011 Performance Share Plan award, Lynn Krige received 8,333 dividend equivalent shares.
4  Lynn Krige committed £50,000 of her annual bonus to purchase 45,008 shares through the Employee Benefit Trust for the purpose of the Co-
Investment Plan. 50% of the shares subject to the matching share award will vest for three years EPS growth of CPI + 7.5% p.a., increasing to 100% 
vesting for EPS growth of CPI + 12.5% p.a.
5   The 2014 Performance Share Plan awards, made under the 2014 Performance Share Plan, were granted as nil-cost options. No consideration was paid 
for the grant of these options.
6  50% of each 2014 Performance Share Plan award is subject to an EPS condition measured over three financial years ending 31 March 2017. 25% of this 
part of an award vests for EPS (before amortisation and exceptional costs) of 3.5 pence, with full vesting of this part of an award for EPS of 4.5 pence 
or better. A sliding scale operates between these points. 50% of each 2014 Performance Share Plan award is subject to a TSR condition based on the 
Company’s performance against FTSE 250 companies (excluding investment trusts) as at the date of grant measured over three financial years ending 
31 March 2017. 25% of this part of an award vests if the Company’s TSR is at a median of the ranking of the TSRs of the comparator group, with full 
vesting of this part of an award for upper quartile performance or better. A sliding scale operates between these points. Regardless of the Company’s 
TSR performance, no portion of the part of an award which is subject to TSR performance may vest unless the Committee is also satisfied that the 
Company’s TSR performance is reflective of its underlying performance over the performance period. 
The market price of Speedy Hire Plc ordinary shares at 31 March 2015 was 71.5 pence and the range during the year was  
50.75 pence to 79.0 pence per share.   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71
Governance
Dilution
The Performance Share Plan and SAYE share option schemes provide that overall dilution through the issuance of new shares  
for employee share schemes should not exceed an amount equivalent to 10% of the Company’s issued share capital over a  
ten-year period. Within this 10% limit, dilution through the Performance Share Plan is limited to an amount equivalent to 5%  
of the Company’s issued share capital over a ten-year period. Both limits are in line with institutional shareholder guidelines.
The Committee monitors the position prior to making awards under these schemes to ensure that the Company remains within 
these limits. As at the date of this report, 1.76% of the 5% limit and 3.67% of the 10% limit have been used.
Termination payments
On 15 October 2014, Lynn Krige ceased to be a Director of the Company. While Lynn Krige’s Service Agreement contained a 
12-month notice period, it was agreed that she would only receive a payment equating to circa ten months’ salary and benefits 
(£259,350). In addition, a payment of £6,500 was made as a contribution to legal fees incurred by Lynn Krige in connection with 
her departure. Lynn Krige also received 11.5 days accrued holiday pay. It was determined that Lynn Krige would not be entitled  
to a bonus in respect of FY2015 and outstanding Save As You Earn share options lapsed at cessation. Awards granted to her under 
the Company’s Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) on 20 June 2012 (665,247 shares under award) and 21 June 2013 (415,851 shares 
under award) and under the Company’s Co-Investment Plan (‘COIP’) on 21 June 2013 (171,042 shares under award) will continue 
to vest on their normal vesting dates subject to the relevant performance conditions being met and a reduction for time  
pro-rating to reflect the proportion of the relevant performance period worked. 
Neither Ishbel Macpherson nor Michael Averill received any termination payment linked to leaving office.
Payments to past Directors
Steve Corcoran exercised the award granted to him under the PSP on 24 June 2011 in respect of 453,715 shares and was also 
entitled to receive a total of 12,252 shares representing accrued dividends in respect of such award as a result of its exercise. 
Details of any shares delivered to Steve Corcoran in respect of the outstanding 2012 and 2013 PSP awards will be provided in the 
relevant Annual Report on Remuneration. As disclosed last year, as part of his termination arrangements, Steve Corcoran was paid 
a total of £157,433 during FY2015 relating to payments in lieu of notice.
Lynn Krige exercised the award granted to her under the PSP on 24 November 2011 in respect of 266,916 shares and was also 
entitled to receive a total of 8,333 shares representing accrued dividends in respect of such award as a result of its exercise. 
Details of any shares delivered to Lynn Krige in respect of the outstanding 2012 and 2013 PSP and 2013 COIP awards will be 
provided in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
Share ownership guidelines
Executive Directors are expected to build and maintain a shareholding of 100% of salary. Mark Rogerson joined the Board 
in December 2013 and Russell Down joined in April 2015. Neither currently meets this level due to being relatively recent 
appointments. 
Percentage change in Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration
The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executive Officer’s total remuneration (excluding the value of any 
long-term incentives and pension benefits receivable in the year) between FY2014 and FY2015 compared to that of the average 
for all UK & Ireland based employees of the Group.
% Change from FY2014 to FY2015
Salary Benefits Bonus
Chief Executive Officer
1
0% 0% –
1
Average employees 1.43% 10.5%
2
(32.5)%
1  Mark Rogerson was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 27 January 2014. No changes to his salary and benefit position were made during FY2015.  
No bonus was paid to the Chief Executive Officer in respect of FY2014 during FY2015. The annual bonus award for FY2015 is set out on page 68.
2  The benefits increase reflects the fact that auto enrolment, which took place during FY2014, applied for the full financial year for the first time. 72 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Remuneration report
continued
Shareholder voting at AGM
At last year’s AGM (2014) the Directors’ Remuneration Report received the following votes from shareholders:
Total number
of votes
% of
votes cast
For 395,234,498 98.99
Against 4,028,891 1.01
Total votes cast (for and against) 399,263,389 100
Votes withheld
1
9,181 n/a
Total votes cast (including withheld votes) 399,272,570
The Remuneration Policy received the following votes from shareholders:
Total number
of votes
% of
votes cast
For 393,579,189 98.58
Against 5,660,630 1.42
Total votes cast (for and against) 399,239,819 100
Votes withheld
1
32,751 n/a
Total votes cast (including withheld votes) 399,272,570
1  A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast ‘For’ and ‘Against’ a resolution.
Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company
The interests of the Directors (all of which were beneficial), who held office during FY2015, are set out in the table below:
Legally owned                        PSP & COIP Awards Sharesave Total
% of salary under
 share ownership
guideline (met?)
31 March 2014 31 March 2015 Unvested Vested Unvested 31 March 2015 (100% of salary)
M Rogerson – – 975,466 – 16,187 991,653 0% (No)
J Åstrand – 200,000 – – – 200,000 n/a
L Krige 140,408 140,408
1
 787,048 – – 927,456
1
n/a
I Macpherson 216,940 216,940
2
 – – – 216,940
2
n/a
M Averill 88,996 89,553
3
 – – – 89,553
3
n/a
J Morley 165,000 165,000 – – – 165,000 n/a
C Masters 175,000 175,000 – – – 175,000 n/a
1 As at 15 October 2014, the date Lynn Krige stepped down as a Director.
2 As at 11 November 2014, the date Ishbel Macpherson stepped down as a Director.
3  As at 26 February 2015, the date Michael Averill stepped down as a Director. The difference in the year is as a result of dividends paid being reinvested 
in shares.
Russell Down joined the Company following the end of FY2015 and consequently is not included in the above table. There have 
been no changes in the interests of any current Director in the share capital of Speedy Hire Plc between 1 April 2015 and the date 
of this report.
Comparison of overall performance and pay
The chart overleaf presents the total shareholder return for Speedy Hire Plc compared to that of the FTSE 250 and FTSE SmallCap 
(both excluding investment trusts). The values indicated in the graph show the share price growth plus reinvested dividends over 
a six-year period from a £100 hypothetical holding of ordinary shares in Speedy Hire Plc and in the index.
Governance   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73
Governance
Total shareholder return
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2015, of £100 invested in Speedy Hire Plc on 31 March 2009 compared with the value  
of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) and the FTSE SmallCap Index (excluding investment trusts). 
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
The total remuneration figures for the Chief Executive Officer during each of the last six financial years are shown in the table 
below. The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus based on that year’s performance (FY2010 to FY2015) and  
PSP awards based on three-year performance periods ending just after the relevant year end. The annual bonus payout and  
PSP vesting level, as a percentage of the maximum opportunity, are also shown for each of these years.
FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2014 FY2015
Steve Corcoran          Mark Rogerson
Total remuneration 
(£’000s) 419 423 421 553 707 115 593
Annual bonus  
(% of max) – – – 37% – – 60%
LTIP vesting  
(% of max) – – – – 82% – –
Steve Corcoran resigned and Mark Rogerson was appointed as Chief Executive Officer during FY2014. Steve Corcoran was not 
Chief Executive Officer at the time the FY2011 PSP awards vested in June 2014.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The following table shows the Company’s actual spend on pay (for all employees) relative to dividends.
2014 2015 % change
Staff costs (£’m) 102.7 107.3 4.5
Dividends (£’m) 3.1 3.7 19.4
£1.279m of the staff costs figures relate to pay for the Executive Directors. This is different to the aggregate of the single figures 
for the year under review due to the way in which the share based awards are accounted for. The dividends figures relate to 
amounts payable in respect of the relevant financial year.
This report was approved by the Board on 11 May 2015.
Chris Masters
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
31 March 
2009 
31 March 
2010 
31 March 
2011 
31 March 
2012 
31 March 
2013 
31 March 
2014 
31 March 
2015 
Value (£)
 Speedy Hire Plc   
 FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) Index    
 FTSE SmallCap (excluding investment trusts) Index 74 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Opinions and conclusions arising 
from our audit
1. Our opinion on the financial statements is 
unmodified
We have audited the financial statements of Speedy Hire Plc 
for the year ended 31 March 2015 set out on pages 79 to 121. 
In our opinion: 
 > the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at  
31  March 2015 and of the Group’s profit for the year  
then ended; 
 > the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU); 
 > the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and 
 > the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the  
IAS Regulation. 
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial 
statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the 
greatest effect on our audit were as follows:
Potential for an impairment of goodwill and other 
intangible assets (£48.6m), or property, plant and 
equipment held within the International division (£17.1m)
Refer to page 51 (Audit Committee statement), page 88 
(accounting policy) and pages 101-102 (financial disclosures).
 > The risk – The performance of the Group is strongly 
influenced by the performance of the UK’s construction and 
infrastructure sectors, which is affected by the economic 
cycle. The Group also operates overseas and has incurred 
trading losses since establishing the Group’s International 
division. As such there is a risk that the carrying amount of 
the Group’s goodwill, other intangible assets or property, 
plant and equipment held by the International division needs 
to be impaired. 
  The Directors prepare a Value in Use, Net Present Value of 
future cash flows (NPV) calculation for the Group’s two cash 
generating units (CGUs) and compare the amounts to the 
relevant carrying values. If the NPV is below the carrying 
value, then an impairment may be required. This is done for 
assets in the Group’s two cash generating units (CGUs), the 
UK & Ireland and International. Certain of the key inputs to 
the calculations, specifically revenue growth, discount rate, 
cost inflation, working capital assumptions and the timing 
of capital expenditure, require significant estimation and 
judgement in their selection, and can have a significant 
impact on the derived NPV. 
  During the year management announced their intention  
to exit the International division and embarked on a strategy 
to dispose of its property, plant and equipment. A significant 
amount of assets were disposed of prior to the year-end.  
For the remaining assets, as management’s long-term 
intention is to dispose of them, rather than to hold them,  
the risk of an impairment in the carrying value of these  
assets has increased.
 > Our response – Our audit procedures included detailed 
testing of the Directors’ impairment assessment for each 
CGU performed at the year end. For each of the key inputs 
noted above, we critically assessed the reasonableness 
of the Directors’ assumptions by reference to internal 
and external data, and reviewed the sensitivity analysis 
performed by management, analysing the probability of 
such variations occurring. In addition we performed our 
own, additional sensitivity analysis in respect of the key 
assumptions, for example by looking at the discount rate 
at which an impairment would arise. We utilised our own 
valuation specialists, particularly around the appropriateness 
of the discount rate applied by the Directors. In relation to 
the planned disposal of the property, plant and equipment 
held in the International division, we evaluated the adequacy 
of the evidence provided by management to demonstrate 
the fair value less costs to sell (FVLCTS) of the Assets Held 
for Sale as at the year-end, as this is how management 
supported the carrying value of those assets. In relation to 
the remaining International property, plant and equipment, 
we reviewed management’s NPV calculations prepared to 
support the carrying value of these assets, in particular 
challenging the key assumptions around revenue growth  
and the discount rate applied.
  We evaluated the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures 
in respect of their impairment testing, including whether 
disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the 
impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions 
properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuations. 
Governance
Independent auditor’s report 
to the members of Speedy Hire Plc only   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75
Governance
for a sample of items, if the process to determine whether 
repair work had extended the useful economic life of an asset 
had been followed. 
  We evaluated the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in 
respect of the judgements and estimates involved in arriving 
at the valuation of Hire Equipment.
Carrying amount of trade receivables (£104.1m)
Refer to page 51 (Audit Committee statement), page 89 
(accounting policy) and page 104 (financial disclosures).
 > The risk – The Group trades with a large number of 
customers, across a number of sectors and is exposed to 
the risk of non-recoverability of trade receivables. Within 
the UK, a number of the Group’s customers operate in the 
construction market, which due to the economic climate 
may result in an increased risk of non-recoverability of 
trade receivables. The International business’s customer 
base in the Middle East increases the risk associated with 
the recoverability of trade receivables as longer payment 
terms are given in those jurisdictions which could delay the 
identification of irrecoverable trade receivables. Given the 
judgement involved in assessing the appropriate level of  
bad debt provision required against trade receivables, this  
is an area that our audit is concentrated on.
 > Our response – In this area our audit procedures included the 
identification and testing of the operating effectiveness of 
key controls in respect of the valuation of trade receivables, 
such as credit control procedures and the application of the 
Group’s bad debt provisioning policy.
  Our audit testing concentrated on those receivables 
perceived to be at a higher risk of non-recoverability 
based on the value and age of the receivable, or other 
factors such as the financial position of the customers. 
For a sample of these receivables we obtained a detailed 
understanding of the payment status of the receivable 
balance and the customer’s likelihood of payment. We 
assessed management’s methodology used to calculate the 
provision recorded against trade receivables, challenged the 
appropriateness of these provisions, and analysed the level 
of cash receipts received post year-end. 
  We evaluated the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures about 
the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the carrying 
amount of the trade receivables balance.
Existence and Valuation of Hire Equipment (£212.3m)
Refer to page 51 (Audit Committee statement), pages 85-86 
(accounting policy) and page 103 (financial disclosures).
 > The risk – Hire Equipment represents the most significant 
amount on the balance sheet. Given that there are more than 
4.5 million assets, and there is a high frequency of movement 
in individual assets (through asset purchases, hires and 
disposals), there is inherent difficulty in maintaining an 
accurate fixed assets register. In addition there is a high level 
of judgement involved in applying accounting policies to  
Hire Equipment. Judgement is applied by management in,  
for example, the estimation of useful economic lives, residual 
values, and in determining whether repair work carried out  
to assets has extended their useful economic life. 
 > Our response – In this area our audit procedures included 
the identification and testing of the operating effectiveness 
of key controls in respect of the existence and valuation of 
Hire Equipment, such as the authorisation of additions, the 
use of unique asset identification numbers, the authorisation 
of repair work deemed to be capital in nature and the 
reconciliation of the fixed asset register to the accounting 
ledgers.
  As a test of control we attended a number of the Hire 
Equipment asset counts and performed test counts ourselves 
in order to ensure the accuracy of the counting performed, 
and therefore the existence of the assets. Following 
attendance at these counts we tested, for a sample of 
items, that the records from the counts had been accurately 
transferred to the fixed asset register. 
  We also selected a sample of significant assets acquired 
during the year and agreed the amounts recorded on the 
asset register to third party evidence such as the invoice from 
the supplier. Using data analytics techniques we compared 
the itemised hire fleet register to historic hire revenue 
information. We identified the value of assets not recently 
hired to customers. We challenged management to provide 
evidence over the existence, and valuation, of these assets.
  Using data analytics techniques we recalculated the 
depreciation included in the fixed asset register for the 
current year to ensure its accuracy. 
  In relation to the judgemental areas noted above we 
challenged, for a sample of assets, the useful economic lives 
and residual values applied by management. We also tested,  76 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
5. We have nothing to report in respect of the 
matters on which we are required to report by 
exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, 
based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
identified other information in the annual report that contains 
a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the 
financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that  
is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
 > we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors’ 
statement that they consider that the annual report and 
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy; or
 > the Audit Committee report on pages 48 to 53 does not 
appropriately address matters communicated by us to the 
Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to  
you if, in our opinion: 
 > adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have  
not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
 > the parent company financial statements and the part of  
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not  
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
 > certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified  
by law are not made; or 
 > we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 > the directors’ statement, set out on page 36, in relation  
to going concern; and
 > the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 42 
relating to the company’s compliance with the ten provisions 
of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for  
our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above 
responsibilities.
3. Our application of materiality and an overview  
of the scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a 
whole was set at £1.1 million, determined with reference to a 
benchmark of Group profit before tax, normalised to exclude 
the exceptional items disclosed in note 3, of which it represents 
6%. In the prior year materiality was determined with reference 
to a benchmark of Group revenue. We have used Group profit 
before exceptional items and tax as we consider this to be a 
better reflection of the principal consideration for members  
of the Company in assessing the financial performance  
of the Group.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected 
identified misstatements exceeding £55,000, in addition to 
other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on 
qualitative grounds. 
All of the Group’s reporting components were subjected 
to audit for Group reporting purposes. The work on the 
International components was performed by component 
auditors and the rest by the Group audit team.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to  
the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant  
risks detailed above and the information to be reported back. 
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, 
which ranged from £87,000 to £825,000, having regard to the 
mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components. 
The Group audit team held telephone conference meetings 
with the component auditors. At these meetings, the findings 
reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more 
detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team 
was then performed by the component auditor. 
4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion: 
 > the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be  
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with  
the Companies Act 2006; and 
 > the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the  
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements. 
Governance
Independent auditor’s report 
to the members of Speedy Hire Plc only
continued   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77
Governance
Scope of report and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 39, the directors are responsible  
for the preparation of the financial statements and  
for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.  
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements  
is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website  
at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is  
made solely to the company’s members as a body and  
is subject to important explanations and disclaimers  
regarding our responsibilities, published on our website  
at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, which are 
incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be 
read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, 
the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Nicola Quayle (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants 
One, St. Peter’s Square 
Manchester 
M2 3AE
12 May 2015 78 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
  
Financial statements 
Consolidated income statement 79
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 80
Consolidated balance sheet 81
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 82
Consolidated cash flow statement 83
Reconciliation of net debt  83
Notes to the financial statements 84
Company balance sheet 116
Company statement of changes in equity 117
Company cash flow statement 118
Notes to the Company financial statements 119
Five-year summary 122
Corporate information 
Shareholder information 123
Registered office and advisers IBC
78 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial statements   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79
Financial statements
 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 March 2015
Year ended 31 March 2015 Year ended 31 March 2014
Note
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
Total
£m
Total revenue 378.5 11.0 389.5 350.3 – 350.3
Less: share of jointly controlled entity’s revenue (3.5) – (3.5) (0.6) – (0.6)
Revenue 2 375.0 11.0 386.0 349.7 – 349.7
Cost of sales (157.9) (17.2) (175.1) (135.1) – (135.1)
Gross profit 217.1 (6.2) 210.9 214.6 – 214.6
Distribution costs (35.1) – (35.1) (35.7) – (35.7)
Administrative expenses (158.3) (10.6) (168.9) (159.7) (4.7) (164.4)
Analysis of operating profit
Operating profit before amortisation  
and exceptional items 26.4 – 26.4 22.1 – 22.1
Amortisation (2.7) – (2.7) (2.9) – (2.9)
Exceptional costs 3 – (16.8) (16.8) – (4.7) (4.7)
Operating profit 23.7 (16.8) 6.9 19.2 (4.7) 14.5
Share of results of jointly controlled entity 0.6 – 0.6 (0.1) – (0.1)
Profit from operations 24.3 (16.8) 7.5 19.1 (4.7) 14.4
Financial expense 7 (5.1) (0.3) (5.4) (7.4) – (7.4)
Profit before taxation 19.2 (17.1) 2.1 11.7 (4.7) 7.0
Taxation 8 (5.2) 3.3 (1.9) (3.8) 0.8 (3.0)
Profit for the financial year 14.0 (13.8) 0.2 7.9 (3.9) 4.0
═════ ═════ ═════ ═════ ═════ ═════
Earnings per share
– Basic (pence) 9 0.04 0.78
– Diluted (pence) 9 0.04 0.76
═════ ═════
Non-GAAP performance measures
EBITDA before exceptional costs 11 72.7 68.7
Profit before tax, amortisation and exceptional 
costs 11 21.9 14.6
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 9 3.23 2.05 80 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
80 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 March 2015
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit for the financial year 0.2 4.0
Other comprehensive (loss)/income that may be reclassified subsequently to the Income Statement:
– Effective portion of change in fair value of cash flow hedges (0.3) 0.5
– Exchange difference on translation of foreign operations (2.7) 1.4
Other comprehensive (loss)/income, net of tax (3.0) 1.9
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the financial year (2.8) 5.9
Financial statements   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 81
Financial statements
 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 81
Consolidated balance sheet
At 31 March 2015
Note
31 March 2015
£m
31 March 2014
£m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 12 48.6 51.3
Investment in jointly controlled entity 13 5.2 4.0
Property, plant and equipment
– Hire equipment 14 212.3 225.5
– Non-hire equipment 14 41.0 29.6
Deferred tax assets 22 1.1 1.1
308.2 311.5
Current assets
Inventories 15 9.5 11.8
Trade and other receivables 16 114.5 93.4
Assets held for sale 17 1.9 –
Cash 20 0.2 2.6
126.1 107.8
Total assets 434.3 419.3
  
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Borrowings 20 (1.6) –
Other financial liabilities 19 (0.4) (0.1)
Trade and other payables 18 (80.2) (76.8)
Provisions 21 (2.9) (1.1)
Liabilities held for sale 17 (0.1) –
Current tax liabilities (0.8) (2.7)
(86.0) (80.7)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 20 (103.9) (87.0)
Trade and other payables 18 (0.7) (1.2)
Provisions 21 (1.3) (1.3)
Deferred tax liabilities 22 (8.4) (9.8)
(114.3) (99.3)
Total liabilities (200.3) (180.0)
Net assets 234.0 239.3
  
EQUITY
Share capital 23 26.1 26.0
Share premium 191.0 190.9
Merger reserve 1.0 1.0
Hedging reserve (0.6) (0.4)
Translation reserve (1.9) 0.8
Retained earnings 18.4 21.0
Total equity 234.0 239.3
The Financial statements on pages 79 to 115 were approved by the Board of Directors on 11 May 2015 and were signed on its 
behalf by:
Mark Rogerson     Russell Down 
Director      Director
Company registered number: 927680 82 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 March 2015
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Merger
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 1 April 2013 25.9 190.5 1.0 (0.9) (0.6) 19.0 234.9
Total comprehensive income – – – 0.5 1.4 4.0 5.9
Dividends – – – – – (2.9) (2.9)
Tax on items taken directly to equity – – – – – 0.2 0.2
Equity-settled share-based payments – – – – – 0.7 0.7
Issue of shares under the Sharesave Scheme 0.1 0.4 – – – – 0.5
At 31 March 2014 26.0 190.9 1.0 (0.4) 0.8 21.0 239.3
Total comprehensive loss – – – (0.3) (2.7) 0.2 (2.8)
Dividends – – – – – (3.4) (3.4)
Tax on items taken directly to equity – – – 0.1 – (0.1) –
Equity-settled share-based payments – – – – – 0.7 0.7
Issue of shares under the Sharesave Scheme 0.1 0.1 – – – – 0.2
At 31 March 2015 26.1 191.0 1.0 (0.6) (1.9) 18.4 234.0
Financial statements   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 83
Financial statements
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 March 2015
Reconciliation of net debt
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash generated from operations before changes in hire fleet 25 43.0 63.8
Purchase of hire equipment (68.6) (65.8)
Proceeds from sale of hire equipment 38.9 18.7
Cash generated from operations 13.3 16.7
Interest paid (5.1) (6.1)
Tax paid (5.2) (5.8)
Net cash flow from operating activities 3.0 4.8
Cash flow to investing activities
Purchase of non-hire property, plant and equipment (19.1) (10.7)
Disposal of other property, plant and equipment 0.9 –
Investment in jointly controlled entity (1.0) (2.3)
Net cash flow to investing activities (19.2) (13.0)
Net cash flow before financing activities (16.2) (8.2)
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from asset-based revolving credit facility 15.5 13.1
Proceeds from the issue of Sharesave Scheme shares 0.1 0.5
Dividends paid (3.4) (2.9)
Net cash flow from financing activities 12.2 10.7
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (4.0) 2.5
Cash at the start of the financial year 2.6 0.1
Net (overdraft)/cash at the end of the financial year (1.4) 2.6
Analysis of cash and cash equivalents
Cash 20 0.2 2.6
Bank overdraft 20 (1.6) –
(1.4) 2.6
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (4.0) 2.5
Increase in debt 20 (15.5) (13.1)
Amortisation of loan costs 20 (1.4) (1.5)
Change in net debt during the year (20.9) (12.1)
Net debt at 1 April (84.4) (72.3)
Net debt at 31 March (105.3) (84.4) 84 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Financial statements
Notes to the Financial statements 
1 Accounting policies 
Speedy Hire Plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The consolidated Financial statements of the 
Company for the year ended 31 March 2015 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ’Group‘). 
The consolidated and parent company Financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 11 May 2015.
Statement of compliance
Both the Group and parent company Financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (‘IFRS‘). 
Basis of preparation
The Financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments are held at fair 
value. The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated 
Financial statements.
Further information on the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position, is set out in the Strategic Report. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position 
and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review above. In addition, note 19 to the Financial statements includes 
the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its 
financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk.
The Group signed a £180m asset-based revolving credit facility (‘the Facility‘) in September 2014, which matures in September 
2019 and has no prior scheduled repayment requirements. 
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through operating cash flows, supplemented as necessary by 
borrowings. The Directors have prepared cash flow projections for the period to September 2016 which show that the Group 
is capable of continuing to operate within its existing loan facilities and can meet the covenant tests set out within the Facility. 
The key assumptions on which the projections are based include an assessment of the impact of future market conditions on 
projected revenues and an assessment of the net capital investment required to support the expected level of revenues.
Whilst the Directors consider that there is a degree of subjectivity involved in their assumptions, on the basis of the above the 
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the 
Annual Report and Financial statements.
Basis of consolidation
(a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to 
govern the financial and operating policies of an entity, be exposed to variable returns, and have the ability to use its power to 
alter its returns from its involvement with the entity. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated 
Financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Intra-Group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are 
eliminated in preparing the consolidated Financial statements. 
(b) Joint ventures
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group undertakes economic activity that is subject to joint control with 
third parties. The Group’s interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method. Under this method, 
the Group’s share of the profit less losses of jointly controlled entities is included in the income statement and its interest in their 
net assets is included in investments in the consolidated balance sheet. The Group’s interest in the entity is the carrying amount 
of the investment together with any long-term loan balances and interest that, in substance, form part of the net investment in 
the entity.   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 85
Financial statements
1 Accounting policies continued 
New accounting standards and accounting standards not yet effective
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board became effective during the year, but have no material effect on the Group’s Financial statements:
 > IFRS10 (revised) – Consolidated financial statements
 > IFRS11 (revised) – Joint Arrangements
 > IFRS12 (revised) – Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
 > IAS27 (revised) – Separate Financial statements (2011)
 > IAS28 (revised) – Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (2011)
 > Amendments to IAS32 – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
The International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB‘) and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC’) 
have also issued the following standards and interpretations which have been endorsed by the EU at 31 March 2015 with an 
effective date of implementation after the date of these Financial statements: 
International Accounting standards (IAS/IFRSs)
Effective date
(periods beginning
on or after)
Amendments to IAS19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions 1 February 2015
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of this amendment will have a material impact on the Group’s Financial 
statements in the period of initial application.
Revenue
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, net of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates.
Revenue is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the hire.
Revenue arising from the sale of ex-hire fleet assets, fuel and consumables is recognised in the income statement when the 
significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
Revenue arising from services is recognised in the income statement when the service is performed.
Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Cost includes 
expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset and refurbishments to assets where the refurbishment 
extends the asset’s useful economic life. 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is charged to the income statement so as to write off the cost of the assets over 
their estimated useful economic lives after taking account of estimated residual values. Residual values and estimated useful 
economic lives are reassessed at least annually. Land is not depreciated. Hire equipment assets are depreciated so as to write 
them down to their residual value over their normal working lives which range from three to ten years depending on the category 
of the asset. 
The principal rates and methods of depreciation used are as follows:
Hire equipment
 > Tools and general equipment – between three and seven years straight-line
 > Access equipment – five to ten years straight-line
 > Surveying equipment – five years straight-line
 > Power equipment – between five and ten years straight-line 86 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Financial statements
Notes to the Financial statements
continued
1 Accounting policies continued 
Property, plant and equipment continued
Non-hire assets
 > Freehold buildings, and long leasehold improvements –  over the shorter of the lease period and 50 years  
straight-line
 > Short leasehold property improvements – over the period of the lease
 > Fixtures and fittings and office equipment (excluding IT) – 25%–45% per annum reducing balance
 > IT equipment and software –  between three and five years straight-line, or over the period 
of the software licence (if shorter)
 > Motor vehicles – 25% per annum reducing balance
Planned disposals of hire equipment are transferred, at net book value, to inventory prior to sale.
Start-up expenses and lease incentives
Legal and start-up expenses incurred in respect of new hire depots are written off as incurred. 
Premiums paid or incentives received (including rent-free periods extending beyond a depot’s opening date) on the acquisition  
of trading locations are written off on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. 
Leases
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Financing income and costs
Financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings, and gains and losses on financial instruments that are recognised  
in the income statement.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, using the effective interest rate.
Interest payable on borrowings includes a charge in respect of attributable transaction costs and non-utilisation fees, which 
are recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis. The interest expense 
component of finance lease payments is recognised in the income statement using the lease’s implicit interest rate.
Income tax
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in 
which case it is recognised in equity. Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax is the expected tax payable 
on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax 
payable in respect of previous years. 
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following 
temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities 
affecting neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they 
will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of 
realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date. 
IAS12, Income Taxes, does not require all temporary differences to be provided for. In particular, the Group does not provide for 
deferred tax on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the timing of the distribution and the 
temporary difference created is not expected to reverse in the foreseeable future. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.    Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 87
Financial statements
1 Accounting policies continued 
Segment reporting
The Group determines and presents operating segments based on the information that is provided internally to the Board, which 
is the Group’s ‘chief operating decision-maker’. 
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and 
incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any other member of the Group and for which 
discrete financial information is available. An operating segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the Board to make 
decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance. 
Segment results that are reported to the Board include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be 
allocated on a reasonable basis. Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate assets (primarily the Company’s headquarters)  
and head office expenses.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, and intangible 
assets other than goodwill.
Non-current assets held for sale
A non-current asset or a group of assets containing a non-current asset (a disposal group) is classified as held for sale if its 
carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use, it is available for immediate sale 
and sale is highly probable within one year.
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal groups are measured at the lower of previous carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell with any adjustments taken to profit or loss. The same applies to gains and losses on 
subsequent re-measurement, although gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss. Any impairment 
loss on a disposal group first is allocated to goodwill, and then to remaining assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis, except 
that no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets, employee benefit assets and investment property, 
which continue to be measured in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Intangible assets and property, plant and 
equipment, once classified as held for sale or distribution, are not amortised or depreciated. 
Intangible assets
As part of its transition to IFRS, the Group elected to restate only those business combinations that occurred on or after 1 April 
2004. In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 April 2004, goodwill represents the amount recognised under the Group’s previous 
accounting framework, UK GAAP, less subsequent impairments.
 > Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. In respect of acquisitions since 1 April 2004  
and before 1 April 2010, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of acquisition and the fair value of the 
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. 
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as:
 > the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus 
 > the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus
 > the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree; less
 > the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is 
classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes to the 
fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
Goodwill is stated after any accumulated impairment losses, and is included as an intangible asset. It is allocated to cash-
generating units and is tested annually for impairment and at each reporting date to the extent that there are any indicators  
of impairment. 
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. 88 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Financial statements
Notes to the Financial statements
continued
1 Accounting policies continued 
Intangible assets continued
 > Other intangible assets
Intangible assets other than goodwill that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
impairment losses (note 12). 
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
 > Amortisation
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of identified 
intangible assets. Intangible assets excluding goodwill are amortised from the date that they are available for use. For a number 
of its acquisitions, the Group has identified intangible assets in respect of sole supply contracts, customer lists, brands and 
non-compete agreements. The values of these intangibles are recognised as part of the identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities acquired. The useful lives are estimated as follows:
Supply agreements – over the unexpired period of the contracts, up to five years
Customer lists – over the period of agreement, up to ten years
Brand – over the period of use in the business, up to four years
Non-compete agreements – over the period of the agreement, up to five years
Impairments 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than inventory and deferred tax, are reviewed at each reporting 
date to determine whether there is any impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated, 
being the higher of net realisable value and value in use, and if there is an impairment loss then this loss is recognised such that the 
carrying amount is reduced accordingly.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill 
allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (or group of units) on a pro-rata basis.
Own shares held by Employee Benefits Trust
Transactions of the Company-sponsored Employee Benefits Trust are treated as being those of the Company and are therefore 
reflected in the Company and Group Financial statements. In particular, the Trust’s purchases of shares in the Company are 
charged directly to equity.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, or, in the case of ex-hire equipment assets, at the lower of 
cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment at the date of transfer to inventory, or net realisable value. Cost comprises 
direct materials and, where appropriate, overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location 
and condition. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of 
completion and selling expenses.   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 89
Financial statements
1 Accounting policies continued 
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks arising from financing activities. 
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes; 
however derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments and the movement in fair 
value is recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised in the income statement when 
incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instrument designated as a cash 
flow hedge are recognised directly in equity to the extent that the hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, 
changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires, no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, is sold, is terminated or is exercised, then 
hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity remains there until 
the forecast transaction occurs. When the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the amount recognised in equity is transferred 
to the carrying amount of the asset when it is recognised. In other cases the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the 
income statement in the same period that the hedged item affects the income statement. 
Intra-Group financial instruments
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the 
Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect the Company 
treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required  
to make a payment under the guarantee.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and overnight deposits.
Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value 
being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Translation of foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing at the transaction date. Monetary  
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance  
sheet date. Exchange gains and losses arising on settlement or retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are included  
in the income statement.
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The results 
of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the average rates of exchange during the period. Exchange 
differences resulting from the translation of the results and balances of overseas subsidiary undertakings are charged or credited 
directly to the foreign currency translation reserve.  90 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Financial statements
Notes to the Financial statements
continued
1 Accounting policies continued 
Employee benefits
 > Pension schemes
The Group has automatically enrolled all UK employees in a defined contribution pension plan and makes contributions to 
personal pension schemes for these UK employees and certain other non-UK employees. Obligations for contributions to 
these defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred. In addition a 
requirement exists in certain Gulf states where the group operates to pay terminal gratuities to employees based on their 
length of service when they leave the Group’s employment.
 > Share-based payment transactions
The Group operates a number of schemes which allow certain employees to acquire shares in the Company, including the 
Performance Plan, the Co-investment Plan, and the all-employee Sharesave Schemes. The fair value of options granted is 
recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and 
spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of the 
options granted is measured, using an appropriate option-pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon 
which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share  
options that vest, except where is related to market based performance cponditions. For share-based payment awards with 
non-vesting conditions, the grant date fair value of the share-based payment is measured to reflect such conditions and there 
is no adjustment for differences between expected and actual outcomes.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event, the obligation can be measured reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle 
the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those material items which, by virtue of their size or incidence, are presented separately in the income 
statement to give a full understanding of the Group’s underlying financial performance. Transactions which may give rise to 
exceptional items include the restructuring of business activities.
Significant judgements and estimates 
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions in applying the 
accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense. The estimates and associated 
assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, 
the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily 
apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The judgements, estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised 
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future 
periods if the revision affects both current and future periods. The following accounting policies are limited to those items  
that would be most likely to produce materially different results were we to change the underlying judgements, estimates  
and assumptions.
The following are judgements, apart from those involving estimations, that management has made in the process of applying  
the accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Financial statements.    Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 91
Financial statements
1 Accounting policies continued 
Whether an investment is a subsidiary or associate
Judgement is applied with regards to the consolidation of Speedy International Asset Services Equipment Rental LLC (UAE) and 
Speedy International Asset Services LLC (Qatar) as, although the Group holds less than half of the voting rights, at 49% in each 
company, it is able to govern the financial and operating policies and the Group therefore consolidates the company. 
The following are key assumptions concerning the future, and other major sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the 
reporting period, that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
within the next financial year. 
Property, plant and equipment 
In relation to the Group’s property, plant and equipment (note 14), useful economic lives and residual values of assets have been 
established using historical experience and an assessment of the nature of the assets involved. At 31 March 2014, the carrying value 
of hire equipment was £212.3m (2014: £225.5m) representing 83.8% (2014: 88.4%) of the total property, plant and equipment. The 
hire equipment depreciation charge for the year ended 31 March 2015 was £39.3m (2014: £38.2m), which represents 10.5% (2014: 
10.0%) of the average original cost of hire equipment. Both useful economic lives and residual values are reviewed on a regular basis. 
Onerous lease provision
The Group has a number of properties which are leased but no longer occupied. The future cost of these ongoing lease 
obligations is provided for by way of an onerous property contract provision (see note 21), and at 31 March 2015 the amount 
provided was £4.2m (2014: £2.4m). In determining the level of provision required, the Group assesses the likelihood of mitigating 
future lease costs as a result of break clauses in leases, or the likelihood of sub-letting the property to third parties. In doing so, 
the Group obtains external professional advice where the amounts involved are material.
Impairment
Goodwill is reviewed annually to assess the requirement for impairment; at 31 March 2015 goodwill was £44.3m (2014: £44.3m). 
Other intangible assets totalled £4.3m at 31 March 2015 (2014: £7.0m) and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine 
whether circumstances exist that could lead to the conclusion that the carrying value of such assets is not supportable. 
Impairment testing on goodwill is carried out in accordance with the analyses described in note 12. Such calculations require 
assumptions relating to the appropriate discount factors and long-term growth prevalent in particular markets as well as short-
term business performance. The Directors draw upon experience as well as external resources in making these assumptions. 
In the year to 31 March 2015, an impairment review was undertaken in respect of intangible assets and property, plant and 
equipment, applying the basis and key assumptions set out in note 12.
Bad debt provision
The Group monitors the risk profile of debtors regularly and makes a provision for amounts that may not be recoverable. When 
a trade receivable is not collectable it is written off against the bad debt provision. At 31 March 2015, the provision for bad debt 
was £4.1m (2014: £3.9m) against a total debtor book of £110.4m (2014: £91.6m). 92 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Financial statements
Notes to the Financial statements
continued
2 Segmental analysis
The segmental disclosure presented in the Financial statements reflects the format of reports reviewed by the ‘chief operating 
decision-maker’ (CODM). UK & Ireland Asset Services delivers asset management, with tailored services and a continued 
commitment to relationship management. International Asset Services delivers major overseas projects and facilities 
management contracts by providing a managed site support service. 
For the year ended 31 March 2015
UK & Ireland
Asset Services
£m
International
Asset Services
£m
Corporate
items
£m
Total
£m
Revenue before exceptional items 351.3 23.7 – 375.0
Exceptional revenue (note 3) – 11.0 – 11.0
Total Revenue 351.3 34.7 – 386.0
Segment result:
EBITDA before exceptional costs 78.0 (0.5) (4.8) 72.7
Depreciation (40.6) (5.1) (0.6) (46.3)
Operating profit/(loss) before amortisation and exceptional items 37.4 (5.6) (5.4) 26.4
Amortisation (2.7) – – (2.7)
Exceptional costs (7.2) (8.4) (1.2) (16.8)
Operating profit/(loss) 27.5 (14.0) (6.6) 6.9
Share of results of jointly controlled entity – 0.6 – 0.6
Trading profit/(loss) 27.5 (13.4) (6.6) 7.5
Financial expense (5.1)
Exceptional financial expense (0.3)
Profit before tax 2.1
Taxation (1.9)
Profit for the financial year 0.2
 
Intangible assets 48.6 – – 48.6
Investment in jointly controlled entity – 5.2 – 5.2
Hire equipment 203.7 8.6 – 212.3
Non-hire equipment 37.8 3.2 – 41.0
Taxation assets – – 1.1 1.1
Current assets 102.7 22.4 0.8 125.9
Cash – – 0.2 0.2
Total assets 392.8 39.4 2.1 434.3
    
Liabilities (71.3) (8.3) (6.0) (85.6)
Bank overdraft – – (1.6) (1.6)
Borrowings – – (103.9) (103.9)
Taxation liabilities – – (9.2) (9.2)
Total liabilities (71.3) (8.3) (120.7) (200.3)
    
Capital expenditure 83.1 4.6 – 87.7   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 93
Financial statements
2 Segmental analysis continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
UK & Ireland
Asset Services
£m
International
Asset Services
£m
Corporate
items
£m
Total
Restated
£m
Revenue 328.1 21.6 – 349.7
Segment result:
EBITDA before exceptional costs 73.3 0.8 (5.4) 68.7
Depreciation (40.6) (5.1) (0.9) (46.6)
Operating profit/(loss) before amortisation and exceptional items 32.7 (4.3) (6.3) 22.1
Amortisation (2.9) – – (2.9)
Exceptional restructuring costs (2.4) (0.7) (1.6) (4.7)
Operating profit/(loss) 27.4 (5.0) (7.9) 14.5
Share of results of jointly controlled entities – (0.1) – (0.1)
Trading profit/(loss) 27.4 (5.1) (7.9) 14.4
Financial expense (7.4)
Profit before tax 7.0
Taxation (3.0)
Profit for the financial year 4.0
Intangible assets 51.3 – – 51.3
Investment in jointly controlled entities – 4.0 – 4.0
Hire equipment 192.3 33.2 – 225.5
Non-hire equipment 28.7 0.9 – 29.6
Taxation assets – – 1.1 1.1
Current assets 93.9 10.7 0.6 105.2
Cash – – 2.6 2.6
Total assets 366.2 48.8 4.3 419.3
Liabilities (68.8) (8.7) (3.0) (80.5)
Borrowings – – (87.0) (87.0)
Taxation liabilities – – (12.5) (12.5)
Total liabilities (68.8) (8.7) (102.5) (180.0)
Capital expenditure 66.7 9.8 – 76.5
Corporate items comprise certain central activities and costs which are not directly related to the activities of the  
operating segments.
The financing of the Group’s activities is undertaken at head office level and consequently net financing costs cannot be  
analysed by segment. The unallocated net assets comprise principally working capital balances held by the support services 
function and which are not directly attributable to the activities of the operating segments, together with net corporate 
borrowings and taxation. 94 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Financial statements
Notes to the Financial statements
continued
2 Segmental analysis continued
Geographical information
In presenting geographical information, revenue is based on the geographical location of customers. Assets are based on the 
geographical location of the assets. 
Year ended 31 March 2015 Year ended 31 March 2014
Revenues
£m
Total
assets
£m
Revenues
£m
Total
assets
£m
UK 345.5 385.3 322.9 361.4
Ireland 5.8 9.6 5.2 9.1
Other countries 34.7 39.4 21.6 48.8
386.0 434.3 349.7 419.3
Major customers
No one customer represents more than 10% of revenue, reported profit or combined assets of all reporting segments.
3 Exceptional items
For the year ended 31 March 2015
During the year, exceptional administrative costs have been incurred as the business has rolled out a new network structure, 
changed management and restructured the International operations. 
Exceptional costs of £6.4m were incurred in the period as the programme to reconfigure the depot network continued. These 
costs include provisions for onerous leases which remain as a result of the changes and costs related to implementing the  
change programme. 
Costs relating to changing management totalled £2.2m, including redundancy costs and related expenditure incurred in  
the International division. A further £2.0m has been incurred in respect of professional and legal costs associated with  
disposal activity. 
In addition, a further £6.2m has been incurred in respect of losses on the disposal of assets in the International division,  
related to the withdrawal from the General and Spot Hire markets.
Exceptional financial expenses of £0.3m relate to costs incurred in cancelling debt facilities during the period
For the year ended 31 March 2014
In the UK & Ireland, exceptional costs of £2.4m were incurred as the business rolled out its new network structure. The most 
significant element of the cost (£1.9m) related to provisions for onerous leases which remained as a result of the changes.  
The remaining cost of £0.5m was as a result of costs incurred for employee changes as part of the programme.
Within the International division, exceptional costs of £0.7m were incurred. £0.4m arose as a result of costs and write-offs 
associated with the closure of the Egypt operations. The remaining £0.3m was incurred as a direct result of management changes 
within the business.
Exceptional items which have not been allocated to the operating divisions total £1.6m. This comprised the costs of investigating 
and resolving the accounting irregularities within the International Division (£1.0m), further details of this are included in the 
31 March 2014 Annual Report, the professional fees incurred in entering into the Kazakhstan Joint Venture (£0.3m) and costs 
incurred as a result of changes to Executive Directors in the year (£0.3m).   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 95
Financial statements
4 Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting):
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amortisation of intangible assets 2.7 2.9
Depreciation of owned property, plant and equipment 46.3 46.6
Profit on disposal of hire equipment (before exceptional items) (5.0) (3.7)
Loss on disposal of other property, plant and equipment – 0.2
Operating lease rentals
 – of land and buildings 13.1 13.3
 – of vehicles 11.0 11.3
Auditors’ remuneration
 – audit of these Financial statements 0.1 0.1
 – amounts receivable by auditors in respect of:
  – audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1
  – IT services 0.1 –
  – corporate finance services 0.2 0.3
Audit fees relate to the Group’s current auditor, KPMG LLP. Fees for non-audit services in 2015 relate to advice provided in 
support of renegotiating the asset-based revolving credit facility and independent assurance in relation to the AX12 system 
implementation. Fees for non-audit services in 2014 related to advice provided in support of raising new debt facilities for the 
International business and in relation to compliance with banking facilities.
5 Employees
The average number of people employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year was as follows:
Number of employees
2015 2014
UK & Ireland Asset Services 3,197 3,168
International Asset Services 450 314
Central 242 247
3,889 3,729
The aggregate payroll costs of these employees were as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Wages and salaries 96.2 91.9
Social security costs 8.8 8.8
Pension costs 1.6 1.3
Share-based payments 0.7 0.7
107.3 102.7
  96 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Financial statements
Notes to the Financial statements
continued
6 Directors’ remuneration
2015
£000
2014
£000
Directors’ emoluments
Basic remuneration, including benefits 766 1,095
Performance-related bonuses 192 –
Termination payments 271 213
Company pension contributions to personal pension plans 50 105
1,279 1,413
Emolument of the highest paid Director
Basic remuneration, including benefits 373 311
Performance-related bonuses 192 –
Termination payments – 213
Company pension contributions to personal pension plans 28 42
593 566
Further analysis of Directors’ remuneration can be found in the Remuneration Report.
All of the Directors’ remuneration is paid by Speedy Support Services Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Speedy Hire Plc.
7 Financial expense
2015
£000
2014
£000
Financial expense
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 4.1 5.1
Amortisation of issue costs 1.2 1.5
Total interest on bank loans and overdrafts 5.3 6.6
Hedge interest payable 0.3 0.5
Other finance costs 0.8 0.2
Foreign exchange gains (1.3) 0.1
5.1 7.4
Exceptional finance expenses (note 3) 0.3 –
5.4 7.4   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 97
Financial statements
8 Taxation
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Tax charged in the income statement
Current tax
UK corporation tax on profits for the period at 21% (2014: 23%) 4.2 5.1
Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.7) (0.2)
Total current tax 3.5 4.9
Deferred tax (note 22)
UK deferred tax at 20% (2014: 21%) (1.2) 0.3
Adjustment in respect of prior years – (1.4)
Impact of rate change (0.4) (0.8)
Total deferred tax (1.6) (1.9)
Total tax charge 1.9 3.0
Tax credited in equity
Current tax
Current tax on equity-settled share-based payments (0.2) (0.2)
Total current tax (0.2) (0.2)
Deferred tax (note 22)
Net loss on revaluation of cash flow hedges 0.1 0.1
Deferred tax on equity-settled share-based payments 0.1 (0.1)
Total deferred tax credited in equity 0.2 –
Total tax credited to equity – (0.2)
The adjusted tax rate of 24.7% (28.8%) is higher than the standard rate of UK corporation tax in the UK of 21% (23%) primarily 
due to expenses which are not deductible for tax purposes.  98 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Financial statements
Notes to the Financial statements
continued
8 Taxation continued
The tax charge in the income statement for the year is higher (2014: higher) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the  
UK of 21% (2014: 23%) and is explained as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit before tax 2.1 7.0
Accounting profit multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax at 21% (2014: 23%) 0.4 1.6
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.3 1.5
Non-taxable income (0.8) (0.4)
Share-based payments 0.2 –
Unrecognised tax losses 0.3 0.5
Overseas tax losses arising not subject to tax 1.8 2.2
Share of joint venture income already taxed (0.2) –
Adjustment to deferred taxation relating to future changes in corporation tax rates (0.4) (0.8)
Adjustment to tax in respect of prior years (0.7) (1.6)
Tax charge for the year reported in the income statement 1.9 3.0
Tax credited in equity
Current tax credit (0.2) (0.2)
Deferred tax charge (note 22) 0.2 –
Tax credited to equity – (0.2)
Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% (effective from 1 April 2014) and from 21% to 20% (effective from  
1 April 2015) were substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. This will reduce the Company’s future current tax charge accordingly. 
The deferred tax liability at 31 March 2015 has been calculated based on the rate of 20% substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date.   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 99
Financial statements
9 Earnings per share
The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company of £0.2m  
(2014: £4.0m) and the weighted average number of 5 pence ordinary shares in issue, and is calculated as follows:
2015 2014
Profit (£m)
Profit for the year after tax – basic earnings 0.2 4.0
Intangible amortisation charge (after tax) 2.4 2.5
Exceptional items (after tax) 13.9 3.9
Adjusted earnings (after tax) 16.5 10.4
═════ ═════
Weighted average number of shares in issue (m)
At the beginning of the year 510.2 507.7
Exercise of share options 1.0 2.5
At the end of the year – basic number of shares 511.2 510.2
Share options 3.6 4.6
Employee share scheme 1.4 2.4
At the end of the year – diluted number of shares 516.2 517.2
═════ ═════
Earnings per share (pence)
Basic earnings per share 0.04 0.78
Amortisation 0.47 0.50
Exceptional costs 2.72 0.77
Adjusted earnings per share 3.23 2.05
═════ ═════
Basic earnings per share 0.04 0.78
Share options – (0.01)
Employee share scheme – (0.01)
Diluted profit per share 0.04 0.76
═════ ═════
Adjusted earnings per share 3.23 2.05
Employee share schemes (0.01) (0.02)
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 3.22 2.03
Total number of shares outstanding at 31 March 2015 amounted to 521,844,934, including 6,252,907 shares held in the Employee 
Benefit Trust, which are excluded in calculating earnings per share.  100 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Financial statements
Notes to the Financial statements
continued
10 Dividends
The aggregate amount of dividend comprises:
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013 final dividend (0.31 pence on 517.9m shares) – 1.6
2014 interim dividend (0.26 pence on 518.3m shares) – 1.3
2014 final dividend (0.35 pence on 520.4m shares) 1.8 –
2015 interim dividend (0.30 pence on 520.5m share) 1.6 –
3.4 2.9
Subsequent to the end of the year and not included in the results for the year, the Directors recommended a final dividend of 
0.40 pence (2014: 0.35 pence) per share, bringing the total amount payable in respect of the 2015 year to 0.70 pence (2014: 0.61 
pence), to be paid on 12 August 2015 to shareholders on the register on 12 June 2015. 
The Employee Benefit Trust established to hold shares for the Performance Plan and Co-Investment Plan has waived its right to 
the interim and final proposed dividends. At 31 March 2015, the Trust held 6,252,907 ordinary shares (2014: 7,319,967). 
11 Non-GAAP performance measures
The Group believes that the measures below provide valuable additional information for users of the Financial statements in 
assessing the Group’s performance. The Group uses these measures for planning, budgeting and reporting purposes and for its 
internal assessment of the operating performance of the individual divisions within the Group. 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Operating profit 6.9 14.5
Add back: amortisation 2.7 2.9
Add back: exceptional costs 16.8 4.7
Operating profit before amortisation and exceptional costs 26.4 22.1
Add back: depreciation 46.3 46.6
EBITDA before exceptional costs 72.7 68.7
Profit before tax 2.1 7.0
Add back: amortisation 2.7 2.9
Add back: exceptional costs 16.8 4.7
Add back: exceptional finance expense 0.3 –
Profit before tax, amortisation and exceptional costs 21.9 14.6   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 101
Financial statements
12 Intangible fixed assets
Goodwill
£m
Customer
lists
£m
Non-complete
agreements
£m
Brand
£m
Supply
agreements
£m
Total
£m
Cost 
At 1 April 2013 93.5 36.4 4.9 4.1 19.8 158.7
Additions – – – – – –
At 31 March 2014 93.5 36.4 4.9 4.1 19.8 158.7
Additions – – – – – –
At 31 March 2015 93.5 36.4 4.9 4.1 19.8 158.7
Amortisation
At 1 April 2013 49.2 28.0 4.9 4.1 18.3 104.5
Charged in year – 2.4 – – 0.5 2.9
At 31 March 2014 49.2 30.4 4.9 4.1 18.8 107.4
Charged in year – 2.3 – – 0.4 2.7
At 31 March 2015 49.2 32.7 4.9 4.1 19.2 110.1
Net book value
At 31 March 2015 44.3 3.7 – – 0.6 48.6
At 31 March 2014 44.3 6.0 – – 1.0 51.3
At 31 March 2013 44.3 8.4 – – 1.5 54.2
The amount of goodwill that is tax-deductible is £19.2m (2014: £19.2m).
All goodwill has arisen from business combinations. On transition to IFRS, the balance of goodwill as measured under UK GAAP 
was allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs). These are independent sources of income streams, and represent the lowest level 
within the Group at which the associated goodwill is monitored for management purposes. As explained in note 2, the Group’s 
reportable business segments comprise UK & Ireland Asset Services and International Asset Services. All intangible assets are 
held in the UK.
Goodwill arising on business combinations after 1 April 2004 has been allocated to the CGUs that are expected to benefit from 
those business combinations. The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that 
goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the goodwill and intangible assets allocated to CGUs are determined by value-in-use calculations. 
The value-in-use calculations use cash flow projections based on five-year financial forecasts approved by management. The key 
assumptions for these forecasts are those regarding revenue growth, net margin and the level of capital expenditure required to 
support trading, which management estimates based on past experience adjusted for current market trends and expectations 
of future changes in the market. To prepare value-in-use calculations, the Group uses cash flow projections for a 15-year period, 
which incorporates a ten-year terminal value. The projections are made up of the FY2016 budget, a subsequent four-year period 
using the Group’s business plan, and a further ten years’ income. The final ten years’ income is extrapolated at an estimated 
average long-term nominal growth rate, being an estimate of inflation. The resulting forecast cash flows are discounted back to 
present value, using an estimate of the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for risk factors associated with the 
individual CGU and market-specific risks.
  102 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Financial statements
Notes to the Financial statements
continued
12 Intangible fixed assets continued
The pre-tax discount rates and terminal growth rates applied are as follows:
31 March 2015 31 March 2014
Pre-tax
discount rate
Terminal value
growth rate
Pre-tax
discount rate
Terminal value
growth rate
UK & Ireland Asset Services 9.7% 1.5%-2.5% 10.0% 1.5%-2.5%
International Asset Services 10.2% 2.5% 12.0% 2.5%
For UK & Ireland Asset Services, the recoverable amount at 31 March 2015, calculated using the discounted forecast cash flows, 
results in a surplus over carrying value of £310.9m (2014: £127.9m). Impairment calculations are sensitive to changes in key 
assumptions of revenue growth and discount rate. An increase of 1% in the pre-tax discount rate, with all other assumptions held 
constant, would reduce discounted cash flows by £44.4m, leaving headroom against carrying value at £266.5m (2014: £85.2m). 
A decrease of 1% in the forecast revenue growth, with all the other assumptions held constant, would reduce discounted cash 
flows by £15.8m, leaving headroom against carrying value of £295.1m (2014: £117.7m).
No goodwill or intangible assets have been allocated to International Asset Services. Value-in-use calculations result in a 
recoverable amount that is £15.1m greater than the carrying value of the property, plant and equipment and other net assets at 
31 March 2015. An increase of 1% in the pre-tax discount rate or a decrease of 1% in the forecast revenue growth does not result 
in a shortfall of recoverable amount over carrying value of the property, plant and equipment and other net assets
13 Investments in jointly controlled entity
Equity
investment
£m
Loan
advances
£m
Total
£m
Cost 
At 1 April 2013 – – –
Purchase of shares in joint venture 2.7 – 2.7
Loan to joint venture – 1.5 1.5
Effect of movement in foreign exchange rates (0.1) – (0.1)
At 31 March 2014 2.6 1.5 4.1
Effect of movement in foreign exchange rates 0.4 0.2 0.6
At 31 March 2015 3.0 1.7 4.7
Share of post-acquisition results
At 1 April 2013 – – –
Share of results for the year after tax (0.1) – (0.1)
At 31 March 2014 (0.1) – (0.1)
Share of results for the year after tax 0.6 – 0.6
At 31 March 2015 0.5 – 0.5
Net book value
At 31 March 2015 3.5 1.7 5.2
At 31 March 2014 2.5 1.5 4.0
At 31 March 2013 – – –
On 11 November 2013, Speedy acquired 50% of the share capital of Turner and Hickman Limited, a joint venture company which 
controls the operations of Speedy Zholdas LLP. Speedy Zholdas LLP provides asset management and equipment rental services 
to the oil and gas sector in Kazakhstan. Total cash consideration for the purchase of shares in Turner and Hickman Limited was 
US$4.3m with US$1.0m payable on 1 November 2015 and 2016.
In addition to the investment in share capital, Speedy provided a loan of US$2.5m to the joint venture with an equivalent amount 
provided by the joint venture partner.
This joint venture is not considered to be individually material.   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 103
Financial statements
14 Property, plant and equipment
Land and
buildings
£m
Hire
equipment
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost 
At 1 April 2013 33.8 375.7 63.5 473.0
Foreign exchange (0.1) (0.4) – (0.5)
Additions 6.2 64.8 4.5 75.5
Disposals (0.1) (33.1) (0.5) (33.7)
Transfers to inventory – (20.4) – (20.4)
At 31 March 2014 39.8 386.6 67.5 493.9
Foreign exchange 0.2 (0.6) – (0.4)
Additions 13.7 66.9 5.3 85.9
Disposals (1.4) (47.9) (0.2) (49.5)
Transfers to inventory – (40.7) – (40.7)
At 31 March 2015 52.3 364.3 72.6 489.2
Depreciation
At 1 April 2013 19.8 161.5 50.0 231.3
Foreign exchange – (0.1) – (0.1)
Charged in year 2.6 38.2 5.8 46.6
Disposals – (24.1) (0.5) (24.6)
Transfers to inventory – (14.4) – (14.4)
At 31 March 2014 22.4 161.1 55.3 238.8
Foreign exchange (0.1) (0.4) – (0.5)
Charged in year 2.9 39.3 4.1 46.3
Disposals (0.7) (31.3) – (32.0)
Transfers to inventory – (16.7) – (16.7)
At 31 March 2015 24.5 152.0 59.4 235.9
Net book value
At 31 March 2015 27.8 212.3 13.2 253.3
At 31 March 2014 17.4 225.5 12.2 255.1
At 31 March 2013 14.0 214.2 13.5 241.7
The net book value of land and buildings comprises freehold properties of £nil (2014: £nil), and short leasehold properties of 
£27.8m (2014: £17.4m). 
At 31 March 2015, the net carrying amount of leased hire equipment was £nil (2014: £nil).
An impairment review has been completed during the year on the basis set out in note 12. 104 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Financial statements
Notes to the Financial statements
continued
15 Inventories
2015
£m
2014
£m
Finished goods and goods for resale 9.5 11.8
The amount of inventory expensed in the year amounted to £44.8m (2014: £40.7m), included within cost of sales. No provision  
in respect of write down in inventory is held at the year-end or prior year-end. 
16 Trade and other receivables
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade receivables 104.1 86.3
Other receivables 8.6 4.9
Prepayments and accrued income 1.8 2.2
114.5 93.4
There are £41.6m (2014: £32.9m) of trade receivables that are past due at the balance sheet date that have not been provided 
against. There is no indication as at 31 March 2015 that customers will not meet their payment obligations in respect of trade 
receivables recognised in the balance sheet that are past due and unprovided. The ageing of trade receivables (net of impairment 
provision) at the year-end was as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Not past due 62.5 53.4
Past due 0-30 days 17.9 18.9
Past due 31-120 days 14.0 9.9
More than 120 days past due 9.7 4.1
104.1 86.3
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
At 1 April 3.9 3.0
Impairment provision charged to the income statement 5.5 5.5
Written off in the year (5.3) (4.6)
At 31 March 4.1 3.9   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 105
Financial statements
17 Assets held for sale
The assets and liabilities held within the International division in relation to its Oman entity have been classified as held for  
sale following the commitment from management on 2 March 2015 to sell the shares in the business. The sale completed in  
April 2015.
No impairment loss has been recognised on the remeasurement of the assets and liabilities because, as at the year end it was 
expected the carrying value of the assets and liabilities would be equal to their fair value less costs to sell.
At 31 March 2015 the asset held for sale compromised the following assets and liabilities.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Assets classified as held for sale
Property, plant and equipment 1.5 –
Trade receivables and other receivables 0.4 –
1.9 –
═════ ═════
Liabilities classified as held for sale
Accruals 0.1 –
0.1 –
18 Trade and other payables
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade payables 40.3 45.4
Other payables 9.5 10.4
Accruals 31.1 22.2
80.9 78.0
Non-current 0.7 1.2
Current 80.2 76.8
80.9 78.0 106 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Financial statements
Notes to the Financial statements
continued
19 Financial instruments
The Group holds and uses financial instruments to finance its operations and to manage its interest rate and liquidity risks. 
The Group primarily finances its operations using share capital, retained profits and borrowings. The main risks arising from 
the Group’s financial instruments are credit, interest rate, foreign currency and liquidity risk. The Board reviews and agrees the 
policies for managing each of these risks on an annual basis. A full description of the Group’s approach to managing these risks is 
set out below.
The Group does not engage in trading or speculative activities using derivative financial instruments. A Group offset arrangement 
exists in order to minimise the interest costs on outstanding debt.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows:
31 March 2015 31 March 2014
Carrying
amount
£m
Fair value
£m
Carrying
amount
£m
Fair value
£m
Trade and other receivables 112.7 112.7 91.2 91.2
Cash 0.2 0.2 2.6 2.6
Bank overdraft (1.6) (1.6) – –
Secured bank borrowings (103.9) (103.9) (87.0) (87.0)
Interest rate swaps and caps, used for hedging (0.4) (0.4) (0.1) (0.1)
Trade and other payables (49.8) (49.8) (55.8) (55.8)
(42.8) (42.8) (49.1) (49.1)
Unrecognised gain/(loss) – –
Basis for determining fair values
The following summarises the principal methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair value of financial instruments 
reflected in the table above:
(a) Derivatives – Broker quotes are used for all interest rate swaps.
(b)  Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest 
cash flows.
(c)  Trade and other receivables/payables – For receivables/payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional 
amount is deemed to reflect the fair value. All other receivables/payables are discounted to determine the fair value.
Interest rates used for determining fair value 
The interest rate used to discount estimated cash flows, where applicable, has been estimated at 9.7% (2014: 10.2%).
Fair value hierarchy
The Group and Company’s financial instruments relate to cash flow hedges, which are carried at fair value in both the current  
and prior year. The valuation is based on inputs other than quoted prices but which are directly observable (i.e. as prices) 
(classified as Level 2 in accordance with IFRS7).   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 107
Financial statements
19 Financial instruments continued
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers.
The exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit 
over a certain amount.
At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. The maximum exposure to credit risk is 
represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, in the balance sheet.  
No individual customer accounts for more than 10% of the Group’s sales transactions, and the Group’s exposure to outstanding 
indebtedness follows this profile. No collateral is held as security in respect of amounts outstanding; however, in a number of 
instances, deposits are held against the value of hire equipment provided. The extent of deposit taken is assessed on a case-by-
case basis, and is not considered significant in comparison to the overall amounts receivable from customers.
Transactions involving derivative financial instruments are undertaken with counterparties within the syndicate of banks  
which provide the Group’s asset-based revolving credit facility. Given their high credit ratings, management does not expect  
any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations. 
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that is based on historical experience of dealing with customers with the 
same risk profile. 
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach  
to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, 
under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation.
The Group uses both short- and long-term cash forecasts to assist in monitoring cash flow requirements. Typically, the Group uses 
short-term forecasting to ensure that it has sufficient cash on demand to meet operational expenses and to service financing 
obligations for a period of 12 weeks. Longer-term forecasts are performed on a regular basis to assess compliance with bank 
covenants on existing facilities, ensuring that activities can be managed within reason to ensure covenant breaches are avoided. 
At 31 March 2015, the Group had available loan facilities amounting to £180m (2014: £229m), as detailed in note 20. Of these 
facilities £57.1m remained unutilised at 31 March 2015 (2014: £128.4m). Details of the repayment profile of the drawn facilities 
at the year-end is included in note 20.
The Group monitors available facilities against forward requirements on a regular basis and, where necessary, obtains additional 
sources of financing to provide the Group with the appropriate level of headroom against the required borrowing. The Group has 
obtained bank and equity funding in recent years as the business has grown, and maintains close contact with its syndicate of banks.
The following analysis is based on the undiscounted contractual maturities on the Group’s financial liabilities including estimated 
interest that will accrue, except where repayment is entitled and before its contractual maturity.  108 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Financial statements
Notes to the Financial statements
continued
19 Financial instruments continued
Undiscounted cash flows – 31 March 2015
At 31 March 2015
2016
£m
2017
£m
2018
£m
2019
£m
2020
£m
Total
£m
Asset-based revolving credit facility – – – – 119.1 119.1
Interest payments 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 1.8 15.8
3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 120.9 134.9
Undiscounted cash flows – 31 March 2014
At 31 March 2014
2015
£m
2016
£m
2017
£m
Total
£m
Asset-based revolving credit facility – 84.4 – 84.4
Interest payments 5.2 2.2 – 7.4
5.2 86.6 – 91.8
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Group’s 
income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. Generally, the Group seeks to apply hedge accounting in order to 
manage volatility in profit.
 > Foreign exchange risk
With over 10% of the group’s revenue generated in currencies other than sterling, the group’s balance sheet and income 
statement are affected by movements in exchange rates. The revenue and costs of overseas operations normally arise in  
the same currency and consequently the exposure to exchange differences is not normally significant and consequently  
not hedged. Overseas operations maintain local currency bank, which provide partial mitigation against balance sheet risk. 
At 31 March 2015, if sterling had weakened or strengthened by 10% against the US Dollar (against which key Middle Eastern 
currencies are linked) with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been £0.1m (2014: £nil) 
higher or lower respectively.
 > Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to a risk of a change in cash flows due to changes in interest rates as a result of its use of variable rate 
borrowings. The Group’s policy is to review regularly the terms of its borrowing facilities, and to assess and manage the long-
term borrowing commitment accordingly, and to put in place interest rate hedges to reduce the Group’s exposure to significant 
fluctuations in interest rates. The Group adopts a policy of ensuring that between 40% and 70% of its gross borrowings are 
covered by hedging instruments.
The principal derivative financial instruments used by the Group are interest rate swaps and caps. The notional contract 
amount and the related fair value of the Group’s derivative financial instruments can be analysed as follows:
31 March 2015 31 March 2014
Fair value
£m
National
amount
£m
Fair value
£m
National
amount
£m
Designated as cash flow hedges
Fixed interest rate swaps (0.4) 70.0 (0.1) 55.0
Future cash flows associated with the above instruments are dependent upon movements in LIBOR over the contractual period. 
Interest is paid or received under the instruments on a quarterly or monthly basis, depending on the individual instrument, 
referenced to the relevant prevailing UK LIBOR rates.
The weighted average interest rate on the fixed interest rate swaps is 1.091% (2014: 1.167%) and the instruments are for a 
weighted average period of 21 months (2014: 21 months). The maximum contractual period is 35 months (2014: 35 months).   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 109
Financial statements
19 Financial instruments continued
Sensitivity analysis
In managing interest rate and currency risk, the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuation on the Group’s 
earnings. Over the longer term, however, permanent changes in foreign exchange and interest rates would have an impact  
on consolidated earnings.
At 31 March 2015 it is estimated that a general increase of 1% in interest rates would decrease the Group’s profit before tax  
by approximately £0.4m. Interest rate swaps have been included in this calculation.
Capital management
The Group requires capital for, amongst other things, purchasing hire equipment to replace the existing asset base that has 
reached the end of its useful life, and for growth, including growth by establishing new rental locations, completing acquisitions 
and refinancing existing debts in the longer term. The Group defines gross capital as net debt (cash less borrowings) plus 
shareholders’ funds, and seeks to ensure an acceptable return on gross capital. The Group has obtained additional bank 
borrowings and equity in recent years as the business has grown. The Board seeks to maintain a balance between debt and  
equity funding such that it maintains a sound capital position relevant for the prevailing economic environment.
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain 
future development of the business. The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders in order to 
ensure that the most attractive mix of capital growth and income return is made available to investors.
The Group encourages ownership of Speedy Hire Plc shares by employees at all levels within the Group, and has developed  
this objective through the introduction of long-term incentive plans and SAYE schemes.
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year. Neither the Company nor any of its 
subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
20 Borrowings
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current borrowings
Bank overdraft 1.6 –
Non-current borrowings
Maturing between two and five years
– ABL Facility 103.9 86.1
– International Facility – 0.9
Total non-current borrowings 103.9 87.0
Total borrowings 105.5 87.0
Less: cash (0.2) (2.6)
Net debt 105.3 84.4
  110 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Notes to the Financial statements
continued
Financial statements
20 Borrowings continued
In September 2014, the Group refinanced its asset based revolving credit facility and cancelled the International revolving credit 
facility. The refinanced £180m asset based revolving credit facility is sub divided into:
(i)  A secured overdraft facility, provided by Barclays Bank Plc which secures by cross guarantees and debentures the bank 
deposits and overdrafts of the Company and certain subsidiary companies up to a maximum of £5m. 
(ii)  An asset based revolving credit facility of up to £175m, based on the Group’s hire equipment and trade receivables balance. 
The undrawn availability of this facility as at 31 March 2015 was £55.0m (2014: £68.4m) based on the Group’s hire equipment 
and trade receivables.
The Facility is for £180m, but is reduced to the extent that any ancillary facilities are provided, and is repayable in September 
2019, with no prior scheduled repayment requirements.
Interest on the refinanced facility is calculated by reference to the London Inter Bank Offer Rate applicable to the period drawn, 
plus a margin of 170 to 275 basis points (prior to refinancing: 225 to 400 basis points), depending on leverage and on the 
components of the borrowing base. During the period, the effective margin was 2.60% (2014: 2.82%).
The facility is secured by fixed and floating charges over all the assets of the Group.
Analysis of consolidated net debt
At 31 March
2014
£m
Non-cash
movement
£m
Cash flow
£m
31 March
2015
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 2.6 – (2.4) 0.2
Bank overdrafts – – (1.6) (1.6)
Borrowings (87.0) (1.4) (15.5) (103.9)
(84.4) (1.4) (19.5) (105.3)
21 Provisions
Onerous
property
contracts
£m
At 1 April 2013 1.8
Created in the year 2.9
Provision utilised in the year (2.3)
At 31 March 2014 2.4
Created in the year 5.3
Provision utilised in the year (3.5)
At 31 March 2015 4.2
Of the £4.2m provision at 31 March 2015, £2.9m (2014: £1.1m) is due within one year and £1.3m (2014: £1.3m) is due after one 
year. The key assumption underlying the calculation of the provision relates to the assumed sub-let period. The provision is 
calculated based on a gross liability to the earlier of three years and the estimated date of sub-let, or break clause, and includes 
estimated dilapidations at current market rates. The total liability is discounted to current values. If leases on properties which are 
assumed to be sub-let were not exited/sub-let for a further 12 months beyond the estimated period, the increase required in the 
discounted provision would amount to £0.7m.   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 111
Financial statements
22 Deferred tax
Property,
plant and
equipment
£m
Intangible
assets
£m
Share-based
payments
£m
Other
items
£m
Total
£m
At 1 April 2013 11.1 1.0 (1.2) (0.3) 10.6
Recognised in income (2.0) (0.3) 0.3 0.1 (1.9)
Recognised in equity – – (0.1) 0.1 –
At 31 March 2014 9.1 0.7 (1.0) (0.1) 8.7
Recognised in income (1.2) (0.2) 0.2 (0.4) (1.6)
Recognised in equity – – 0.1 0.1 0.2
At 31 March 2015 7.9 0.5 (0.7) (0.4) 7.3
The Group has gross trading losses carried forward at 31 March 2015 amounting to approximately £11.7m (2014: £10.6m).  
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of those losses.
The Group also has gross capital losses carried forward at 31 March 2015 amounting to approximately £5.9m (2014: £6.5m).  
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses.
23 Share capital
2015
£m
2014
£m
Allotted, called-up and fully paid
521.9m (2014: 520.4m) ordinary shares of 5 pence each 26.1 26.0
During the year, 1,506,980 ordinary shares of 5 pence were issued on exercise of options under the Speedy Hire Sharesave 
Scheme (2014: 2,437,224).
An Employee Benefits Trust was established in 2004 (the ‘Trust’). The Trust holds shares issued by the Company in connection 
with the Performance Plan and Co-investment Plan. No shares were allotted to the Trust during the year and 1,067,060 shares 
were transferred to employees during the year. At 31 March 2015, the Trust held 6,252,907 (2014: 7,319,967) shares.
The movement in issued share capital was as follows:
Number £m
At 1 April 2013 517,925,049 25.9
Exercise of Sharesave Scheme options 2,437,224 0.1
At 31 March 2014 520,362,273 26.0
Exercise of Sharesave Scheme options 1,506,980 0.1
At 31 March 2015 521,869,253 26.1 112 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
24 Share incentives 
At 31 March 2015, options and awards over 10,734,992 shares (2014: 10,981,285) were outstanding under employee share 
schemes. The Group operates three share incentive schemes. During the year 1,506,980 ordinary shares of 5 pence were issued 
on exercise of options under the Speedy Hire Sharesave Scheme (2014: 2,437,224). 
As at 31 March 2015 options to acquire 5,361,840 (2014: 5,076,518) Speedy Hire Plc shares were outstanding under the  
Speedy Hire Sharesave Schemes. These options are exercisable by employees of the Group at prices between 15 and 56 pence 
(2014: 15 and 51 pence) at dates between April 2015 and July 2018 (2014: April 2014 and July 2017). At 31 March 2015, options 
to acquire 5,373,152 shares (2014: 5,904,767) under the Performance and Co-Investment Plans were outstanding. These options  
are exercisable at nil cost between June 2015 and June 2018 (2014: June 2014 and June 2017). 
The number and weighted average exercise price (‘WAEP’) of share options and awards under all the share incentive schemes  
are as follows:
2015 2014
WAEP
pence Number
WAEP
pence Number
Outstanding at 1 April 14 10,981,285 11 17,613,763
Granted 29 4,672,276 15 4,811,221
Exercised 8 (2,887,863) 10 (5,349,585)
Lapsed 12 (2,030,706) 9 (6,094,114)
Outstanding at 31 March 37 10,734,992 14 10,981,285
Exercisable at 31 March 15 94,515 21 123,108
Options and awards outstanding at 31 March 2015 have weighted average remaining contractual lives as follows:
2015
years
2014
years
Exercisable at nil pence 1.4 1.4
Exercisable at 15 pence – 0.8
Exercisable at 27 pence 0.8 1.8
Exercisable at 51 pence 1.7 2.7
Exercisable at 56 pence 2.7 –
 
Financial statements
Notes to the Financial statements
continued   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 113
Financial statements
24 Share incentives continued
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted and shares awarded is measured by reference to the fair 
value of those instruments. The pricing models and inputs used for the outstanding options (on a weighted average basis where 
appropriate) are as follows:
Speedy Hire Sharesave Schemes
December
2014
December
2013
December
2012
December
2011
December
2010
Pricing model used Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic
Exercise price 55.6p 51p 27p 15p 21p
Share price volatility 40.8% 39% 41% 87.0% 88.2%
Option life 3.25 years 3.25 years 3.25 years 3.25 years 3.25 years
Expected dividend yield 0.8% 1.0% 1.2% 2.1% 1.4%
Risk-free interest rate 0.9% 1.0% 0.6% 0.5% 1.4%
Co-Investment Plan
July
2013
Pricing model used Stochastic
Exercise price Nil
Share price volatility n/a
Option life 3 years
Expected dividend yield Nil
Risk-free interest rate n/a
Performance Plan
November
2014
July
2013
July
2012
July
2011
July
2010
Pricing model used Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic
Exercise price Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil
Share price volatility 39.9% 39% 46% 91.3% 94.0%
Option life 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield Nil Nil Nil 1.3% 1.5%
Risk-free interest rate 0.9% 0.7% 0.4% 1.0% 1.2% 114 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
25 Notes to the cash flow statement – cash from operating activities
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit before tax 2.1 7.0
Financial expense 5.4 7.4
Amortisation 2.7 2.9
Depreciation 46.3 46.6
Share of (profit)/loss of equity accounted investments (0.6) 0.1
Loss/(profit) on disposal of hire equipment 1.8 (3.7)
Profit on disposal of other property, plant and equipment – 0.2
Decrease in inventories 2.3 1.1
Increase in net assets held for sale (1.8) –
Increase in trade and other receivables (21.1) (10.3)
Increase in trade and other payables 3.4 11.2
Movement in provisions 1.8 0.6
Equity-settled share-based payments 0.7 0.7
Cash from operating activities 43.0 63.8
26 Contingent liabilities
The Group has given warranties (including taxation warranties and indemnities) in relation to the disposal of certain businesses  
in prior years. These warranties and indemnities expire at various dates up to 2018. 
In the normal course of business, the Company and certain subsidiaries have given performance bonds issued on behalf of Group 
companies and parental guarantees have been given in support of the contractual obligations of Group companies on both a joint 
and a several basis.
The Directors do not consider any provision is necessary in respect of guarantees and bonds.
27 Commitments
The Group had contracted capital commitments amounting to £4.6m (2014: £4.6m) at the end of the financial year for which no 
provision has been made. 
The total of future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases is as follows:
                         Land and buildings                     Other
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Total future minimum lease payments
– not later than one year 12.7 14.7 8.6 9.1
– later than one year and not later than five years 35.9 37.3 10.9 12.4
– later than five years 17.5 22.1 0.6 1.7
66.1 74.1 20.1 23.2
Financial statements
Notes to the Financial statements
continued   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 115
Financial statements
27 Commitments continued
Where the group has vacated a property prior to the end of the lease term, the group will attempt to sublease such vacant 
space on short term lets. The sublease rental income for the year to 31 March 2015 was £0.7m (2014: £0.8m). The minimum rent 
receivable under non-cancellable operating leases is as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Total future minimum lease payments
– not later than one year 0.8 0.8
– later than one year and not later than five years 2.2 1.5
– later than five years 0.2 0.2
3.2 2.5
28 Post-balance sheet events
Sale of shares in Speedy International Asset Services LLC
On 20 April 2015 the group received proceeds for the disposal of its entire shareholding in Speedy International Assets Services 
LLC, a company incorporated in Oman. The net assets of £1.8m are held within assets held for sale on the balance sheet at the 
year end representing the fair value less costs to sell of the business.
Dividends
The Directors have proposed a dividend of 0.40 pence per share as a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2015. 
No charge in respect of the proposed dividend has been made in the income statement for the year, and there were no tax 
consequences. The total amount payable if the dividend is approved at the AGM is as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
0.40 pence (2014: 0.35 pence) on 521.9m (2014: 520.4m) ordinary shares 2.1 1.8
29 Related party disclosures
Key management remuneration
The Group’s key management personnel are the Executive and Non-Executive Directors as identified in the Remuneration Report.
In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to Executive Directors, and contributes to approved 
pension schemes on their behalf. Executive Directors also participate in the Group’s share option schemes. 
Non-Executive Directors receive a fee for their services to the Speedy Hire Plc Board.
Full details of key management personnel compensation and interests in the share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2015 
are given in the Remuneration Report. 116 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Company balance sheet
At 31 March 2015
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Investments 31 93.5 93.5
Deferred tax asset 36 0.6 1.0
94.1 94.5
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 32 409.3 383.5
Tax receivable – 1.5
Cash 35 0.5 0.9
409.8 385.9
Total assets 503.9 480.4
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Borrowings 35 – (3.6)
Trade and other payables 33 (128.5) (131.2)
Other financial liabilities 34 (0.4) (0.1)
Current tax liabilities (0.1) –
(129.0) (134.9)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 35 (116.1) (94.2)
Total liabilities (245.1) (229.1)
Net assets 258.8 251.3
EQUITY
Share capital 37 26.1 26.0
Share premium 191.0 190.9
Merger reserve 2.3 2.3
Hedging reserve (0.7) (0.4)
Retained earnings 40.1 32.5
Total equity 258.8 251.3
The Company financial statements on pages 116 to 121 were approved by the Board of Directors on 11 May 2015 and were 
signed on its behalf by:
Mark Rogerson     Russell Down 
Director      Director
Company registered number: 927680
Financial statements   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 117
Financial statements
Company statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 March 2015
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Merger
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 1 April 2013 25.9 190.5 2.3 (0.9) 26.9 244.7
Profit for the financial year – – – – 7.6 7.6
Effective portion of change in fair value of cash flow hedges – – – 0.5 – 0.5
Tax in items taken directly to equity – – – – 0.2 0.2
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 0.5 7.8 8.3
Dividends – – – – (2.9) (2.9)
Equity-settled share-based payments – – – – 0.7 0.7
Issue of shares under the Sharesave Scheme 0.1 0.4 – – – 0.5
At 31 March 2014 26.0 190.9 2.3 (0.4) 32.5 251.3
Profit for the financial year – – – – 10.3 10.3
Effective portion of change in fair value of cash flow hedges – – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Tax in items taken directly to equity – – – – – –
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (0.3) 10.3 10.0
Dividends – – – – (3.4) (3.4)
Equity-settled share-based payments – – – – 0.7 0.7
Issue of shares under the Sharesave Scheme 0.1 0.1 – – – 0.2
At 31 March 2015 26.1 191.0 2.3 (0.7) 40.1 258.8 118 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Financial statements
Company cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 March 2015
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash generated from operations 41 (29.1) (28.4)
Interest received 20.5 18.6
Interest paid (6.1) (6.9)
Tax paid (0.8) (5.9)
Net cash flow from operating activities (15.5) (22.6)
Net cash flow before financing activities (15.5) (22.6)
Cash flow to financing activities
Proceeds from asset-based revolving credit facility 21.9 17.9
Proceeds from the issue of Sharesave Scheme shares 0.2 0.5
Dividends paid (3.4) (2.9)
Net cash flow from financing activities 18.7 15.5
Increase/(decrease) in cash 3.2 (7.1)
(Overdraft)/cash at the start of the financial year (2.7) 4.4
Cash/(overdraft) at the end of the financial year 0.5 (2.7)
Analysis of cash
Cash 0.5 0.9
Bank overdraft – (3.9)
0.5 (2.7)   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 119
Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements 
30 Accounting policies
The Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out in note 1, 
supplemented as below. The Company is taking advantage of the exemption in Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to 
present its individual income statement or statement of comprehensive income and related notes that form part of the approved 
Financial statements. The amount of the profit for the financial year dealt with in the Financial statements of the Company is 
disclosed in the Company statement of changes in equity.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less any provisions for permanent diminution in value. Dividends 
received and receivable are credited to the Company’s profit and loss account to the extent that they represent a realised profit 
for the Company. 
The Company does not have any employees. Directors are paid by other Group companies.
31 Investments
Investments in 
subsidiary
undertakings
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2013, 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2015 113.3
Provisions
At 1 April 2013, 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2015 (19.8)
Net book value
At 1 April 2013, 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2015 93.5
Following the impairment testing performed in accordance with IAS36 (see note 12), the Company’s carrying value of investment 
in subsidiary undertakings has been reviewed and no impairment has been made (2014: £nil).
The Company’s principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
Incorporation
and operation Principal activity
Ordinary
share
capital
Speedy Asset Services Limited UK Hire services 100%
Speedy Hire (Ireland) Limited UK Hire services 100%
Speedy Hire (Ireland) Limited
1
Republic of Ireland Hire services 100%
Speedy Support Services Limited UK Provision of group services 100%
Speedy Transport Limited UK Provision of group services 100%
Speedy International Asset Services (Holdings) Limited UK Hire services 100%
Speedy International Asset Services Equipment Rental LLC
1,2
UAE Hire and associated services 49%
Speedy International Leasing Limited
1
UK Leasing services 100%
Speedy International Asset Services
1
Oman Hire services 70%
Speedy International Asset Services
1,2
Qatar Hire services 49%
1 Indirect holding via a 100% subsidiary undertaking.
2  Although the Group holds less than half of the voting rights, it is able to govern the financial and operating policies of the company. The Group therefore 
consolidates the company.
A full list of the Company’s subsidiary undertakings can be found in the Annual Return filed at Companies House.
The Company holds voting rights in each subsidiary undertaking in the same proportion to its holdings in the ordinary share 
capital of the respective subsidiaries.  120 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
32 Trade and other receivables
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 407.4 381.6
Other receivables 1.9 1.9
409.3 383.5
33 Trade and other payables
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 127.7 129.2
Other payables – 0.7
Accruals 0.8 1.3
128.5 131.2
34 Financial instruments
The Company financial instruments are stated in accordance with note 19.
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows:
31 March 2015 31 March 2014
Carrying
amount
£m
Fair value
£m
Carrying
amount
£m
Fair value
£m
Trade and other receivables 409.3 409.3 383.5 383.5
Cash 0.5 0.5 0.9 0.9
Bank overdraft – – (3.6) (3.6)
Secured bank borrowings (116.1) (116.1) (94.2) (94.2)
Interest rate swaps and caps, used for hedging (0.4) (0.4) (0.1) (0.1)
Trade and other payables (127.7) (127.7) (129.9) (129.9)
165.2 165.2 156.6 156.6
Unrecognised gain/(loss) – –
35 Borrowings
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current borrowings
Bank overdraft – 3.6
Non-current borrowings
Maturing between two and five years
– Asset-based revolving credit facility 116.1 94.2
Total non-current borrowings 116.1 94.2
Total borrowings 116.1 97.8
Less: cash (0.5) (0.9)
Net debt 115.6 96.9
The Company borrowings are stated in accordance with note 20.
Both the overdraft and asset-based revolving credit facility are secured by a fixed and floating charge over all the assets of the 
Group and are rated pari passu. 
Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements
continued   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 121
Financial statements
36 Deferred tax
Company asset
Total
£m
At 1 April 2013 1.3
Recognised in income (0.3)
Recognised in equity –
At 31 March 2014 1.0
Recognised in income (0.2)
Recognised in equity (0.2)
At 31 March 2015 0.6
37 Share capital and share incentives
The Company share capital and share incentives are stated in accordance with notes 23 and 24.
38 Contingent liabilities and commitments
The Company contingent liabilities and commitments are stated in accordance with notes 26 and 27.
39 Post-balance sheet events
The Company post-balance sheet events are stated in accordance with note 28.
40 Related party disclosures
The Company related party disclosures are stated in accordance with note 29.
41 Note to the Company cash flow statement
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit before tax 13.1 9.9
Financial expense (20.5) (18.6)
Financial income 6.6 6.9
Increase in trade and other receivables (25.8) (24.5)
Decrease in trade and other payables (3.2) (2.8)
Equity-settled share-based payments 0.7 0.7
(29.1) (28.4) 122 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
122 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Five-year summary 
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013
restated
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Income statement
Revenue 386.0 349.7 340.0 329.3 354.2
Gross profit 210.9 214.6 223.0 220.9 217.3
Analysis of operating profit/(loss)
Operating profit before amortisation and exceptional costs 26.4 22.1 22.9 19.6 8.3
Amortisation (2.7) (2.9) (4.0) (4.1) (5.5)
Exceptional costs (16.8) (4.7) – (2.9) (19.3)
Operating profit/(loss) 6.9 14.5 18.9 12.6 (16.5)
Share of results of jointly controlled entities 0.6 (0.1) – – –
Net financial expense (5.1) (7.4) (7.6) (7.2) (9.0)
Net financial expense – exceptional (0.3) – – (2.2) (1.5)
Total net financial expense (5.4) (7.4) (7.6) (9.4) (10.5)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 2.1 7.0 11.3 3.2 (27.0)
Non-GAAP performance measures
EBITDA before exceptional items 72.7 68.7 72.0 63.2 63.4
Adjusted profit/(loss) before tax, exceptional costs  
and amortisation 21.9 14.6 15.3 12.4 (0.7)
Balance sheet
Hire equipment – original cost 364.3 386.6 375.7 383.6 363.3
Hire equipment – net book value 212.3 225.5 214.2 210.3 185.7
Total equity 234.0 239.3 234.9 229.5 229.4
Cash flow
Cash flow generated from operations
2
13.3 63.8 63.6 69.7 49.7
Free cash flow (16.2) (8.2) 7.5 39.3 7.4
Purchase of hire equipment 68.6 65.8 58.6 64.2 41.8
Profit on disposal of hire equipment
1
5.0 3.7 3.9 4.8 5.0
In pence 
Dividend per share (interim and final dividend in year) 0.70 0.61 0.53 0.46 0.40
Adjusted earnings/(loss) per share
1
3.2 2.1 2.1 1.7 (0.0)
Net assets per share 44.8 46.0 45.4 44.4 44.4
In percentages
Gearing 45.0 35.3 30.8 33.2 49.7
Return on capital (operating)
1
8.0 7.0 7.5 6.0 2.3
EBITDA margin
1
18.9 19.6 21.2 19.2 17.9
In ratios
Net debt/EBITDA
1
1.5 1.2 1.0 1.2 1.8
Net debt/net tangible fixed assets 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.5
In numbers
Employee numbers 3,889 3,729 3,776 3,844 4,124
Depot numbers 220 247 264 283 327
1 Before amortisation and exceptional items.
2 Before changes in hire fleet.
Financial statements   Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 123  Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 123
Corporate information
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday  
15 July 2015 at the offices of Pinsent Masons LLP at  
30 Crown Place, Earl Street, London EC2A 4ES.
Details of the business of the AGM and the resolutions  
to be proposed will be sent to shareholders.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, the election of Jan Åstrand and  
Russell Down and the re-election of James Morley.
Other resolutions will include proposals to renew, for a further 
year, the Directors’ general authority to allot shares in the 
Company, to allot a limited number of shares for cash on a non-
pre-emptive basis and to buy back the Company’s own shares.
Share price information/performance
The latest share price is available at www.speedyservices.
com/investors. By selecting share price information under the 
investor information section, shareholders can check the value 
of their shareholding online or review share charts illustrating 
annual share price performance trends.
Shareholders can download copies of our Annual Report and 
Accounts and Interim Accounts from www.speedyservices.com/
investors.
Dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP)
You can choose to reinvest dividends received to purchase 
further shares in the Company through a DRIP. A DRIP 
application form is available from our registrar, whose  
contact details are 0871-384-2268 and from overseas  
+44 (0)121-415-7173. Please note that calls to this number  
cost 8p per minute plus network extras. Lines are open  
8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday. Alternatively you can 
write to our registrar at Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, 
Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
Electronic communications
You can elect to receive shareholder communications 
electronically by signing up to Equiniti’s portfolio service  
at www.shareview.co.uk. This will save on printing and 
distribution costs, creating environmental benefits. When you 
register, you will be sent a notification to say when shareholder 
communications are available on our website and you will be 
provided with a link to that information.
Enquiries on shareholdings
Any administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings in 
Speedy, such as dividend payment instructions or a change of 
address, should be notified direct to the registrar, Equiniti, at 
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA. 
Your correspondence should state Speedy Hire Plc and the 
registered name and address of the shareholder. Information  
on how to manage your shareholdings can be found at  
https://help.shareview.co.uk.
If your question is not answered by the information provided, 
you can send your enquiry via secure email from these pages. 
You will be asked to complete a structured form and to provide 
your shareholder reference, name and address. You will also 
need to provide your email address if this is how you would like 
to receive your response.
Boiler room fraud
Share scams are often run from ‘boiler rooms’ where fraudsters 
cold-call investors offering them worthless, overpriced or even 
non-existent shares. While such scams promise high returns, 
those who invest usually end up losing their money.
If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted 
shares, a premium price for shares you own, or free company or 
research reports, you should take these steps before handing 
over any money:
 > Get the name of the person and organisation contacting you;
 > Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at  
www.fca.org.uk/consumers/scams to ensure they  
are authorized;
 > Only use the details on the FCA Register to contact the firm; 
and
 > Call the Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 if you suspect 
the caller is fraudulent.
REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
Shareholder information
Corporate information 124 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
124 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Forward-looking statements
This Annual Report includes statements that are forward-
looking in nature. Forward-looking statements involve known 
and unknown risks, assumptions, uncertainties and other 
factors which may cause the actual results, performance or 
achievements of the Group to be materially different from 
any future results, performance or achievements expressed or 
implied by such forward-looking statements. Except as required 
by the Listing Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
and applicable law, the Company undertakes no obligation to 
update, revise or change any forward-looking statements to 
reflect events or developments occurring on or after the date 
of this Annual Report.
Contact details
We are happy to answer queries from current and potential 
shareholders. Similarly, please let us know if you wish to 
receive past, present or future copies of the Annual Report  
and Accounts. Please contact us by telephone, email, fax or  
via the website.
Speedy Hire Plc  
Chase House  
16 The Parks  
Newton-le-Willows  
Merseyside  
WA12 0JQ
Telephone 01942 720000
Facsimile 01942 327198
Email plc.admin@speedyhire.com
Website www.speedyservices.com/investors
Corporate information
Shareholder information
continued Registered office and advisers
This Report has been printed in the UK. Our printers are environmental management system  
ISO 14001-accredited and Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) chain of custody-certified. All inks  
used are vegetable-based. This paper is environmentally friendly ECF (elemental chlorine-free)  
and wood-free with a high content of selected pre-consumer recycled material. The mill is fully 
FSC-certified. The paper is also completely bio-degradable and recyclable.
This Annual Report is available at www.speedyservices.com/investors
Designed and produced by Instinctif Partners www.instinctif.com
Registered office
Speedy Hire Plc
Chase House 
16 The Parks  
Newton-le-Willows  
Merseyside  
WA12 0JQ
Telephone 01942 720000
Facsimile 01942 327198
Email plc.admin@speedyhire.com
Website www.speedservices.com/investors
Registered number: 927680
Company Secretary
James Blair
Financial advisers
NM Rothschild & Sons Limited
1 King William Street
London
EC4N 7AR
Stockbrokers
Investec Bank plc
100 Wood Street
London
EC2V 7AN
Legal advisers
Pinsent Masons LLP
1 Park Row
Leeds
LS1 5AB
Auditors
KPMG LLP
One, St. Peter’s Square
Manchester
M2 3AE
Bankers
Barclays Commercial Bank
1st Floor
3 Hardman Street
Spinningfields
Manchester
M3 3AP
The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC
Corporate Banking
1 Spinningfields Square
Manchester
M3 3AP
Bank of America N.A.
2 King Edward Street
London
EC1A 1HQ
GE Commercial Finance
Enterprise House 
Bankcroft
Road Reigate
RH2 7RT
HSBC Bank Plc
8 Canada Square 
Canary Wharf 
London 
E14 5HQ
Wells Fargo Capital Finance
1 Bread Street 
London 
EC4M 9BE
Public Relations
Instinctif Partners
65 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7NQ
Registrars and transfer office
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer House
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
Insurance brokers
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Ltd
St James House
7 Charlotte Street
Manchester
M1 4DZ Visit us online
www.speedyservices.com/investors
