 EVERYTHING IS CHANGING SPOR TS & LEISURE 
FASHION & LIFESTYLE
BRANDS
SPOR TS RETAIL
FASCIAS
INTERNA TIONAL
PREMIUM LIFESTYLE
SPECIALIST SPOR TS STRATEGIC REPORT
02 Key highlights 
04 Everything is changing
10 Sports Direct at a glance
12 Chairman’s Statement
14 Our business model
15 Our strategy
16 Key Performance Indicators
17 Risks and uncertainties
21 Chief Executive’s report and business review
25 Financial review
28 Corporate social responsibility report
GOVERNANCE
33 The Board
34 Directors’ report
37 Corporate governance report 
44 Directors’ remuneration report
53 Directors’ responsibilities statement
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
54 Independent auditor’s report to the  
members of Sports Direct International plc
57 Consolidated income statement
58 Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income
59 Consolidated balance sheet
60 Consolidated cash flow statement
61 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
62 Notes to the Financial Statements
95 Independent auditor’s report to the  
members of Sports Direct International plc
96 Company balance sheet
97 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
100 Consolidated five year record
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
101 Company directory
Sports Direct is the UK’s leading sports retailer by revenue and operating 
profit, and the owner of a significant number of world-famous sport, fashion 
and lifestyle brands.
We provide a full multi-channel approach to the UK and European Retail 
markets. Our strategy includes identifying opportunities for improvement 
through in-store specialist collaborations and acquisitions, developing online 
opportunities and leveraging the SPORTSDIRECT.com fascia.
The Group continues to enhance its store portfolio and Sports Retail now 
operates out of over 661 stores in the UK and internationally. 
The Sports Direct International plc website is available on multiple platforms 
including mobile devices. 
Go online at www.sportsdirectplc.com & www.sportsdirect.com
CONTENTS • Sports Retail gross margin increased by 170 bps to 44.6%
• Group underlying EBITDA increased by 15.7% to £383.2m 
(1)
• Underlying profit before tax up 20.5% to £300.3m
(1)
• Underlying free cash generation of £301.8m
(2)
• Sports Retail like-for-like stores gross contribution increased  
by 7.4% (FY14: 10.5%)
(3)
• Continued roll-out of large format city centre stores
• Successful UK launch of Click and Collect in FY15 H2
• Record EBITDA achieved v. 4th year Share Scheme target
• Net debt decreased to £59.7m
(4)
(1) Underlying EBITDA, underlying profit before taxation and underlying EPS exclude realised foreign exchange 
gains/losses in selling and administration costs, exceptional costs and the profit/loss on sale of strategic 
investments. Underlying EBITDA also excludes the Share Scheme charges. 
(2) Underlying free cash generation is defined as operating cash flow before working capital, made up 
of underlying EBITDA (before Share Scheme costs) plus realised foreign exchange gains and losses, less 
corporation tax paid. 
(3) Excludes contribution in Sport Eybl and Sports Experts AG (EAG) and Sportland International Group AS 
(SIG) as the prior year comparative is not a full year. 
(4) Net debt is borrowings less cash held.
GROUP REVENUE
+4.7%
April 15 £2,832.6m
April 14 £2,706.0m
April 13 £2,185.6m
April 12 £1,807.2m
April 11 £1,599.2m
UNDERLYING EBITDA
+15.7%
April 15 £383.2m
April 14 £331.1m
April 13 £287.9m
April 12 £235.7m
April 11 £211.0m
REPORTED PBT
+30.9%
April 15 £313.4m
April 14 £239.5m
April 13 £207.2m
April 12 £148.0m
April 11 £118.8m
UNDERLYING EPS
+21.2%
April 15 38.9p
April 14 32.1p
April 13 26.9p
April 12 18.7p
April 11 16.8p
KEY HIGHLIGHTS
2
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  “The Group has delivered another solid set of results in spite of challenging trading 
conditions including the adverse impact on performance during the period of 
England’s early departure from the FIFA World Cup in Brazil and unseasonably 
mild weather during autumn, reducing footfall.
“However, with our ongoing focus on providing customers with exceptional quality 
and unbeatable value, we have continued to grow Group revenues and EBITDA 
and have succeeded in surpassing our fourth and final EBITDA target under the 
2011 Share Scheme. The first of these awards will vest with participants in 
September 2015 and the second in September 2017. We owe our continued 
success to the commitment and hard work of those participants and we are 
delighted that we are able to reward them in this way.
“Trading since the period end has been in line with management expectations 
and will continue to be driven by improvements in product range and availability, 
optimisation of both our in-store and web offerings, the introduction of Click and 
Collect in the UK and further investment in our store portfolio.” 
 
Dave Forsey 
Chief Executive
16 July 2015
3
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... EVERYTHING IS CHANGING Phase Three of the expansion of our National Distribution Centre in Shirebrook, the construction of an additonal c.700,000 sq. ft. 
warehouse and office facility, is now well underway, with completion scheduled for late 2015. 
We have also commenced work on an additional retail unit and training centre at our Shirebrook campus, with completion also anticipated 
for late 2015. These expansions will have a range of benefits for the Group, including an improved environment for staff training.
BUILDING ELECTRICAL DATA
29,000 m
3
 Concrete 60 km Cable 28 km Fibre optic cable
3,600 tonnes Steelwork 30 km Lighting bus-bar 250 km Category 6 data cable
68,000 m
2
 Roof cladding 11,000 Light fittings 3,000 Information outlets
21,000 m
2
 Wall cladding 7 km Cabling containment
8 km Pipework 14 km  Fire alarm pipework
1.5 km Building perimeter
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING 
SPORTS DIRECT NATIONAL DISTRIBUTION CENTRE, SHIREBROOK
5
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... Karrimor launched their new multichannel running 
campaign, with predominant focus on TV, digital, and 
in-store channels, to coincide with the world renowned 
London Marathon. The campaign focused on the latest 
running apparel and footwear but also contributed to the 
launch of the new Karrimor Elite running app. 2014 also 
saw Karrimor expand their ambassador line-up by agreeing 
a three year deal with Countryfile presenter Helen Skelton 
and resigning Olympic Gold Medallist James Cracknell for 
a further two years.
USA Pro launched its new ‘Join Our Movement’ campaign 
which focused on vibrant hero prints and demonstrated the 
depth and breadth of the USA Pro collection.The campaign 
featured women at the top of their game to show that USA 
Pro is not just a stylish fitness brand. Launched in USC and 
Sports Direct across a number of channels including TV, 
retail and digital, the ‘Join Our Movement’ campaign is a 
perfect reflection of how USA Pro is continuing to expand 
its product offering and increase its dominance in the 
female fitness market. 
Throughout the year Lonsdale has continued to go from 
strength to strength, further establishing its position in the 
fight sports market. The Lonsdale brand has been showcased 
at various events such as BAMMA and the Queensbury 
Boxing League. It was also a main sponsor at one of the 
biggest fights of 2014 which saw Lonsdale’s leading brand 
ambassador Carl Froch knock out George Groves in front of 
80,000 at Wembley Stadium. The pay per view event was 
viewed by millions across the globe. Furthermore, Lonsdale 
signed boxer Nathan Cleverly for a three year deal which will 
carry the partnership into 2017. 
Slazenger and The Championships, Wimbledon agreed to 
extend their longest standing sporting sponsorship in the 
history of sport for a further three year term which will take 
the overall agreement to 116 years. The partnership is a 
perfect reflection of the prestige and longevity of the brand 
and the extension will continue to showcase Slazenger 
worldwide on the biggest stage there is. 
Also this year, Slazenger’s cricket ambassador, England 
fast bowler Jimmy Anderson, surpassed Sir Ian Botham as 
England’s ‘all-time test wicket-taker’ with his 384th wicket in 
his 100th match. 
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING 
GROUP BRANDS
6
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  Puma continue to be a key strategic partner for the Sports 
Direct business and in FY15 cemented their strategic 
investments in the football category by rolling out 150 
Bootroom centre panels to showcase their new boot 
concepts which was supported by an extensive period of 
staff training. They are also taking a significantly larger 
office and showroom space in our Shirebrook Head 
Office and have invested in a dedicated retail specialist 
to manage their branded space roll out and assortment 
planning process.
Following the successful launch of Nike’s MPT (market place 
transformation) area in our Shirebrook store in FY14, we 
decided to lead our new Oxford Street flagship store at the 
beginning of FY15 with an impressive Nike men’s training area 
in the entrance. The Nike area and overall store merchandising 
standards and customer service have been maintained to a 
very high standard since opening and both businesses are 
pleased with the feedback and initial results. We have shared 
plans to roll out further Nike branded areas in our large format 
city centre stores and will continue to work closely with our 
Nike team in Shirebrook in developing product and retail 
solutions to give our customers enhanced shopping experiences 
throughout our store portfolio.
The adidas Group has committed to investing several million pounds with 
Sports Direct across  FY16 to build upon the repositioning work started 
in FY15. To date this has included two all door (Sports Direct) window 
marketing campaigns, a 170 door roll out of a new football Bootroom panel 
concept, branded space in key location doors and continued marketing 
support (Ultra Boost) for the Sweatshop business. In FY16 Sports Direct will 
be a key partner for their new football silo launch ‘Ace v X’  including another 
all door window campaign and Bootroom update. There are also plans to roll 
out refreshed fixtures for men’s apparel across the wider estate and a more 
focused Manchester United launch in appropriate stores. The adidas Group 
is also investing in a much larger showroom space at our Shirebrook Head 
Office which will feature a staff training facility and a dedicated space for the 
Reebok brand which we are also planning to trial with some branded apparel 
space in key doors in FY16.
We see the Under Armour brand as a significant 
future partner for the Sports Direct business and 
in FY15 committed to a long term joint business 
plan. In July 2015 we opened a 3,000 sq. ft. 
Under Armour ‘shop in shop’ in our recently 
refurbished and extended Glasgow City Centre 
store on Argyle Street. We are planning additional 
space for the Under Armour brand as it grows 
in popularity in the new large format city centre 
stores as they roll out. In addition to this, 200 
stores will also feature bespoke Under Armour 
base layer fixtures by the end of the 2015 
calendar year. 
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING 
PARTNER BRANDS
7
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... 8
During the year, the Group entered the fitness industry with the development 
of Sportsdirect Fitness.com, comprising 25 standalone gyms purchased from 
LA Fitness and an additional two new build combined retail and gym spaces. A 
further two gyms in St Helens and Dundee are planned for early autumn 2015. 
Membership continues to grow and we have already surpassed our full year 
targets. 
SPORTSDIRECT FITNESS.COM AINTREE
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING 
SPORTS DIRECT FITNESS
8
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  We have worked hard to improve and invest in our store portfolio during the 
year, with a particular focus on larger city centre stores. During the year we 
relocated our Oxford Street store to the c.50,000 sq. ft. former HMV store and 
have completed a c.30,000 sq. ft. extension of our Glasgow store. We have 
recently also acquired the freehold of the former Primark store in Leeds. Works 
are currently underway on this four floor, c.50,000 sq. ft. store which is due to 
open this summer.
MEGASTORES OPEN
SHIREBROOK - C.57,000 SQ. FT. 
OXFORD STREET - C.50,000 SQ. FT.
AINTREE - C.40,000 SQ. FT.
GLASGOW ARGYLE - C.50,000 SQ. FT.
LEEDS - C.50,000 SQ. FT.
GLASGOW, ARGYLE STREET BEFORE AND AFTER
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING 
MEGASTORES
9
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... The Group’s Sports Retail division supplies a wide range of sports and leisure equipment, across an array of global brands, 
including Group owned brands such as Dunlop, Slazenger and Lonsdale, third party and licensed-in brands. This wide 
range of products, combined with extremely competitive pricing, attracts customers to both our stores and website in ever 
increasing numbers.
As at 26 April 2015 Sports Retail operated out of 661 stores in the UK and the rest of Europe (excluding Northern 
Ireland). The majority of stores trade under the SPORTSDIRECT.com fascia.
We continue to expand and develop our stores, with several relocations taking place in the year into larger and better 
configured space, so that we are better able to serve the needs of our customers. Investment has also continued in 
specialist performance areas, with visual merchandising improving across the whole of the division.
In Europe, the Group’s growth has continued, with our products being offered via wholly-owned retail outlets, joint 
ventures with other retailers and stores within another retailer’s store. We have continued the integration of the recently 
acquired Sport Eybl and Sports Experts AG (EAG), and over the coming year will re-brand key Eybl Megastores to the 
Lillywhites fascia.
During the year, as part of our European growth programme, we increased our European store portfolio by nine stores and 
entered one new country, with the opening of our Bern store in Switzerland. Our strategy remains to identify partners in 
new territories while continuing to expand our operations in the countries where we currently trade.
Our online sales continue to increase, enhanced in the year by the successful introduction of UK Click and Collect and the 
development of a streamlined checkout process.
The Group operates through three strategic business segments: Sports Retail, Premium Lifestyle and Brands.
SPORTS RETAIL 85% TOTAL REVENUE £2,398.6m Up 5.5%
The Brands division licenses our brands to partners across the world through a committed network of licensing and 
distribution partners. The unique, integrated approach to brand management ensures consistency, and encourages 
continual investment and global success for the brands.
Focus on our brands is maintained through sponsorship of high-profile media personalities, events, teams and venues. 
Bolddog, a motorcycle display team made famous in the 2014 series of Britain’s Got Talent, are a recent addition to the 
No Fear brand, and Sno Zone in Reading is a winter sports venue which is sponsored by our Nevica brand. The Slazenger 
brand has recently signed a renewal sponsorship of The Championships, Wimbledon. Slazenger has sponsored the event 
since 1902, making this one of the longest partnerships in sporting history.
BRANDS 8% TOTAL REVENUE £226.4m Up 4.1%
7% TOTAL REVENUE
Rationalisation of the division has taken place throughout the year, including the closure of loss-making stores, the 
mitigation of operating costs and the relocation of back-office functions.
The Premium Lifestyle division is a must for those fashion conscious shoppers who demand high-end and on trend apparel. 
The division centres on contemporary luxury with a brand focus, and leading stocked brands include Paul Smith, Fendi 
and Alexander McQueen. The division enables customers to express their individuality, with new collections regularly being 
added. Recent additions include White Premiata, Carven and Canada Goose.
PREMIUM LIFESTYLE £207.6m Down 3.0%
SPORTS DIRECT AT A GLANCE
10
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  SPORTS STORES ACROSS EUROPE
Note: Includes associates in Iceland, Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland that trade under the SPORTSDIRECT.com fascia.
11
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... EXPANSION 
The construction of Phase Three of our Shirebrook campus expansion is now well underway. It consists of an additional warehouse and office facility, spanning a c.700,000 sq. ft. 
footprint. Occupancy of the first warehouse area is about to commence, with population of the remaining areas of the warehouse planned for later in 2015, on schedule. We have also 
commenced work on an additional retail unit and training centre at our Shirebrook campus, with completion anticipated for late 2015. The expansions will have a range of benefits for the 
Group, including an improved environment for staff training.
Our Oxford Street store has now been open for over 12 months and has been well-received by both customers and suppliers. The property, which was the former HMV Flagship store, 
allows us to trade over four floors, with c.50,000 sq. ft. of retail space. Our Glasgow City Centre store has undergone an extension of approximately 28,000 sq. ft., more than doubling 
its previous footprint and we have collaborated with Under Armour to offer our customers an exceptional shopping environment. We have also recently acquired the freehold of the 
c.50,000 sq. ft. former Primark store in Leeds, which is expected to open this summer.
We are confident in the success of the format used in the stores, which we intend to roll out further.
Our Fitness division now has 27 fully operational gyms across England. During the year the Group purchased 25 former LA Fitness gyms, and developed an additional two gyms with 
separate retail premises, ensuring that customers can purchase their everyday gym essentials on site. 
STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS 
Strategic Investments are an integral part of the Board strategy to explore new opportunities to bring our product to market. 
The Group enhanced its relationship with Debenhams during the year with the purchase of an additional strategic investment in the business, increasing our beneficial interest from 6.6% 
to 15.0% at the year end date of 26 April 2015, which has subsequently reduced since the year end to 10.5%. We are currently trialling four concessions within Debenhams stores. 
SHARE SCHEMES 
I am pleased to confirm that we have achieved the final Adjusted Underlying EBITDA target under the 2011 Share Scheme and Executive Share Scheme. We hope to reward  
participating employees under the 2011 Share Scheme for their loyalty and motivation by way of share awards. The first award under the 2011 Share Scheme is due to vest later in 
2015, which will distribute c.5m shares to c.2,000 participating employees. The Group’s Share Schemes are some of the most generous schemes in the country, and are key tools in 
motivation and retention.
 
I am pleased to report the Group has once again achieved another solid result, delivering growth in both Group revenues and EBITDA.
FY10
FY11
FY12
FY13
FY14
FY15
FY16
FY17
FY18
FY19
2015 SCHEME
2011 SCHEME
2009 SCHEME 2009 & 2011 SCHEME TARGETS
2009 & 2011 SCHEME ACHIEVED
2015 SCHEME TARGETS
£155m
£195m
£215m
£250m
£260m
£300m
£420m*
£570m
£650m
£750m
*Proposed revised FY16 target under the 2015 Share Scheme. Shareholder approval to amend this target from £480m to £420m will be sought at the AGM on 9 September 2015.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
12
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  To the extent that a significant number of participating employees elect to sell some or all of their shares, whilst the Company has no obligation to buy back the shares, the Board will 
consider a number of options open to it, including whether to: (i) implement an on-market buy back of shares pursuant to the authority given by shareholders at the Company’s AGM  
in 2014; or (ii) fund the Company’s Employee Benefit Trust so as to allow it to acquire shares in the market to replace those shares transferred to participating employees pursuant to  
the vesting.
As part of our strategy to closely align the interests of our team with those of our shareholders, the 2015 Share Scheme was approved by shareholders at a General Meeting in July 
2014. The vesting of awards under the 2015 Share Scheme is conditional upon the achievement by the Group of four demanding EBITDA targets, which span between FY16 and FY19. 
The awards will vest in 2019 and 2021, subject to successful completion of all four targets, and other specific performance conditions. The Executive Deputy Chairman, Mike Ashley, 
withdrew from the Scheme during FY15. Mike remains fully committed to the achievement of the Scheme’s targets, but would like the focus to be on ensuring that the Scheme aligns 
with the wider Sports Direct team, and therefore chose to withdraw from the Scheme.
As we enter FY16 it is clear, and also understood by the market, that planned acquisitions in FY15 did not fully materialise. Following its recent review, the Board now recommends 
to shareholders a revised FY16 Adjusted Underlying EBITDA target of £420m, rather than the existing target of £480m which is now considered to be unreasonably challenging. This 
compares to the Underlying EBITDA of £383m achieved in FY15. All other targets for the further three years of the Scheme currently remain the same. The Board will continue to review 
the robustness of the 2015 Share Scheme on an annual basis.
THE BOARD 
During July 2014, it was announced that Charles McCreevy, a Non-Executive Director of the Group, would not be standing for re-election at the 2014 AGM. Charlie, who had spent over 
three years with the Group, had extensive all-round business knowledge, with particular relevance to Competition Regulations. I would like to thank him for his valuable contribution to the 
Board. We are in the process of appointing a replacement and hope to make an announcement within the near future.
I am delighted to welcome Matt Pearson to the Board in the position of Acting Chief Financial Officer. Matt joined the business over eight years ago and since then has gained an in depth 
knowledge of the finances of the Group. Matt has been leading our Group Finance Team for several years and is therefore perfectly placed to take on the additional responsibilities of this 
role. Further details relating to the recruitment of the Board can be found on pages 37 and 42.
CASUAL WORKERS 
Much of the comment regarding the Group’s use of zero hour contracts has been unfounded and inaccurate. We comply fully with all legal requirements which relate to casual workers, 
including sick pay, holiday pay, and freedom to gain other employment. Casual workers also participate in general incentive schemes.
DIVIDEND 
The Board has decided not to propose a dividend in relation to FY15. The Board remains of the opinion that it is in the best interests of the Group and its shareholders to preserve financial 
flexibility, facilitating the pursuit of potential acquisition and other growth opportunities. The payment of dividends remains under review in future years.
CONCLUSION 
Despite ongoing challenging market conditions, and the weather, we yet again exceeded our targets in FY15. Such success, year on year, is a testament to the hard work and dedication 
of all our workforce for which the Board thank and congratulate them.
 
Dr Keith Hellawell QPM 
Non-Executive Chairman
16 July 2015
13
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... Our offering has developed further in specialist sports categories and more fashion-based 
retailing. We are constantly refurbishing and upgrading our stores, in order to provide our 
customers with a compelling consumer experience. The continued development of our 
dedicated specialist areas and on-going collaboration with key suppliers such as Under 
Armour and European brands such as Salomon on in-store concepts are further examples 
of this.
Acquisitions and strategic investments in related businesses are an important part of our 
strategy. Opportunities to develop into new product categories or markets, or to strengthen 
our position in existing areas, will continue to be considered on a case by case basis.
We aim to maintain our position as the market leader in the Sports Retail sector in the UK, 
while also gaining momentum in our expansion into Europe. The business model provides 
guidance for the Group to implement an effective growth strategy to maintain and develop 
the success achieved so far. It compares our recent successes with our future ambitions in 
order that we can assess how to progress in the future.
The Group has significant momentum and we must ensure that our product offering and 
customer proposition continue to grow and develop in order to retain our current customer 
base and to attract more customers in the future.
Developing brand awareness is a key factor in ensuring a sustainable future, and the 
appropriate level of investment in advertising and technology are important components 
in achieving this.
Our international presence continues to grow through over 260 brand licensing partners, 
our online presence and on-going European store openings. The Group’s appointment of 
internationally-recognised celebrities and sporting professionals as key ambassadors also 
promotes our brands on a global basis.
Our business model is focused on long-term sustainable growth. Whilst we continue to grow our business in the UK, we are now keen to use 
the skills and knowledge we have gained to build and expand our Sports Retail business across the rest of Europe.
ACHIEVE
Targets & 
Group success
3. DEVELOP
Website & mCommerce, 
enhanced product ranges
2. INVEST
Store portfolio & 
workforce
4. PROMOTE
Group-owned  
brands
1. IDENTIFY 
Brand acquisitions & property 
enhancement
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
14
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  OBJECTIVE SO FAR WHAT NEXT?
1. IDENTIFY
IN-STORE
Our Oxford Street store opened in May 2014, and our Glasgow City Centre extension was 
completed in spring 2015.
Across the UK and Europe, we have continued to invest in specialist performance areas and product 
collections, including Karrimor and Sondico. Improved visual merchandising has enhanced the 
customer shopping experience. We have on-going collaborations with key brands such as Under 
Armour, along with European brands such as Salomon, to deliver enhanced in-store merchandising.
Due to the success of the Oxford Street and Glasgow City 
Centre stores, we are now looking to replicate the look and 
feel in other major markets, starting with our new Leeds 
store, which is set to open in summer 2015.
ACQUISITIONS
The Group has acquired 25 former LA Fitness gyms, all of which are located in the UK. 
A number of other acquisitions have taken place in the year, including Gul Watersports, although 
the number has remained somewhat smaller than anticipated.
Acquisitions remain a high priority, particularly outside of 
the UK, which will broaden the customer offering across the 
Group. We anticipate that the number of acquisitions will 
increase over the coming year.
2. INVEST
STORE 
PORTFOLIO
During FY15, we opened 39 stores in the UK, closing 16, and opened a further 16 stores in 
Europe, closing seven. As at 26 April 2015, Sports Retail operated in 20 countries in Europe, as 
well as in the UK.
Our Oxford Street store and our newly expanded Glasgow City Centre store both now span 
c.50,000 sq. ft. We endeavour to replicate this in other major cities.
The construction of a further retail unit on our Shirebrook campus is currently underway, with 
completion due in late 2015.
The Group intends to continue to enhance its store portfolio 
in both the UK and internationally. The Group will continue 
with the strategy to identify strategic partners in new 
territories while expanding operations in those countries 
where we currently have a presence. Plans are in place to 
expand Sports Retail operations into all the major countries 
in the European Economic Area.
PEOPLE
The efforts of our dedicated staff have been instrumental to the success of the Group.
The 2011 Share Scheme has been a key tool used in motivation and retention. The targets have 
been successfully achieved and the scheme vests for participants later in 2015 and in 2017.
The 2015 Share Scheme was approved by shareholders during FY15. Mike Ashley has withdrawn 
from the Scheme in order to ensure that the focus remains on aligning targets with the wider 
Sports Direct team, and not on his potential personal allocation.
Due to the success of the 2009 Share Scheme, participating 
employees are further incentivised by the 2011 and 2015 
Share Schemes.
3. DEVELOP
WEBSITE
Following successful trials during the year, Click and Collect has now been launched in the UK in 
both Sports Direct and USC and has proved very successful. Over 20% of all UK Sports Retail online 
orders and over 15% of USC online orders are now being delivered by Click and Collect.
We have re-designed our checkout, introducing a guest checkout option and streamlining the 
checkout process.
Customers are now also able to purchase and redeem gift cards online.
Particular attention has been paid to improving the language and currency conversion on our sites 
for non-English speaking countries. The improvements have led to a significant reduction in dropped 
baskets, most notably in France and Germany.
Following investment into our mobile platforms, mobile visits now equate to over 50% of visits to 
SPORTSDIRECT.com.
Our aim is to roll out Click and Collect across other UK  
Group websites.
To improve the customer experience in Europe, we plan to 
introduce dedicated websites and allow customers to use 
additional payment methods while shopping online, including 
Ideal, Giro and Sofort.
We will provide continued investment in the online business. 
Online visits and sales have shown notable increases year 
on year.
We plan to introduce a fast pay checkout solution, allowing 
customers to purchase a large number of products in a small 
number of clicks.
4. PROMOTE
BRANDS
The Group has continued to exploit its brands by offering wholesale and licensing opportunities,  
in addition to selling brands in Group retail outlets. Wholesale and licensing enables an increased 
area of distribution, following which brands can reach audiences which would otherwise  
remain untapped.
The focus is to remain on international wholesale, including the USA, which currently represents 
c.40% of the total wholesale revenue.
Sports Direct Retail licensing continues to grow with 14 stores now open in Malaysia and 13 open 
in the Middle East.
Licensing is a key driver of the Brands division. 58 new license agreements were signed during 
FY15, guaranteeing a minimum of $25m in royalties over the contract periods. 
The brand portfolio increased during the year through the acquisition of the Dunlop and Slazenger 
rights in the Australasia region.
Expansion of the heritage brands, including Everlast, Dunlop 
and Slazenger, is expected to continue. 
Dunlop remains a key focus for expansion, particularly into 
categories which have not previously been explored by the 
Group, including automotive accessories.
Acquisitions of key brands will remain a high priority, 
increasing our brand portfolio and weakening the position of 
competitors.
Asia Pacific will remain a main area of focus along with 
Australasia, expanding the global presence of the Group.  
Our well established brands, including Slazenger and Dunlop, 
will lead the way in the region.
Investment in key Group brands is expected to continue  
in order to allow products to reach new markets  
and customers.
OUR STRATEGY
15
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... The Board monitors the Group’s performance by reference to a number of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), which are discussed in this Chief Executive’s Report, and also in the Financial 
Review. The most important of these KPIs are:
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015 27 April 2014 28 April 2013
FINANCIAL KPIS
Group revenue £2,832.6m £2,706.0m £2,185.6m
Underlying EBITDA 
(1)
£383.2m £331.1m £287.9m
Sports Retail gross margin 44.6% 42.9% 40.3%
Sports Retail like-for-like stores gross contribution 
(2)
+7.4% +10.5% +10.6%
Online revenue as a percentage of total Sports Retail revenue 
(3)
16.5% 15.1% 15.0%
Underlying earnings per share 
(4)
38.9p 32.1p 26.9p
NON-FINANCIAL KPIS
No. of Sports Retail stores 
(5)
661 629 498
Workforce turnover 18.7% 19.2% 15.5%
Cardboard recycling 9,526 tonnes 9,230 tonnes 8,893 tonnes
 
(1) The method for calculating underlying EBITDA is set out in the Financial Review.
(2) Sports Retail like-for-like contribution is defined as the percentage change in gross contribution in the successive 12 month period. A like-for-like store is one that has been trading for the full 12 months in both periods and has not been 
affected by a significant change, such as a major refurbishment. Excludes contribution in EAG and SIG as the prior year comparative is not a full year.
(3) Excludes wholesale revenue.
(4) The method for calculating underlying earnings per share is set out in the Financial Review.
(5) Excluding associates and stores in the Baltic states that trade under fascias other than SPORTLAND or SPORTSDIRECT.com.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
16
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT 
The Board has a responsibility to govern the Group in the interest of the shareholders. 
Comments and suggestions of shareholders are always considered by the Board.  
Where the Board considers that a risk has not been fully mitigated, follow-up meetings 
will be arranged to assess the risk and formulate mitigation strategies. A specialist 
management team of Directors and senior managers highlight risks as and when they 
become apparent. The team then in turn assists the Board in devising controls to  
minimise the Group’s exposure.
THE GROUP’S APPROACH TO RISK 
The identification and management of risk is a continuous process, and the Group’s system 
of internal controls and the business continuity programmes are key elements of that. The 
Group maintains a system of controls to manage the business and to protect its assets 
with the development of contingency plans and rapid response to changing circumstances 
and does much to mitigate the risks facing the Group. The Group continues to invest in 
people, systems and in IT to manage the Group’s operations and its finances effectively 
and efficiently.
1. RISKS ARE IDENTIFIED
2. RISKS ARE EVALUATED
3. ACTION IS TAKEN TO MANAGE THE RISKS
4. PRACTICES ARE REVIEWED AND MONITORED TO LIMIT THE RISK
The specialist management teams are responsible for the identification, analysis, 
evaluation and mitigation of the significant risks applicable to their areas of business.  
The teams meet regularly to discuss the identified risks, and how these should be reviewed 
and monitored. The Board ensures that the appropriate arrangements are in place under 
which staff can raise concerns about possible financial or other impropriety, which are then 
appropriately investigated.
The Board is assisted by the Audit Committee in fulfilling its overview responsibilities, 
reviewing the reporting of financial and non-financial information to shareholders and 
the audit process, satisfying itself that appropriate systems of internal control and risk 
management are in place and are serving to identify and manage risk.
The Group operates a Retail Support Unit which provides strong operational internal audit 
services in the Retail division, and there are procedures in place in the Brands division to 
monitor and control licensees. The Audit Committee has also appointed BDO as internal 
audit advisers (see Audit Committee report on page 40).
The external auditors are invited to attend all meetings of the Audit Committee, save for 
those parts of any meeting when the Committee reviews the performance of the auditors. 
The Group’s system of internal control and risk management and its effectiveness is 
monitored and reviewed by the Board, the Audit Committee and management, and the 
Board believes that the Group has maintained throughout the year and up to the date of 
approval of the Annual Report and accounts an effective embedded system of internal 
control and has complied with the FRC’s Risk Guidance.
The systems of internal control and risk management are designed to manage, rather than 
eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives.
RISK POLICIES AND PROCEDURES 
Business plans and budgets for each business include financial and strategic targets against 
which performance is monitored. Monitoring includes the examination of and changes 
to rolling annual and quarterly forecasts, monthly measurement of actual achievement 
against key performance targets and plans, and weekly reviews of performance.
The Group has clear procedures for the approval and control of expenditure. Strategic 
investment decisions involving both capital and revenue expenditure are subject to formal 
detailed appraisal and review according to approval levels set by the Board. Operating 
expenditure is controlled within each business with approval levels for such expenditure 
being determined by the individual businesses.
There is an approved whistle-blowing policy within the Group. The policy was established 
to be utilised by staff who wish to raise any issues or concerns relating to the Group’s 
activities, and all matters are discussed on a confidential basis.
KEY RISKS 
CONTROL ENVIRONMENT 
The Group’s operating procedures include a comprehensive system for reporting 
information to the Board including:
• assessment of three years of strategy plans for business development;
•  creation and assessment of legal policies; and
•  review of the Group at each Board meeting, focusing on potential new risks (such as 
key changes in the market and succession planning).
CONTROL PROCEDURES 
Detailed operational procedures have been developed for each of the Group’s operating 
businesses that embody key controls. The implications of changes in law and regulations 
are taken into account within these procedures.
FINANCIAL REPORTING PROCESS 
The Group has in place internal control and risk management systems in relation to 
the Group’s financial reporting process and the Group’s process for the preparation of 
consolidated accounts. These include clearly defined lines of accountability and delegation 
of authority, policies and procedures that cover financial planning and reporting, preparing 
consolidated accounts, capital expenditure, project governance and information security.
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing and monitoring these processes, which 
are designed to ensure that the Group complies with relevant regulatory reporting and 
filing provisions. As at the end of the period covered by this Report, the Audit Committee, 
with the participation of the Chief Executive, evaluated the effectiveness of the design 
and operation of disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information 
required to be disclosed in financial reports is recorded, processed, summarised and 
reported within specified time periods.
MONITOR
IDENTIFY
EVALUATE
MANAGE
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RELATING TO THE GROUP’S BUSINESS
17
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... PRINCIPAL RISKS AFFECTING THE GROUP 
The Group has identified the following factors in the following table as potential risks to, and uncertainties concerning, the successful operation of its business. The Group is, however, 
exposed to a wider range of risks than discussed below but these are the principal risks that have recently been discussed by the Board and Audit Committee and are of primary concern.
AREA RISK MITIGATION
SUPPLY CHAIN
The Group operates internationally so is 
reliant on the successful distribution of 
goods from when they are distributed by 
the manufacturer to when they are sold 
in the stores.
The Group is reliant on manufacturers in 
developing countries as the majority of 
the Group’s products are sourced from 
outside the UK.
The Group is subject to the risks associated with 
international trade and transport as well as those 
relating to exposure to different legal and other 
standards. Particular risks including worker strikes, 
failure to meet minimum code of conduct standards, 
and transport delays for products which could all 
cause substantial difficulties.
Disasters in or around the factories of our suppliers 
could bring negative media attention to the Group.
The Group requires all suppliers to sign up to the Group’s Code of Ethics/Supply 
Policy which enables the Group to monitor and benchmark the performance of 
the supplier. It allows the Group to carry out inspections of premises to ensure 
compliance with the Group’s codes for continuity and quality of supply. The Policy 
extends throughout the duration of the Group’s contract with each supplier and 
allows the Group to conduct inspections of supplier premises at random intervals.
Many risks relating to the supply chain, reliance on non-UK suppliers, and to the 
reputation of the Group’s brands are managed and mitigated by the implementation 
of these policies. Strong Service Level Agreements and maintaining relationships 
with all parties involved in the supply chain also mitigate these risks.
KEY SUPPLIERS
The Group is reliant on good 
relationships with its major 
manufacturers, key brands or  
brand suppliers.
A failure to replace any of its major manufacturers 
or suppliers on commercially reasonable terms could 
have an adverse effect on the Group’s business, 
operating profit or overall financial condition. It may 
mean that customers shop elsewhere if stores cannot 
supply the required product.
The Group follows policies of forging long-term relationships with suppliers and 
of utilising two leading supply chain companies to procure much of the Group’s 
own branded goods. This close relationship brings a better understanding of 
the supplier’s resources enabling the Group to react quickly to changes in the 
international supply market.
Lengthy contracts are often used by the Group to ensure that key manufacturers are 
aware of our commitment to them.
TREASURY AND FINANCIAL RISK
The Group operates internationally. The 
majority of foreign contracts relating to 
the sourcing of Group branded goods 
are denominated in US Dollars and the 
Euro, thus leaving exposure to foreign 
exchange risk.
The Group has net borrowings, which 
are principally at floating interest rates 
linked to bank base rates or LIBOR.
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising 
from various currency exposures and a strengthening 
of the US Dollar or a weakening of the Pound making 
goods more expensive.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial 
transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are 
denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s 
functional currency, as exchange rates move. This 
could significantly reduce profitability.
The Group seeks to mitigate the FX fluctuations by hedging via forward foreign 
currency contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges.
The Group also holds assets overseas in local currency, and these assets are 
revalued in accordance with currency movements. This currency risk is not hedged.
The Group is cash generative and is now targeting its debt levels to mitigate interest 
rate risk and currently has debt levels of less than 1 x underlying EBITDA.
CREDIT AND LIQUIDITY RISK
The Group, primarily the Brands division, 
provides credit to some of its customers.
Funding and liquidity for the Group’s 
operations are provided through  
bank loans, overdrafts and  
shareholders’ funds.
The Group could have a credit risk if credit evaluations 
were not performed on all customers requiring credit 
over a certain amount.
The Group’s objective is to maintain sufficient funding 
and liquidity for its requirements, but the availability 
of adequate cash resources from bank facilities and 
achieving continuity of funding in the current financial 
climate could be a risk to the Group in future years.
The purchase of acquisitions to strengthen and 
compliment the Group may be hindered.
Relationships with suppliers could break down if  
we are unable to pay them in line with our 
contractual obligations.
The Group’s key suppliers also face credit risk and as such the Group regularly 
assesses the viability of its suppliers and ensures there are plans to source from 
alternative businesses should key suppliers fail.
Rigorous procedures are in place to mitigate this credit risk. The Group has a credit 
policy in place and the exposure to risk is monitored on an on-going basis.
Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain 
amount, and concentration of credit risk is managed.
Investment of cash surplus, borrowings and derivative investments are made 
through banks and companies which have credit ratings and investment criteria 
approved by the Board.
The Group mitigates liquidity risk by keeping debt levels low and the current finance 
facility is held with a club of 13 banks, thereby spreading the risk.
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RELATING TO THE GROUP’S BUSINESS 
CONTINUED
18
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  SUCCESSION PLANNING
Key individuals within the Group 
have such a level of knowledge and 
experience of the business which makes 
them essential to continue to further the 
interests of the business.
Natural disaster, illness, injury, or the sudden 
resignation of key individuals could change the 
direction of the Group.
Our departments work together to develop their understanding of each department 
and of the Group. Senior managers work at ground level to help to assess the 
strengths within their teams and to offer development opportunities where 
appropriate. This can be of assistance when considering the suitability of internal 
candidates for vacancies.
Promotion opportunities, a competency framework, and regular appraisals give staff 
a voice, encourage a sense of responsibility and support career progression.
Our structured talent management programmes, and specialist masterclasses, 
encourage internal progression within the Group.
Executive development is important to us and we aim to promote internally rather 
than recruit external individuals who are unknown to the Group. This can be best 
seen through the recent promotion of Matt Pearson to Acting Chief Financial Officer. 
Our Share Schemes seek to reward and retain our key members of staff.
The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the succession plan of the Group, and 
discusses who would take over roles if key team members were to leave.
MARKET FORCES
The Sports Retail industry is highly 
competitive and the Group currently 
competes at national and local levels 
with a wide variety of retailers of 
varying sizes who may have competitive 
advantages. New competitors may enter 
the market.
The competition continues to place pressure on the 
Group’s pricing strategy, margins and profitability.
The Group has a discount pricing policy to help reduce the risk of increased 
competition in the industry.
The Group has a strong property portfolio, and continues to strengthen this by 
relocating and improving stores to adapt to market conditions.
A number of key brands are owned by the Group, reducing pressure on margins. 
The Group’s focus on acquiring competitors enables us to retain our discounted 
pricing systems without price increases from the brand owners.
OPERATIONAL
The Group is reliant on the Head Office 
and National Distribution Centre at 
Shirebrook operating without disruption, 
along with the uninterrupted running of 
the Group’s fleet of vehicles.
The majority of the Group’s revenue is 
derived from the UK.
Any disruption to the Head Office, National 
Distribution Centre or the fleet of vehicles might 
significantly impact the Group’s ability to manage 
its operations, distribute products to its stores and 
maintain its supply chain.
Any long-term interruption of the Group’s IT systems 
would have a significant impact on the Group’s 
operation, particularly in the Retail division.
Terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, government actions 
or adverse weather affecting the road networks 
within the UK could result in a significant reduction in 
consumer confidence, which would in turn have an 
adverse affect on sales in stores.
The Group has a strong business continuity plan that is regularly reviewed to 
address operational risks.
The Board is confident that as far as it is practical, the risks and uncertainties 
that face the Group are being monitored and managed and that, where required, 
appropriate action is being taken.
The Group constantly monitors the business environment and the nature  
of the business model allows for the Group to act swiftly under  
extraordinary circumstances.
The Group is extending the Head Office and National Distribution Centre so that 
there is additional room for storage and workers, for future business needs and in 
case of disaster. 
CYBER FAILURES AND ATTACKS
Online sales and advertising are key 
to the Group’s strategy going forward. 
However cyber attacks are becoming 
more sophisticated and frequent, 
commanding headlines and losing 
customers’ trust. 
Reputational implications if the attack is reported 
to the media, including a loss of sales whilst the 
site is down, and longer term loss of sales through 
the deterioration of customer confidence. Possible 
sanctions and penalties from overseeing bodies,  
and the loss of competitive advantage against  
market competitors.
The Group has a strategy and processes in place which relate to our IT security. 
Working with internal and external parties, our colleagues continuously monitor 
our systems to ensure that they are sufficiently strong to deal with ever increasing 
cyber risks.
During 2014, a review of the IT risks was completed. The review looked into the 
resilience of the current systems, highlighting the major points of concern regarding 
the Group IT systems. The matters raised will be worked on over the next two to 
three year period in a follow up monitoring programme.
Our IT and Risks teams have held workshops to assess the key technology threats 
to the Group, and look into where policies require updating and amending.
19
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... HEALTH & SAFETY
Health and safety is key across all areas 
of the Group. Policies are implemented, 
in conjunction with legal standards, to 
protect our staff and customers.
Potential injuries, distress and fatalities could 
result from a failure to establish and maintain safe 
environments. Lack of competence in health and 
safety reporting could lead to legal claims which are 
difficult to defend.
We ensure that each Company within the Group is fully trained to the required 
standards applicable in each requisite country.
Training courses are regularly offered and staff are encouraged to learn essential 
health and safety techniques.
The team at Head Office is always on hand to visit and assist stores with health and 
safety issues, assess incidents and refer reportable matters to RIDOR. During the 
year the team has gained another strand by creating a team of employees which is 
dedicated to solely dealing with claims and complaints.
The incidents within the Group are reported to the Board regularly, as are the  
legal claims that arise from these. The Board consider ways to reduce the number 
of claims.
LEGAL
The Group’s trade marks, patents, 
designs and other intellectual property 
rights are central to the value of the 
Group’s brands.
The Group believes that its licensees, suppliers, 
agents and distributors are in material compliance 
with employment, environmental and other laws. 
The violation, or allegations of a violation, of such 
laws or regulations, by any of the Group’s licensees, 
suppliers, agents or distributors, could lead to 
adverse publicity and a decline in public demand for 
the Group’s products, or require the Group to incur 
expenditure or make changes to its supply chain and 
other business arrangements to ensure compliance.
The Group may need to resort to litigation in the 
future to enforce its intellectual property rights and 
any litigation could result in substantial costs and a 
diversion of resources.
Third parties may try to challenge the ownership of or 
counterfeit the Group’s intellectual property.
The Group has an in-house legal team who have knowledge of a variety of 
legal areas that apply to the Group. This in-house expertise is vital in mitigating  
such issues.
The legal team work closely with external consultants to assist with, and gain 
knowledge on, matters outside their areas of expertise.
The Group’s legal team actively monitor trade mark applications by other 
companies, as well as the stock of rival retailers, to ensure that our rights are not 
infringed and where these are infringed, to take appropriate action.
The legal team carefully draft all correspondence to ensure that documentation 
is clear and legally binding. Drafting templates and key points are shared so that 
knowledge is retained within the Group.
SALES
The Group’s retail businesses are subject 
to seasonal peaks. The incidence of and 
participation in major sporting events 
will have a particular impact on the 
Sports Retail business.
Prolonged unseasonal weather conditions or 
temporary severe weather during peak trading 
seasons could have a material adverse effect on the 
Group’s businesses. The Group is dependent upon the 
store portfolio and consumers’ spending habits.
Customer tastes could change and stocked items 
could no longer be suitable for the market. 
Although unable to mitigate environmental conditions, the Group is able to influence 
the retail portfolio and therefore constantly monitors development of stores and 
the Group’s aim to increase the square footage through viable new retail space. By 
monitoring stock levels through sales forecasting the Group can manage the peaks 
in demand and trading profiles can be predicted.
Building sales units at our Head Office and National Distribution Centre allows us to 
trial and monitor differing sales techniques and products, before rolling these out to 
the rest of the Group.
Our team keep ahead of the trends, conducting market research on our customers 
and monitoring our competitors. Sophisticated ordering systems ensure that items 
which sell well in particular areas will be restocked. Our strong relationship with 
suppliers ensures that we are able to source key items at short notice, should this 
be required.
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RELATING TO THE GROUP’S BUSINESS 
CONTINUED
20
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  The Group has achieved another year of revenue and profit growth in a challenging retail 
environment, driven by continued expansion both in the UK and across Europe. During 
the year we have increased our store portfolio in the UK by 23 stores and have added 
a further nine stores to our European store portfolio. We have also continued to develop 
large city centre format stores.
We have also established a Fitness division in the year, Sportsdirect Fitness.com, 
comprising 27 gyms including two combined gym and retail sites.
I am delighted to announce that the Group has now met the final target under the 2011 
Share Scheme. The first award under this Scheme is due to vest later in 2015 and will 
reward c.2,000 participating employees for their hard work and dedication. The Group’s 
continued success truly reiterates how important the Share Schemes have been in 
motivating participants to work towards a shared goal.
GROUP 
Group revenue increased by 4.7% to £2,832.6m in the year. This was primarily due to 
the Sports Retail division, where we grew revenues by 5.5%. Premium Lifestyle revenue 
fell by 3.0%, largely due to the closure of loss-making stores in the period.
Group gross margin in the year increased by 110 basis points from 42.7% to 43.8%. 
Sports Retail division gross margin increased by 170 basis points to 44.6% (FY14: 
42.9%), while Brands division gross margin decreased to 40.3% (FY14: 43.1%).
Group operating costs increased 4.2% to £860.5m (FY14: £826.1m). We continue to 
balance revenues and gross margin, while maintaining a tight focus on operating costs 
and as a result grew Group underlying EBITDA (pre-scheme costs) for the year by 15.7% 
to £383.2m (FY14: £331.1m). Within this underlying EBITDA, we increased the Retail 
division EBITDA by 16.0% to £349.1m (FY14: £300.9m) while the Brands division 
EBITDA increased by 12.9% to £34.1m (FY14: £30.2m).
Excluded from underlying EBITDA is a £10.1m (FY14: £11.9m) charge in respect of the 
2009 and 2011 Share Schemes. This charge has been taken centrally and, except in note 
4 to the Annual Report, is not reflected in the divisional (Retail and Brands) numbers in 
this report. 
For the year, Group underlying profit before tax increased 20.5% to £300.3m, primarily 
as a result of the £52.1m increase in EBITDA (pre-scheme costs). Underlying EPS for the 
year increased by 21.2% to 38.9p (FY14: 32.1p). 
Net debt at 26 April 2015 was £59.7m (27 April 2014: £212.0m), which is 0.16 times 
reported EBITDA (27 April 2014: 0.66 times). Reported EBITDA includes realised foreign 
exchange gains/losses in selling and administration costs and the Share Scheme charges.
REVIEW BY BUSINESS SEGMENT 
RETAIL REVENUE:
52 weeks ended 
26 April 2015 
(£’m)
27 April 2014 
(£’m)
Sports Retail 2,398.6 2,274.4
Premium Lifestyle 207.6 214.1
Total Retail revenue 2,606.2 2,488.5
Cost of sales (1,456.6) (1,427.3)
Gross profit 1,149.6 1,061.2
Gross margin percentage 44.1% 42.6%
BRANDS REVENUE: 
52 weeks ended 
26 April 2015 
(£’m)
27 April 2014 
(£’m)
Wholesale 193.3 185.2
Licensing 33.1 32.3
Total Brands revenue 226.4 217.5
Cost of sales (135.2) (123.8)
Gross margin 91.2 93.7
Gross margin percentage 40.3% 43.1%
 
SPORTS RETAIL 
Sports Retail revenue has grown in the period as we continue to invest in product range 
and availability, increasing the proportion of ‘better’ and ‘best’ Group branded products, 
optimise both our in-store and web offerings and further invest in our store portfolio. 
Sports Retail sales grew 5.5% to £2,398.6m (FY14: £2,274.4m), driven largely by 
growth in the UK, offset by a weak winter sports season across Europe and adverse 
foreign currency movements. Sports Retail gross margin for the year increased by 170 
basis points to 44.6% (FY14: 42.9%). This increase is primarily attributable to on-going 
investment in our ‘better and best’ product ranges, further enhanced by efficiencies gained 
by our strong supply chain disciplines. 
Sales in the second half of the year were up 2.6% to £1,167.6m (FY14 H2: 
£1,138.3m). Gross margins for the second half of the year improved to 44.6% (FY14 
H2: 42.5%). 
Sports Retail like-for-like gross contribution, which excludes online, increased by 7.4% 
(1)
 
marking the sixth consecutive year of growth in this KPI (FY14: +10.5% / FY13: 
+10.6% / FY12: +0.7% / FY11: +6.8% / FY10: +3.7%). Sports Retail like-for-like 
contribution is defined as the percentage change in gross contribution in the successive 
12-month period. A like-for-like store is one that has been trading for the full 12 months 
in both periods and has not been affected by a significant change, such as a major 
refurbishment. The number of stores included in this year’s KPI is 432 (FY14: 339).
(1) Excluding EAG and SIG as the prior year comparative is not a full year.
OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
I am pleased to report that, despite the adverse impact on performance of England’s early departure from last year’s FIFA World Cup in 
Brazil and the unseasonably mild weather during autumn reducing footfall, the Group has, yet again, succeeded in delivering another solid 
set of results.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT & BUSINESS REVIEW
21
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... Sports Retail operating costs increased by 9.0% in the year to £715.2m (FY14: 
£656.3m) compared to a 5.5% increase in sales and a 9.7% increase in gross profit due 
to the full year impact of proportionally higher costs in our recently acquired European 
businesses. Operating costs in H2 increased by 4.6% to £361.4m (FY14 H2: £345.5m) 
compared to a 2.6% increase in sales and a 7.7% increase in gross profit.
Store wages were up 13.1% in the year to £239.2m (FY14: £211.4m) but as a 
percentage of sales increased only to 10.0% (FY14: 9.3%) due to the annualised 
effect of new store openings combined with the full year impact of proportionally higher 
costs in our recently acquired European businesses and reduced sales due to a difficult 
winter sports season in Europe. Sports Retail store premises costs increased by 9.5% to 
£211.0m (FY14: £192.7m), due to investment in new stores and the full year effect of 
comparatively higher costs in our new European businesses. Other operating costs were 
up 13.9% to £280.8m (FY14: £246.6m), increasing as a percentage of sales to 11.7% 
(FY14: 10.8%) due to costs in our recently established Fitness division.
The currency impact on operating costs of the change in the Euro: Sterling exchange in our 
European businesses rate was a gain of £15.7m (FY14: a loss of £5.6m).
Underlying EBITDA for Sports Retail was £356.8m (FY14: £321.3m), an increase of 
11.0% for the year. This increase was driven by a £94.2m increase in gross profit due 
to the growth in store contribution and online sales, offset by the £59.0m increase in 
operating costs.
The Group’s retail businesses performed strongly in a difficult economic environment. Our 
retail model, offering outstanding value to our customers, remains resilient, both in the UK 
and internationally. Throughout the year, we continued to focus on offering our customers 
the most comprehensive product range, the best availability and value while minimising 
operating costs as a percentage of gross sales.
Online revenue has increased by 14.4% from £335.4m to £383.8m in the year, driven 
largely by the successful launch of Click and Collect in the UK during the second half of 
the year, which now accounts for over 20% of all UK online orders. This performance is 
exceptional considering we charge £4.99 for this service. Online sales represented 16.5% 
of Sports Retail sales (FY14: 15.1%), excluding wholesale sales. 
Our mobile site continues to drive sales and the Group was recently ranked in the top four 
retailers in the FTSE 100 in terms of mobile website performance, according to a recent 
study released by The Search Agency*. Mobile traffic now accounts for over 50% of all 
online visits. We have also re-designed our checkout, introducing a guest checkout option 
and streamlining the checkout process.
We have worked hard to improve the customer experience in Europe, widening the 
language and currency conversion options on our sites for non-English speaking countries, 
and going forward, plan to introduce dedicated websites for our European businesses and 
additional payment methods including Ideal, Giro and Sofort. 
Following successful trials during the year, customers are now able to purchase and redeem 
gift cards online. We are also working towards the introduction of a “fast pay” checkout 
system, allowing customers to purchase a large number of products in a small number of 
clicks.
The division has continued to expand, with the development of Sportsdirect Fitness.
com, comprising 25 standalone former LA Fitness gyms and an additional two new build 
combined retail and gym spaces. A further two gyms in St Helens and Dundee are planned 
for early autumn 2015. Membership continues to grow and we have already surpassed our 
full year targets.
* The Search Agency UK’s Mobile Experience Scorecard: FTSE 100 Companies – http://go.thesearchagency.com/
mobile-experience-scorecard-ftse-100-2015.
We have continued to invest in staff training, with a key focus this year on our “Home 
Grown” Talent Management programme, Customer Service Training and Management 
Induction. During the year over 58,000 hours were invested into training and developing 
our workforce. A great deal of this training took place at our Training Academy on our 
Shirebrook campus, which is the only training centre in the world supported by both 
Nike and Puma. We are committed to the continued development of our staff, always 
aiming to promote internally wherever possible and during the year ran our first Graduate 
Recruitment Programme, ‘Talent Bank’, where graduates were placed in our Finance and 
Ecommerce teams for eight-week summer placements and offered the opportunity to 
compete for a permanent role, with the best being rewarded.
Phase Three of the development of our National Distribution Centre in Shirebrook, the 
construction of an additional c.700,000 sq. ft. footprint warehouse and office facility, is 
now well underway, with completion scheduled for late 2015.
We have worked hard to enhance and invest in our store portfolio during the year, with a 
particular focus on larger city centre stores. During the year we relocated our Oxford Street 
store to the c.50,000 sq. ft. former HMV store and have completed a c.28,000 sq. ft. 
extension of our Glasgow store which includes a store in store concept area with Under 
Armour. We have recently also acquired the freehold of the former Primark store in Leeds. 
Works are currently underway on this four floor, c.50,000 sq. ft. store which is due to 
open this summer.
During the year we opened 39 stores in the UK, closing 16, and have opened an additional 
16 stores in Europe, closing seven. 12 out of the 16 UK closures were relocations 
into larger and better configured space. 428 of the UK store fascia are now branded 
SPORTSDIRECT.com, an increase of 27 from last year (FY14: 401).
Period end square-footage increased to c.4.75m sq. ft.
(1)
 (FY14: c.4.5m) in the UK and 
remained at c.3.0m sq. ft. 
(2)
 (FY14: c.3.0m sq. ft.) across the rest of Europe. 
(1) Due to differing methodologies, this implies a range between 4.5m sq. ft. - 5.0m sq. ft. 
(2) Due to differing methodologies, this implies a range between 2.5m sq. ft. - 3.5m sq. ft.
UK STORE PORTFOLIO
(1)
26 April 2015 27 April 2014
Stores at Year End 440 417
Opened 39 32
Closed 16 11
SPORTSDIRECT.com fascias 428 401
Other 13 17
Area (sq. ft.) c.4.75m c.4.5m
(1) Excluding Northern Ireland.
In the 52 weeks to 26 April 2015, rent reviews have been agreed on 33 stores, of which 
26 stores were agreed at nil increase. Of the remaining seven stores the average increase 
in rent was 13.87%, giving a total average increase over the 33 stores of 2.88% (0.57% 
annual equivalent). There are currently 52 rent reviews outstanding with a further 42 
falling due in FY16. Our lease expiry profile over all leasehold stores (excluding Lillywhites 
Piccadilly) is now 4.6 years, including 37 stores with contractual expiries or break dates 
within the next 12 months. This significant amount of flexibility within our portfolio  
allows us to continue to monitor and adapt our format to the rapidly changing multi-
channel environment.
In the current financial year, we are targeting to open between 30 and 40 stores, c.30% 
of which are expected to be relocations. We are also targeting to re-fit c.300,000 sq. ft. of 
retail space across the UK.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT & BUSINESS REVIEW 
CONTINUED
22
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  INTERNATIONAL STORE PORTFOLIO
(1)
26 April 2015 27 April 2014
Austria 46 52
Belgium 43 44
Estonia
(2)
24 20
Latvia
(2)
13 13
Lithuania
(2)
12 12
Portugal 17 15
Slovenia 15 15
Poland 10 7
France 7 6
Czech Republic 6 4
Holland 6 6
Cyprus 6 5
Hungary 5 4
Slovakia 4 3
Germany 3 3
Luxembourg 2 2
Spain 1 1
Switzerland 1 -
Total 221 212
 
(1) Excluding Republic of Ireland & Iceland 
(2) Includes only stores with SPORTSDIRECT.com and Sportland fascias
All of the above stores are operated by companies wholly owned by the Group, except 
Portugal, where the Group owns 50.1% and Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania where the Group 
owns 60.0%. During the year we have expanded our European store portfolio by nine 
stores and have entered one new country. As a result we are now active in 20 countries 
across Europe including the Republic of Ireland and Iceland. 
In Austria, we have continued to relocate and upgrade the former Sports Experts stores 
which had been previously re-branded to the SPORTSDIRECT.com fascia. Over the coming 
year we will re-brand key Megastores to the Lillywhites fascia, replicating our UK city 
centre store format across the re-branded stores in collaboration with key international 
brands such as Salomon. 
In the Baltic states we have already opened two stores in Estonia under the 
SPORTSDIRECT.com fascia and plan to open two further stores in Lithuania and one store in 
Latvia under the SPORTSDIRECT.com fascia. We have also continued to invest in relocating 
and re-fitting the stores trading under the SPORTLAND fascia.
Our strategy remains to identify partners in new territories while continuing to expand our 
operations in the countries where we currently trade. For FY16, we are targeting to open 
between 20 and 30 new stores across seven countries.
The Group has a 50% shareholding in the Heatons chain which operates 15 Sports Direct 
stores in Northern Ireland and 27 sports stores in the Republic of Ireland. We also own a 
40% shareholding in the Sports Direct business in Iceland.
Local management continue to work hard to ensure that all new and existing stores in 
Europe are committed to striving towards the operational efficiencies and standards that 
exist across our UK sports stores.
PREMIUM LIFESTYLE 
Premium Lifestyle sales decreased 3.0% to £207.6m (FY14: £214.1m), due to the 
closure of loss-making stores in the year. Premium Lifestyle gross margin for the year 
decreased by 150 basis points to 38.8% (FY14: 40.3%) due to online clearance of legacy 
stock in the year.
Premium Lifestyle operating costs decreased by 17.3% to £88.2m (FY14: £106.7m) due 
to the continued rationalisation of the USC and Republic businesses and synergies gained 
by the consolidation of key head office functions in Flannels, Cruise and Van Mildert and 
the integration of the distribution function.
The Underlying EBITDA loss for Premium Lifestyle decreased to £7.7m (FY14: £20.4m 
loss) as we began to see the benefit of the re-structuring of Republic in the prior year  
and rationalisation of the other businesses. We will see further benefits of this in the 
coming year. 
Online revenue in the division increased in the year, driven largely by improvements in 
stock availability and system improvements. We saw the benefit of the integration of 
the division’s eCommerce platforms with the Group’s IT systems and the launch of the 
Flannels.com and USC mobile platforms in the prior year. We also successfully launched  
UK Click and Collect in USC during the year and over 15% of all USC online orders are  
now delivered via Click and Collect. 
We continue to strengthen our relationships with key third party suppliers.
At the year end, the Premium Lifestyle division traded from 103 stores under four  
main fascias:
26 April 2015 27 April 2014
USC 66 90
Cruise 10 10
Van Mildert 10 9
Flannels.com 8 8
Other 9 9
Total 103 126
 
BRANDS  
The Group’s brand portfolio includes a wide variety of world-famous sport, fashion and 
lifestyle brands. The Group’s Retail division sells products under these Group brands in  
its stores, and the Brands division exploits the brands through its wholesale and licensing 
activities. The Brands division continues to sponsor a variety of prestigious events and 
retains a variety of globally-recognised, high-profile sportsmen and women as  
brand ambassadors.
Brands division total revenue increased by 4.1% to £226.4m (FY14: £217.5m). 
Wholesale revenues were up 4.4% to £193.3m (FY14: £185.2m), including growth in 
the challenging UK market. Trading in the US market was in line with expectations and 
continues to represent c.40% of total wholesale sales.
Brands gross margin decreased by 280 basis points to 40.3% (FY14: 43.1%). Wholesale 
gross margins fell 310 basis points to 30.1% (FY14: 33.2%) largely due to a shift in the 
sales mix towards lower margin lines. 
Licensing revenues in the year were up 2.5% to £33.1m (FY14: £32.3m).  
During the year we signed 58 new licence agreements, covering multiple brands, product 
categories and geographies, with minimum contracted values of $25m over the life of  
the agreements. At 26 April 2015, the Group has 401 license agreements worldwide
(1)
, 
across 264 licensees, with contracted minimums of $305m over the remaining life of  
the agreements.
(1) Includes consolidation of agreements signed in prior years.
23
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... Longer term, we still regard licensing as the key driver of Brands division profitability and 
central to the overall growth of the Brands business. The key growth areas are expected 
to include Australasia and Asia Pacific with the acquisition of the Dunlop and Slazenger 
brands in the region during the year. This combined with growth in the Americas should 
compensate for a more challenging licensing landscape in the UK and Europe, as Sports 
Retail continues to expand in these territories. 
Operating costs decreased by 9.7% to £57.0m (FY14: £63.1m) benefiting from the 
consolidation of our back office functions in the prior year. As a result of cost savings, 
underlying EBITDA increased by 12.9% to £34.1m (FY14: £30.2m).
We continue to focus on developing world-class products that are endorsed by leading 
athletes on the field of play. We expect to spend between £10 and £20m on advertising 
and promotional costs in the coming year.
WORKFORCE 
The success of the Group has largely been created by our c.27,000 strong workforce, 
whose dedication and commitment has been sustained over many years. Their enthusiasm 
and ‘one team’ attitude has assisted the Group to succeed where many other retailers 
have failed. The Board is extremely grateful for the time that our workforce has taken to 
develop their skills and expertise. We promote staff training wherever possible to enable 
them to be the best that they can be. 
The 2009 and 2011 Share Schemes have been fundamental tools in the motivation and 
incentivisation of participating employees. Under the 2009 Share Scheme, c.27m shares 
vested with those participants. Subject to satisfactory personal performance, a further 
c.21m shares are expected to vest under the 2011 Share Scheme.
The 2011 Share Scheme Adjusted Underlying EBITDA targets (before scheme costs), 
relate to performance between FY12 and FY15. All four targets have now been met, and 
subject to the individual employee’s satisfactory personal performance, the shares are 
due to vest in 2015 and 2017. Under the 2011 Share Scheme participating employees 
are eligible for awards on a pro-rata basis depending on their length of service with the 
Group. Awards under the scheme are granted at either 100%, 75%, 50% or 25% of the 
participant’s annual base pay. Subject to the performance criteria being fulfilled, c.5m 
shares are due to vest in 2015 and c.16m shares are due to vest in 2017.
An additional three million shares are due to vest with an Executive Director and two 
members of senior management in 2017 under the Executive Share Scheme, subject 
to performance criteria being fulfilled. The Executive Share Scheme performance targets 
mirror those to be applied to awards under the 2011 Share Scheme.
As a result of the successes of previous schemes, the 2015 Share Scheme has been 
devised to encourage further outstanding employee performance for those who are 
invited to participate. The Scheme will provide for the grant of nil-cost options over up 
to 25m shares. The vestings are dependent on stretching performance criteria spanning 
between FY16 and FY19. With original EBITDA targets (before scheme costs) of £480m 
for FY16, £570m for FY17, £650m for FY18 and £750m for FY19 when the Scheme 
was approved, the Scheme has the potential to not only motivate participants, but also to 
create a further substantial increase in shareholder value.
The Group intends to propose an amendment to the FY16 Adjusted Underlying EBITDA 
target under the 2015 Share Scheme, which will be reduced from £480m to £420m.  
All other targets for the further three years of the Scheme currently remain the same.  
This change will be put to shareholders as an ordinary resolution at the Company’s AGM  
in September 2015.
CONTRACTS ESSENTIAL TO THE BUSINESS 
OF THE GROUP 
The Group has long-established relationships with Nike and adidas, the major suppliers 
of third-party branded sporting goods, and considers that continued supplies from these 
companies are critical to the business of the Group.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS  
The Corporate Responsibility Report is on pages 28 to 32 and a review of the assessment 
of the Group’s impact on the environment is included in this report.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
The Group designs clothing and some footwear for sale in stores and has arrangements 
with suppliers for the research and development of goods for the Brands division.
OUTLOOK 
Trading since the year end has been in line with management’s expectations, and 
underpins the 2015 Share Scheme’s proposed revised FY16 Underlying EBITDA target of 
£420m. The Group’s performance continues to benefit from a number of factors including 
investment in product range and availability, with an increased emphasis on ‘better’ 
and ‘best’ Group branded products and the optimisation of our in-store and web offer, 
enhanced by the introduction of Click and Collect in the UK. We also continue to invest in 
our store portfolio, with the roll-out of further large format city centre stores.
 
Dave Forsey 
Chief Executive
16 July 2015
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT & BUSINESS REVIEW 
CONTINUED
24
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  The Financial Statements for the Group for the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2015 are presented in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU.
SUMMARY OF RESULTS
52 weeks ended 
26 April 2015
(£’m) 
27 April 2014 
(£’m) 
Revenue 2,832.6 2,706.0
Underlying EBITDA 383.2 331.1
Underlying Profit Before Tax 300.3 249.3
Reported Profit Before Taxation 313.4 239.5
Pence per share Pence per share
Reported EPS 40.6 30.8
Underlying EPS 38.9 32.1
The Directors believe that underlying EBITDA, underlying profit before tax and underlying 
earnings per share provide more useful information for shareholders on the underlying 
performance of the business than the reported numbers and are consistent with how 
business performance is measured internally. They are not recognised profit measures 
under IFRS and may not be directly comparable with “adjusted” profit measures used by 
other companies.
EBITDA is earnings before investment income, finance income and finance costs, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation and, therefore, includes the Group’s share of profit from 
associated undertakings and joint ventures. Underlying EBITDA is calculated as EBITDA 
before the impact of foreign exchange, any exceptional or other non-trading items and 
costs relating to the Share Schemes.
EBITDA AND PROFIT BEFORE TAX
EBITDA (£’m) PBT (£’m)
Operating profit 295.6 -
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 67.8 -
Share of profit of associated undertakings  
(excl. FV adjustments)
3.0 -
Reported 366.4 313.4
Share Scheme 10.1 -
Exceptional items 3.0 3.0
Profit on disposal of investments - (12.6)
Realised FX loss 3.7 3.7
IAS 39 FX fair value adjustment on forward  
currency contracts
- (7.2)
Underlying 383.2 300.3
Underlying 52 week FY15 profit before tax excludes: 
(i) exceptional items which decreased profit by £3.0m; 
(ii) profit on disposal of investments which increased profit by £12.6m; 
(iii) realised foreign exchange losses which decreased profit by £3.7m; and 
(iv) IFRS revaluation of foreign currency contracts which increased profit by £7.2m.
 
FOREIGN EXCHANGE 
The Group manages the impact of currency movements through the use of forward fixed 
rate currency purchase and sales contracts. The Group’s policy is to hold or hedge between 
zero and five years of anticipated purchases in foreign currency.
The realised exchange loss of £3.7m (FY14: £1.8m gain) included in administration costs 
has arisen from:
a) accepting Dollars and Euros at the contracted rate; and
b) the translation of Dollar and Euro denominated assets and liabilities at the period 
end rate or date of realisation.
The exchange gain of £7.2m (FY14: £11.2m loss) included in finance income/costs 
substantially represents the reduction in the mark-to-market liability made (under IFRS) 
for the Group’s unhedged forward contracts as at 26 April 2015. A number of the forward 
contracts outstanding at 26 April 2015 qualify for hedge accounting and the fair value 
gain on these contracts has been credited to equity through the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income. The Group has sufficient USD/GBP contracts to cover all purchases 
in UK Retail for FY16. The Sterling exchange rate with the US Dollar was $1.680 at 27 
April 2014 and $1.502 at 26 April 2015.
Given the potential impact of commodity prices on raw material costs, the Group may 
hedge certain input costs, including cotton, crude oil and electricity.
FINANCE COSTS
52 weeks ended 
26 April 2015 
(£’m) 
27 April 2014 
(£’m) 
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts (6.7) (7.5)
Interest on other loans (0.2) (0.6)
Interest on retirement benefit obligations (0.6) (0.6)
Fair value adjustment to forward foreign exchange 
contracts
- (11.2)
(7.5) (19.9)
The decrease in interest payable is a result of the decreased use of the revolving credit 
facility and repayment of debt inherited from acquired companies. 
The prior year loss on the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts arose under 
IFRS as a result of marking to market at the period end those contracts that do not qualify 
for hedge accounting.
FINANCIAL REVIEW
25
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
52 weeks ended 
26 April 2015
(£’m) 
27 April 2014 
(£’m) 
Profit on sale of freehold properties 10.3 -
Impairment and accelerated depreciation and 
amortisation
(13.3) (5.5)
(3.0) (5.5)
The impairment and accelerated depreciation and amortisation relates to a change in the 
estimated useful life of certain tangible and intangible assets and impairment against 
goodwill in the year.
The profit on sale of freehold property includes the sale of a freehold warehouse for 
£21.2m, realising a profit of £11.3m.
TAXATION 
The effective tax rate on profit before tax in FY15 was 23.0% (FY14: 25.0%). This rate 
reflects depreciation on non-qualifying assets and overseas earnings being taxed at a 
higher rate.
EARNINGS
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
(pence per share)
27 April 2014
(pence per share)
Change 
(%)
Reported EPS (Basic) 40.6 30.8 31.8
Underlying EPS 38.9 32.1 21.2
Weighted average number  
of shares (actual)
592,294,371 585,513,537
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to 
ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 
during the actual financial period. Shares held in Treasury and the Employee Benefit Trust 
are excluded from this figure.
The underlying EPS reflects the underlying performance of the business compared with 
the prior year and is calculated using the weighted average number of shares. It is not a 
recognised profit measure under IFRS and may not be directly comparable with “adjusted” 
profit measures used by other companies.
The items adjusted for arriving at the underlying profit after tax and minority interests is 
as follows:
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
(£m)
27 April 2014
(£m)
Profit after tax 240.4 180.2
Post tax effect of adjustment items:
Profit on disposal of listed investments (2.8) (4.0)
Impairment of goodwill - 0.3
Fair value adjustment to forward foreign 
exchange contracts
(12.5) 8.4
Realised loss/(gain) on forward foreign 
exchange contracts
2.9 (1.4)
Profit on disposal of freehold properties (7.9) -
Impairment and accelerated depreciation and 
amortisation
10.2 4.1
Underlying profit after tax 230.3 187.6
DIVIDENDS 
The Board has decided not to propose a dividend in relation to FY15. The Board feels that 
it remains in the best interests of the Group to preserve financial flexibility, facilitating the 
pursuit of potential acquisitions and other growth opportunities. The payment of dividends 
remains under review in future years.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 
During the year, capital expenditure amounted to £100.3m (FY14: £69.1m), which 
includes expenditure on licences within intangible assets and construction of our 
Shirebrook warehouse.
ACQUISITIONS 
The Group made a number of smaller acquisitions during the year including the purchase of 
25 former LA Fitness gyms.
STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS 
During the year the Group disposed of c.1.5m shares in JD Sports Fashion plc but at  
the year end continued to hold an 11.09% stake in JD Sports. The fair value of the 
Group’s holdings at 26 April 2015 was £140.8m (27 April 2014: £104.9m).  
The movement in the fair value of the shares held has been recognised directly in  
Other Comprehensive Income.
In June 2014, the Group acquired an interest in c.7m shares in MySale Group plc, 
representing 4.8% of the issued share capital of MySale.
In September 2014, the Group entered into a derivative agreement referencing 
23,000,000 shares in Tesco Plc, representing 0.3% of the issued share capital of Tesco. 
In October 2014 the Group acquired c.56m shares in Debenhams plc for £33.2m, 
representing 4.6% of the issued share capital of Debenhams. This stake was sold in 
November 2014 and the Group entered into a derivative agreement referencing c.74m 
Debenhams shares, equivalent to 6.1% of the issued share capital of Debenhams. 
On 23 January 2015 the Group terminated an existing Debenhams derivative agreement 
entered into in January 2014 and at the same time, entered into a new derivative 
agreement referencing c.128m ordinary shares of Debenhams (representing 10.5% of the 
issued share capital of Debenhams).
As at 26 April 2015 the Group had an interest in 15.0% interest in Debenhams’  
ordinary shares.
These stakes allow us to develop relationships and commercial partnerships with the 
relevant retailers and assist in building relationships with key suppliers and brands.
The fair value of equity derivative agreements is included within the derivative financial 
assets balance of £92.2m.
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
CONTINUED
26
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  CASH FLOW AND NET DEBT 
Net debt decreased by £152.3m from £212.0m at 27 April 2014 to £59.7m at 26 April 
2015.
The analysis of debt at 26 April 2015 was as follows: 
26 April 2015 
(£’m) 
27 April 2014 
(£’m) 
Cash and cash equivalents 78.3 151.0
Borrowings (138.0) (363.0)
Net debt (59.7) (212.0)
On 25 November 2014 the Group utilised the accordion option under its £688m working 
capital facility. As a result, the working capital facility has been increased from £688m to 
£738m. The facility is available until September 2018 and is not secured against any of 
the Group’s fixed assets.
The Group also has a £250m working capital facility with Mike Ashley which can be 
drawn down on request. This facility was agreed at market terms at its inception and is 
not secured against any fixed assets. At the year end no balance was due.
The Group continues to operate well within its banking covenants and the Board remains 
comfortable with the Group’s available headroom.
CASH FLOW 
Total movement is as follows: 
26 April 2015 
(£’m) 
27 April 2014 
(£’m) 
Underlying EBITDA 383.2 331.1
Realised (loss) / profit on forward foreign exchange 
contracts
(3.7) 1.8
Taxes paid (77.7) (55.7)
Underlying free cash flow 301.8 277.2
Invested in:- 
Working capital and other (64.8) (110.1)
Purchase of own shares - -
Acquisitions (including debt) (3.8) (144.2)
Net proceeds from / (purchase of) investments 4.1 (4.6)
Net capital expenditure (79.1) (69.1)
Finance costs and other financing activities (5.9) (7.2)
Decrease / (Increase) in net debt 152.3 (58.0)
The increase in working capital is partly to support the growth of Sports Retail and the 
online business and partly due to the timing of payments around year end.
PENSIONS 
The Group operates a number of closed defined benefit schemes in the Dunlop Slazenger 
companies. The net deficit in these schemes decreased from £15.4m at 27 April 2014 to 
£14.9m at 26 April 2015.
 
Matt Pearson 
Acting Chief Financial Officer
16 July 2015 
27
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... OUR PEOPLE 
The Group employs over 27,000 people, across 19 countries and various sectors, from 
Sport, Fashion, Lifestyle, Gyms and Brands, and our people are what makes the Sports 
Direct Group such a success.
Our whole people ethos revolves around ‘Right Person, Right Place, Right Time’ and we 
are committed to the continued development of our people to meet our future growth 
plans. Nurturing our people to reach their full potential and promoting internally where 
ever possible have been tools that have been used by the Group for over the last 30 
years and are fundamental to our continuing success.
ATTRACTION AND RETENTION 
As a Group, we like to train and retain our staff to ensure that valuable knowledge 
remains within the business. The Group uses a number of incentives to retain our 
people, including regularly holding employee appraisals, to see the areas where we, as 
an employer, can improve. We find that regular appraisals also highlight the knowledge 
gaps which our employees have, and allows us to offer staff training which will develop 
their understanding.
During FY15 18.7% of our UK salaried staff left the Group, a decrease from 19.2% in 
FY14. We estimate that this figure will remain relatively low during the 2011 Share 
Scheme vesting periods.
Our Share Schemes are utilised to attract, motivate and incentivise our people and 
potential future employees. We have found that creating a shared goal has improved 
employee satisfaction levels.
Store Manager stability with Sports Direct is currently sitting at 92%, this is an increase 
of 6% on the FY14 figure. Assistant Manager and Footwear Manager stability currently 
sit at 86.5% and 90.3% respectively, which is an increase of 6% and 4% across  
the positions.
SALARIED STAFF TURNOVER SINCE FY10
 
PERFORMANCE & REWARD 
We reward the hard work of our participating employees with the Share Schemes. The 
Share Schemes are dependent on the achievement of pre-determined underlying EBITDA 
targets, as well as satisfactory performance of the individual employee. 
The targets for the 2011 Share Schemes were:
2012: Underlying EBITDA of £215m - Achieved 
2013: Underlying EBITDA of £250m - Achieved 
2014: Underlying EBITDA of £260m - Achieved 
2015: Underlying EBITDA of £300m - Achieved
All four of the 2011 Share Scheme targets have now been achieved. Under the 2009 
Share Scheme c.27m shares in total vested, and a further c.21m shares are expected 
to vest under the 2011 Share Scheme.
The Group also has several policies and systems in place to ensure staff welfare is 
monitored and maintained. These are laid out in the diagram below.
GRADUATE RECRUITMENT 
During 2014 we ran our Graduate Recruitment Programme, ‘Talent Bank’. The eight 
week programme offered graduates placements in our Ecommerce and Finance team 
with the opportunity to complete projects within the Group and compete for rewards, 
and the opportunity of a permanent role at the end of the programme. The scheme is 
paid, with interns working on projects similar to those in the work environment. The 
programme ensures that we are bringing in new talent and the Group is constantly 
evolving with new ideas and ways of thinking. 
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Corporate Responsibility is central to our vision to be an industry leader. Our established Corporate Responsibility framework focuses 
on five key areas: People, Health and Safety, the Environment, Customers and the Community. Sports Direct has developed Key 
Performance Indicators (KPIs) to ensure we deliver on our commitments. These KPIs are further discussed in this report and in the Chief 
Executive’s Report and Business Review, and are based solely on our UK operations, unless expressly stated.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY  
& DIVERSITY POLICY
STAFF FORUM
RIGHT TO A  
TRADE UNION
TAILORED 
EMPLOYEE 
HANDBOOK
FY12
17%
FY13
15.5%
FY14
19.2%
FY15
18.7%
17%
FY11
17%
FY10
28
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  DIVERSITY 
Diversity within the Group is essential and we believe this plays an important role in 
a successful business. At all times we try to ensure that our people meet the diversity, 
cultures and values of our varied customer base. 
Our Board currently has a 14% female representation, with further details being 
shown on page 33. We are in the process of looking to recruit another female for the 
Board, although we consider that the necessary skills and experience are of paramount 
importance, with diversity being of lesser significance.
Females make up 32% of our senior management team. While we appreciate that 
work could be done to ensure that the figure is more balanced, we are satisfied that the 
team possesses the appropriate balance of skills and knowledge. As positions become 
available the necessary level of consideration will be given to ensuring diversity within 
the team.
Our overall UK workforce base consists of 46.4% females, proving that discrimination 
for factors including gender will not be tolerated within the Group. The law is paramount 
when we recruit employees and we aim to ensure that both male and female 
candidates are provided with equal opportunities to apply for and work in all positions 
across the Group.
A BREAKDOWN OF GENDER DIVERSITY:
Male Female
Directors 6 1
Other senior managers 37 17
All UK workforce 11,450 9,899
 
TALENT & CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT   
In the last year we saw the launch of our new competency framework, known as the 
‘Success Factors.’ The seven Success Factors provide the behaviours that lead to great 
performance in individual job roles within Sports Direct and include the qualities and 
skills that help people to be successful. In short it’s what our ‘best performers do’ and 
they describe ‘how we need to be’.
We have worked on embedding the Success Factors in to all of our people practices 
since launch in November 2014. Firstly by introducing new recruitment tools and 
providing our store manager population in the UK with competency based  
interview training.
Secondly, we launched our new annual appraisal across UK Retail, Head Office, 
Warehouse and Transport. Each division has a Success Factor framework of its very 
own. Our people review and agree performance within their annual appraisal and set 
development goals to achieve in the coming year.
With the introduction of the Success Factors we have created a mechanism of 
identifying and developing internal talent across the Group to support our future  
growth plans.
Our teams have a variety of development opportunities using different methods. 
We encourage growing within one’s current role or taking on new challenging tasks, 
learning from others, supporting individuals in realising their potential and providing 
formal training opportunities. 
KEY HIGHLIGHTS: 
Total workforce (total Group): 27,207 
Hours invested in training: 58,000
DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE – TRAINING PROGRAMMES 
The aim of our Staff Training and Development Department is to use the International 
Training Centre to provide the best, state of the art facilities for our team to flourish 
into champions. Our goal is to give every member of our team the opportunity to be 
inspired, stimulated, motivated, and empowered. We know that it takes every single 
team member to make a difference and improve the performance of the business.
We have continued to focus on the need to proactively develop our team’s competence 
base and leadership capabilities in order to meet the rapidly changing requirements  
of the Group. Training is an area in which we have continued to invest, and in FY15 
alone, over 58,000 hours were invested into training and developing the team at 
Sports Direct.
We are committed to continue offering a great portfolio of training courses, the majority 
of which are housed in our very own facilities. The portfolio has continued to grow as it 
has year on year with three areas receiving more emphasis:
• “Home Grown” Talent Management Programme
• Customer Service Training
• Management Induction
We have an international approach to training by adopting our principles to those in 
the countries in which we trade. Teams from Austria, Estonia, Czech Republic, Dubai, 
Malaysia, France, Portugal, Holland, Cyprus, Switzerland, Kuwait, Belgium, Iceland, 
Hungary, Slovenia, Slovakia, Poland have all attended sessions.
“HOME GROWN” TALENT MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME 
The Home Grown Talent Management Programme allows us to place the right 
person in the right position at the right time. It is a structured programme which 
shows staff that outstanding performance can lead to further opportunities to progress 
within the Group. It helps retain talented and key individuals, which in turn reduces 
recruitment costs.
Our talent management activities are open to the majority of our workforce, with a 
focus on those who consistently show high-potential. It is part of our culture to develop 
high-potential employees to grow into future Group leaders, and is a method which we 
have used since day one. We believe that producing a common standard of behaviour 
for those in leadership roles will improve the likelihood of the Group achieving future 
goals, and enable us to retain real talent, by allowing it to flourish. 
The Programme encourages our workforce to better themselves each and every day. 
At the end of the Programme, providing the individual has proved to be worthy of 
opportunity, key positions will be offered to these who have shown that they are ready 
to take the next step in their careers.
29
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... CUSTOMER SERVICE TRAINING 
During the year our customer service programme has continued to play a pivotal role 
when working with Sports Retail store staff. The training model has continued to be 
used by Store Managers, through a combination of seminars and eLearning.
The ‘Sales through Service’ Model (STARS) reinforces the key elements of successful 
customer service: 
• Smile
• Talk
• Ask
• Recommend
• Sale
The training works in conjunction with our “5 Star Commission Scheme”, and aims 
to assist growth expectations by showing staff how developing their behaviours can 
provide a better service to customers and drive sales. 
MANAGEMENT INDUCTION 
New and existing managers have attended the two week residential induction 
programme, which is based at our Shirebrook campus. The programme consists of 
a mixture of shop floor based training and classroom centred activities, with typical 
subjects including merchandising, administration, delivery processes, health and safety, 
shop closure processes, product training, and retail business skills.
HIGH PERFORMING MANAGERS 
Our elite group of high performing operational managers are offered training via work 
based schemes which look to further develop their skills. The training schemes include 
topics such as effective leadership, team engagement, performance enhancement and 
managing through change, with the activities based on real work situations. We have 
found that the training makes an immediate difference to the problem solving, analytical 
and inter-personal communication skills of those who have been trained.
INTERNAL PROMOTION REFRESH PROGRAMME 
Members of the retail team who are put forward for internal promotion are invited to 
attend the Operational and Managerial Refresh Programme. This is a five day residential 
course that consists of shop floor operational training combined with style and behaviour 
modules covering communication, leadership and decision making.
BRAND TRAINING 
Robust training programmes to inform and train staff on product innovation and brand 
initiatives continue. This ensures that the links between Sports Direct and the major 
brands are stronger than ever. 
Sports Direct is still a heavy user of Nike Sports Knowledge Underground (SKU) and 
continue to be one of the front runners in terms of percentage completion worldwide. 
SKU provides another eLearning opportunity for the Sports Direct team which allows 
staff to gain essential foundation knowledge on Nike Products. This foundation 
knowledge is then taken one step further on the Nike Training days held at the Sports 
Direct Training Academy. The days are hosted by Nike Experts (EKINs) and take the 
foundation knowledge from SKU to a higher level with interaction and involvement.  
The Nike Graduate Scheme then encourages those who attend the training day to 
transfer their learning to the team in-store. By doing so they gain the recognition of 
becoming a Nike Graduate within their store. Sports Direct works exclusively with Nike 
on this exceptional training initiative.
Sports Direct works with adidas and Puma to provide bespoke training initiatives to 
support the continued growth of adidas and Puma products. Through 2014, many team 
members attended specialist adidas sessions, which focused on product knowledge and 
selling skills. More dates are in the diary for 2015 to support and capture the main 
product releases and new innovations in sporting technologies.
FOOTWEAR MASTERCLASS 
Aimed at managers responsible for the footwear department in their branch, the 
Footwear Masterclass is a three day residential course which focuses on one of the key 
departments in a Sports Direct store. Typical subjects covered include merchandising, 
staff efficiency, best practice, health and safety, policies, and procedures.
E LEARNING 
It is important that all staff are engaged with who we are and what message we want 
to give to customers, and we believe that delivering effective induction training is key  
to this. Without a proper induction, there is the risk of staff not understanding 
compliance issues or policies, low productivity and poor motivation, poor customer 
service and lost sales.
Recently we implemented a new, interactive induction programme that would create 
pride in Sports Direct and ensure consistency and structure in foundation training.  
The induction programme is available to all UK Retail staff, aimed at engaging new 
starters and re-energising existing colleagues. 
Sponge UK, a specialist eLearning company, have been engaged by the Group to 
develop an online induction that complements the existing face-to-face training that the 
Group offers. The current modules focus on the four main areas, being sales and service, 
health and safety, merchandising, and day to day operational information.  
These areas are the first in a planned suite of courses that will cover all aspects of the 
Group’s activity.
As it is important for staff to be able to access the learning on the go, the course has 
been designed to work on tablets and smartphones, as well as desktop computers.  
The induction programme is one of the very first Adapt eLearning courses, and we have 
17,000 users who currently feel the benefit of this.
HEALTH AND SAFETY 
As the Company continues to grow there has been increased focus on creating a 
consistent method of evaluating health and safety performance. Going forward we are 
looking to set targets and monitor our performance.
In relation to the UK workforce we have calculated the figures per 100,000 hours 
worked using a 12 month rolling average. The number of accidents involving the 
warehouse workforce as at April 2015 was 5.9, compared to 2.8 at April 2014. 
Increased footfall and decreased workspace due to ongoing building works, have both 
contributed towards the increase. The number of accidents involving the store, office and 
distribution workforce has remained static with 2.5 as at April 2015 and April 2014.
In relation to the general public we have calculated the figures per £10m store turnover 
using a 12 month rolling average. The number of accidents involving the general public 
had decreased over the course of the year and was 3.9 as at April 2015, compared to 
4.7 in April 2014.
Over the course of the year there have been no environmental prosecutions or  
work-related fatalities.
ENVIRONMENT 
We recognise that we have a responsibility to manage the impact our business has on 
the environment, and we are committed to reducing this both now and in the future. 
We continue to comply with the Government’s Carbon Reduction Commitment, and have 
identified key areas where we can make a difference, in particular energy usage in our 
stores, transport and waste management.
We are continuously aiming to reduce our carbon footprint. The single most significant 
element is electricity, which makes up 84% of the footprint. The carbon footprint spread 
across all UK sites is detailed in the chart opposite.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 
CONTINUED
30
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  CARBON FOOTPRINT ANALYSIS 1 APRIL 2014 - 31 MARCH 2015
The growth of our Company has increased the number of our stores and therefore the 
absolute GHG emissions. Our chosen intensity ratio of electricity-related emissions per 
£m revenue has increased by 15.9%; 11.5% of which is due to a change in DEFRA’s 
conversion factor, the remainder due to the inclusion of a number of newly acquired 
fitness centres which are more energy consuming and therefore have this effect.
GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS REPORTING 
Reporting period
(1)
1 April 2014 - 31 March 2015
Baseline year FY12
Consolidation 
approach
Operational control
Boundary 
summary
All UK entities and facilities either owned or under operational 
control were included. Emissions from air conditioning and 
refrigeration units are excluded due to the cost of data 
collection. These are expected to be a negligible % of scope  
1 emissions.
Consistency 
with Financial 
Statements
Other than the emissions declared for the period 1 April 
2014 – 31 March 2015 to be in line with the CRC Energy 
Efficiency Scheme, there are no inconsistencies with Financial 
Statements.
Emission factor 
data source
DEFRA (May 2013)
Assessment 
methodology
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol and ISO 14064-1 (2006). We 
have used the 2014 UK Government’s GHG conversion factors.
Materiality 
threshold
Materiality was set at Group level at 5%, with all UK facilities 
estimated to contribute >0.5% of total emissions included
Intensity ratio Emissions per £m revenue
(1) The emissions declared are for the period 1 April 2014 – 31 March 2015 to be in line with the CRC Energy  
Efficiency Scheme.
Scope 1 GHG emissions are calculated based on the purchased quantities of commercial 
fuels using published emission factors. Scope 2 GHG emissions are primarily calculated 
from metered electricity consumption and published emission factors.
CO
2
 equivalent factors are used which ensures we have reported on all of the emission 
sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Regulations.
Group UK Only UK Only
Year 2015 2015 2014
Scope 1 CO
2
e emissions 14,129 12,801 11,206
Scope 2 CO
2
e emissions 116,335 82,455 64,747
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 
CO
2
e emissions (Tonnes)
130,464 95,256 75,953
CO
2
e Emissions (Tonnes/£m) 46.1 42.3 36.8
This is the second year of mandatory reporting of this data. To provide analysis against 
previous years we have shown comparative data for electricity-related emissions, which 
accounts for 84% of our GHG emissions in the current year. 
The table below details Electricity vs. Revenue and shows a pro rata increase of 15.9% 
across the year.
Year 2015 2014
CO
2
e Emissions from electricity (Tonnes) 80,160 63,393
CO
2
e Emissions from electricity (Tonnes/£m)
(1)
35.6 30.7
Electricity vs. Sales Turnover Index (2012: 100) 117.6 101.5
(1) Not including non-UK revenue, in line with the CO
2
e emissions reported.
WASTE REDUCTION 
We are actively reducing the amount of waste we send to landfill and segregate waste to 
ensure that we recycle as much as possible.
THIS YEAR WE RECYCLED:
• 6,127 units of electrical equipment (2014: 7,099 units)
• 94 tonnes of waste paper (2014: 78 tonnes)
• 9,526 tonnes of cardboard (2014: 9,230 tonnes)
• 235 tonnes of metal (2014: 147 tonnes)
• 618 tonnes of plastic (2014: 558 tonnes)
All stores now use biodegradable carrier bags and provide the option of a “bag for life”. 
This is actively promoted in-store through high levels of staff engagement.
Looking ahead, we will continue our commitment to minimise waste and improve energy 
efficiency across our stores.
CUSTOMERS 
Customer service is at the forefront of our business. We aim to provide customers with 
an enjoyable experience both in-store and online and ensure all our products are safe 
and fit for purpose.
Monitoring customer satisfaction and responding to queries is a continuous process.  
All written complaints are recorded, including an analysis of the nature of the complaint 
so that trends can be assessed and appropriate action taken.
We have an online customer contact form that reduces the time it takes for our 
customers to contact us and increases the volume of contact. Online communication has 
reduced the amount of time it takes for us to respond to queries thereby increasing our 
service levels, while reducing the print and postage costs for both the Group  
and customers.
We are continuously working to improve customer service at all levels within the Group 
from the retail stores, Head Office and through to our website.
Electricity 84%
Diesel 12%
Other 4%
31
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... COMMUNITY 
SUPPLY CHAIN 
We are committed to responsible business practices in our own business and within our 
supply chain. We continue to procure merchandise from manufacturers who have proved 
to uphold ethical employment and trading practices, and we have a strict Code of Ethics 
that we require every supplier to adhere to. The Code provides for the fair treatment of 
workers, ensuring a safe environment in accordance with the local and national laws 
where workers are treated with respect and paid fairly for what they do. The code 
also ensures there is no child labour and no use of illegal means or materials in the 
production of goods.
We have longstanding relationships with our suppliers who have demonstrated that their 
work practices are consistent with Sports Direct’s standards. Approximately 40% of our 
current suppliers have been working with the Company for 10 years or more. We have 
worked with two leading supply chain companies in Singapore and South Korea for a 
number of years. Using their local knowledge and experience helps benefit the business 
and the communities in which they operate. Both businesses have the highest social 
and business ethics code which aligns with our own Code of Ethics, the BSCI Code of 
Conduct (which is based upon the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights) and the 
Social Accountability 8000 (SA8000) Code.
Sports Direct relies on those supply chain companies to inspect the premises of all 
suppliers and manufacturers. Frequent inspections are carried out randomly to ensure 
that goods meet our quality standards as well as assessing continued compliance with 
SA8000 and our Code of Ethics. We cease immediately to work with suppliers who do 
not meet our criteria.
We comply with an internationally recognised list of chemicals that are banned for use 
in fabrics. The supply chain companies conduct random tests on fabric which are then 
taken to a recognised laboratory for quality testing and to ensure that banned chemicals 
are not being used.
CHARITY 
Year on year we dedicate money, clothing and equipment to worthy charities, to 
ensure that sport can be enjoyed and appreciated by all backgrounds. Sport is not only 
important to leading a fit and healthy lifestyle, but should also be seen as fun. Our 
dedications go some way towards allowing sports to be enjoyed by a variety of unlikely 
sportsmen and women.
KARRIMOR 
Karrimor became the official clothing and equipment supplier to the charity team 
‘Waves4hope’. The seven man squad successfully completed the challenge of a lifetime, 
rowing the English Channel for three great charities; Saving Faces, The Royal Marsden 
Cancer Charity and Sail4Cancer. The novice team were fully equipped with Karrimor gear 
to take on this gruelling venture, with the aim of raising £30,000. Congratulations to 
the team on their outstanding achievement.
SLAZENGER ‘CHANCE TO SHINE’ 
Slazenger is the exclusive cricket equipment supplier to the country’s most recognised 
grassroots cricket development programme, ‘Chance to Shine’. Each project provides 
structured coaching and a competition programme for a group of schools who would not 
have otherwise had the chance to participate in the sport.
By 2013, the programme had reached one third of all primary and secondary schools 
amounting to almost 7,000 schools and has supported two million young people, 
almost half of whom are girls. Over £600,000 worth of cricket equipment has been 
supplied by Slazenger to enable the programme to run successfully.
DUNLOP 
Dunlop works together with its sponsored professional golfers Lee Westwood and Darren 
Clarke to supply clothing to their ‘golf schools’. These are junior player development 
schemes which provide qualified coaching and mentoring to youngsters.
Over £40,000 worth of clothing has been provided through sponsorship to the schemes 
so far.
LONSDALE 
Lonsdale is the Official Equipment and Fight Sports Apparel Supplier for the RAF and the 
Royal Navy. We are the proud sponsor of the RAF annual Novice Championships, The 
Lord Wakefields.
At a grassroots level, Lonsdale is also a sponsor of the England Boxing Lonsdale Golden 
Gloves School Championships and provides 50 pairs of golden gloves, worth £2,000 to 
the finalists free of charge.
EVERLAST 
Everlast supports a variety of organisations throughout the year, including both  
sports-oriented and charitable programmes. A long-standing supporter of the most 
prestigious amateur boxing competition in the US; the New York Golden Gloves,  
Everlast is the official fight glove and apparel sponsor. The organisation celebrated  
its 88th year in April.
Since 2006, Everlast has also served as a proud supporter of The Breast Cancer 
Research Foundation® (BCRF). Each year, Everlast donates a portion of the sale 
proceeds from selected pink products to help the foundation provide funding for clinical 
and genetic research. Last year, Everlast donated $57,433 to BCRF’s research efforts 
to find a cure.
ANTIGUA GROUP 
Antigua supports a wide variety of sports related and charity related events throughout 
the year. These include The Phoenix Children’s Hospital Annual Golf Classic, The 
Scottsdale Charros Foundation, The Jerry Colangelo Prostate Cancer Event and The 
Salvation Army.  
Antigua is also heavily involved in the promotion of Junior Golf in Arizona and around 
the country. Antigua has sponsored “The Antigua Junior Tour” in partnership with the 
SWSPGA for over 20 years and also supports Girls Golf, The First Tee and The Junior 
Golf Association of Arizona. In recent years, Antigua has helped to create the Antigua 
National High School Golf Invitational which invites teams from all over the United 
States to participate.
The Strategic Report was approved by a duly authorised Committee of the Board of 
Directors on 16 July 2015, and signed on its behalf by:
 
Dave Forsey 
Chief Executive
16 July 2015
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 
CONTINUED
32
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  THE BOARD
DR KEITH HELLAWELL QPM  
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN, CHAIRMAN OF NOMINATION 
COMMITTEE 
APPOINTED: 24 November 2009 
COMMITTEES: Nomination and Remuneration Committees
PREVIOUS ROLES: Prior to joining the team at Sports Direct International plc, Dr 
Hellawell spent over 40 years in public sector management being a former Chief Constable 
of two British police forces. While working directly for the Prime Minister between 1998 
and 2002 he wrote and coordinated the United Kingdom national and international 
anti-drugs policy. Dr Hellawell has been involved in the private sector since 1998 when 
he joined Evans of Leeds, a fully listed property company. Since then he has served on 
the Boards of both Dalkia plc and Sterience Limited, subsidiaries of the French company 
Veolia Env. He was Non-Executive Chairman of Goldshield Group plc, a marketing-led 
pharmaceutical and consumer health company, from May 2006 to its sale in December 
2009. He has held a number of other Non-Executive Board positions in private companies 
including sectors such as vehicle manufacturing and IT.
PRESENT ROLES: Dr Hellawell is currently a Non-Executive Director of Mortice plc, a 
Singapore-based facilities management company and a Director of the Super League team 
Huddersfield Giants. He also runs his own management and training consultancy company.
KEY SKILLS AND EXPERIENCES: Dr Hellawell has worked in both the public 
and private sector for over 50 years. Throughout this time he has built up a wealth of 
experience which he brings to the Group to ensure the successful and effective operation 
of the Board.
MIKE ASHLEY 
EXECUTIVE DEPUTY CHAIRMAN 
APPOINTED: 1982 (founder)
PREVIOUS ROLES: Mike established the business of the Group on leaving school in 
1982 and was the sole owner until the Group’s listing in March 2007.
KEY SKILLS AND EXPERIENCES: Mike was the founder of the Group and has the 
necessary skills for formulating the vision and commercial strategy of the Group. With over 
30 years in the sports retail business with Sports Direct he is invaluable to the Group.
DAVE FORSEY 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
APPOINTED: 1984
KEY SKILLS AND EXPERIENCES: Dave has been with the business for over 30 
years, during which time he has acquired significant knowledge and experience of the 
sports retail business. In conjunction with the Executive Deputy Chairman, he agrees 
strategy, appropriate objectives and policies for each of the businesses. Dave has overall 
responsibility for the daily management of the Group.
MATT PEARSON 
ACTING CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
APPOINTED: 04 June 2015
PREVIOUS ROLES: A graduate in Maths, he qualified with Tenon, now part of Baker 
Tilly, in 2004. He subsequently joined Ernst and Young, now EY, in Nottingham where he 
worked as an auditor before joining the Group. 
KEY SKILLS AND EXPERIENCES: Matt joined the Group in June 2007, shortly 
after it listed on the London Stock Exchange, and has since worked closely with the 
Executive team and the Audit Committee in his role as Group Financial Controller.  
Matt is a qualified Chartered Accountant, with substantial knowledge of all financial 
aspects of the Group.   
SIMON BENTLEY  
SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, CHAIRMAN OF 
AUDIT COMMITTEE 
APPOINTED: 02 March 2007
COMMITTEES: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees
PREVIOUS ROLES: Simon qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1980 and in 1987 
joined Blacks Leisure Group Plc where he was Chairman and Chief Executive for 12 years.
PRESENT ROLES: Simon chairs and is on the board of a range of companies and 
organisations. Among these, he is Chairman of the hair brand Umberto Giannini, is the 
principal owner and Chairman of the leading mobile ATM operator Cash on the Move, 
is a Supervisory Board Director of Global Home, a designer and manufacturer of indoor 
furniture for retailers, based in Vietnam, and is Chairman of Yad Vashem – UK Foundation.
KEY SKILLS AND EXPERIENCES: He has lengthy experience of the sporting goods 
industry, and maintains the recent and relevant experience necessary to be Chairman of 
the Audit Committee.
DAVE SINGLETON  
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, CHAIRMAN OF REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE 
APPOINTED: 27 October 2007
COMMITTEES: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees
PREVIOUS ROLES: Dave spent 25 years with Reebok International Limited. He 
stepped down in April 2007 having assisted with the successful integration of Reebok 
following its acquisition by adidas Group in January 2006. For eight years he was Vice 
President of Northern Europe Region & UK and then was Senior Vice President of Europe, 
Middle East & Africa.
PRESENT ROLES: Dave is Chairman of Bolton Lads & Girls Club, Chairman of Bolton 
Community Leisure Trust and a Trustee at Bolton Wanderers Community Trust.
KEY SKILLS AND EXPERIENCES: Dave has an extensive senior management 
record and brings valuable experience of international sports brand operations.
CLAIRE JENKINS  
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
APPOINTED: 25 May 2011
COMMITTEES: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees
PREVIOUS ROLES: Claire’s most recent Executive role was as Group Director 
Corporate Affairs and a member of the Executive Leadership Team, responsible for the 
company’s sustainability and communications activities, at Rexam plc, a leading global 
beverage can maker. Prior to that, she was a member of the Management Committee of 
international tobacco company Gallaher Group plc (acquired by Japan Tobacco in 2007) 
where she was responsible for investor relations and Group planning. Claire has also 
gained corporate experience in various consulting roles and at Laing & Cruickshank, and as 
a Non-Executive Director of Retro Classics Fund.
PRESENT ROLES: Claire is Chairman of Amicus, and a Non-Executive Director of Media 
For Development.
KEY SKILLS AND EXPERIENCES: Claire has excellent all-round business experience 
and, in addition, has particular corporate governance and communication skills.
AUDIT COMMITTEE        NOMINATION COMMITTEE        REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
33
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW 
The Chief Executive’s Report on pages 21 to 24 provides a detailed review of the Group’s 
current activities and potential future developments together with factors likely to affect 
future development, performance and conditions. There is also a table of the principal 
risks and uncertainties likely to affect the Group. The financial position of the Group, its 
cash flow, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review 
on pages 25 to 27. The Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 28 to 32 reports on 
environmental matters, including the impact of the Group’s businesses on the environment, 
the Group’s workforce, and on social and community issues.
The principal activities of the Group during the year remained unchanged and were:
• retailing of sports and leisure clothing, footwear and equipment;
• wholesale distribution and sale of sports and leisure clothing, footwear and equipment 
under Group-owned or licensed brands; and
• licensing of Group brands.
Further information of the Group’s principal activities is set out in the front of this 
document and in the Chief Executive’s Report on pages 21 to 24.
RESULTS FOR THE YEAR AND DIVIDENDS 
Revenue for the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2015 was £2,832.6m and profit before  
tax was £313.4m compared with £2,706.0m and £239.5m in the prior year.  
The trading results for the year and the Group’s financial position as at the end of the 
year are shown in the attached Financial Statements, and discussed further in the Chief 
Executive’s Report and Business Review and in the Financial Review on pages 21 to 24 
and 25 to 27 respectively.
The Board has determined not to recommend a dividend this year.
SHARE CAPITAL AND CONTROL 
The authorised share capital of the Company is £100,000,000 divided into 999,500,010 
ordinary shares of 10p each and 499,990 redeemable preference shares of 10p each.
Further information regarding the Group’s issued share capital can be found on page 77  
of the Financial Statements.
Details of our Share Schemes are also set out on page 77. 
There are 640,602,369 ordinary shares of 10p in issue and fully paid of which 
42,137,508 are currently held in Treasury.
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares, which are governed both by  
the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Company’s shares 
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Directors were authorised to allot shares in the capital of the Group up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £19,948,829 (being approximately one third of the then issued 
share capital) for the period expiring at 9 September 2015, the date of the 2015 Annual 
General Meeting.
In line with guidance from the Association of British Insurers the Company was also 
granted authority to issue a further third of the issued share capital to a nominal amount 
of £39,897,658 (being approximately 35% of the issued share capital) in connection 
with a rights issue.
A further authority to allot shares up to a maximum nominal value of £2,992,324  
(being approximately 5% of the then issued share capital) as if statutory pre-emption 
rights did not apply, was also approved.
The authorities expire at the close of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, 
but a contract to allot shares under these authorities may be made prior to the expiry of 
the authority and concluded in whole or part after the Annual General Meeting, and at that 
meeting other authorities will be sought from shareholders.
The Group was authorised to make market purchases of ordinary shares of 10p each  
in the Company of up to a maximum aggregate number 59,846,486 representing  
10% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital at the 2014 Annual General  
Meeting. The above authority expires at the close of the next Annual General Meeting  
of the Company.
SHAREHOLDERS 
No shareholder enjoys any special control rights, and, except as set out below, there are 
no restrictions in the transfer of shares or of voting rights.
Mike Ashley has entered into a Relationship Agreement with the Company. Under the 
terms of the Agreement Mike Ashley undertook that, for so long as he is entitled to 
exercise, or to control the exercise of, 15% or more of the rights to vote at general 
meetings of the Company, he will;
• conduct all transactions and relationships with any member of the Group on arm’s 
length terms and on a normal commercial basis;
• exercise his voting rights or other rights in support of the Company being managed in 
accordance with the Listing Rules and the principles of good governance set out in the 
UK Corporate Governance Code and not exercise any of his voting or other rights and 
powers to procure any amendment to the Articles of Association of the Company;
• other than through his interest in the Company, not have any interest in any business 
which sells sports apparel and equipment subject to certain rights, after notification to 
the Company, to acquire any such interest of less than 20% of the business concerned, 
and certain other limited exceptions, without receiving the prior approval of the Non-
Executive Directors; and not solicit for employment or employ any senior employee of 
the Company.
The Company has been advised that the following parties had a significant direct or 
indirect shareholding in the shares of the Company: 
NUMBER OF  
SHARES HELD
PERCENTAGE OF ISSUED 
ORDINARY SHARE CAPITAL 
WITH VOTING RIGHTS HELD NATURE OF HOLDING
Mike Ashley 
(1)
330,000,000 55.14% Indirect
The Capital Group 
Companies, Inc. 
(2)
33,671,254 5.63% Indirect
Odey Asset 
Management 
(3)
29,852,065 4.99% Indirect
(1) Mike Ashley holds the shares through two companies, namely MASH Beta Limited and MASH Holdings Limited, which hold 303,507,460 (50.71% of the 
issued ordinary share capital of the Company) and 26,492,540 (4.43% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company) ordinary shares respectively. These 
figures are as at 21 January 2015, being the last date on which the Company was notified of a change in the percentage of shares.
(2) These figures are as at 10 July 2015, being the last date on which the Company was notified of a change in the percentage of shares.
(3) These figures are as at 15 July 2015, being the last date on which the Company was notified of a change in the percentage of shares.
The Directors of Sports Direct International plc present their Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 26 April 2015.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
34
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  SUPPLIERS 
The Group understands the importance of maintaining good relationships with suppliers and it is Group 
policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions with suppliers (ranging from 
standard written terms to individually negotiated contracts) and for payment to be made in accordance 
with these terms, provided the supplier has complied with its obligations.
CONTRACTS ESSENTIAL TO THE BUSINESS  
OF THE COMPANY 
The Chief Executive’s Report on pages 21 to 24 details information about persons with whom the 
Group has contractual or other arrangements and are deemed essential or material to the business of 
the Group.
TAKEOVERS  
The Directors do not believe that there are any significant contracts that may change in 
the event of a successful takeover of the Company. Details of the impact of any successful 
takeover of the Group on the Directors’ bonus and share schemes are set out in the 
Director’s Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 52.
SHARE SCHEMES 
Details of the Executive Share Schemes are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
on page 45 and details of the Share Schemes for participating employees on page 28 of 
the Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
STAFF INVOLVEMENT 
The Group currently has a c.27,000 strong workforce in its stores, offices and warehouses. 
The contributions that key employees have made to the Group’s accomplishments have 
played a vital role, and the overwhelming dedication shown was the deciding factor in 
encouraging the Group to propose a third Share Scheme.
The 2009 Share Scheme vested in August 2012 and 2013. The 2011 Share Scheme is 
due to vest later in 2015 and in 2017.
The 2015 Share Scheme was approved by shareholders at a General Meeting which 
took place on 2 July 2014, with the EBITDA targets for the Scheme spanning between 
FY16 and FY19. The Scheme differs from the previous two Share Schemes as eligibility 
to participate in the scheme is open to both employees and Executive Directors, as 
determined by the Board.
The workforce is notified of announcements and major changes in the business via 
Company news emails and our intranet, as well as information being transmitted through 
line managers. Training programmes and induction courses provide the workforce with 
opportunities to keep up to date with the latest developments of the Group. Our annual 
conference offers them an opportunity to mix with teams with which they wouldn’t 
ordinarily mix, to learn about the Group’s aspirations, and to keep up to date with the 
latest changes in the Group. This is a full day event and also has a range of activities 
tailored to the specific area in which each individual works.
Further information on relationships with our people can be found in the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report on pages 28 to 32.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES 
The Group’s recruitment policy is to match the capabilities and talents of each applicant 
to the appropriate job. Factors such as gender, race, religion or belief, sexual orientation, 
age, disability or ethnic origin should be ignored and any decision which is made with 
regard to candidates should be irrespective of these. Discrimination in any form will not be 
tolerated under any circumstances within the Group.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are given full and fair consideration for all 
vacancies, and are assessed in accordance with their particular skills and abilities.
The Group does all that is practicable to meet its responsibilities towards the training and 
employment of disabled people, and to ensure that training, career development and 
promotion opportunities are available to all.
The Group makes every effort to provide continuity of employment where current 
employees become disabled. Attempts are made in every circumstance to provide 
employment, whether this involves adapting the current job role and remaining in the 
same job, or moving to a more appropriate job role. Job retraining and job adaptation are 
just two examples of how the Group works in the interests of its workforce to promote 
equal opportunities in order that an individual’s employment within the Group may 
continue. The Group values the knowledge and expertise that employees have gained 
throughout their time with us, and therefore does not wish to lose  
valued employees.
With the aim of achieving our target of 25% female representation on our Board, we are 
actively seeking applications from female potential Non-Executive Directors.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
The Group designs clothing and some footwear for sale in stores and has arrangements 
with suppliers for the research and development of goods for the Brands division.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS 
During the year, the Group made charitable cash donations of £117,000  
(2014: £147,000) in the UK. No political donations were made (2014: nil). There have 
been a number of further donations of sporting equipment made to worthy causes, and 
these are set out on page 32.
DIRECTORS 
Details of current Directors, dates of appointment, their roles, responsibilities and 
significant external commitments are set out on page 33.
Although the Company’s Articles of Association require retirement by rotation of one third 
of Directors each year, the Group has chosen to comply with the 2012 UK Corporate 
Governance Code and at each Annual General Meeting all of the Directors will retire and 
stand for reappointment.
Information on service contracts and details of the interests of the Directors and their 
families in the share capital of the Company at 26 April 2015 and at the date of this 
Report is shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 48 and 51.
Copies of the service contracts of Executive Directors and of the appointment letters of 
the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director has a directorship in common or other significant links with any other Director 
(except in the case of the Executive Directors holding directorships of subsidiary companies 
of the Group).
DIRECTORS’ CONFLICTS OF INTEREST 
The Board has formal procedures to deal with Directors’ conflicts of interest. During the 
year the Board reviewed and, where appropriate, approved certain situational conflicts of 
interest that were reported to it by Directors, and a register of those situational conflicts 
is maintained and reviewed. The Board noted any transactional conflicts of interest 
concerning Directors that arose and were declared. No Director took part in the discussion 
or determination of any matter in respect of which he had disclosed a transactional conflict 
of interest.
35
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITIES 
The Group has granted the Directors with Qualifying Third-Party Indemnity provisions  
within the meaning given to the term by Sections 234 and 235 of the Companies Act 
2006. This is in respect of liabilities to which they may become liable in their capacity as 
Director of the Company and of any company within the Group. Such indemnities were in 
force throughout the financial year and will remain in force.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
The 2015 Annual General Meeting will be held on 9 September 2015 at Unit D, Brook 
Park East, Shirebrook, NG20 8RY. The Meeting will commence at 11am. The Board 
encourages shareholders to attend and participate in the meeting.
GOING CONCERN 
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 21 
to 24.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities 
are described in the Financial Review on pages 25 to 27. In addition, the Financial 
Statements include the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; 
its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging 
activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group is profitable, highly cash generative and has considerable financial resources. 
The Group is able to operate comfortably within its banking facilities and covenants, which 
run until September 2018, and is well placed to take advantage of strategic opportunities 
as they arise.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its 
business risks successfully despite the continued uncertain economic outlook.
The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonable possible changes in 
trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of the 
current facility.
Having thoroughly reviewed the Group’s performance and having made suitable enquiries, 
the Directors are confident that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. On this basis, the Directors continue to adopt the 
going concern basis for the preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT 
A statement by the Auditor can be found on page 56 detailing their reporting 
responsibilities. The Directors fulfil their responsibilities and these are set out in the 
responsibility statement on page 53.
AUDITOR 
Grant Thornton UK LLP have expressed a willingness to continue in office. In accordance 
with Section 489 (4) of the Companies Act 2006, resolutions to determine remuneration 
are to be agreed at the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board 
 
Cameron Olsen 
Company Secretary
16 July 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 
CONTINUED
36
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION 
I am pleased to introduce the Corporate Governance Report, which confirms that for 
the year ended 26 April 2015, the Group has complied with the 2012 UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
During the year we have seen a change in the Board’s structure as a result of the 
retirement of Charles McCreevy in September 2014. Since the retirement of Charles we 
have been actively looking to recruit a further Non-Executive Director.
During our continuing search for Non-Executive Directors, we are actively encouraging 
applications from women. The Group hopes to achieve Lord Davies’ target of a 25% 
representation of women on our Board by the end of 2015. 
The Group’s lack of a Finance Director during FY15 was a matter which was questioned 
by a number of our investors, and I have previously reported that we were aware that 
the position was unusual for most FTSE 100 Companies. Throughout the recruitment 
process we felt that we hit a number of hurdles which hindered recruitment, including 
that our Group Executives are some of the lowest paid Board members in the FTSE 
100, and that the remuneration package can be conceived as unappealing. However 
the culture of the Group is payment as reward and the team is awarded large bonuses 
for outstanding achievements. Furthermore our small Executive team work for a large 
amount of their time from the Group Head Office in Derbyshire. However the majority 
of experienced Executives are concentrated in the south of the country, and many find it 
difficult to consider spending large amounts of the week working away from home. 
Throughout the year we focussed on appointing a Finance Director, and in doing so 
we have tried to adapt our culture and offer applicants financial packages to meet  
their expectations in the short term. However in doing this we have had to be mindful 
that there is fairness amongst the Board and that the culture of the Group is not eroded. 
We feel that our culture and pay strategy has been key to our success to date,  
and changing this for a particular candidate could have an adverse effect on our  
future progress. 
However, as time moved on we noted that a strong internal candidate had assumed 
many of the responsibilities, so we have appointed Matt Pearson as Acting Chief 
Financial Officer. Matt has been with the Group since 2007, having initially joined as 
Group Financial Accountant. Matt has shown great loyalty and promise, and having 
worked his way up the ranks we feel that he will be a valued addition to the Board. 
Throughout the year the Board has actively engaged with shareholders through various 
meetings and lengthy written correspondence. Board members have travelled to a 
number of locations in order to communicate with shareholders, and have sought 
guidance from our Company Secretarial team when necessary. The Group’s approach 
to investor relations was hindered recently following the end of the fixed-term contract 
post of Director, Strategic Development. However at all times the Group endeavours  
to promote harmonious relationships with investors, and looking forward we aim to 
forge even stronger investor relationships by utilising the skills and knowledge of  
Matt Pearson. 
The 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code has been discussed by the Board, and will 
be embraced once it applies to the Group. We are aware that two of the key aims 
are to promote accountability and improve alignment between business decisions and 
shareholder interests. 
In an effort to look towards fully integrating the Code we have received specific 
guidance from external bodies. We have initially focused the application of the Code  
on risks reporting and remuneration, and we are working on the broader applications.
Key topics of discussion throughout the year have included recruitment, legal matters, 
expansion and corporate governance matters. Additional details of the Group’s strategy 
can be found on page 15.
As Chairman of the Board I feel honoured to be surrounded by fellow members who are 
so passionate about their roles. The Board is committed to maintaining the principles of 
governance, by actively questioning, challenging and endeavouring to understand the 
Executive. Throughout the year one-to-one meetings have been held between Executive 
and Non-Executive Board members in order that Non-Executive Board members can gain 
a fuller understanding of what is taking place in the Group.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE CODE 
The overall responsibility for the Group’s risk management and internal controls systems 
sits with the Board. This is an on-going process which relates to the identification, 
evaluation, management and monitoring of significant risks. This complies with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code.
The Board is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code, which was issued in 
September 2012. The main principles of the Code are:
LEADERSHIP 
EFFECTIVENESS 
ACCOUNTABILITY 
REMUNERATIONS 
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Board has reviewed the Company’s corporate governance processes and policies, and 
has concluded that during the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2015 (the year) the Company 
complied with the provisions of the Code.
THE BOARD 
The Board consists of the Non-Executive Chairman, Keith Hellawell, the Executive 
Deputy Chairman, Mike Ashley, two other Executive Directors, and three further  
Non-Executive Directors. The names, skills and short biographies of each member  
of the Board are set out on page 33.
The size and composition of the Board is regularly reviewed by the Board to ensure that 
there is the appropriate balance of skills and experience.
ROLE OF THE BOARD 
The role of the Board is to ensure the overall long-term success of the Group. This is 
achieved through the review, development and implementation of the Group’s strategy. 
The Board also maintains responsibility for corporate responsibility, accountability and  
to ensure effective leadership is delegated to management for the day to day running 
of the Group and ensures an appropriate strategy is in place for succession planning.
The Board has a programme in place to enable it to discharge its responsibility of 
providing effective and entrepreneurial leadership to the Group within a framework  
of prudent and effective controls.
The Board plans to meet on a formal basis six times during the year with up to four 
additional strategy meetings at convenient times throughout the year when broader 
issues concerning the strategic future of the Group will be discussed. The Board will 
meet on other occasions as and when the business demands. During FY15 the Board 
met on 13 occasions.
The Group is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance. The following section will detail how the UK Corporate Governance 
Code has been applied during the year.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
37
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... A detailed agenda is established for each meeting, and appropriate documentation is 
provided to Directors in advance of the meeting. Regular Board meetings provide an 
agenda that will include reports from the Chief Executive, reports on the performance 
of the business and current trading, reports on meetings with investors, reports from 
Committees of the Board and specific proposals where the approval of the Board 
is sought. The Board will monitor and question monthly performance and review 
anticipated results.
Presentations are also given on business or strategic issues where appropriate, and 
the Board will consider at least annually the strategy for the Group. Minutes of the 
meetings of Committees of the Board are circulated to all members of the Board, unless 
a conflict of interest arises, to enable all Directors to have oversight of those matters 
delegated to Committees, and copies of analysts’ reports and brokers’ notes are 
provided to Directors.
In an effort to secure the long-term future of the Group, the Board has created a high 
performance culture within the Group by devising stretching Share Schemes as well as 
a share scheme for senior members of management. Areas discussed include investor 
relations, human resources and health and safety. The Board also receives updates on 
areas including risk management and internal control systems.
It is the responsibility of the Directors to ensure that the accounts are prepared and 
submitted. Having assessed the current Annual Report, along with the accounts, the 
Directors confirm that, taken as a whole, they are fair, balanced and understandable. 
The Directors do confirm that these documents provide the necessary information in 
order for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
KEY ACTIVITIES
• Ensuring the long-term success of the Group
• Considering the obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders
• Considering the effect the Group’s activities have on the environment and community 
in which it operates
• Maintaining a high business reputation
• Maintaining relationships with suppliers, customers and the wider community
There is a formal schedule of matters that require Board approval: they are matters that 
could have significant strategic, financial or reputational effects on the Group as a whole.
MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD
• Sets budgets
• Monitors and reviews strategy and business performance
• Approves acquisitions, expansions into other regions / countries
• Appointments and removal of Board members
• Succession planning
• Overall responsibility for internal control and risk management as described on  
pages 40 to 41
THE CHAIRMAN AND EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
The division of responsibilities between the Non-Executive Chairman, the Executive 
Deputy Chairman and the Chief Executive is in writing and has been agreed by the Board. 
However they work closely together to ensure effective decision-making and the successful 
delivery of the Group’s strategy.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and that 
all Directors are able to play a full part in the activities of the Company. He ensures that 
the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The Chairman officiates effective communication with shareholders and ensures that the 
Board understands the views of major investors, and is available to provide advice and 
support to members of the Executive team.
The Executive Deputy Chairman is an ambassador for the Company. He takes the lead 
in the strategic development of the Company, formulating the vision and strategy in 
conjunction with the Chief Executive.
The Company has entered into a Relationship Agreement with Mike Ashley, the Executive 
Deputy Chairman, whose wholly-owned companies, MASH Holdings Limited and MASH 
Beta Limited, currently hold approximately 4.43% and 50.71% respectively of the issued 
share capital of the Company (excluding treasury shares). This agreement is described in 
the Directors’ Report on page 34.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the running of the Group’s business for the delivery 
of the strategy, leading the management team and implementing specific decisions 
made by the Board to help meet shareholder expectations. The Chief Executive reports to 
each Board meeting on all material matters affecting the Group’s performance. No one 
individual has unfettered power of decision.
Given the structure of the Board, the fact that the Chairman and Chief Executive roles 
are fulfilled by two separate individuals and the terms of the Relationship Agreement 
with Mike Ashley, the Board believes that no individual or small group of individuals can 
dominate the Board’s decision making.
THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
The Board consists of three Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman. The role of the 
Non-Executive Directors is to understand the Group in its entirety and constructively 
challenge strategy and management performance, set Executive remuneration levels and 
ensure an appropriate succession planning strategy is in place. They must also ensure they 
are satisfied with the accuracy of financial information and that thorough risk management 
processes are in place.
The Non-Executive Directors have excellent experience from a wide range of sectors.  
The Non-Executive Directors assist the Board with issues such as governance, internal 
control, remuneration and risk management.
Simon Bentley is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. He supports the Chairman 
and Non-Executive Directors and is available to shareholders if they have concerns.
THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS - EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS 
Non-Executive Directors are required to disclose prior appointments and other significant 
commitments to the Board and are required to inform the Board of any changes to or 
additional commitments. Details of the Non-Executives Directors’ external appointments 
can be found on page 33.
Before accepting new appointments Non-Executive Directors are required to obtain 
approval from the Chairman, and the Chairman requires the approval of the whole Board. 
It is essential that no appointment causes a conflict of interest or jeopardises  
the Non-Executive Directors’ commitment and time spent with the Group in their  
existing appointment.
THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS – INDEPENDENCE 
The Group considers the Non-Executive Directors to be independent in accordance with the 
2012 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Each year the Board evaluations consider the independence of each Board member.  
The most recent evaluations did not highlight any Directors who lacked independence. 
Although the Board has remained constant for some time, the longest-serving member 
of the Board has been with the Board for eight years, this being less than the nine year 
period after which independence may become questionable.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 
CONTINUED
38
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS -  
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST 
The Board has set procedures to deal with Directors’ conflicts of interest that arise.  
During the year the Board reviewed and, where appropriate, approved certain situational 
conflicts of interest that were reported to it by Directors, and a register of those situational 
conflicts is maintained and reviewed. The Board noted any transactional conflicts of 
interest concerning Directors that arose and were declared. No Director took part in 
the discussion or determination of any matter in respect of which he had disclosed a 
transactional conflict of interest.
EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS - RE-ELECTION 
The Group complies with the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code and all Directors offer 
themselves for re-election every year.
The Board has determined that all Directors must put themselves forward for election 
or re-election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting to comply with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. Retiring Directors may seek reappointment if willing and eligible to 
do so and if so recommended by the Nomination Committee. All Directors appointed by 
the Board are appointed after consideration of the recommendations of the Nomination 
Committee, and those so appointed must stand for reappointment at the following Annual 
General Meeting.
Details of Executive Directors’ service contracts, and of the Chairman’s and the Non-
Executive Directors’ appointment letters, are given on pages 48 to 49. Copies of service 
contracts and of appointment letters are available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE - TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT 
All newly appointed Directors are provided with an induction programme which is tailored 
to their existing skills and experience. The Board is informed of any material changes to 
laws and regulations affecting the Group’s business.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and each 
Director and each Board Committee may take independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense, subject to prior notification to the other Non-Executive Directors and 
the Company Secretary. Appropriate Directors and Officers Insurance is maintained by  
the Company.
EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS - 
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 
The practices and processes of the Board are evaluated on a yearly basis, with the most 
recent evaluation being led internally. Following evaluations the feedback obtained is 
considered and the Board act on the learnings which have come to light. 
During 2014, the evaluations were led externally, by using an evaluator selected by  
the Board, NJMD Corporate Services Limited, which is a specialist consultancy led by  
Nigel Davies. 
BOARD COMMITTEES 
To assist the Board with their duties, there are three principal Board Committees, being  
the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.  
The Committees are governed by terms of reference which provide detail of matters 
delegated to each Committee and the authority they have to make decisions. Full terms  
of reference are available on request and on the Company’s website.
Attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the year and the total 
number of meetings that they could have attended are set out in the table below. All 
Directors attended all meetings of the Board and of Committees of the Board of which 
they were members unless prevented from doing so by prior commitments. The Board is 
satisfied that currently no one Director exercises a disproportionate influence.
Board  
Meetings-
Scheduled
Board  
Meetings-
Unscheduled
Audit  
Committee 
Meetings
Remuneration  
Committee 
Meetings
Nomination  
Committee 
Meetings
Keith Hellawell 5/5 7/8 3/3
(1)
4/4 2/2
Mike Ashley 5/5 4/8 - 1/4 -
Simon Bentley 5/5 6/8 3/3 4/4 2/2
Dave Forsey 5/5 8/8 3/3
(1)
4/4
(1)
2/2
(1)
Dave Singleton 5/5 8/8 3/3 4/4 2/2
Claire Jenkins 5/5 8/8 3/3 4/4 2/2
Charles 
McCreevy
 (2)
2/5 2/8 1/3 1/4 1/2
(1) A number of Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee meetings were attended by Board members 
who were not members of the Committees. The Board members concerned attended these meetings at the invitation of the Committee 
members. 
(2) Meetings attended by Charles McCreevy up until his retirement on 10 September 2014.
The meetings which took place throughout the year were a mixture of both scheduled 
meetings, for general matters, and unscheduled meetings, for more urgent matters. 
All scheduled meetings were attended by all existing Committee members. Following 
unscheduled meetings all absent members were subsequently given the opportunity to 
review the information and endorse or question the decisions made. This ensured that all 
members could have their thoughts recorded, even though they weren’t available during 
the meeting itself.
Immediately following two unscheduled Board meetings Simon Bentley gave approval 
via email. Keith Hellawell also gave telephone approval immediately following one 
unscheduled meeting which he was unable to attend. These absences were unavoidable 
due to other pre-planned commitments by the Directors. Despite the relative short notice of 
many of the unscheduled meetings, attendance levels by the Board has remained high.
There were a number of meetings throughout the year which were solely for  
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman. Meetings also took place which were 
attended by Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman. These meetings enabled the 
Non-Executive Directors to discuss matters which they perhaps could not discuss with the 
Executive Directors and/or the Non-Executive Chairman present.
39
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... AUDIT COMMITTEE 
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 2015
Dear Shareholder, 
I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for the 52 weeks ended 26  
April 2015.
The Audit Committee has an important role to play in effective reporting to our 
stakeholders and ensuring high standards of quality and effectiveness in the external audit 
process. This year has seen the introduction of many changes to corporate reporting.
This report provides an overview of:
• What the Committee has done during the year, and what is planned for 2016;
• The effectiveness of its activities;
• How it has assessed the effectiveness of the external auditors, including ensuring their 
independence; and 
• The Committee’s opinion on the Annual Report when viewed as a whole.
MEMBERSHIP 
The Audit Committee comprises me as Chairman, and all of the Non-Executive Directors. 
Biographical details of each member are shown in the Board of Directors’ profiles on  
page 33. 
MEETINGS 
The Committee met three times during the year and attendance at those meetings is 
shown on page 39 within the Corporate Governance Report. At the invitation of the 
Committee members, the Group Chairman, Chief Executive and the Acting Chief Financial 
Officer attend Committee meetings, as do the external and internal auditors. After each 
of its meetings, we met with the external auditors, in each case without the presence of 
Executive Directors or management. In addition I meet with the auditors as and when it 
is needed.
THE MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE INCLUDE:
• Assisting the Board with the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to internal and 
external audits and controls.
• Agreeing the scope of the annual audit and the annual audit plan and monitoring  
the same.
• Reviewing and monitoring the independence of the external auditors and relationships 
with them.
• Agreeing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit work that may be undertaken. 
• Reviewing and agreement of the external audit fees.
• Monitoring, making judgements and recommendations on the financial reporting 
process and the integrity and clarity of the Group’s Financial Statements.
• Reviewing and monitoring, throughout the year, the effectiveness of the internal control 
and risk management policies and systems in place, including a review of the activities 
of the internal audit function.
• Monitoring the audit of the annual and consolidated accounts including a review of the 
Letter of Representation, Audit Findings report and engagement letters.
• Reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities and the 
effectiveness of the Audit Committee.
 
WHAT HAS THE COMMITTEE DONE DURING THE YEAR? 
• Monitored the effectiveness of internal controls, and also considered the current 
economic climate and its likely impact on the Group.
• Considered the reappointment of the auditors.
• Reviewed accounting policies, presentations and the Financial Statements.
• Reviewed its own effectiveness
INTERNAL CONTROLS 
As one of the fastest-growing retailers with rapidly expanding overseas and internet 
operations, we have many complex operational risks to manage. 
The audit reviews led by the long established Retail Support Unit have led the way, 
through their audits across the retail operations each year, in providing comfort over the 
efficiency of controls over the operational procedures and systems which help to generate 
and report the numbers within the Financial Statements, and will continue to do so.
Conscious of the rate of growth, increasing complexity and the increase in responsibility 
that we as an Audit Committee have in reviewing the internal controls throughout the year, 
we appointed BDO last year as internal audit advisers. BDO have specialists experienced 
in auditing the strategies and plans put in place to mitigate risks to further strengthen the 
control environment.
BDO have conducted a review of our key risks, and, in consultation with us, have 
developed a strategic audit plan to provide assurance to the Audit Committee regarding  
the management of these key risks over the next three years. This plan was presented to 
the Audit Committee, and has been approved and agreed as a detailed annual programme. 
The Committee has delegated responsibility from the Board for considering operational, 
financial and compliance risks on a regular basis. Information on the Group’s approach to 
internal control and risk management is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on 
pages 37 to 43.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS  
On an annual basis, the Committee considers the reappointment of the auditors and their 
remuneration and makes recommendations to the Board. The auditors are appointed each 
year at the Annual General Meeting. The Committee consider the level of service provided 
by the auditors and their independence.
The Committee has recommended the reappointment of Grant Thornton UK LLP for FY16. 
The Committee took a number of factors into account in its assessment including but not 
limited to:
• The quality and scope of the planning of the audit in assessing risks and how the 
external auditors planned to evolve the audit to respond to changes in the business;
• The quality and timeliness of reports provided to the Committee and the Board;
• The level of understanding demonstrated of the Group’s businesses and the  
retail sector;
• The objectivity of the external auditors’ views on the controls around the Group and  
the robustness of challenge and findings on areas which required management 
judgement; and
• A review of external reports published, for example by the FRC, in respect of  
Grant Thornton.
 
The Committee’s view following this assessment was positive in relation to their evaluation 
of the work of the external auditors and they felt that high standards had  
been maintained.
After taking into account all of the above factors, the Committee concluded that the 
external auditors were effective.
The Committee believes their independence, the objectivity of the external audit and the 
effectiveness of the audit process is safeguarded and remains strong. This is displayed 
through their robust internal processes, their continuing challenge, their focused reporting 
and their discussions with both management and the Audit Committee.
To maintain the objectivity of the audit process, the external auditors are required to rotate 
audit partners for the Group audit every five years and the current lead partner has been 
in place for two years. Under the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code, audit services 
must be put to tender at least every ten years or else we must explain why we have not 
done so. Our current auditors, namely Grant Thornton UK LLP , have been in place since the 
listing in February 2007. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 
CONTINUED
40
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  In light of the above our current intention is to put the external audit services to tender for 
the audit of the period ending April 2017.
The Committee has approved a policy on the engagement of the external auditors for non-
audit work, in order to ensure that the objectivity of the auditors’ opinion on the Group’s 
Financial Statements is not or may not be seen to be impaired, and has established a 
process to monitor compliance. 
The external auditors may carry out certain categories of non-audit work that have either 
been pre-approved by the Committee or the Board, depending on the nature and monetary 
value of the services to be provided. The policy also prohibits the auditors auditing their 
own work and making management decisions.
The policy identified three categories of potential work.
AUDITOR AUTHORITY TYPE OF WORK
Work the auditor may not provide as 
completing the task could create a 
threat to independence.
The work includes the preparation of accounting 
entries or Financial Statements, IT systems design 
and implementation, management of projects and tax 
planning where the outcome would have a material 
impact on the Financial Statements or where the 
outcome is dependent upon accounting treatment.
Work the auditor may undertake with 
the consent of the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee.
Corporate finance services, acquisition due diligence, 
management consultancy and secondment of staff other 
than for the preparation of accounting entries or Financial 
Statements.
Work the auditor may undertake. There are services that the auditors may provide as the 
work is clearly audit-related and there is no potential 
threat to independence, including regulatory reporting 
and acting as reporting accountants. The Company is 
satisfied that its policy falls within the requirements of 
the Auditing Practices Board.
 
The Committee reviewed the nature and extent of non-audit fees expended on 
transactions, pensions and tax advisory services, tax compliance, the review of the half 
year report and other assurance related services, and the Committee concluded that the 
safeguards set out above were sufficient so as not to compromise auditor independence or 
objectivity. 
 
REVIEWED ACCOUNTING POLICIES, PRESENTATIONS AND THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Following the revision to the UK Corporate Governance Code, which applies to financial 
years commencing on or after 1 October 2014, the Board asked the Committee to advise 
on whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, were fair, 
balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the Group’s business model, strategy and performance. The Committee reviewed 
the process for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts. 
This process included the following key elements:
• Review of new regulations and reporting requirements with external advisers to identify 
additional information and disclosures that may be appropriate.
• Preparation of a detailed timetable and allocation of drafting responsibility to relevant 
internal teams with review by an appropriate senior manager.
• Provision of an explanation of the requirements of “fair, balanced and understandable” 
to those with drafting responsibility.
• Monitoring of the integrity of the Financial Statements and other information provided 
to shareholders to ensure they represented a clear and accurate assessment of the 
Group’s financial performance and position.
• Review of significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the 
Financial Statements.
• Review of all sections of the report by relevant external advisers.
• Review by the senior manager working group responsible for the Annual Report process.
• Interim progress review of process and report content with the Audit Committee.
• Review of a paper presented to the Committee, which set out to review the contents of 
the Annual Report and substantiate why it provided a fair, balanced and understandable 
view of the year under review.
The Committee reviewed the Annual Report and has confirmed it is fair, balanced  
and understandable.
FINANCIAL REPORTING 
The Committee’s review of the interim and full year Financial Statements focused on the 
following areas of significance: 
• Risk of fraud in revenue recognition – The Committee have reviewed the revenue 
recognition policies for all material revenue streams. They have also reviewed and 
considered the audit findings and the overall control environment in place surrounding 
the recognition of revenue and is satisfied that revenue has been correctly recognised in 
the Financial Statements.
• Derivative financial assets – The Committee has reviewed the valuation of contracts 
for difference assets as at 26 April 2015, the accounting treatment of fair value 
movements on these contracts and the related disclosures included in the Financial 
Statements. The Committee have concluded that the valuations have been reasonably 
reflected in derivative financial assets, that appropriate estimates have been applied 
and that these have therefore been correctly treated and adequately disclosed in the 
Financial Statements.
• Carrying value of inventory - the Committee has reviewed management’s paper setting 
out the basis on which the inventory provision is calculated and is satisfied with the 
reasonableness and consistency of model applied and that stock is held at the lower of 
cost and net realisable value.
• Intangibles impairment assessment - the Committee considered the key judgements 
including the discount rate, long-term growth rate, and the projected future cash flows 
of each cash-generating unit to which goodwill is allocated, based upon financial 
plans approved by the Board. The Committee is satisfied with the methodology and 
assumptions used, and the conclusion that the Group’s intangible assets are not 
impaired.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with the level of rigor applied by the external auditors in 
addressing these areas as part of the audit procedures.
REVIEW OF OWN EFFECTIVENESS  
After undertaking a review of its own performance the Committee concluded that it had 
been effective in discharging the obligations entrusted to it by the Board.
Simon Bentley 
Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
16 July 2015
 
41
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
Biographical details of each member are shown in the Board of Directors’ profiles on  
page 33. 
The Remuneration Committee consists solely of Non-Executive Directors who are 
considered independent. The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board to ensure 
that Executive and Non-Executive Directors receive appropriate levels of pay and benefits. 
A key priority is to ensure that remuneration policy is aligned with strategy to achieve 
the long-term success of the Group. The Committee ensures that it complies with the 
requirements of regulatory and governance bodies including the UK Corporate Governance 
Code whilst meeting stakeholder, shareholder and staff expectations. 
THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE INCLUDE:
• Determining the Company’s policy on Executive remuneration, including the design  
of bonus schemes and targets and payments made thereunder.
• Determining the levels of remuneration for the Chairman and each of the  
Executive Directors.
• Monitoring the remuneration of senior management and making recommendations in 
respect thereof.
• Agreeing any compensation for loss of office of any Executive Director.
The Remuneration Committee meets at least three times a year and met on four occasions 
during FY15.
A report on the remuneration of Directors appears on pages 44 to 52.
WHAT HAS THE COMMITTEE DONE DURING THE YEAR?
• Worked on the Share Scheme, including announcements and assessing the likelihood 
of achieving targets etc.
• Reviewed and approved the Directors’ Remuneration Report contained on pages  
44 to 52.
Full details of Directors’ remuneration can be found in the Remuneration Report on  
page 50.
Dave Singleton 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
16 July 2015
 
NOMINATION COMMITTEE 
In my role as Chairman of the Nomination Committee, I ensure that the Board remains 
competent, balanced and effective. These goals are achieved in a number of ways, 
including monitoring the succession of the Board, reviewing its performance and  
identifying and nominating suitable candidates to fill Board vacancies. 
Biographical details of each member are shown in the Board of Directors’ profiles  
on page 33. 
During a review of the skills, experience and diversity of the Committee, it was 
recommended that Claire Jenkins should join, an appointment which she has  
duly accepted. 
The aim of the Committee is to ensure that the Board remains balanced, knowledgeable 
and diverse in order that it is able to fully meet the needs of the Group. Going forward  
we aim to continue to manage the transition of the Board, in particular the addition of 
new Non-Executive Directors, through meetings with candidates (both at interviews and  
at networking events), consulting with other Committee members regarding their views  
on the suitability of candidates, and discussing the key requirements of the Group with 
Board members.
The Nomination Committee will meet at least once a year and will also meet when 
appropriate. The Committee met formally on two occasions during FY15. However the 
Nomination Committee met informally on a number of further occasions during the year in 
order to discuss the appointment of a replacement Finance Director and a Non-Executive 
Director(s). All of the Nomination Committee members are Non-Executive Directors and 
considered to be independent.
THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE INCLUDE:
• Reviewing the leadership needs of the Group, looking at both Executives and  
Non-Executives.
• Reviewing the composition, structure and size of the Board, and making 
recommendations to the Board of adjustments that are deemed necessary.
• Giving consideration to succession planning for Directors, taking into account the 
challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the skills and expertise therefore 
needed on the Board.
• Ensuring that Directors are aware of what is expected of them.
• Formally documenting the appointment of Directors.
• Identifying potential candidates for senior posts, and making recommendations to the 
Board as and when necessary.
The Board has established a Nomination Committee to ensure a formal, rigorous and 
transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board. 
The Nomination Committee also determines succession plans for the Chairman and the 
Chief Executive who are not present at meetings when the matter is discussed. Succession 
plans are reviewed by the Nomination Committee at least once a year.
Dave Forsey, the Chief Executive, will usually attend meetings of the Nomination 
Committee, unless the Nomination Committee is dealing with matters relating to him or 
with the appointment of his successor.
WHAT HAS THE COMMITTEE DONE DURING THE YEAR?
• Assisted with the search for a Finance Director and recommended the appointment  
of Matt Pearson.
• Facilitated the search for a Non-Executive Director and reviewed the steps taken 
towards making an appointment. Candidates met with members of the Committee in 
order that the Committee were able to form a conclusion regarding recommendations.
• Reviewed the top management structure in place. Made recommendations as to 
changes which may be required in order to strengthen the position of the Group  
in future.
• Recommended and appointed another Non-Executive Director to the Committee.
• Met with corporate governance bodies and reviewed the feedback given.
The Board believes that the Board and its Committees as currently constituted are  
working well. 
Dr Keith Hellawell QPM 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Chairman of the Board
16 July 2015
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 
CONTINUED
42
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  UK BRIBERY ACT 
The Group has an approved policy in place which was created following the introduction  
of the UK Bribery Act. As a result of the Act, all policies and procedures have been 
reviewed to ensure that they comply with the Act and measures are in place to prevent 
staff being offered and / or accepting bribes.
BUSINESS MODEL  
Our business model, which sets out the basis on which the Company generates or 
preserves value over the longer term, and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the 
Company, can be found at pages 14 and 15.
WHISTLE-BLOWING  
There is a formal whistle-blowing policy in place for staff who wish to raise issues or 
concerns relating to the Group’s activities on a confidential basis.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS 
The Board recognise the importance of communicating with shareholders. This is done 
through the Annual Report and general meetings, and announcements. All Directors are 
available at, and folllowing the Annual General Meeting when shareholders have the 
opportunity to ask questions.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive regularly meet with the Company’s institutional 
shareholders to discuss the Group’s strategy and financial performance within the 
constraints of information already available to the public. All other board members are  
also available to meet with shareholders, as and when required.
The Company’s corporate website is an important tool of communication, which should 
be used as the first port of call for shareholders. The site holds all London Stock Exchange 
announcements, together with downloadable investor presentations, share price charts and 
brand information.
During the year members of the Board and senior management have met with 
shareholders in order to discuss their queries. The meetings have been considered an 
opportunity not only to recognise the matters which are of importance to shareholders, 
but also for shareholders to  recognise how the Group operates. The shareholder meetings 
that have taken place during the year include face to face meetings, individual and group 
conference calls, letters and emails.
REMUNERATION 
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining and reviewing remuneration 
policy and setting remuneration levels. See Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 52.
SHARE DEALING CODE 
The Group has adopted the Model Code as published in the UK Listing Rules.
All those deemed to have ‘insider information’ must seek consent prior to any dealing 
whatsoever in the Group’s shares.
The Executive Directors must obtain prior consent from the Chairman or the Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director. The Chairman requires consent from the Chief 
Executive or the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, and any other employees 
with ‘insider information’ must gain the prior consent of the Chief Executive or Company 
Secretary before dealing in the Group’s shares.
Details concerning the share capital structure of the Company can be found in the 
Director’s Report on pages 34 to 36.
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 
The key features of the Group’s system of internal control and risk management systems 
in relation to the financial reporting process and the preparation of the Group accounts are 
set out below or cross-referred to other parts of the Annual Report where relevant.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for determining the nature and extent 
of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives and for 
maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems, and for reviewing their 
effectiveness. The risk management process and systems of internal control are designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Company’s objectives. 
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable but not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
ASSESSMENT OF BUSINESS RISK 
A system to identify, assess, and evaluate business risk is embedded within the 
management processes throughout the Group. Strategic risks are regularly reviewed by 
the Board and its Committees. Risks relating to the key activities within the subsidiary 
operating units are assessed continuously.
Further details of the risks and uncertainties relating to the Group’s business, and how the 
Group seeks to mitigate these, can be found on pages 17 to 20.
 
By Order of the Board
Cameron Olsen 
Company Secretary
16 July 2015
43
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am again pleased to present our report on the remuneration 
strategy and policy of the Company at the end of yet another very successful year. We firmly 
believe that this continued success is strongly connected with the introduction of our Share 
Schemes in 2009 and 2011, and now our 2015 Share Scheme. The schemes are designed 
to encourage, recognise and reward outstanding performance and to drive shareholder value.
The remuneration policy of the Company is aligned to its commercial strategy for long-term, 
consistent and profitable growth. The remuneration package for Senior Executives is highly 
weighted towards performance-related remuneration, paid mostly in shares, and its design 
is consistent with the reward philosophy for the wider workforce. This strategy is reflective 
of an extremely strong Executive and employee performance culture and a reward ethos of 
“One Team”.
The Company philosophy is that Executive remuneration should be simple, transparent and 
directly support the delivery of the business strategy and shareholder returns. The Executive 
Directors’ basic salaries have been deliberately set at a level well below the lower quartile 
of a business of the size and complexity of the Group. Indeed Dave Forsey’s salary has 
remained the same since 2002 and again will not increase in FY16. Also, the Senior 
Executives currently enjoy no additional benefits from the Company.
The Executive Directors do not receive an annual bonus. Rather, to drive sustained long-term 
business performance, instead of granting smaller awards on an annual basis, larger upfront 
awards are granted which only vest if significant and consistent growth is delivered year 
on year. Annual performance targets which must be hit ensure a focus is maintained on 
a consistent and long-term profitable growth strategy. The extended time horizon for the 
vesting of awards for the 2011 Executive Share Scheme is six years (in 2017) and for the 
full vesting of the 2015 Share Scheme it is also six years (in 2021).
Clear, published and stretching annual performance targets must be fully satisfied before 
any of the share awards vest. Aligned to the Company’s high performance culture, the Share 
Schemes are designed on the basis that awards should vest in full for achieving stretching 
targets (i.e. with an `all or nothing’ vesting schedule) rather than providing for a lower level 
of vesting for meeting a threshold target rising to full vesting for achieving the stretch targets 
(i.e. a scaled vesting schedule). Because the Executive Directors’ remuneration opportunity 
is highly weighted towards performance-related remuneration which will not vest if stretching 
performance targets aligned with the business strategy are not met, they share risk with 
the shareholders. The size of these performance-only awards should be considered in this 
context.
The Remuneration Committee firmly believes that this simple and very transparent share 
incentive framework is totally aligned with both the Company strategy for growth and its 
performance culture. We also believe that this strategy has directly driven the historic out-
performance of stretch targets originally set by the Committee by further aligning Executive 
and employee remuneration potential to increased and on-going shareholder value. This 
increased share value incentive has also led to a further ‘lifting of the performance bar’ for 
future awards.
There is no doubt that the inception of the current remuneration strategy in 2009 has clearly 
led to strong shareholder value increases during a difficult economic period, and it has 
provided a strong platform for the on-going and long-term success of the Company. 
During FY14 the Remuneration Committee re-assessed the shareholding guidelines for 
Executive Directors and determined that the Executive Directors must now hold a minimum 
of 50,000 shares while they remain employed by the Company. Dave Forsey’s shareholding 
on 24 April 2015 meant that he satisfied the guideline. As an acting Board member, Matt 
Pearson is not currently required to satisfy the shareholding guideline. If his appointment 
becomes permanent, Matt Pearson would be expected to acquire the minimum number of 
shares over a reasonable time period determined by the Commitee.
On 2 July 2014, we were pleased to announce that the resolution to approve the 2015 
Share Scheme was passed, with a majority of shareholders eligible to vote on the resolution 
voting in favour (the Executive Directors elected not to vote) and it was then included in 
our Remuneration Policy which was approved by shareholders at the Company’s AGM in 
September 2014.
Under the 2015 Share Scheme all employees (including Executive Directors) who are 
determined by the Board as eligible who meet the qualifying conditions and performance 
criteria as determined and agreed by the Remuneration Committee and the Board will be 
able to participate. The terms of the 2015 Share Scheme provide for the grant of nil-cost 
options over up to 25m ordinary shares in the Company (amounting to approximately 
4.2% of the issued share capital of the Company). Senior Executive grants are limited to 
a maximum of one million shares each. The vesting of any options would be conditional 
upon the achievement by the Company of four Adjusted Underlying EBITDA targets (before 
scheme costs) set by the Committee. If these performance targets are all met, 25% of 
any award would vest following the announcement of the Company’s audited results for 
FY19 in July 2019 and 75% of the award would vest following the announcement of the 
Company’s audited results for FY21 in July 2021. When the Scheme was approved the 
Adjusted Underlying EBITDA targets (before scheme costs) were: (i) FY16 £480m; (ii) 
FY17 £570m; (iii) FY18 £650m; and (iv) FY19 £750m. 
Specifically tailored to Company culture and our growth strategy we continue to review 
the robustness of the Scheme. The Remuneration Committee considered these targets 
to be extremely stretching, dependent on strong organic growth and to a degree on an 
aggressive acquisitions strategy. However, as we enter FY16 it is clear, and also understood 
by the market, that planned acquisitions in FY15 did not fully materialise. As such, the 
Committee believes the FY16 Adjusted Underlying EBITDA target of £480m to now be an 
unreasonably challenging one. Following its recent review the Committee now recommends 
to shareholders a revised FY16 Adjusted Underlying EBITDA target of £420m. This compares 
to the £383m EBITDA achieved in FY15 (i.e. the delivery of c.10% growth in one year). All 
other targets for the further three years of the Scheme currently remain the same. As noted 
in the FY15 preliminary results announcement, the Remuneration Committee will continue to 
review the robustness of the Scheme on an annual basis. Whilst the Committee considered 
there to be some leeway for making such an adjustment within the Scheme rules without 
shareholder approval it decided that this change should be put to shareholders as an ordinary 
resolution at the Company’s AGM in September 2015. Furthermore we have also added a 
provision for clawback to the scheme (in addition to the existing malus provision) to enable 
the Company to recover bonuses paid pursuant to the Scheme for 12 months post vesting in 
the event of serious financial misconduct by any Executive Director.
In our Remuneration Policy we also indicated that Mike Ashley, despite being eligible to 
participate in the 2015 Share Scheme, following discussions with the Committee informed 
the Company that he did not wish to participate in the 2015 Share Scheme and as such 
the Committee decided to make no award to Mike Ashley under the 2015 Share Scheme. 
Subsequently the Committee has now formally removed the ability of Mike Ashley to 
participate in the Scheme. 
In addition Mike Ashley informed the Company and the Committee that he did not expect 
any share based incentive scheme to be proposed to shareholders in relation to his role as an 
Executive Director while the 2015 Share Scheme is in place. He remains fully committed to 
achieving the stretching targets of the Scheme. It should be noted that Mike Ashley has not 
received any remuneration from the Company since before the public offering in February 
2007, nor has he participated in either of the Executive Share Schemes. 
It remains our intention to continue with the existing transparent, highly performance-geared 
remuneration policy for our Executives, i.e. low salary, no annual bonus or additional 
benefits, and the 2015 Share Scheme allows us to continue on this path.
 
Dave Singleton 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
16 July 2015
44
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY 
This part of the report sets out the Company’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy, which, subject to shareholder approval, shall take binding effect from the date of the 2015 AGM.  
The Policy is determined by the Committee. For ease of reference, this part of the report highlights where the policy differs from the policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
FUTURE POLICY TABLE 
The table below describes each of the elements of the remuneration package for the Executive Directors.  
 
ELEMENT OF 
REMUNERATION
PURPOSE / LINK TO 
STRATEGY
OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE MEASURES CHANGES 
TO POLICY 
APPROVED AT 
THE 2014 AGM
BASE SALARY Fixed element of the remuneration 
package, where the balance of 
fixed and variable remuneration is 
aligned to the commercial strategy 
of long-term profitable growth and 
reflects the Company remuneration 
philosophy of gearing reward to 
performance with a sharing of risk 
between Executive Directors  
and shareholders.
Base salaries are normally reviewed annually and have not been increased 
since 2002.
Mike Ashley does not currently receive a salary for his role.
Although salaries for Executive Directors (other than Mike 
Ashley, who does not currently receive a salary and Matt 
Pearson who has been appointed as an acting Board member) 
have been set at £150,000 since 2002, the Company retains 
discretion to set salaries at a level commensurate with other 
companies of a similar size and complexity as the Company. 
Matt Pearson’s salary will be reviewed during FY16 to take 
account of his role as an acting Board member or if his 
appointment becomes permanent.
Salaries for new Executive Directors will be set in accordance 
with the Committee’s approach to recruitment remuneration, 
as described on pages 47 to 48.
Not applicable. No changes.
BENEFITS Not applicable for current Executive 
Directors.
The current Executive Directors do not receive any additional benefits.  
There is currently no intention to change this whilst the Executive Share 
Scheme and 2015 Share Scheme remain in place.
Benefits may be provided in line with market practice to recruit a new 
Executive Director taking into account individual circumstances. Such 
benefits may include relocation expenses.
Whilst the Remuneration Committee has not set an absolute 
maximum level of benefits Executive Directors may receive, 
the Company retains discretion to set benefits at a level which 
the Remuneration Committee considers appropriate against the 
market and to support the on-going strategy of the Company.
Not applicable. No changes.
RETIREMENT 
BENEFITS
Provide post-employment benefits to 
recruit and retain individuals of the 
calibre required for the business.
The Executive Directors are entitled to participate in a stakeholder pension 
scheme on the same basis as other employees. 
The current maximum employer contribution to the stakeholder 
pension scheme is 1%. 
The Company retains the discretion to set retirement benefits 
(including pension contributions and/or a salary supplement 
in lieu of a pension contribution) for any Executive Directors 
in accordance with the Committee’s approach to recruitment 
remuneration, as described on page 47.
Not applicable. No changes.
ANNUAL BONUS Not applicable as Executive Directors 
do not participate in an annual  
bonus scheme.
The Committee has determined that no annual bonus scheme will be 
operated for Executive Directors while the 2015 Share Scheme is in place.
No annual bonus opportunity for an Executive Director who 
participates in the 2015 Share Scheme for so long as that 
Scheme is in place. If that Scheme is not in place (for example 
if one of the Adjusted Underlying EBITDA targets is not met so 
that awards under that Scheme lapse) the Committee may 
award an annual bonus opportunity of up to 200% of base 
salary. The Committee will not award such a bonus opportunity 
and grant an award under the Executive Share Scheme as 
referred to below.
The annual bonus opportunity for any newly recruited 
Executive Director will be set in accordance with the 
Committee’s approach to recruitment remuneration as 
described on pages 47 to 48.
Not applicable for so long as Executive 
Directors do not participate in an annual 
bonus scheme. 
If an Executive Director does participate in 
an annual bonus scheme, performance will 
be assessed against one or more metrics 
determined by the Committee and linked to 
the Company’s strategy, with the weighting 
between the metrics determined by the 
Committee. Bonuses will be determined 
between 0% and 100% of the maximum 
opportunity based on the Committee’s 
assessment of the applicable metrics.
No changes.
LONG-TERM 
INCENTIVE PAY 
(2015 SHARE 
SCHEME AND 
EXECUTIVE 
SHARE SCHEME)
To recognise and reward outstanding 
performance of the Executives and 
to drive underlying Group EBITDA in 
line with Group strategy and align 
Executive Directors’ interests with the 
interests of shareholders in bringing 
consistent long-term profitable growth 
to the Company.
2015 Share Scheme:  
The 2015 Share Scheme was approved by shareholders at a General 
Meeting of the Company in July 2014. Awards may be granted under 
the Scheme to Executive Directors on an annual (or more frequent) basis. 
However, in accordance with the Company’s policy of granting larger 
upfront awards which only vest if significant and consistent growth is 
delivered year on year, one award may be granted under the Scheme 
to any Executive Director during the period for which it is proposed this 
Directors Remuneration Policy shall apply, with vesting subject to the 
satisfaction of the EBITDA targets set out in the 2015 Share Scheme 
measured over a period of four financial years. 75% of an award is subject 
to a further deferral period such that it will vest in 2021 (with 25% 
vesting in 2019).
After Mike Ashley informed the Committee that he wished to withdraw 
from the scheme, the Committee formally removed him.
Unvested Awards are subject to malus provisions, such that the Committee 
has the discretion to reduce, cancel or impose further conditions on the 
awards in the event of a material misstatement of the Company’s results, 
material failure of risk management or serious reputational damage. 
Clawback provisions give the Committee discretion to recover amounts paid 
to Executive Directors for up to 12 months post vesting in the event of 
serious financial misconduct.
Executive Share Scheme:  
The Executive Share Scheme was approved by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting in September 2010.  The Committee may grant further 
awards under this Scheme if the 2015 Share Scheme is not in place (for 
example, if one of the Adjusted Underlying EBITDA targets is not met so 
that awards under the 2015 Share Scheme lapse).  Mike Ashley is not 
eligible to be granted awards under the Executive Share Scheme.  
Any award granted under the Executive Share Scheme would be subject 
to malus and clawback provisions on a comparable basis to those that will 
apply to awards granted under the 2015 Share Scheme.
2015 Share Scheme 
Awards over no more than 25 million shares may be granted 
under the 2015 Share Scheme.
No more than 1m shares (subject to such adjustment as 
the Committee determines to reflect any variation in the 
Company’s share capital) may be awarded to any Executive 
Director (other than Mike Ashley who has been formally 
removed from participation in the 2015 Share Scheme).
Executive Share Scheme 
Any award granted to an Executive Director under the 
Executive Share Scheme during the period for which it is 
proposed this Directors’ Remuneration Policy shall apply would 
be over a maximum of 1m shares (subject to such adjustment 
as the Committee determines to reflect any change in the 
Company’s share capital).  
Stretching performance targets are set 
reflecting the business priorities that 
underpin Group strategy. 
2015 Share Scheme:  
Awards under the 2015 Share Scheme are 
subject to satisfactory personal performance 
and will only vest if the following Adjusted 
Underlying EBITDA targets (before scheme 
costs) are met:
FY16: £420m 
FY17: £570m      
FY18: £650m      
FY19: £750m
For these purposes, “Adjusted Underlying 
EBITDA” means Underlying EBITDA as 
reported in the Company’s published 
accounts for the relevant year after such 
adjustments as the Committee  
considers appropriate. These performance 
conditions may be amended in accordance 
with the rules of the 2015 Share Scheme as 
approved by shareholders in July 2014, as 
further referred to on page 46.
Executive Share Scheme:  
Any award granted under the Executive 
Share Scheme would be subject to stretching 
performance targets determined by the 
Committee based on Adjusted Underlying 
EBITDA, which would be disclosed in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report following the 
grant of any such award.  
The Adjusted 
Underlying EBITDA 
target for 2016 has 
been amended from 
£480m to £420m.
Awards are now 
subject to  
clawback provisions.
45
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... The table below sets out an overview of the approach to remuneration for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
PURPOSE / LINK TO STRATEGY APPROACH OF THE COMPANY
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees
Provide an appropriate reward to attract and retain Directors of the calibre required for the business.
The Committee’s Remuneration Policy in respect of the Non-Executive Directors is to pay annual fees 
which reflect the responsibilities and duties placed upon them, while also having regard to market 
practice.
Non-Executive Directors receive a fixed annual fee.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any bonus or share schemes.
Non-Executive Directors may be eligible for benefits such as the use of secretarial support, travel costs 
or other benefits that may be appropriate.
INFORMATION SUPPORTING THE POLICY TABLE 
Prior to the introduction of the 2015 Share Scheme, awards were granted to Executive Directors under the Executive Share Scheme. One award held by an Executive Director remains 
outstanding under the Executive Share Scheme as referred to on page 51.
Other than where the 2015 Share Scheme is not in place (for example, if one of the Adjusted Underlying EBITDA targets is not met so that awards under the 2015 Share Scheme lapse) or 
where an award is to be granted in connection with the recruitment of an Executive Director as referred to on page 47, no further awards will be granted to Executive Directors of the Company 
under the Executive Share Scheme during the period for which this policy applies.
The Committee may amend the terms of the Executive Share Scheme, the 2015 Share Scheme or any awards granted under them within the scope defined in the rules of those schemes 
(including in the event of a variation of the Company’s share capital or a demerger or special dividend which may, in the Committee’s opinion, affect the current or future value of shares) and 
may elect to settle awards under those schemes in cash.
EXPLANATION OF PERFORMANCE MEASURES CHOSEN 
For the 2015 Share Scheme, underlying Group EBITDA is chosen because it is a measure that provides a simple and transparent basis on which to measure the Company’s performance 
over the longer term and to provide alignment with the Company’s business strategy. In addition, the Committee considers it to be a robust measurement of sustained earnings growth for 
shareholders. This measurement has been consistently and publicly used by the Company as a performance measure since the floatation in 2007.
In respect of each relevant year, the Committee will adjust reported underlying Group EBITDA as it considers appropriate. Underlying Group EBITDA is calculated prior to any charges relating to 
any share scheme(s) outstanding at the relevant time. 
In accordance with the rules of the 2015 Share Scheme, performance conditions may be amended or substituted if events occur (such as a change of strategy, a material acquisition or 
divestment of a Group business or a change in prevailing market conditions including the non-materialisation of planned acquisitions) which cause the Committee to consider that a substituted 
or amended performance condition would be more appropriate and would not be materially more or less difficult to satisfy than the original performance condition but for the event in 
question. As noted in the FY15 preliminary results announcement, the Committee will continue to review the robustness of the Scheme on an annual basis, and the targets may be adjusted, 
in accordance with the Scheme rules and this Policy, if events occur, as referred to above.
EXPLANATION OF DIFFERENCES IN REMUNERATION POLICY FOR OTHER EMPLOYEES 
The Company has a large number of employees with different responsibilities and differing levels of seniority. Reward policies for employees other than Executive Directors are determined 
by reference to grade, role, performance and other relevant factors. The Committee does not consult with the wider workforce about the remuneration policy for Directors. However, the 
Committee has reviewed the salaries, other remuneration and other employment conditions of senior and middle managers throughout the Group, and has taken them into account in 
considering Directors’ salaries and the creation of new incentive schemes in order to create a sense of common purpose and sharing of success. Indeed, in order to reflect the Company’s 
“One Team” ethos, the 2015 Share Scheme applies to both Executives and employees determined by the Board as eligible who meet the qualifying conditions as determined and agreed 
by the Committee and the Board on the same basis (including the performance conditions).
ILLUSTRATIONS OF APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY 
The charts below set out an illustration of the policy for 2015/16 in line with the future policy table above. The charts provide an illustration of the total remuneration opportunity that 
could arise under three different levels of performance. No chart is included for Mike Ashley, who does not receive any remuneration from the Company and does not participate in any 
share scheme.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 
CONTINUED
Total remuneration (£000)
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
Minimum 
Performance
Performance in line
with expectations
Maximum 
Performance
0
DAVE FORSEY
Base salary, benefits & pension           2015 Share Scheme
92%
150 150
For the purposes of the adjacent chart, the following assumptions have been made.
FIXED PAY 2015 SHARE SCHEME
Minimum remuneration Base salary of £150,000. No vesting.
Performance in line with expectations No employer pension contribution  
(as Dave Forsey has opted out of  
the Company’s stakeholder  
pension scheme).
No vesting, because rewards under the 
Executive Share Scheme vest on an 
“all or nothing” basis for achieving the 
upper end of stretch targets.
Maximum remuneration No benefits (as no benefits were 
provided to the current Executive 
Directors in FY15).
See note below*.
*For the purposes of this chart, it has been assumed that Dave Forsey is granted an award over 1 million shares, as referred to in the policy table on page 45. The value of the award is then calculated based on a share price of £7.37 (being the price at the close of business on 
14 July 2015 when this report was approved by the Committee) and one quarter of this value is then shown, representing the intention to grant one award under the 2015 Share Scheme, the vesting of which will be subject to EBITDA performance targets measured over a period 
of four financial years (FY16, FY17, FY18 and FY19). The vesting of an award is conditional upon the achievement by the Company of all four EBITDA targets under the 2015 Share Scheme.
46
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION 
When agreeing a remuneration package for the appointment of a new Executive Director, the Committee will apply the following principles:
• given that the high gearing of reward for performance over a long period and a low basic salary may result in a ‘cash flow’ issue for any new Executive Director, the intention is to 
move the Director appropriately and in a timely manner onto an equal footing with other Executive Directors;
• the package will be sufficient to attract the calibre of Director required to deliver the Company’s strategy;
• the Committee will seek to ensure that no more is paid than is necessary; and
• in the next Annual Report on remuneration, the Committee will explain to shareholders the rationale for the arrangements implemented.
The Committee will ordinarily seek to implement the remuneration package in accordance with the elements referred to in the policy table on pages 45 and 46. The Committee retains 
discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside that policy including the ability to grant awards under the Executive Share Scheme to meet the individual circumstances of 
the recruitment, subject to the limits and parameters of this recruitment remuneration section of the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
ELEMENT APPROACH
Base salary and 
benefits
Aligned with the policy set out in the policy table on page 45 if the new Executive Director participates in the 2015 Share Scheme at the same level as existing 
Executive Directors (other than Mike Ashley).
Retirement 
benefits
Aligned with the policy set out in the policy table on page 45 if the new Executive Director participates in the 2015 Share Scheme. Otherwise, up to 20% of salary 
paid to a pension arrangement or paid as a supplement to base salary in lieu of a pension arrangement until the new Executive Director joins that scheme.
2015 Share 
Scheme
The Remuneration Committee’s intention is for a newly-appointed Executive Director to participate in the 2015 Share Scheme with an award of up to 1 million 
shares (subject to such adjustment as the Committee determines to reflect any variation in the Company’s share capital) (i.e. up to the maximum level referred to 
in the policy table, but reduced to reflect the new Executive Director’s shortened period of service).
Variable 
remuneration
In recognition of the fact that a newly appointed Executive Director’s award under the 2015 Share Scheme would not vest until 2019, the Committee may award 
a newly appointed Executive Director an award over up to 1 million shares (subject to such adjustment as the Committee determines to reflect any change in the 
Company’s share capital) under the Executive Share Scheme or a similar scheme, the vesting of which would be subject to the same performance conditions as 
apply to existing awards under the Executive Share Scheme or other stretching performance conditions determined by the Committee.
In addition, until such time as the newly appointed Executive Director participates in the 2015 Share Scheme, he or she may be awarded an annual or longer-term 
incentive opportunity of up to 200% of salary per annum.
Maximum 
variable 
remuneration
The maximum level of variable remuneration that may be awarded to a new Executive Director is:
a. an award over up to 1 million shares (subject to such adjustment as the Committee determines to reflect any change in the Company’s share capital) under the 
2015 Share Scheme (but reduced to reflect any variable remuneration awarded as referred to in (c) below);
b. an award over up to 1 million shares (subject to such adjustment as the Committee determines to reflect any change in the Company’s share capital) under the 
Executive Share Scheme or a similar scheme; and
c. until such time as he or she participates in the 2015 Share Scheme, an annual or longer-term incentive opportunity of up to 200% of salary per annum.
In each case, the value of any buy-out arrangements (described below) does not count towards the maximum.
MATT PEARSON
Total remuneration (£000)
90
110
130
150
70
50
30
10
Minimum 
Performance
Performance in line
with expectations
Maximum 
Performance
-10
Base salary, benefits & pension           2015 Share Scheme
For the purposes of the adjacent chart, the following assumptions have been made.
FIXED PAY 2015 SHARE SCHEME
Minimum remuneration Base salary of £60,000. No vesting.
Performance in line with expectations An employer pension contribution of 
1% of salary.
No vesting, because rewards under the 
Executive Share Scheme vest on an 
“all or nothing” basis for achieving the 
upper end of stretch targets.  
Maximum remuneration No benefits (as no benefits were 
provided to the current Executive 
Directors in 2014/2015).  
See note below*
*As an acting Board member this chart reflects Matt Pearson’s terms and conditions existing at the time of his interim appointment. The chart therefore assumes he is granted an award over 30,000 shares consistent with his current package. The value of the award is then 
calculated based on a share price of £7.37 (being the price at the close of business on 14 July 2015 when this report was approved by the Committee) and one quarter of this value is then shown, representing the intention to grant one award under the 2015 Share Scheme, the 
vesting of which will be subject to EBITDA performance targets measured over a period of four financial years (FY16, FY17, FY18 and FY19). The vesting of an award is conditional upon the achievement by the Company of all four EBITDA targets under the 2015 Share Scheme. 
As noted on page 50, Matt Pearson’s salary and the level of award under the 2015 Share Scheme will be reviewed by the Committee during FY16.
60.6 60.6
48%
47
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... Compensation 
for forfeited 
arrangements
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buy-out the remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer. In doing 
so, the Committee will have regard to relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to such arrangements (and whether such conditions were 
achieved), the form of those arrangements (e.g. cash or shares) and the timeframe of such arrangements.
While such awards are excluded from the maximum level of variable remuneration referred to below, the Committee’s intention is that the value awarded would 
be no higher than the expected value of the forfeited arrangements. Buy-out awards will be subject to forfeiture or clawback on early departure, with 100% being 
subject to forfeiture if the Executive departs within 12 months of joining, and a sliding scale down to 50% if the departure occurs within 12 and 24 months of 
joining, at the Committee’s discretion.
Relocation costs If necessary, the Company will pay appropriate relocation costs. The Committee will seek to ensure that no more is paid than is necessary.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under the Company’s existing share schemes. If necessary and subject, where relevant, to the limits referred 
to above, awards may be granted outside existing share plans as permitted under the Listing Rules, which allow for the grant of awards to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the 
recruitment of an Executive Director.
Where a position is filled internally, any on-going remuneration obligations or outstanding variable pay elements shall be allowed to continue according to their subsisting terms.
The remuneration package for a newly appointed Non-Executive Director would normally be in line with the policy set out in the future policy table above for Non-Executive Directors.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND POLICY ON PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE 
The Company’s policy is for Executive Directors to be employed on the terms of service contracts which may be terminated by either the Company or the Executive Director on the giving of 
not less than 12 months’ notice.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
Details of each current service contract are set out below:  
CONTRACT DATE UNEXPIRED TERM / NOTICE PERIOD PROPER LAW
Mike Ashley 11/02/2007 12 months England & Wales
Dave Forsey 11/02/2007 12 months England & Wales
Matt Pearson 14/06/2007 8 weeks England & Wales
The principles on which the determination of payments for loss of office will be approached are summarised below:
Payment in lieu of 
notice
The Company may terminate an Executive Director’s employment with immediate effect by making a payment in lieu of notice consisting of:
• basic salary for the notice period;
• if the Executive Director participates in an annual bonus scheme, a pro-rated amount reflecting completed months of service in the year of termination 
assuming on target performance;
• either the cost of providing other benefits (other than pension and bonus) that the Executive Director would have been entitled to during the notice period 
or an amount equal to 10% of base salary (or alternatively the Company may continue to provide benefits for the remainder of the notice period that would 
have applied).
However, in accordance with the current policy as set out in the policy table on page 45, no annual bonus scheme or benefits are currently offered to Executive 
Directors.
Annual bonus In accordance with the current policy as set out in the policy table on page 45, no annual bonus scheme is offered to existing Executive Directors. Were an 
Executive Director to participate in an annual bonus arrangement, whether to award a bonus in full or in part in the event of a termination of employment 
would be at the discretion of the Committee on an individual basis and dependent on a number of factors, including the circumstances of the Executive Director’s 
departure and his contribution to the business during the bonus period in question. Typically bonus amounts would be pro-rated for time in service to termination.
2015 Share 
Scheme and 
Executive Share 
Scheme
If a participant in the 2015 Share Scheme or Executive Share Scheme ceases employment before the performance conditions attaching to an award under that 
scheme are satisfied, the award will lapse. If the participant ceases employment after the performance conditions are satisfied but before the vesting dates as a 
result of his death or any other reason determined at the discretion of the Committee, the award will vest; in the case of a reason other than death, the extent 
of vesting will be determined by the Committee at its absolute discretion taking into account the time that has elapsed between grant and cessation.
Other payments The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing 
legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation) or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the 
termination of a Director’s office or employment. In appropriate circumstances, payments may also be made in respect of legal fees. Were the Company 
to make an award on recruitment of an Executive Director to buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer then the leaver 
provisions for that award would be determined at the time of grant.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 
CONTINUED
48
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  In the event of a change of control of the Company or other relevant corporate event, unvested awards under the 2015 Share Scheme and the Executive Share Scheme will lapse unless 
the performance conditions are satisfied and the event occurs between satisfaction of the conditions and the vesting date, in which case the award shall vest. In the case of the 2015 
Share Scheme the extent of vesting shall be determined by the Committee taking into account the period of time that has elapsed between the grant date and the date of the relevant 
event and in the case of the Executive Share Scheme the awards shall vest in full unless the Committee determines otherwise.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
The Non-Executive Directors enter into an agreement with the Group for a period of three years, other than the Chairman whose agreement continues until terminated in accordance with 
its terms. The appointments of the Non-Executive Directors may be terminated by either party on one month’s written notice and in accordance with the Articles of Association of the 
Company. Termination would be immediate in certain circumstances (including the bankruptcy of the Non-Executive Director).
Non-Executive Directors do not and are not entitled to participate in any bonus or share scheme.
Non-Executive Directors are subject to confidentiality undertakings without limitation in time. Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to receive any compensation on the termination of 
their appointment.
Details of the letters of appointment are set out below:
POSITION DATE OF LETTER OF APPOINTMENT
Keith Hellawell Non-Executive Chairman February 2010
Simon Bentley Non-Executive Director 15 July 2014
Dave Singleton Non-Executive Director 15 July 2014
Claire Jenkins Non-Executive Director 15 July 2014
 
PAYMENTS OUTSIDE THE POLICY IN THIS REPORT 
The Committee retains discretion to make any remuneration payment or payment for loss of office outside the policy in this report:
• where the terms of the payment were agreed before the policy came into effect;
• where the terms of the payment were agreed at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in 
consideration of the individual becoming a Director of the Company; or
• to satisfy contractual commitments made under legacy remuneration arrangements.
For these purposes, “payments” includes the satisfaction of awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are “agreed” at the time 
the award is granted.
STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS 
The Committee consults major shareholders and representative Groups where appropriate concerning remuneration matters.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION 
This part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report sets out the actual payments made by the Company to its Directors with respect to the period ended 26 April 2015 and how our Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy will be applied in the year commencing 27 April 2015.
49
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... SINGLE FIGURE TABLE (AUDITED) 
The aggregate remuneration provided to individuals who have served as Directors in the period ended 26 April 2015 is set out below, along with the aggregate remuneration provided to 
individuals who have served as Directors during the prior financial year.
DIRECTOR SALARIES AND FEES OTHER BENEFITS BONUS LONG-TERM 
INCENTIVES
PENSION TOTAL
FY15 FY14 FY15 FY14 FY15 FY14 FY15 FY14 FY15 FY14 FY15 FY14
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
EXECUTIVE
Mike Ashley - - - - - - - - - - - -
Dave Forsey 150 150 - - 6,610
(1)
- - - - - 6,760 150
NON-EXECUTIVE
Keith Hellawell 155 155 - - -- - - - - - 155 155
Simon Bentley 50 50 - - - - - - - - 50 50
Dave Singleton 50 50 - - - - - - - - 50 50
Charles McCreevy
 
(2)
22.3 50 - - - - - - - - 22.3 50
Claire Jenkins 50 50 - - - - - - - - 50 50
(1) Represents the value of an award over 1,000,000 shares under the Executive Share Scheme due to vest in 2017 subject to continued employment. For these purposes, the value of a share is £6.61 being the average share price over the quarter from 26 January 2015 to 24 
April 2015.
(2) Charles McCreevy resigned from the Board on 10 September 2014.
NOTES TO THE SINGLE FIGURE TABLE AND IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY IN THE YEAR ENDING 24 APRIL 2016 
BASE SALARY AND FEES 
Base salaries are normally reviewed annually. In the review in FY15 the Committee decided not to alter Executive Directors’ salaries. The Committee has decided not to increase Dave 
Forsey’s salary in FY16, which has been at the same level since 2002, and which is set at a level well below the lower quartile for a business of the size and complexity of the Group. 
Mike Ashley does not receive a salary for his role. Matt Pearson’s current salary for FY16 is £60,000. In FY16, the Committee will review Matt Pearson’s salary and consider whether any 
increase should be implemented to reflect his role as an acting Board member or if his appointment is made permanent.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors are normally reviewed annually. In the review in FY15 fees were not increased. Fees for Non-Executive Directors will not be increased for FY16.
ANNUAL BONUS SCHEME 
The Committee has determined that no annual bonus scheme will be operated for Executive Directors while the 2015 Share Scheme is in place.
EXECUTIVE SHARE SCHEME 
No awards were granted under the Executive Share Scheme in FY15. The last awards which were received, which vested in 2013, related to the completion of a performance condition 
based on EBITDA in FY11.
Following the approval of the 2015 Share Scheme in July 2014, the Committee proposes to grant Dave Forsey an award under the scheme in FY16 over 1 million shares. The Committee 
proposes to grant Matt Pearson an award under the Scheme in FY16 over 30,000 shares, but may increase the quantum of the award either to reflect Matt Pearson’s role as an acting 
Board member or if his appointment is made permanent (subject to the limit in the policy table set out on page 45). The number of shares under any award may be adjusted as the 
Committee determines to reflect any variation in the Company’s share capital.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR 
No payments have been made to past Directors during the period ended 26 April 2015.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR 
No payments were made for loss of office during the period ended 26 April 2015.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES AND TOTAL SHAREHOLDINGS OF DIRECTORS 
The Board believes it is important that Executive Directors have a significant holding in the capital of the Company. In FY14 the Committee reassessed the shareholding guidelines for 
Executive Directors and determined that the Executive Directors must hold a minimum shareholding of 50,000 shares while employed by the Company. 
Dave Forsey’s beneficial shareholding on 26 April 2015 was 50,000 shares and, based on a share price of £6.13 (being the price at the close of business on 24 April 2015, the last 
trading day before Sunday 26 April 2015) the value of that holding was £306,500, which is in excess of two years’ salary.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 
CONTINUED
50
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  As an acting Board member, Matt Pearson is not currently required to satisfy the shareholding guideline. In the event his appointment becomes permanent, Matt Pearson would be 
expected to acquire the minimum number of shares over a reasonable time period determined by the Committee.
The beneficial interests of the Directors in office on 26 April 2015 and of their families in both cases at the beginning of the financial year, or at the date of appointment if later, and at 
the end of the financial year in the share capital of the Company are shown below:
Ordinary Shares 27 April 2014 Ordinary Shares 26 April 2015
Mike Ashley 345,400,000 330,000,000
Simon Bentley 10,000 10,000
Dave Forsey 50,000 50,000
Keith Hellawell
(1)
50,000 50,000
Claire Jenkins 19,500 21,725
Charles McCreevy
(2)
1,500
Dave Singleton
(3)
52,000 52,000
Matt Pearson
(4)
- -
(1) These shares are held in the name of Keith Hellawell, as well as his wife. 
(2) Charles stood down as a member of the Board on 10 September 2014. As a result of his resignation, the Group has no visibility of the current shareholding. 
(3) These shares are held in the name of Dave Singleton, as well as his wife. 
(4) The shareholding of acting Board members will be assessed in accordance with the Group minimum level upon their status on the Board being made permanent.
There have been no changes in the Directors’ holdings in the share capital of the Company, as set out in the table above, between 26 April 2015 and 16 July 2015.
DIRECTOR SCHEME GRANT DATE NUMBER OF SHARES STATUS
Dave Forsey Executive Share Scheme 22 August 2011 1,000,000 Unvested
 
The award was granted subject to the satisfaction of the following EBITDA targets (of which all have been met):
• Underlying EBITDA of £215m in FY12 - ACHIEVED
• Underlying EBITDA of £250m in FY13 - ACHIEVED
• Underlying EBITDA of £260m in FY14 - ACHIEVED
• Underlying EBITDA of £300m in FY15 - ACHIEVED
As the above targets have now been met the award will vest in 2017.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND TABLE 
The following graph shows the Company’s performance measured by the Total Shareholder Return compared with the performance of the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 index  
(excluding investment trusts).
£50
£0
£100
£150
£200
£250
£300
£350
£400
26-Apr-09 25-Apr-10 24-Apr-11 29-Apr-12 28-Apr-13 27-Apr-14 26-Apr-15
 FTSE 250 ex Investment Trusts           FTSE 100           Sports Direct
51
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... The Committee considered this an appropriate index against which to compare the Company’s performance as it is widely accepted as a national measure and includes the companies that 
investors are likely to consider alternative investments.
The table below shows details of the total remuneration and performance-related pay for Dave Forsey over the last six financial years. 
TOTAL REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE SHARE SCHEME AS A % OF MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY
FY15 £6,760,000 
(1)
100%
FY14 £150,000 N/A
FY13 £150,000 N/A
FY12 £150,000 N/A
FY11 £6,620,000 
(2)
100%
FY10 £150,000 N/A
 
(1) Represents the value of an award over 1,000,000 shares under the Executive Share Scheme due to vest in 2017 subject to satisfactory performance and continued employment. For these purposes, the value of a share is £6.61 being the average share price over the quarter 
from 26 January 2015 to 24 April 2015.
(2) For these purposes, the total remuneration in FY11 includes the value of an award over 1,000,000 shares that vested on 15 August 2013 subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition based on EBITDA in FY11. For these purposes, the value of a share is £6.47 
being the closing price of a share on that date.
CEO PAY INCREASE IN RELATION TO ALL EMPLOYEES 
The table below sets out in relation to salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus the percentage increase in pay for Dave Forsey compared to the average increase between the same 
periods for the Group’s UK Head Office employees, which the Committee believes is the most appropriate comparator group. The percentages shown relate to the amounts for FY15 as 
compared to the amounts for the FY14.
ELEMENT OF REMUNERATION DAVE FORSEY / % CHANGE UK HEAD OFFICE EMPLOYEE AVERAGE / % CHANGE
Salary 0% 0.3%
Taxable benefits 0% (no taxable benefits were provided to Dave Forsey in either year) (3.6%)
Annual bonus 0% (no annual bonus arrangement was operated for Dave Forsey in either year) (4.2%)
 
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY 
The table below sets out the Group’s distributions to shareholders by way of dividends and share buybacks, total Group-wide expenditure on pay for all staff, as reported in the audited 
Financial Statements for FY15 and FY14, and the Company’s share price, calculated as at the close of business on the last day of FY15 and FY14.
FY15 FY14 PERCENTAGE CHANGE
Distributions to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback £0 £0 0%
Investment* £126,661,000 £323,475,000 (60.8)%
Group-wide expenditure on pay for all employees £323,545,000 £307,948,000** 5.1%
Share price (pence) 613.0 779.5*** (21.4)% 
*Comprises of increases in working capital, acquisitions and capital expenditure in the year as the Board believes these to be the most relevant measures of the Group’s investment in future growth.
**This increase is reflective of the Group’s acquisitions and retail expansion in Europe.
***For these purposes, the share price for FY15 and the share price for FY14 are calculated as the close of business on 24 April 2015 and 25 April 2014 respectively, being the last working days prior to the year ends.
CONSIDERATION BY THE DIRECTORS OF MATTERS RELATING TO DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION 
MEMBERSHIP 
The Committee consists of Simon Bentley, Dave Singleton and Claire Jenkins, who are independent Non-Executive Directors, and Keith Hellawell, who is the Non-Executive Chairman.
The role and main responsibilities of the Committee are detailed in the Corporate Governance Report on page 42.
Attendance at the meetings held during the year is detailed on page 39.
The members of the Committee have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided, no actual or potential conflicts of interest arising from other 
directorships and no day-to-day operational responsibility within the Company.
ADVISERS TO THE COMMITTEE 
Dave Forsey, the Chief Executive, Matt Pearson, the Acting Chief Financial Officer, and Mike Ashley, the Executive Deputy Chairman, have advised or materially assisted the Committee 
when requested. Executive Directors are not present, nor do they take part in discussions in respect of matters relating directly to their own remuneration.
SHAREHOLDER VOTING 
The following table sets out actual voting in respect of the resolution to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 27 April 2014 and in respect of the resolution to 
approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy. 
VOTES FOR % FOR VOTES AGAINST % AGAINST TOTAL VOTES CAST VOTES WITHHELD
Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 27 April 2014 516,947,257 97.9% 11,127,626 2.1% 528,074,883 1,005,636
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 452,862,975 87.5% 64,479,250 12.5% 517,342,225 11,738,294
 
Dave Singleton 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
16 July 2015
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 
CONTINUED
52
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the Company and Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law  
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
The Directors have elected to prepare the Company Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practices (UK GAAP).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs and profit or loss of the 
Company and Group for that period. In preparing the Financial Statements the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• for the Group Financial Statements, state whether the applicable IFRSs have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements;
• for the Company Financial Statements, state whether the applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the 
Financial Statements; and
• prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements, and the Remuneration Report, comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4  
of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and  
other irregularities.
The Directors confirm that:
• so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
• the Directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of  
that information.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
To the best of our knowledge:
(a) the Annual Report, including the strategic report, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, gives a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the Company and of the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
and
(b) the management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
On behalf of the Board
 
Dave Forsey 
Chief Executive
16 July 2015
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY AND RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
53
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... OUR OPINION ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED 
In our opinion the group Financial Statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 26 April 2015 and of 
the Group’s profit for the 52 week period then ended; 
• have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting  
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union; 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
OTHER MATTER 
We have reported separately on the Financial Statements of Sports Direct International 
PLC for the period and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is 
described as having been audited. 
WHO WE ARE REPORTING TO 
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state 
to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by 
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the 
company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED 
Sports Direct International PLC’s Financial Statements comprise the consolidated income 
statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance 
sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in 
equity and the related notes. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable 
law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK 
In arriving at our opinions set out in this report, we highlight the following risks that are, in 
our judgement, likely to be most important to users’ understanding of our audit. 
RISK OF FRAUD IN REVENUE RECOGNITION 
The risk: The revenue recorded by the Group is one of the key determinants of Group 
underlying earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) and 
is recognised in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy and International Accounting 
Standard (IAS) 18: Revenue. The majority of group revenue is recorded through Electronic 
Point of Sale (EPOS) transactions,  which is a key control used by the Group is to ensure 
all revenue is recorded. Because of the pressures and incentives management may feel 
to achieve planned targets and because of inherent risk  in the recording of cash sales 
we have identified fraud in revenue recognition as a significant audit risk requiring special 
audit consideration.
Our response: Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, testing  manual journal 
entries posted to revenue for indication of fraudulent transactions, a controls test over the 
completeness and accuracy of the EPOS data from tills through to head office, testing a 
sample of sales transactions to supporting documentation and re-performing an internet 
sales receipts reconciliation in total to cash received. We also analytically reviewed sales 
trends at an individual store level and by product type to identify variances to expectations 
that would require further substantive testing.
The Group’s accounting policy with respect to revenue recognition is included in note 1 and 
segmental analysis of sales is provided in note 4.
VALUATION OF CONTRACTS FOR DIFFERENCE 
The risk: The Group has entered into derivative agreements referencing shares in publicly 
listed companies. The valuation of these contracts in the Financial Statements requires 
estimation by management. These contracts have been identified as a risk due to 
their significant monetary value and because they are transactions outside the normal 
operations of the Group. 
Our response: Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, examining the terms of 
the contracts and agreeing the balances to confirmations from the counter party to assess 
the accounting treatment adopted, the basis of valuation and the disclosures made. We 
also engaged our own valuation specialists to assess the appropriateness of the valuations, 
which are based on both  observable inputs and estimates and assumptions applied by 
management. 
The Group’s accounting policy for derivative contracts is included in note 1 and disclosures 
relating to the contracts is found in note 27.
The Audit Committee identified valuation of contracts for difference as an area of 
significance in its report on page 41, where the Audit Committee also describes how it 
addressed this area.  
CARRYING VALUE OF INVENTORIES 
The risk: The carrying value of inventories is stated net of provisions for obsolete or slow 
moving inventory. We have identified this risk because judgement is applied by manage-
ment in assessing the amount of provision required to record inventory at the lower of cost 
and net realisable value and because of the complexity of the provision calculation.
Our response: Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, testing the models 
used for mathematical accuracy, considering the appropriateness and consistency of the 
underlying assumptions within the model and testing the selling price of inventory sold 
post period end.
The Group’s accounting policy on inventories and details of the judgements applied by the 
Directors in establishing the provision is included in note 1. 
The Audit Committee identified carrying value of inventory as an area of significance in its 
report on page 41, where the Committee also describes how it addressed this area.
INTANGIBLES IMPAIRMENT ASSESSMENT  
The risk: As more fully explained in note 15 the Directors are required to make an annual 
assessment to determine whether the value of goodwill of £156m, trademarks and 
licences of £19m and brands of £80m is impaired. We have identified this risk because 
the process for measuring and recognising impairment under IAS 36 is complex and 
requires judgement and because we identified potential indicators of impairment during 
our risk assessment procedures.
Our response: Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, evaluating and sensitising 
the assumptions used by the Directors, in particular those key assumptions relating to the 
cash flow projections used by  management for their assessment,  including the discount 
rates, perpetuity growth rates and forecast gross margins. We also reviewed  the adequacy 
of the disclosures on the sensitivity of key assumptions used in the assessment.
The Group’s accounting policy on impairment and details of the judgements and estimates 
made by the Directors are included in note 1. 
The Audit Committee identified intangibles impairment assessment as an area of 
significance in its report on page 41, where the Committee also describes how it 
addressed this area. 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT
TO MEMBERS OF SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC
54
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW 
OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT
MATERIALITY 
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that 
makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person 
would be changed or influenced. We determined materiality for the audit of the group Fi-
nancial Statements as a whole to be £13.3m which is 3.5% of underlying earnings before 
interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA). This benchmark is considered 
the most appropriate because, this is the metric against which the financial performance 
of the Group is measured both internally and externally. We use a different level of 
materiality, performance materiality, to drive the extent of our testing and this was set at 
75% of financial statement materiality for the audit of the group Financial Statements.  
We also determine a lower level of specific materiality for certain areas such as directors’ 
remuneration and related party transactions.  
We determined the threshold at which we communicated misstatements to the audit 
committee to be £665,000. In addition we will communicate misstatements below that 
threshold that, in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT   
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the ‘Responsi-
bilities for the Financial Statements and the audit’ section of our report. We believe that 
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our opinion.
We are independent of the group in accordance with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with those Ethical Standards.
We evaluated the description, design and operating effectiveness of controls over key 
financial systems identified as part of our risk assessment. This included a review of the 
general IT controls, the accounts production process and the controls addressing critical 
accounting matters identified in our risk assessment. We undertook a combination of 
controls and substantive testing on significant transactions, balances and disclosures, 
the extent of which was based on various factors including our overall assessment of 
the control environment, the effectiveness of controls over individual systems and the 
management of specific risks.
As set out on page 67 the Group has three operating segments, Sports Retail, Premium 
Lifestyle and Brands. The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of the reporting 
units comprising the operating businesses within these segments.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work 
that needed to be performed by us, as the Group engagement team, or component 
auditors operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of 
involvement we needed to have in their audit work at those reporting units to be able 
to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis 
for our opinion on the Group Financial Statements as a whole. We set materiality for the 
overseas component audits as 75% of the materiality for the group Financial Statements.
The reporting units vary significantly in size and we identified 5 reporting units that, in our 
view, required a full scope audit of their financial information for group reporting purposes, 
due to their size or risk characteristics. In addition a further 27 reporting units are audited 
to full scope for statutory reporting purposes,  providing in total 87% coverage of the 
Group’s revenues and 84% of the Group underlying EBITDA.
Specific audit procedures were performed at a further 7 reporting units due to their size 
providing a further 8% coverage of the Group’s revenues and 12% of the Group underlying 
EBITDA, with the remaining reporting units subject to analytical procedures.  
The tables below demonstrate the coverage of our audit procedures:
 
OTHER REPORTING REQUIRED BY REGULATIONS 
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified. 
In our opinion:
• the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report for the financial 
period for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial 
Statements; and  
• the information given in the Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 37 to 43 
with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial 
reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the Financial 
Statements. 
 
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY 
EXCEPTION
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT IN RESPECT OF THE FOLLOWING: 
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge 
of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
REVENUE
UNDERLYING EBITDA
Full Scope       Specific procedures Analytical review
55
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... IN PARTICULAR, WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT TO YOU IF:
• we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable; or 
• the Annual Report does not appropriately disclose those matters that were communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT TO YOU IF , IN OUR OPINION:
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• a Corporate Governance Report has not been prepared by the Company.  
UNDER THE LISTING RULES, WE ARE REQUIRED TO REVIEW:
• the Directors’ statement, set out on page 36, in relation to going concern; and
• the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the company’s compliance with the ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT 
WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVOLVES: 
A description of the scope of an audit of Financial Statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate.
WHAT THE DIRECTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR: 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 53, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view.
WHAT WE ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR: 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Philip Westerman
Senior Statutory Auditor
For and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP
Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants
London
16 July 2015
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT
TO MEMBERS OF SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC
56
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  52 weeks ended
Note
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
 (£’000)
Revenue 1,4 2,832,560 2,705,958
Cost of sales (1,591,748) (1,551,036)
Gross profit 1,240,812 1,154,922
Selling, distribution and administrative expenses (950,526) (908,843)
Other operating income 5 8,345 8,583
Exceptional items 6 (3,050) (5,531)
Operating profit 4,7 295,581 249,131
Other investment income 9 14,104 7,017
Finance income 10 8,289 891
Finance costs 11 (7,487) (19,853)
Share of profit of associated undertakings 16 2,959 2,266
Profit before taxation 313,446 239,452
Taxation 12 (72,093) (59,839)
Profit for the period 4 241,353 179,613
ATTRIBUTABLE TO:
Equity holders of the Group 240,397 180,245
Non-controlling interests 956 (632)
Profit for the period 4 241,353 179,613
EARNINGS PER SHARE ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS
Pence per share Pence per share
Basic earnings per share 13 40.6 30.8
Diluted earnings per share 13 39.0 29.2
Underlying basic earnings per share 13 38.9 32.1
 
The consolidated income statement has been prepared on the basis that all operations are continuing. 
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form part of these Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
57
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... 52 weeks ended
Note
26 April 2015
 (£’000)
27 April 2014
 (£’000)
Profit for the period 4 241,353 179,613
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
ITEMS THAT WILL NOT BE RECLASSIFIED SUBSEQUENTLY TO PROFIT OR LOSS
Actuarial (losses) / gains on defined benefit pension schemes 24 (2,493) 3,860
Taxation on items recognised in other comprehensive income 524 (698)
ITEMS THAT WILL BE RECLASSIFIED SUBSEQUENTLY TO PROFIT OR LOSS
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 9,156 (33,118)
Exchange differences on hedged contracts - recognised in the period 27 77,181 (3,737)
Exchange differences on hedged contracts - reclassified and reported in net profit 27 7,240 (17,909)
Fair value adjustment in respect of available-for-sale financial assets 17 21,893 57,373
Taxation on items recognised in other comprehensive income (17,728) (4,170)
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 95,773 1,601
Total comprehensive income for the period 337,126 181,214
ATTRIBUTABLE TO:
Equity holders of the Group 336,170 181,846
Non-controlling interest 956 (632)
337,126 181,214
 
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form part of these Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
58
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  Note
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
ASSETS - NON-CURRENT
Property, plant and equipment 14 422,742 412,361
Intangible assets 15 255,364 255,109
Investments in associated undertakings 16 38,133 41,763
Available-for-sale financial assets 17 140,795 116,504
Deferred tax assets 25 38,352 31,130
895,386 856,867
ASSETS - CURRENT
Inventories 18 517,054 565,479
Trade and other receivables 19 190,726 123,014
Derivative financial assets 27 92,199 4,355
Cash and cash equivalents 20 78,318 151,024
878,297 843,872
TOTAL ASSETS 1,773,683 1,700,739
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Share capital 21 64,060 64,060
Share premium 874,300 874,300
Treasury shares reserve (56,234) (56,234)
Permanent contribution to capital 50 50
Capital redemption reserve 8,005 8,005
Foreign currency translation reserve 14,436 5,280
Reverse combination reserve (987,312) (987,312)
Own share reserve (13,251) (13,251)
Hedging reserve 78,796 (5,625)
Retained earnings 1,181,511 931,819
1,164,361 821,092
Non-controlling interests (2,810) (3,538)
Total equity 1,161,551 817,554
LIABILITIES - NON-CURRENT
Borrowings 23 136,849 6,764
Retirement benefit obligations 24 14,869 15,350
Deferred tax liabilities 25 40,088 24,046
Provisions 26 37,705 37,780
229,511 83,940
LIABILITIES - CURRENT
Derivative financial liabilities 27 5,629 18,665
Trade and other payables 28 340,936 392,019
Borrowings 23 1,204 356,226
Current tax liabilities 34,852 32,335
382,621 799,245
Total liabilities 612,132 883,185
Total equity and liabilities 1,773,683 1,700,739
 
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form part of these Financial Statements. The Financial Statements were approved by the Board on 16 July 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
 
Matt Pearson 
Acting Chief Financial Officer
Company number: 06035106 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AT 26 APRIL 2015
59
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... 52 weeks ended
Note
26 April 2015
 (£’000)
27 April 2014
 (£’000)
Cash inflow from operating activities 29 314,662 222,785
Income taxes paid (77,710) (55,730)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 236,952 167,055
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 21,150 -
Proceeds on disposal of listed investments 51,695 49,394
Purchase of associate, net of cash acquired (50) (8,000)
Purchase of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (3,847) (15,407)
Purchase of intangible assets 15 (2,937) (1,827)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 14 (97,342) (67,304)
Purchase of listed investments 17 (50,415) (55,467)
Investment income received 2,883 1,604
Finance income received 987 891
Net cash outflow from investing activities (77,876) (96,116)
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Finance costs paid (6,845) (8,111)
Borrowings drawn down 126,989 300,910
Borrowings repaid (346,997) (348,452)
Exercise of option over non-controlling interests - (11,678)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (226,853) (67,331)
Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents including overdrafts (67,777) 3,608
Cash and cash equivalents including overdrafts at beginning of period 145,282 141,674
Cash and cash equivalents including overdrafts at the period end 20 77,505 145,282
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form part of these Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
60
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  Treasury 
shares 
(£’000)
Foreign currency 
translation
(£’000)
Own share 
reserve 
(£’000)
Retained 
earnings 
(£’000)
Other reserves 
(£’000)
Total attributable 
to owners of 
parent 
(£’000)
Non-controlling 
interests 
(£’000)
Total 
(£’000)
At 28 April 2013 (56,234) 38,398 (64,375) 752,018 (24,876) 644,931 (254) 644,677
Vesting of share-based payment - - 51,124 (51,124) - - - -
Current tax on share schemes - - - 25,500 - 25,500 - 25,500
Deferred tax on share schemes - - - (11,215) - (11,215) - (11,215)
Non-controlling interests - acquisitions - - - - - - (10,513) (10,513)
Exercise of option over non-controlling interest - - - (19,970) - (19,970) 7,861 (12,109)
Transactions with owners - - 51,124 (56,809) - (5,685) (2,652) (8,337)
Profit for the financial period - - - 180,245 - 180,245 (632) 179,613
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Cash flow hedges
- recognised in the period - - - - (3,737) (3,737) - (3,737)
- reclassified and reported in net profit - - - - (17,909) (17,909) - (17,909)
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension schemes - - - 3,860 - 3,860 - 3,860
Fair value adjustment in respect of available-for-sale  
financial assets - - - 57,373 - 57,373 - 57,373
Taxation - - - (4,868) - (4,868) - (4,868)
Translation differences - Group - (32,498) - - - (32,498) - (32,498)
Translation differences - associates - (620) - - - (620) - (620)
Total comprehensive income for the period - (33,118) - 236,610 (21,646) 181,846 (632) 181,214
At 27 April 2014 (56,234) 5,280 (13,251) 931,819 (46,522) 821,092 (3,538) 817,554
Credit to equity for share-based payment - - - 5,833 - 5,833 - 5,833
Deferred tax on share schemes - - - 1,266 - 1,266 - 1,266
Non-controlling interests - acquisitions - - - - - - 384 384
Transactions with owners - - - 7,099 - 7,099 384 7,483
Profit for the financial period - - - 240,397 - 240,397 956 241,353
Dividends received - - - - - - (612) (612)
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Cash flow hedges
- recognised in the period - - - - 77,181 77,181 - 77,181
- reclassified and reported in net profit - - - - 7,240 7,240 - 7,240
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes - - - (2,493) - (2,493) - (2,493)
Fair value adjustment in respect of available-for-sale financial 
assets - - - 21,893 - 21,893 - 21,893 
Taxation - - - (17,204) - (17,204) - (17,204)
Translation differences - Group - 13,783 - - - 13,783 - 13,783
Translation differences - associates - (4,627) - - - (4,627) - (4,627)
Total comprehensive income for the period - 9,156 - 242,593 84,421 336,170 344 336,514
At 26 April 2015 (56,234) 14,436 (13,251) 1,181,511 37,899 1,164,361 (2,810) 1,161,551
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
61
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... 1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
The consolidated Financial Statements of Sports Direct International plc (the “Company”) 
and its subsidiaries (together the “Group”) have been prepared in accordance with 
international financial reporting standards as adopted by the european union (“IFRS”).
BASIS OF PREPARATION 
The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as 
adopted for use in the European Union (including International Accounting Standards 
(“IAS”) and International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretations Committee 
(“IFRSIC”) and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union. The consolidated Financial 
Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified to 
include fair valuation of certain financial assets and derivative financial instruments.
The following IFRS, IFRSIC interpretations and amendments are effective for the first time 
in this financial year:
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other 
Entities have been adopted in the financial year. The revised standards replace the portion 
of IAS 27 that addresses the accounting for consolidated Financial Statements. The 
adoption of these standards has resulted in no change to the Income Statement, Balance 
Sheet or Statement of Comprehensive Income in the current financial period.
CONSOLIDATION 
The consolidated Financial Statements consolidate the revenues, costs, assets, liabilities 
and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries, being those entities that the Group is 
deemed to have control over. It will be deemed to have control when it has power over 
the entity, is exposed to or has rights to variable returns from the entity and has the ability 
to use its power over the entity to affect the amount of the entity’s returns.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are 
measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Any excess of fair value of the 
consideration transferred over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is 
recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of fair value of consideration transferred below  
the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is credited to the consolidated income 
statement in the period of acquisition. The non-controlling interest is stated at the  
non-controlling interest’s proportion of the fair values of the assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities recognised. Costs incurred relating to acquisitions are expensed to  
the income statement.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the 
consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective 
date of disposal, as appropriate.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions 
between group companies are eliminated.
ASSOCIATES 
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, 
generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The Group’s share of the results of associates is included in the Group’s consolidated 
income statement using the equity method of accounting. Investments in associates  
are carried in the Group’s consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post acquisition changes 
in the Group’s share of the net assets of the associates and joint ventures, less any 
impairment in value. The carrying values of investments in associates include  
acquired goodwill.
If the Group’s share of losses in an associate or equals or exceeds its investment in the 
associate, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to 
do so or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated to the extent of 
the Group’s interest in the entity.
INVESTMENTS 
Available-for-sale investments are initially recognised at fair value. Where fair value 
is different to cost, this is recognised in the income statement on initial recognition. 
Subsequent gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in the 
statement of other comprehensive income. When the security is disposed of, de-recognised 
or is determined to be impaired the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in 
other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to the income statement as a 
reclassification adjustment within other comprehensive income.
ACQUISITIONS 
For business combinations achieved in stages, the Group re-measures its previously held 
equity interest in the acquiree at its acquisition-date fair value and recognises the resulting 
gain or loss, if any, in the income statement as appropriate.
GOODWILL 
Goodwill arising on consolidation is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at 
least annually or when a change in circumstances or situation indicates that the goodwill 
has suffered an impairment loss. The need for impairment is tested by comparing the 
market value of the cash-generating unit (CGU) to the carrying value. Any impairment is 
recognised immediately in the income statement. Impairment losses on goodwill are not 
reversed. Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the amount of goodwill 
relating to that business.
When the non-controlling interest of an existing subsidiary is acquired the carrying value 
of the non-controlling interests in the balance sheet is eliminated. Any difference between 
the amount by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted and the fair value of the 
consideration paid is recognised directly in equity.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
Brands, trade marks and licences that are internally generated are not recorded on the 
balance sheet. Acquired brands, trade marks and licences are initially carried on the 
balance sheet at cost. The fair value of brands, trade marks and licences that are acquired 
by virtue of a business combination is determined at the date of acquisition and is 
subsequently assessed as being the deemed cost to the Group.
Expenditure on advertising and promotional activities is recognised as an expense  
as incurred.
No amortisation is charged on those brands, trade marks or perpetual/renewable licences 
with an indefinite life as the Group believes that the value of these brands and trade 
marks can be maintained indefinitely. The Group carries out an impairment review of 
indefinite life intangibles, at least annually, or when a change in circumstances or situation 
indicates that those intangibles have suffered an impairment loss. Impairment is measured 
by comparing the carrying amount of the intangible asset as part of the cash-generating 
unit (CGU) with the recoverable amount of the CGU, that is, the higher of its fair value less 
costs to sell and its value in use. Value in use is calculated by using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific 
to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Amortisation is provided on other brands, trade marks and licences with a definite life  
on a straight line basis over their useful economic lives of 5 to 15 years and is accounted 
for within the selling, distribution and administrative expenses category within the  
income statement.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less depreciation less any 
recognised impairment losses. Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the 
acquisition or construction of these items. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s 
carrying amount only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the 
item will flow to the Group and the costs can be measured reliably.
All other costs, including repairs and maintenance costs, are charged to the income 
statement in the period in which they are incurred.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
62
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment other than freehold land and 
is calculated on a reducing balance basis or straight-line basis, whichever is deemed by the 
directors to be more appropriate, to allocate cost less assessed residual value, other than 
assets in the course of construction, over the estimated useful lives, as follows:
Freehold buildings - between 2% and 10% per annum - straight line
Leasehold improvements - over the terms of the lease - straight line
Plant and equipment - between 5% and 33% per annum - straight line
The assets’ useful lives and residual values are reviewed and, if appropriate, adjusted at 
each balance sheet date.
The gain or loss arising on disposal or scrapping of an asset is determined as the difference 
between the sales proceeds, net of selling costs, and the carrying amount of the asset and 
is recognised in the income statement.
IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS OTHER THAN GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE 
ASSETS WITH AN INDEFINITE LIFE 
At each balance sheet date, the Directors review the carrying amounts of the Group’s 
tangible and intangible assets, other than goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite 
life, to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an 
impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is 
estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any. Where the asset 
does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates 
the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit, (CGU) to which the asset belongs. 
With respect to property, plant and equipment, each store is considered to be a CGU 
and where onerous leases are noted the assets of each individual store are individually 
assessed for impairment.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In 
assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present 
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash 
flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying 
amount, the carrying amount of the asset (CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. 
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset 
is carried at a re-valued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a 
revaluation decrease.
Impairment losses recognised for CGU’s to which goodwill has been allocated are credited 
initially to the carrying amount of goodwill. Any remaining impairment loss is charged pro 
rata to the other assets in the CGU.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (CGU) 
is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased 
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined 
had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (CGU) in prior periods. A reversal of 
an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.
REVENUE RECOGNITION 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, or receivable, and 
represents amounts receivable for goods supplied, stated net of discounts, returns and 
value added taxes.
In the case of goods sold through retail stores, revenue is recognised at the point of sale 
of a product to the customer, less provision for returns. Accumulated experience is used 
to estimate and provide for such returns at the time of the sale. Retail sales are usually in 
cash, by debit card or by credit card.
In the case of goods sold on the internet revenue is recognised at the point that the risks 
and rewards of the inventory have passed to the customer, which is the point of delivery 
to the customer. Transactions are settled by credit card or payment card. Provisions are 
made for internet credit notes based on the expected level of returns, which in turn is 
based upon the historical rate of returns.
In the case of income generated from trade marks and licences, revenue is recognised on 
an accruals basis in accordance with the relevant agreements or on a transactional basis 
when revenue is linked to sale or purchase volumes.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 
The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement, those 
significant items of income and expense which, because of their size, nature and 
infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow 
shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year,  
so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and assess trends in financial performance 
more readily.
INTEREST INCOME 
Interest income is reported on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES 
The presentational currency of the Group is sterling. The functional currency of the 
Company is also sterling. Foreign currency transactions are translated into sterling using 
the exchange rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions. Exchange differences of 
the Company arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of 
monetary items, are included in the income statement for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair 
value are included in the income statement for the period except for differences arising 
on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are 
recognised in other comprehensive income. For such non-monetary items, any exchange 
component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in other comprehensive income. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate 
of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations which have a functional 
currency other than sterling are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling  
at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of these subsidiary undertakings 
are translated at average rates applicable in the period. All resulting exchange differences 
are recognised in other comprehensive income and documented in a separate component 
of equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, the cumulative exchange differences that have been 
recognised as a separate component of equity are reclassified from equity to the income 
statement when disposal is recognised.
In order to mitigate its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into 
forward contracts (see chief executive’s report and the cash flow hedging accounting policy 
on page 65.
INVENTORIES 
Inventories are valued at lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes the 
purchase price of the manufactured products, materials, direct labour, transport costs and 
a proportion of applicable overheads. Cost is calculated using the weighted average cost 
method. Net realisable value is based on the estimated selling price less all estimated 
selling costs.
The company receives trade discounts and rebates from suppliers based upon the volume 
of orders placed in a given time window and as a contribution towards marketing costs. 
Where there is sufficient certainty that a discount or rebate will be received in the future 
that relates to historic purchases this is reflected in the cost of inventories.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES 
Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost under the effective interest method less provision 
for impairment. Provision for impairment is established when there is objective evidence 
that the Group will not be able to collect amounts due according to the original terms 
of the receivable. The amount of the impairment is the difference between the asset’s 
carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows, discounted at 
the original effective interest rate.
63
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held on call, together with 
other short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts 
of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 
Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
TAXATION 
Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income 
statement, except to the extent it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity.
Deferred taxation is calculated using the liability method, on temporary differences 
arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the 
consolidated Financial Statements. However, if the deferred tax arises from the initial 
recognition of goodwill or initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other 
than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting 
nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred tax on temporary differences 
associated with shares in subsidiaries is not provided if reversal of these temporary 
differences can be controlled by the Group and it is probable that reversal will not occur 
in the foreseeable future. In addition, tax losses available to be carried forward as well 
as other income tax credits to the Group are assessed for recognition as deferred tax 
assets. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted (or 
substantively enacted) by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the 
related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax liabilities are provided in full.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable 
profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Changes in current and deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognised as a component  
of tax expense in the income statement, except where they relate to items that are 
recorded in other comprehensive income or charged or credited directly to equity in which 
case the related deferred tax is also charged to other comprehensive income or credited 
directly to equity.
PENSIONS 
The Group operates pension plans for the benefit of certain employees, including both 
defined contribution and defined benefit plans.
In relation to its defined contribution plans, the Group makes contributions to 
independently administered plans, the contributions being recognised as an expense 
when they fall due. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to make any further 
payments to the plans other than the contributions due.
In relation to its defined benefit schemes, the Group recognises in its balance sheet the 
present value of its defined benefit obligations less the fair value of plan assets. The 
current service cost is charged against operating profit. Interest on the schemes liabilities is 
included in finance costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated at each period end by independent actuaries 
using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the obligation is determined 
by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality 
corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid 
and which have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related  
pension liabilities. 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial 
assumptions are reflected in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
BORROWINGS AND BORROWING COSTS 
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, and 
subsequently at amortised cost. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction 
costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of 
the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right 
to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Borrowing costs, being interest and other costs incurred in connection with the servicing of 
borrowings, are recognised as an expense when incurred.
PROVISIONS 
A provision is recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as 
a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle 
the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The Group provides for its legal responsibility for dilapidation costs following advice from 
chartered surveyors and previous experience of exit costs. The estimated cost of fulfilling 
the leasehold dilapidations obligations is discounted to present value and analysed 
between non-capital and capital components. The capital element is recognised as a 
decommissioning cost and depreciated over the life of the asset. The non-capital element is 
taken to the income statement in the first year of the lease where the cost it represents is 
of no lasting benefit to the Group or its landlord. ‘Wear and tear’ costs are expensed to the 
income statement. Provisions for onerous lease contracts are recognised when the Group 
believes the unavoidable costs of meeting the lease obligations exceed the economic 
benefits expected to be received under the lease.
LEASES 
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks 
and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised 
at the lease’s inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present 
value of the minimum lease payments. Each lease payment is allocated between the 
liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance 
outstanding. The asset subject to the finance lease is depreciated over the shorter of its 
useful life and the lease term. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, 
are included as a liability.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group does not have substantially all 
the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases. Payments made 
under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over 
the lease term. Incentives provided by the lessor are credited to the income statement on 
a straight-line basis over the minimum lease term.
Contingent rental payments, above standard payments, are conditional on the Group’s 
operating performance derived from the lease item, (e.g. turnover levels). These are 
expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
Rental income from operating leases where the Group acts as a lessor is recognised on a 
straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING 
The most significant exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations relates to purchases made 
in foreign currencies, principally the US Dollar. The Group’s policy is to reduce substantially 
the risk associated with purchases denominated in foreign currencies by using forward 
fixed rate currency purchase contracts, taking into account any foreign currency cash flows.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value. Where derivatives do not 
qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses on re-measurement are immediately 
recognised in the income statement. Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, 
recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship 
and the item being hedged.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document from inception 
the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument. The Group 
is also required to document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between 
the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly 
effective on an on-going basis. This effectiveness testing is performed at each period end 
to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
64
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  CASH FLOW HEDGING 
Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the 
Group’s exposure to variability in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular risk 
associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction.
The effective element of any gain or loss from re-measuring the derivative instrument is 
recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
The associated cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from other comprehensive income in 
the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects the profit or loss. 
The classification of the effective portion when recognised in the income statement is the 
same as the classification of the hedged transaction. Any element of the re-measurement 
of the derivative instrument which does not meet the criteria for an effective hedge is 
recognised immediately in the income statement within finance income or costs. Hedge 
accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated 
or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. At that point in time, any 
cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in 
equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected 
to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is 
reclassified from equity to the income statement as a reclassification adjustment.
TREASURY SHARES 
The purchase price of the Group’s own shares that it acquires is recognised as ‘Treasury 
shares’ within equity. When shares are transferred out of treasury the difference between 
the market value and the average purchase price of shares sold out of treasury is 
transferred to retained earnings.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST 
An Employee Benefit Trust has been established for the purposes of satisfying certain 
share-based awards. The Group has ‘de-facto’ control over the special purpose entity. This 
Trust is fully consolidated within the accounts. The cost of shares acquired by the Sports 
Direct Employee Benefit Trust is recognised within ‘own share-reserve’ in equity.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain Directors and employees. 
These are measured at fair value at the date of grant, which is expensed to the 
consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with the 
corresponding credit going to equity.
Non market vesting conditions are not taken into account in determining grant date fair 
value. Instead, they are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments 
to vest.
Fair value is based on the market share price on the grant date. The expected staff 
numbers used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for 
the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
A share-based payment charge of £10.1m was recognised in selling, distribution and 
administrative expenses for the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2015. The key details in respect 
of the share scheme charges are set out in note 21.
The credit for the share based payment charge does not equal the charge per the income 
statement as it excludes amounts recognised in the balance sheet in relation to the 
expected national insurance contributions for the shares.
EQUITY INSTRUMENTS 
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of 
the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Group are 
recorded at the proceeds received, net of any direct issue costs.
DIVIDENDS 
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the Group’s Financial Statements and as a 
deduction from equity in the period in which the dividends are declared. Where such 
dividends are proposed subject to the approval of shareholders, the dividends are regarded 
as declared once shareholder approval has been obtained.
MATERIALITY 
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Board considers both quantitative and 
qualitative factors in forming its judgements, and related disclosures, and are mindful of 
the need to best serve the interests of its stakeholders and to avoid unnecessary clutter 
borne of the disclosure of immaterial items.
In making this assessment the Board considers the nature of each item, as well as its 
size, in assessing whether any disclosure omissions or misstatements could influence the 
decisions of users of the Financial Statements.
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS (“STANDARDS”) 
IN ISSUE BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE 
At the date of authorisation of these consolidated Financial Statements, the international 
accounting standards board (“IASB”) and international financial reporting standards 
committee (“IFRSC”) have issued the following standards and interpretations which are 
effective for annual accounting periods beginning on or after the stated effective date. 
These standards and interpretations are not effective for and have not been applied in the 
preparation of the consolidated Financial Statements:
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (IASB effective date 1 January 2018)
• IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (effective 1 January 2017)
• Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions (Amendments to IAS 19) (IASB     
effective date 1 July 2014)
• Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation -   
   Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 (IASB effective date 1 January 2016)
• Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements (effective  
   1 January 2016)
• Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: Investment Entities: Applying the 
Consolidation Exception (effective 1 January 2016)
• Disclosure Initiative: Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements 
(effective 1 January 2016)
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future 
periods will have no material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group.
 
2. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND 
JUDGEMENTS
The critical accounting estimates and judgements made by the Group regarding the future 
or other key sources of estimation, uncertainty and judgement that may have a significant 
risk of giving rise to a material adjustment to the carrying values of assets and liabilities 
within the next financial year are:
IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL 
The calculation for considering the impairment of the carrying amount of goodwill requires 
a comparison of the present value of the CGU’s to which the goodwill has been allocated 
to the value of goodwill and associated assets in the balance sheet. The calculation of 
present values requires an estimation of the future cash flows expected to arise from the 
CGU’s and the selection of a suitable discount rate. The key assumptions made in relation 
to the impairment review of goodwill are set out in note 15.
IMPAIRMENT OF OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
The calculation for considering the impairment of the carrying amount of other intangible 
assets with an indefinite life, specifically brands, trade marks and licences, requires 
a comparison of the present value of the related cash flows to the value of the other 
intangible assets in the balance sheet. The calculation of present value requires an 
estimation of the future cash flows expected to arise from the other intangible assets and 
the selection of a suitable discount rate. The key assumptions made in relation to the 
impairment review of other intangible assets are set out in note 15.
65
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... USEFUL ECONOMIC LIFE OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
For intangible assets which have a finite life, the directors revisit their estimate of useful 
economic life at each period end and revise accordingly. Licences and trade marks typically 
have a life of between 5 and 15 years.
IDENTIFICATION AND VALUATION OF ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
On acquisition, each material, separable intangible asset is identified and valued by  
the Directors. Any such calculation is judgemental in nature as it is based on a  
valuation methodology.
Brand valuations are typically valued using the relief from royalty valuation methodology.
The nature and carrying amounts of these assets are set out in note 15.
IMPAIRMENT 
The Directors review the carrying amounts of the Group’s tangible assets to determine 
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
PROVISION FOR OBSOLETE, SLOW MOVING OR DEFECTIVE 
INVENTORIES 
The Directors have applied their knowledge and experience of the retail industry in 
determining the level and rates of provisioning required in calculating the appropriate 
inventory carrying values. The provision includes estimates for shrinkage, spoilage and 
slow-moving items depending on the age and current selling prices of the individual  
stock items.
FINANCIAL POSITION OF RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS 
The net defined benefit pension plan assets or liabilities are recognised in the Group’s 
balance sheet. The determination of the financial position requires assumptions to be 
made regarding inter alia future salary increases, mortality, discount rates and inflation. 
The key assumptions made in relation to the pension plan are set out in note 24.
PROVISION FOR DILAPIDATIONS AND ONEROUS LEASE CONTRACTS 
The basis of the estimation of the provisioning for dilapidations and onerous lease 
contracts is detailed in the provisions accounting policy and note 26. Estimates and 
judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience, external 
advice and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be 
reasonable under the circumstances. Where an onerous lease has been identified, the 
assets dedicated to that contract are impaired.
CALCULATION OF SHARE SCHEME CHARGE 
A share-based payment charge is recognised in respect of share awards based on the 
Directors’ best estimate of the number of shares that will vest. The charge is calculated 
based on the fair value on the grant date, which is deemed to be the date on which the 
entity and counterparty reached a shared understanding of the scheme. The key details in 
respect of the share scheme charges are set out in note 21.
VALUATION OF INVESTMENTS 
Where market data is not available to assist in valuing investments, management estimate 
the fair value of the enterprise based on the current performance and financial position of 
the relevant company. 
VALUATION OF EQUITY DERIVATIVES 
The value of equity derivatives is calculated using a proprietary option pricing model. The 
model output is the result of a number of inputs including, amongst other things, the terms 
of the option (strike price, time to expiry, etc.), the prevailing share price, interest rates, 
the volatility of the underlying stock, and dividends paid by the underlying company.
3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
The Group’s current activities result in the following financial risks and set out below are 
management’s responses to those risks in order to minimise any resulting adverse effects 
on the Group’s financial performance.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK 
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk principally via:
a. Transactional exposure from the cost of future purchases of goods for resale, where 
those purchases are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the 
purchasing company. Transactional exposures that could significantly impact the income 
statement are hedged. These exposures are hedged via forward foreign currency contracts 
which are designated as cash flow hedges. The notional and fair value of these contracts 
is shown in note 27.
b. Net investment exposure, from the fair value of net investments outside the UK. 
The Group hedges its international investments via foreign currency transactions and 
borrowings in matching currencies.
c. Loans to non-UK subsidiaries. These are hedged via foreign currency transactions and 
borrowings in matching currencies, which are not formally designated as hedges, as gains 
and losses on hedges and hedged loans will naturally offset.
INTEREST RATE RISK 
The Group has net borrowings, which are principally at floating interest rates linked 
to bank base rates or LIBOR. The Group does not currently use interest rate financial 
instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate movements. The Group regularly 
monitors and reacts accordingly to any exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and the 
impact on its monetary assets and liabilities.
CREDIT RISK 
The Directors have a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on 
an on-going basis. Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a 
certain amount. The Group does not require collateral in respect of financial assets.
At each balance sheet date, there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. The 
maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial 
asset in the balance sheet.
Investments of cash surpluses, borrowings and derivative instruments are made through 
banks and companies which must fulfil credit rating and investment criteria approved by 
the Board.
LIQUIDITY RISK 
The availability of adequate cash resources is managed by the Group through utilisation 
of its revolving credit facilities together with equity and retained profits thereby achieving 
continuity of funding and short-term flexibility.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 
A description of the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing capital are 
included in note 27.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
66
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  4. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS 
IFRS 8 - ‘operating segments’ requires the Group’s segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Chief 
Operating Decision Maker to assess performance and allocate resources across each operating segment.
The Chief Operating Decision Maker has been identified as the Executive Directors and the operating segments are identified as the store fascia or brand, in line with the internal reporting 
to the Executive Directors.
Sales and gross profit for each operating segment, as well as underlying EBITDA, are the main measures used by the Executive Directors to assess performance.
In accordance with paragraph 12 of IFRS 8 the Group’s operating segments have been aggregated into the following reportable segments:
• Sports Retail – includes the results of the UK and International retail network of sports stores along with related websites;
• Premium Lifestyle – includes the results of the premium retail businesses such as Cruise, Flannels and USC; and
• Brands – includes the results of the Group’s portfolio of internationally recognised brands such as Everlast, Lonsdale and Dunlop.
Information regarding the Group’s reportable segments for the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2015, as well as a reconciliation of reported profit for the period to underlying EBITDA, is 
presented on pages 67 to 69.
Segmental information for the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2015: 
Retail 
(£’000)
Brands
(£’000)
Eliminations
(£’000)
Total
(£’000)
Sports Retail Premium Lifestyle Total Total
Sales to external customers 2,398,547 207,623 2,606,170 226,390 - 2,832,560
Sales to other segments - - - 25,480 (25,480) -
Revenue 2,398,547 207,623 2,606,170 251,870 (25,480) 2,832,560
Gross profit 1,069,088 80,523 1,149,611 91,201 - 1,240,812
Operating profit before foreign exchange and exceptional items 285,534 (11,170) 274,364 27,984 - 302,348
Operating profit 283,347 (11,278) 272,069 23,512 - 295,581
Other investment income  14,104
Finance income  8,289
Finance costs  (7,487)
Share of profits of associated undertakings 2,959
Profit before taxation  313,446
Taxation  (72,093)
Profit for the period  241,353
 
Sales to other segments are priced at cost plus a 10% mark-up.
Other segment items included in the income statement for the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2015:
Retail
(£’000)
Brands
(£’000)
Total
(£’000)
Sports Retail Premium Lifestyle Total
Depreciation 57,855 2,543 60,398 2,026 62,424
Amortisation 548 687 1,235 4,122 5,357
 
Accelerated depreciation and amortisation included within exceptional items are excluded from the above.
Information regarding segment assets and liabilities as at 26 April 2015 and capital expenditure for the 52 weeks then ended:
Sports Retail  
(£’000)
Premium Lifestyle
(£’000)
Brands 
(£’000)
Eliminations 
(£’000)
Total
 (£’000)
Investments in associated undertakings 38,133 - - - 38,133
Other assets 1,688,779 24,446 190,772 (168,447) 1,735,550
Total assets 1,726,912 24,446 190,772 (168,447) 1,773,683
Total liabilities (646,836) (60,255) (73,488) 168,447 (612,132)
Tangible asset additions 93,429 2,321 1,592 - 97,342
Intangible asset additions 108 - 2,829 - 2,937
Total capital expenditure 93,537 2,321 4,421 - 100,279
 
67
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... Segmental information for the 52 weeks ended 27 April 2014:
Retail 
(£’000)
Brands
(£’000)
Eliminations
(£’000)
Total
(£’000)
Sports Retail Premium Lifestyle Total Total
Sales to external customers 2,274,365 214,066 2,488,431 217,527 - 2,705,958
Sales to other segments 203 - 203 29,938 (30,141) -
Revenue 2,274,568 214,066 2,488,634 247,465 (30,141) 2,705,958
Gross profit 974,952 86,263 1,061,215 93,707 - 1,154,922
Operating profit before foreign exchange and exceptional items 254,736 (25,729) 229,007 23,825 - 252,832
Operating profit 251,762 (25,588) 226,174 22,957 - 249,131
Other investment income 7,017
Finance income 891
Finance costs  (19,853)
Share of profits of associated undertakings 2,266
Profit before taxation  239,452
Taxation  (59,839)
Profit for the period  179,613
 
Sales to other segments are priced at cost plus a 10% mark-up.
Other segment items included in the income statement for the 52 weeks ended 27 April 2014:
Retail 
(£’000)
Brands 
(£’000)
Total 
(£’000)
Sports Retail Premium Lifestyle Total
Depreciation 50,549 4,689 55,238 1,725 56,963
Amortisation 1,348 687 2,035 4,797 6,832
Impairment - - - 284 284
 
 
Information regarding segment assets and liabilities as at 27 April 2014 and capital expenditure for the 52 weeks then ended: 
Sports Retail
 (£’000)
Premium Lifestyle
(£’000)
Brands
 (£’000)
Eliminations 
(£’000)
Total
 (£’000)
Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures 42,176 - (413) - 41,763
Other assets 1,609,024 96,601 183,103 (229,752) 1,658,976
Total assets 1,651,200 96,601 182,690 (229,752) 1,700,739
Total liabilities (893,269) (123,554) (96,114) 229,752 (883,185)
Tangible asset additions 57,365 6,978 2,961 - 67,304
Intangible asset additions 259 - 1,568 - 1,827
Total capital expenditure 57,624 6,978 4,529 - 69,131
 
GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION  
Segmental information for the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2015:
UK 
(£’000)
Non-UK 
(£’000)
Eliminations
 (£’000)
Total
 (£’000)
Segmental revenue from external customers 2,252,360 580,200 - 2,832,560
Total capital expenditure 81,793 18,486 - 100,279
Segmental assets 1,564,864 377,266 (168,447) 1,773,683
 
Segmental information for the 52 weeks ended 27 April 2014:
UK 
(£’000)
Non-UK 
(£’000)
Eliminations
 (£’000)
Total
 (£’000)
Segmental revenue from external customers 2,063,724 642,234 - 2,705,958
Total capital expenditure 51,525 17,606 - 69,131
Segmental assets 1,526,405 404,086 (229,752) 1,700,739
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
68
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  The following table reconciles the reported operating profit to the underlying EBITDA as it is one of the main measures used by the Chief Operating Decision Maker when reviewing performance:
Reconciliation of operating profit to underlying EBITDA for the 52 week period ended 26 April 2015.
Sports Retail 
(£’000)
Premium Lifestyle
(£’000)
Brands
(£’000)
Total
(£’000)
Operating profit / (loss) 283,347 (11,278) 23,512 295,581
Depreciation 57,855 2,543 2,026 62,424
Impairment 548 687 4,122 5,357
Share of profit / (loss) of associated undertakings 3,009 - (50) 2,959
Reported EBITDA 344,759 (8,048) 29,610 366,321
Charges for the share scheme 10,110 - - 10,110
Exceptional items (3,395) - 6,445 3,050
Realised FX gain / (loss) 5,332 358 (1,973) 3,717
Underlying EBITDA 356,806 (7,690) 34,082 383,198
 
Reconciliation of operating profit to underlying EBITDA for the 52 week period ended 27 April 2014.
Sports Retail 
(£’000)
Premium Lifestyle
(£’000)
Brands
(£’000)
Total
(£’000)
Operating profit / (loss) 251,762 (25,588) 22,957 249,131
Depreciation 50,549 4,689 1,725 56,963
Impairment - - 284 284
Amortisation 1,348 687 4,797 6,832
Share of profit / (loss) of associated undertakings 2,679 - (413) 2,266
Reported EBITDA 306,338 (20,212) 29,350 315,476
Charges for the share scheme 11,927 - - 11,927
Exceptional items 5,531 - - 5,531
Realised FX (loss) / gain (2,557) (141) 868 (1,830)
Underlying EBITDA 321,239 (20,353) 30,218 331,104
5. OTHER OPERATING INCOME
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
 (£’000)
27 April 2014
 (£’000)
Rent receivable 4,851 6,118
Other 3,494 2,465
8,345 8,583
 
6. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
 (£’000)
27 April 2014
 (£’000)
Profit on sale of freehold property 10,288 -
Impairment and accelerated depreciation and amortisation (13,338) (5,531)
(3,050) (5,531)
 
The impairment and accelerated depreciation and amortisation relates to a change in the estimated useful life of certain tangible and intangible assets and impairment against goodwill in 
the year. Included within this figure is an accelerated amortisation charge of £6m due to a change in the useful economic life of certain intangibles in the year from 10 years to 5 years.
The profit on sale of freehold property of £10.3m includes to the sale of a freehold warehouse for £21.2m, realising a profit of £12.1m.
69
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... 7. OPERATING PROFIT 
Operating profit for the period is stated after charging / (crediting)
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
 (£’000)
27 April 2014
 (£’000)
Foreign exchange losses / (gains) 3,717 (1,830)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
- owned assets 62,424 56,963
Amortisation of intangible assets 5,203 6,832
Impairment of intangible assets - 284
Operating lease rentals
- Land and buildings 142,571 127,341
- Other 751 708
Accelerated depreciation and amortisation included within exceptional items are excluded from the above.
SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE GROUP’S AUDITOR 
For the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2015 the remuneration of the auditors, Grant Thornton UK LLP and associated firms, was as detailed below: 
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
 (£’000)
27 April 2014
 (£’000)
AUDIT SERVICES
Audit of the Company’s and the consolidated Financial Statements 105 85
Audit of subsidiary companies’ Financial Statements 650 585
NON-AUDIT SERVICES
Other services relating to taxation 748 249
All other services 484 208
An explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors is set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 40. 
 
8. PAYROLL COSTS 
The average monthly number of employees, including Executive Directors, employed by the Group during the period was:
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
 (Number)
27 April 2014
 (Number)
Retail stores 13,414 13,609
Distribution, administration and other 3,793 3,556
17,207 17,165
The aggregate payroll costs of the employees, including Executive Directors, were as follows:
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
 (£’000)
27 April 2014
 (£’000)
Wages and salaries 290,769 278,714
Social security costs 31,256 27,835
Pension costs 1,520 1,399
323,545 307,948
A share-based payment charge of £10,110,000 (2014: £11,927,000) was recognised in respect of share awards during the year. This is inclusive of the related charges for expected national insurance 
contributions.
Aggregate emoluments of the Directors of the Company are summarised below:
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
 (£’000)
27 April 2014
 (£’000)
Aggregate emoluments 477 605
 
Further details of Directors’ remuneration are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 52.
Details of certain key management remuneration are given in note 33.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
70
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  9. OTHER INVESTMENT INCOME
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
 (£’000)
27 April 2014
 (£’000)
Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 3,678 5,413
Fair value gain on derivative instruments 8,895 -
Dividend income from investments 1,531 1,604
14,104 7,017
 
10. FINANCE INCOME
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
 (£’000)
27 April 2014
 (£’000)
Bank interest receivable 929 761
Other interest receivable 58 130
Fair value adjustment to forward foreign exchange contracts 
(1)
7,302 -
8,289 891
(1)
 The fair value adjustment to forward foreign exchange contracts relates to differences between the fair value of forward foreign currency contracts not designated for hedge accounting from one period end to the next.
 
11. FINANCE COSTS
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
 (£’000)
27 April 2014
 (£’000)
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 6,692 7,513
Interest on other loans and finance leases 153 600
Interest on retirement benefit obligations (note 24) 642 547
Fair value adjustment to forward foreign exchange contracts 
(1)
- 11,193
7,487 19,853
(1)
 The fair value adjustment to forward foreign exchange contracts relates to differences between the fair value of forward foreign currency contracts not designated for hedge accounting from one period end to the next.
 
12. TAXATION
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
 (£’000)
27 April 2014
 (£’000)
Current tax 74,072 57,569
Adjustment in respect of prior periods 5,140 (280)
79,212 57,289
Deferred tax (note 25) (7,119) 2,550
72,093 59,839
TAX RECONCILIATION
Profit before taxation 313,446 239,452
Taxation at the standard rate of tax in the UK of 21% (2014: 23%) 65,824 55,074
Tax effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2,778 1,445
Overseas tax losses 2,552 2,509
Other tax adjustments (4,205) 1,011
Adjustments in respect of prior periods - Current tax 5,141 (280)
Adjustments in respect of prior periods - Deferred tax 3 80
72,093 59,839
71
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... 13. EARNINGS PER SHARE FROM TOTAL AND CONTINUING OPERATIONS ATTRIBUTABLE  
TO THE EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during 
the year.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares, 592,294,371 (2014: 585,513,537), is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares 
under the Group’s Share Schemes, being 24,200,000 (2014: 32,676,278), to give the diluted weighted average number of shares of 616,494,371 (2014: 618,189,815).
BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE 
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
Basic
(£’000)
26 April 2015
Diluted
(£’000)
27 April 2014
Basic
(£’000)
27 April 2014
Diluted
(£’000)
Profit for the period 240,397 240,397 180,245 180,245
Number in thousands Number in thousands
Weighted average number of shares 592,294 616,494 585,514 618,190
Pence per share Pence per share
Earnings per share 40.6 39.0 30.8 29.2
 
UNDERLYING EARNINGS PER SHARE 
The underlying earnings per share reflects the underlying performance of the business compared with the prior year and is calculated by dividing underlying earnings by the weighted 
average number of shares for the period. Underlying earnings is used by management as a measure of profitability within the Group. Underlying earnings is defined as profit for the period 
attributable to equity holders of the parent for each financial period but excluding the post tax effect of certain non-trading items.
The Directors believe that the underlying earnings before exceptional items and underlying earnings per share measures provide additional useful information for shareholders on the 
underlying performance of the business, and are consistent with how business performance is measured internally. Underlying earnings is not a recognised profit measure under IFRS and 
may not be directly comparable with “adjusted” profit measures used by other companies. 
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
Basic
(£’000)
26 April 2015
Diluted
(£’000)
27 April 2014
Basic
(£’000)
27 April 2014
Diluted
(£’000)
Profit for the period 240,397 240,397 180,245 180,245
Post tax adjustments to profit for the period for the following non-trading items:
Realised loss / (gain) on forward exchange contracts 2,862 2,862 (1,373) (1,373)
Fair value adjustment to forward foreign exchange contracts (12,472) (12,472) 8,395 8,395 
Profit on disposal of listed investments (2,832) (2,832) (4,060) (4,060)
Impairment of fixed assets - - 4,148 4,148
Profit on disposal of property (7,921) (7,921) - -
Impairment and acceleration amortisation & depreciation 10,270 10,270 284 284
Underlying profit for the period 230,304 230,304 187,639 187,639
Number in thousands Number in thousands
Weighted average number of shares 592,294 616,494 585,514 618,190
Pence per share Pence per share
Underlying earnings per share 38.9 37.4 32.1 30.3
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
72
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  14. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Freehold land 
and buildings 
(£’000)
Long-term leasehold
improvements
(£’000)
Short-term leasehold
improvements 
(£’000)
Plant and 
equipment 
(£’000)
Total 
(£’000)
COST
At 28 April 2013 237,488 11,961 108,078 387,255 744,782
Exchange differences (3,634) 358 - (8,884) (12,160)
Acquisitions 68,448 39 - 15,476 83,963
Additions 20,808 904 6,591 39,001 67,304
Eliminated on disposals (754) (430) (2,228) (6,956) (10,368)
At 27 April 2014 322,356 12,832 112,441 425,892 873,521
Exchange differences (785) 927 2 (9,458) (9,314)
Acquisitions - - - 779 779
Additions 23,571 12 7,890 65,869 97,342
Eliminated on disposals (21,740) (892) (2,861) (12,502) (37,995)
At 26 April 2015 323,402 12,879 117,472 470,580 924,333
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT
At 28 April 2013 (33,504) (4,814) (74,387) (300,041) (412,746)
Exchange differences 137 (137) (166) 7,229 7,063
Charge for the period (7,567) (150) (6,444) (42,802) (56,963)
IMPAIRMENT - - - (5,531) (5,531)
Eliminated on disposals 745 - 995 5,277 7,017
At 27 April 2014 (40,189) (5,101) (80,002) (335,868) (461,160)
Exchange differences 488 (203) 46 9,872 10,203
Charge for the period (11,478) (140) (9,129) (42,177) (62,924)
Eliminated on disposals 1,035 127 162 10,966 12,290
At 26 April 2015 (50,144) (5,317) (88,923) (357,207) (501,591)
NET BOOK AMOUNT
At 26 April 2015 273,258 7,562 28,549 113,373 422,742
At 27 April 2014 282,167 7,731 32,439 90,024 412,361
Additions in the year include £35.5m of assets under construction in relation to our new Shirebrook warehouse.
73
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... 15. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill 
(£’000)
Trademarks and 
licences 
(£’000)
Brands 
(£’000)
Total 
(£’000)
COST
At 28 April 2013 146,938 57,895 80,991 285,824
Arising on business combinations 30,683 - - 30,683
Additions through business combinations - 4,847 - 4,847
Other additions - 1,827 - 1,827
Disposals (4,053) (1,000) - (5,053)
Exchange adjustment (8,348) (1,473) (7,705) (17,526)
At 27 April 2014 165,220 62,096 73,286 300,602
Arising on business combinations 3,682 - - 3,682
Other additions - 2,937 - 2,937
Disposals (2) (1,714) - (1,716)
Exchange adjustment 6,908 599 6,599 14,106
At 26 April 2015 175,808 63,918 79,885 319,611
AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT
At 28 April 2013 (17,133) (28,271) - (45,404)
Amortisation charge - (6,832) - (6,832)
Impairment (284) - - (284)
Disposals 3,897 1,000 - 4,897
Exchange adjustment 1,849 281 - 2,130
At 27 April 2014 (11,671) (33,822) - (45,493)
Amortisation charge - (12,725) - (12,725)
Impairment (5,314) - - (5,314)
Disposals - 1,607 - 1,607
Exchange adjustment (2,289) (33) - (2,322)
At 26 April 2015 (19,274) (44,973) - (64,247)
NET BOOK AMOUNT
At 26 April 2015 156,534 18,945 79,885 255,364
At 27 April 2014 153,549 28,274 73,286 255,109
 
Amortisation is charged to selling, distribution and administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement.
The carrying value of goodwill and brands that are considered to have an indefinite life are allocated to the Group’s operating segments before aggregation. With the exception of Everlast, 
none of the individual cash-generating units (CGUs) are considered material to goodwill or indefinite life intangibles (Brands). The carrying value of goodwill and brands allocated to the 
Group’s CGUs, (as aggregated except in the case of Everlast), is shown below:
Goodwill
(£’000)
Brands
(£’000)
UK Sports Retail 6,964 8,500
International Sports Retail 33,395 -
Premium Lifestyle 13,689 -
Brands (excl. Everlast) 48,048 -
Everlast 54,438 71,385
156,534 79,885
 
The Group tests the carrying amount of goodwill and assets with an indefinite life annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that their carrying value might be 
impaired. The carrying amounts of other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment if there is an indication of impairment.
Impairment is calculated by comparing the carrying amounts to the value in use derived from discounted cash flow projections for each CGU to which the intangible assets are allocated. A 
CGU is deemed to be an individual fascia and these have been grouped together into similar classes for the purpose of formulating operating segments as reported in note 4.
Value in use calculations are based on five year management forecasts with a terminal growth rate applied thereafter, representing management’s estimate of the long-term growth rate of 
the sector served by the CGUs.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
74
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  The key assumptions, which are equally applicable to each CGU, in the cash flow projections used to support the carrying amount of goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives as at 26 
April 2015 were as follows: 
UK Sports
Retail
International Sports 
Retail
Premium
Lifestyle
Brands (excl. 
Everlast) Everlast
Sales growth 0%-5% 0%-10% 0%-5% 0% - 6% 0% - 5%
Terminal sales growth 2% 0% - 2% 0% - 2% 0% - 2% 0%
Gross margin 35% - 45% 35% - 50% 40% - 50% 15% - 50% 20% - 30%
Capital expenditure Nil - £1m Nil - £3m Nil - £2m Nil - £2m Nil - £1m
Discount rates 11.88% 11.88% 11.88% 11.88% 17.33%
 
The Group Weighted Average Cost of Capital is used in UK Sports Retail, International Sports Retail, Premium Lifestyle and Brands (excl. Everlast) as these CGU’s are considered to have 
similar risk profiles.
The key assumptions are based on management’s historical experience and future plans for each CGU.
A reasonably possible change in any key assumption would not cause the carrying value of any CGU to exceed its recoverable amount.
The intangible assets that have an indefinite life are brands and trading names and are considered to have an indefinite life on the grounds of the proven longevity of the brands and 
trading names and the Group’s commitment to maintaining those brands.
All key assumptions are consistent with known external sources of information.
16. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATED UNDERTAKINGS
The Group uses the equity method of accounting for associates and joint ventures. The following table shows the aggregate movement in the Group’s investment in associates and 
joint ventures:
Associates (£’000)
At 28 April 2013 32,117
Exchange differences (620)
Additions 8,000
Share of profit 2,266
At 27 April 2014 41,763
Exchange differences (4,593)
Additions 93
Disposals (751)
Dividends paid (1,338)
Share of profit 2,959
At 26 April 2015 38,133
 
None of the Group’s associates are considered to be individually material to the Group.
The Group’s share of associates’ assets, liabilities and income statement, which is included in the consolidated Financial Statements, is as follows: 
 
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014 
(£’000)
Share of non-current assets 44,767 51,702
Share of current assets 27,270 24,459
Share of non-current liabilities (13,796) (18,259)
Share of current liabilities (20,108) (16,139)
38,133 41,763
 
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
Income 104,279 95,751
Expenses (101,509) (92,975)
Profit before taxation 2,770 2,776
Taxation 189 (510)
Profit for the period 2,959 2,266
75
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
17. AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
Available-for-sale financial assets 140,795 116,504
The fair value of the available-for-sale investments is based on bid quoted market prices at the balance sheet date or where market prices are not available, at management’s stimate of 
fair value.
The following table shows the aggregate movement in the Group’s financial assets during the year:
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
At beginning of period 116,504 47,645
Additions 50,415 55,467
Disposals (48,017) (43,981)
Revaluation through other comprehensive income 21,893 57,373
At end of period 140,795 116,504
The disposal above relates to financial assets that were acquired in the year and therefore there is no reclassification adjustment between equity and the income statement on disposal.
The financial assets at 26 April 2015 relate to strategic investments held of between 4.8% and 11.1% of share capital.
At 27 April 2014 and 26 April 2015 the Group had no investments in excess of 20% of share capital.
18. INVENTORIES
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
Raw materials 4 147
Goods for resale 517,050 565,332
517,054 565,479
 
The following inventory costs have been recognised in cost of sales:
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 1,591,748 1,551,036
 
19. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
Trade receivables 65,335 60,851
Amounts owed by related parties 13,094 7,450
Other debtors 80,516 19,060
Prepayments 31,781 35,653
190,726 123,014
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying 
value of each class of asset above, plus any cash balances. 
Other debtors includes unremitted sales receipts and collateral in respect of derivative instruments.
Ageing of trade receivables:
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
Current 58,364 34,667
0-30 days past due 744 18,467
30-60 days past due 1,516 3,713
60-90 days past due 2,520 1,194
Over 90 days past due 2,191 2,810
65,335 60,851
The credit quality of assets neither past due nor impaired is considered to be good.
76
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  The movement in the bad debt provision can be analysed as follows: 
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
Opening position 8,336 6,674
    Amounts charged to the income statement 1,238 2,343
    Amounts written off as uncollectable (2,331) (649)
    Amounts recovered during the year (11) (32)
Closing position 7,232 8,336
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of customers. These bad debt provisions / charges have been determined by reference 
to past default experience and knowledge of the individual circumstances of certain receivables.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not include impaired assets.
 
20. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
Cash in bank and in hand - Sterling 1,026 113,327
Cash in bank and in hand - US Dollars 49,194 15,874
Cash in bank and in hand - Euros 23,311 21,443
Cash in bank and in hand - Other 4,787 380
78,318 151,024
Bank overdraft (note 23) (813) (5,742)
Cash and cash equivalents including overdrafts at period end 77,505 145,282
 
21. SHARE CAPITAL 
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
AUTHORISED
999,500,010 ordinary shares of 10p each 99,950 99,950
499,990 redeemable preference shares of 10p each 50 50
100,000 100,000
ALLOTTED, CALLED UP AND FULLY PAID
640,602,369 (2014: 640,602,369) ordinary shares of 10p each 64,060 64,060
SHARE CAPITAL
At 27 April 2014 and 26 April 2015 64,060 64,060
The Group holds 42,137,508 shares in Treasury. 
 
CONTINGENT SHARE AWARDS 
THE EXECUTIVE SHARE SCHEME 
Under the terms of the Executive Share Scheme, which was approved by Shareholders on 10 September 2010 and is a Revenue approved scheme, the Board may make share awards 
in respect of the ordinary shares in the Company. Awards may be made to Executives and Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities over a fixed number of shares subject to 
performance conditions. Further details are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 52.
An award of 8,073,036 shares was granted on 10 September 2010 at a share price of 125.5 pence, 4,000,000 of these shares have since vested and 1,000,000 have since lapsed. 
These shares will only vest if all conditions are met. No consideration is payable in respect of these awards.
SHARE SCHEMES 
The 2011 Share Scheme was approved by the Board on 10 September 2010. The first award of 30,000,000 shares were granted on 10 September 2010 at an average price of 200.0 
pence per share. At 26 April 2015 21,200,000 (27 April 2014: 22,672,000) remained outstanding. These shares will only vest if all conditions are met.
A share-based payment charge of £10,110,000 was recognised in respect of these share awards for the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2015, based on the Directors’ best estimate of the 
number of shares that will vest. The charge is calculated based on the fair value on the grant date, which is deemed to be the date on which the entity and counterparty reached a shared 
understanding of the scheme.
On 2 July 2014, a resolution was passed to implement the 2015 Share Scheme. No grants have been made under this scheme to date.
77
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
22. OTHER RESERVES
Share 
capital
(£’000)
Share 
premium
(£’000)
Permanent 
contribution to 
capital
 (£’000)
Capital
 redemption
 reserve 
(£’000)
Reverse 
 combination 
reserve
 (£’000)
Hedging 
reserve
(£’000)
Total other 
reserves
(£’000)
At 28 April 2013 64,060 874,300 50 8,005 (987,312) 16,021 (24,876)
Cash flow hedges
- recognised in the period - - - - - (3,737) (3,737)
- reclassified and reported in net profit - - - - - (17,909) (17,909)
At 27 April 2014 64,060 874,300 50 8,005 (987,312) (5,625) (46,522)
Cash flow hedges
- recognised in the period - - - - - 77,181 77,181
- reclassified and reported in net profit - - - - - 7,240 7,240
At 26 April 2015 64,060 874,300 50 8,005 (987,312) 78,796 37,899
The share premium account is used to record the excess proceeds over nominal value on the issue of shares.
The permanent contribution to capital relates to a cash payment of £50,000 to the Company on 8 February 2007 under a deed of capital contribution.
The capital redemption reserve arose on the redemption of the Company’s redeemable preference shares of 10p each at par on 2 March 2007.
The reverse combination reserve exists as a result of the adoption of the principles of reverse acquisition accounting in accounting for the Group restructuring which occurred on 2 March 
2007 and 29 March 2007 between the Company and Sports World International Limited, Brands Holdings Limited, International Brand Management Limited and CDS Holdings SA with 
Sports World International Limited as the acquirer.
The hedging reserve represents the cumulative amount of gains and losses on hedging instruments deemed effective in cash flow hedges. The cumulative deferred gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement only when the hedged transaction impacts the income statement.
OTHER BALANCE SHEET RESERVES 
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the Financial Statements of foreign subsidiaries and associates.
The own shares and treasury shares reserve represent the cost of shares in Sports Direct International plc purchased in the market and held by Sports Direct International plc Employee 
Benefit Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s share options scheme, see note 21.
23. BORROWINGS
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
NON-CURRENT:
Bank and other loans 136,849 6,764
136,849 6,764
CURRENT:
Bank overdrafts 813 5,742
Bank and other loans 391 350,484
1,204 356,226
TOTAL BORROWINGS:
Bank overdrafts 813 5,742
Bank and other loans 137,240 357,248
 138,053 362,990
 
An analysis of the Group’s total borrowings other than bank overdrafts is as follows: 
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
Borrowings — Sterling 95,808 240,731
Borrowings — Other 41,432 116,517
137,240 357,248
 
Loans are all at rates of interest ranging between 1.15% and 2.0% over the interbank rate of the country within which the borrowing entity resides.
On 28 May 2014 the Company entered into a new committed unsecured revolving facility agreement with 13 financial institutions, with Barclays Bank plc acting as Agent. This revolving 
facility can be drawn to an aggregate limit of £738 million and is available until 27 September 2018.
78
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  The Group also has a £250m working capital facility with Mike Ashley which can be drawn down on request. The facility was agreed at market terms at its inception and is not secured 
against any fixed assets. At year end no balance was due.
The Group continues to operate comfortably within its banking facilities and covenants.
The carrying amounts and fair value of the borrowings are not materially different.
Net debt at 26 April 2015 was £59.7m (27 April 2014: £212.0m).
 
24. RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS 
The Group’s defined benefit pension obligations relate to Dunlop Slazenger Group Holdings Limited (“DSGHL”), which was acquired on 28 January 2004. DSGHL operates a number of 
plans worldwide, the largest of which is of the funded defined benefit type. The Scheme has been closed to new members since 2005.
The amounts for the current and previous four periods following the acquisition of DSGHL are as follows:
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
Total fair value of plan assets 59,939 49,498
Present value of plan liabilities (74,808) (64,848)
Net plan obligations (14,869) (15,350)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 7,226 (46)
Experience adjustments on plan assets (9,719) 3,906
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income as at 26 April 2015 was an actuarial loss of £12,688,000 (2014: actuarial loss of 
£10,195,000).
There were no unrecognised actuarial gains or losses or past service costs as at 27 April 2014 or 26 April 2015.
Amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
Current service cost 21 22
Net interest expense 332 547
353 569
The current service cost is included within cost of sales. The net interest expense is included within finance costs.
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income is as follows:
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
Actual return on scheme assets excluding amounts included in net interest income 7,226 (46)
Actuarial (losses)/gains relating to plan liabilities (9,719) 3,906
(2,493) 3,860
 
The actual return on plan assets for the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2015 was a gain of £9,377,000 (2014: gain of £1,855,000).
The movements in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
At the start of the period 49,498 47,411
Interest income based on discount rate 2,151 1,901
Actuarial gain/(loss) 7,226 (46)
Employer contributions 2,718 2,708
Employee contributions 12 12
Benefits paid out (1,666) (2,488)
At the end of the period 59,939 49,498
The Group expects to contribute £2,720,000 to its defined benefit pension plans for the 52 weeks ended 24 April 2016.
79
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... The plan asset mix was as follows:
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
Equities 27,867 22,807
Bonds 31,503 26,313
Cash and other 569 378
59,939 49,498
The fair values of the above investments are determined based on publicly available market prices wherever available. Unquoted investments are stated at fair value estimates provided by 
the manager of the investment or fund.
The principal assumptions underlying the actuarial assessments are:
26 April 2015
(%)
27 April 2014
(%)
Inflation rate 3.2 3.4
Future pension increases 3.1 3.3
Discount rate 3.3 4.3
 
Mortality assumptions:
26 April 2015 27 April 2014
Life expectancy at 65 at period end:
Future pensioners – male 87.8 87.7
Future pensioners – female 90.3 90.2
Current pensioners – male 86.1 86.0
Current pensioners – female 88.4 88.3
 
Sensitivity Analysis:
£m % change
Liability at 26 April 2015 14.9
Sensitivity of 0.5% increase to:
Discount rate (5.8) (38.9)
Retail price inflation and salary increases 3.8 25.5
Increase in long-term mortality rate of improvement to 1.5% pa (from 1.25%) (1.1) (7.4)
 
The movements in the present value of the plan liabilities are as follows: 
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
At the start of the period (64,848) (67,351)
Current service cost (21) (22)
Interest cost (2,483) (2,429)
Actuarial (loss) / gain (9,719) 3,906
Employee contributions (12) (12)
Benefits paid out 1,666 2,488
Exchange gain 609 806
Acquisitions (note 29) - (2,234)
At the end of the period 74,808 (64,848)
 
The net movements in the net present value of the plan liabilities were as follows:
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
Net liability at the start of the period (15,350) (19,940)
Movement in fair value of plan assets 10,441 2,087
Movements in the present value of the plan liabilities (9,960) 2,503
Net liability at the end of the period (14,869) (15,350)
In addition to the amounts recognised in relation to the defined benefit retirement plans, amounts of £1,207,000 and £1,363,000 have been recognised in the income statement for the 
periods ended 27 April 2014 and 26 April 2015 in relation to defined contribution retirement benefit plans.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
80
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  The weighted average years duration of the defined benefit obligation at 26 April 2015 is 28.3 years (2014: 29.3 years)
 
25. DEFERRED TAX ASSET AND LIABILITIES
Accounts depreciation
exceeding tax 
depreciation (£’000)
Tax losses
recoverable 
(£’000)
Pension plan
liabilities 
(£’000)
Other temporary 
differences
(£’000)
Total
(£’000)
At 28 April 2013 2,400 (461) 6,601 14,434 22,974
Credited / (charged) to the income statement 2,142 (24) (275) (4,393) (2,550)
Credited to the statement of other comprehensive income - - (698) (4,170) (4,868)
Credited to reserves in respect of Share Scheme - - - (11,214) (11,214)
Arising on acquisition - 2,742 - - 2,742
At 27 April 2014 4,542 2,257 5,628 (5,343) 7,084
Credited / (charged) to the income statement 5,230 4,749 (3,178) 318 7,119
Credited / (charged) to the statement of other comprehensive income - - 524 (17,728) (17,204)
Credited to reserves in respect of Share Scheme - - - 1,266 1,266
At 26 April 2015 9,772 7,006 2,974 (21,488) (1,736)
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
Deferred tax assets 38,352 31,130
Deferred tax liabilities (40,088) (24,046)
Net deferred tax balance (1,736) 7,084
The tax rate used to measure the deferred tax assets and liabilities was 20% on the basis this was the tax rate that was substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses recoverable and pension plan liabilities to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable on the basis of the Group’s 
current expectations of future taxable profits.
Included within other temporary differences is a deferred tax asset in relation to the Share Scheme and a deferred tax liability recognised on other intangible assets upon acquisition.
The deferred tax effects of the acquisitions made in the year were considered and it was determined that there was no material impact on the Group or the fair value of net assets 
acquired.
 
26. PROVISIONS
Dilapidations
(£’000)
Onerous contracts 
and other 
property costs
 (£’000)
Total
(£’000)
At 27 April 2014 33,843 3,937 37,780
Amounts provided 6,291 4,349 10,640
Amounts utilised (624) (3,149) (3,773)
Amounts reversed (2,330) (4,612) (6,942)
At 26 April 2015 37,180 525 37,705
The dilapidations provision is the best estimate of the present value of expenditure expected to be incurred by the Group in order to satisfy its obligations to restore its leasehold premises 
to the condition required under the lease agreements at the end of the lease discounted at 5% per annum. The provision is expected to be utilised over the period to the end of each 
specific lease.
The provision in respect of onerous lease contracts represents the net cost of fulfilling the Group’s obligations over the terms of these contracts discounted at 5% per annum. The provision 
is expected to be utilised over the period to the end of each specific lease.
The unwinding of the discount on provision over time passes through the income statement.
81
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... 27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
(a) FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES BY CATEGORY 
The carrying values of financial assets and liabilities, which are principally denominated in Sterling or US Dollars, were as follows: 
Loans and 
receivables 
(£’000)
Assets at fair
value through 
profit and loss 
(£’000)
Available for sale 
financial assets 
(£’000)
Non-financial assets
(£’000)
Total
(£’000)
ASSETS - 2015
Property, plant and equipment - - - 422,742 422,742
Intangible assets - - - 255,364 255,364
Investments in associated undertakings - - - 38,133 38,133
Available-for-sale financial assets - - 140,795 - 140,795
Deferred tax assets - - - 38,352 38,352
Inventories - - - 517,054 517,054
Derivative financial assets - 92,199 - - 92,199
Trade and other receivables 65,335 - - 125,391 190,726
Cash and cash equivalents 78,318 - - - 78,318
143,653 92,199 140,795 1,397,036 1,773,683
ASSETS - 2014
Property, plant and equipment - - - 412,361 412,361
Intangible assets - - - 255,109 255,109
Investments in associated undertakings - - - 41,763 41,763
Available-for-sale financial assets - - 116,504 - 116,504
Deferred tax assets - - - 31,130 31,130
Inventories - - - 565,479 565,479
Derivative financial assets - 4,355 - - 4,355
Trade and other receivables 60,851 - - 62,163 123,014
Cash and cash equivalents 151,024 - - - 151,024
211,875 4,355 116,504 1,368,005 1,700,739
Loans and payables
 (£’000)
Liabilities at fair 
value through profit 
and loss
(£’000)
Non-financial 
liabilities
(£’000)
Total
(£’000)
LIABILITIES - 2015
Non-current borrowings 136,849 - - 136,849
Retirement benefit obligations - - 14,869 14,869
Deferred tax liabilities - - 40,088 40,088
Provisions - - 37,705 37,705
Derivative financial liabilities - 5,629 - 5,629
Trade and other payables 170,090 - 170,846 340,936
Current borrowings 1,204 - - 1,204
Current tax liabilities - - 34,852 34,852
308,143 5,629 298,360 612,132
LIABILITIES - 2014
Non-current borrowings 6,764 - - 6,764
Retirement benefit obligations - - 15,350 15,350
Deferred tax liabilities - - 24,046 24,046
Provisions - - 37,780 37,780
Derivative financial liabilities - 18,665 - 18,665
Trade and other payables 239,463 - 152,556 392,019
Current borrowings 356,226 - - 356,226
Current tax liabilities - - 32,335 32,335
602,453 18,665 262,067 883,185
Carrying values do not materially differ from fair value.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
82
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY 
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique:
• Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
• Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly; and
• Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
As at 26 April 2015, the only financial instruments held at fair value were Derivative financial assets and liabilities, which are classified as Level 2, and Available-for-sale financial assets, 
which are classified as Level 1 except for Highland Group Holdings, which is classified as Level 3. Highland Group Holdings is held at management’s estimate of the fair value of the 
enterprise based on publicly available data. A 1% increase in profitability for the company would result in a £0.3m increase in value.
The valuation of Derivative financial assets and liabilities is performed using an option valuation model, based on the market data available at the balance sheet date, depending on 
whether the instrument is a foreign exchange or an equity derivative.
The Group has entered into a number of put options referencing listed company shares. To the extent that the market price of these shares is less than an agreed price on expiry of the 
put option, the Group has the right to elect whether to settle the put option by acquiring ordinary shares or, by paying the cash settlement value of the put option. Sports Direct is required 
to transfer cash collateral to cover its obligations under the Put Option. The amount of collateral required during the life of the Put Option can increase or decrease by reference to the 
underlying market price of the shares.  
(b) DERIVATIVES: FOREIGN CURRENCY FORWARD PURCHASE CONTRACTS 
The most significant exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations relates to purchases made in foreign currencies, principally the US Dollar. The Group’s policy is to reduce substantially the 
risk associated with foreign currency spot rates by using forward fixed rate currency purchase contracts, taking into account any foreign currency cash flows. The Group does not hold or 
issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes, however if derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting they are accounted for as such and accordingly any gain or loss is 
recognised immediately in the income statement.
The carrying values of forward foreign currency purchase contracts were as follows: 
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
Fair value of derivative financial instruments - assets 92,199 4,355
Fair value of derivative financial instruments – (liabilities) (5,629) (18,665)
 
The sterling principal amounts of forward foreign currency purchase contracts and contracted forward rates were as follows: 
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
US Dollar purchases 418,561 540,349
Contracted rates 1.54 – 1.71 1.61 – 1.71
At 26 April 2015 £419m of forward US Dollar contracts qualified for hedge accounting and the gain on fair valuation of these contracts of £84m has therefore been recognised in other 
comprehensive income. This amount is split between a profit of £77m recognised in the period and a profit of £7m reclassified in the period.
Forward foreign currency purchase and sale contracts generally have a maturity at inception of approximately 12 months. At 26 April 2015 £419m of purchase contracts had a maturity 
at inception of greater than 12 months (2014: £245m of purchase contracts).
(c) SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS 
FOREIGN CURRENCY SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS 
The Group’s principal foreign currency exposures are to US Dollars and the Euro. The table below illustrates the hypothetical sensitivity of the Group’s reported profit and equity to a 
5% increase and decrease in the US Dollar / Sterling and Euro / Sterling exchange rates at the year end date, assuming all other variables remain unchanged. The figures have been 
calculated by comparing the fair values of outstanding foreign currency contracts at the current exchange rate to those if exchange rates moved as illustrated. The income statement figures 
include the profit effect of any relevant derivatives which are not in a designated cash flow hedge. The impact on US Dollar related hedging instruments is included in equity.
Positive figures represent an increase / (decrease) in profit or equity:
Income statement Equity
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
Sterling strengthens by 5%
US Dollar (774) 812 (991) (5,205)
Euro (1,650) 2,218 (1,650) 2,218
Sterling weakens by 5%
US Dollar 813 (852) 1,041 5,465
Euro 1,732 (2,329) 1,732 (2,329)
83
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS 
The following table illustrates the hypothetical sensitivity of the Group’s reported profit and equity to a 0.5% increase or decrease in interest rates, assuming all other variables 
were unchanged.
The analysis has been prepared using the following assumptions:
• For floating rate assets and liabilities, the amount of asset or liability outstanding at the balance sheet date is assumed to have been outstanding for the whole year.
• Fixed rate financial instruments that are carried at amortised cost are not subject to interest rate risk for the purpose of this analysis.
Positive figures represent an increase in profit or equity:
Income statement Equity
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
Interest rate increase of 0.5% (690) (1,690) (690) (1,690)
Interest rate decrease of 0.5% 690 1,690 690 1,690
 
(d) LIQUIDITY RISK 
The table below shows the maturity analysis of the undiscounted remaining contractual cash flows of the Group’s financial liabilities:
Less than 1 year 
(£’000)
1 to 2 years
(£’000)
2 to 5 years
(£’000)
Over 5 years
(£’000)
Total
(£’000)
2015
Bank loans and overdrafts 1,204 135,277 5,677 - 142,158
Trade and other payables 170,090 - - - 170,090
Derivative financial liabilities
Cash inflows (513,393) (118,040) - - (631,433)
Cash outflows 439,416 105,447 - - 544,863
97,317 122,684 5,677 - 225,678
2014
Bank loans and overdrafts 356,226 1,731 5,237 - 363,193
Trade and other payables 239,463 - - - 239,463
Derivative financial liabilities - - - - -
Cash inflows (401,718) (105,177) - - (506,895)
Cash outflows 414,776 105,263 - - 520,039
608,747 1,817 5,237 - 615,800
 
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 
The capital structure of the Group consists of equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent, compromising issued share capital, share premium and retained earnings and cash  
and borrowings.
It is the Group’s policy to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain the development of the business.
In respect of equity, the Board has decided that, in order to maximise flexibility in the near term with regards to a number of inorganic growth opportunities under review, not to return any 
cash by way of a dividend at this time.
The Board is committed to keeping this policy under review and to looking to evaluate alternative methods of returning cash to shareholders when appropriate.
The objective of the Share Scheme is to encourage employee share ownership and to link employee’s remuneration to the performance of the Company. It is not designed as a means of 
managing capital.
In respect of cash and borrowings the Board regularly monitors the ratio of net debt to underlying EBITDA, the working capital requirements and forecasted cash flows however no 
minimum or maximum ratios are set. The ratio for net debt to reported underlying EBITDA , excluding charges for the Share Schemes, is 0.16 (2014: 0.64). The objective is to keep this 
figure below 2.5.
Based on this analysis, the Board determines the appropriate return to equity holders whilst ensuring sufficient capital is retained within the Group to meet its strategic objectives, including 
but not limited to, acquisition opportunities.
These capital management policies have remained unchanged from the prior year.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
84
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  28. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
Trade payables 170,090 239,463
Amounts owed to related undertakings 191 22
Other taxes including social security costs 31,365 22,230
Other payables 17,479 10,263
Accruals 121,811 120,041
340,936 392,019
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value. 
 
29. CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
Profit before taxation 313,446 239,452
Net finance costs (802) 18,962
Other investment income (14,104) (7,017)
Share of profits of associated undertakings (2,959) (2,266)
Operating profit 295,581 249,131
Depreciation* 62,924 56,963
Amortisation* 12,725 6,832
Impairment 5,314 5,815
Profit on disposal of intangibles 107 -
Defined benefit pension plan current service cost 21 22
Defined benefit pension plan employer contributions (2,718) (2,708)
Share-based payments 10,105 11,927
Operating cash inflow before changes in working capital 384,059 327,982
Increase in receivables (66,368) (18,241)
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 49,320 (52,521)
Decrease in payables (52,349) (34,435)
Cash inflows from operating activities 314,662 222,785
*£13,300,000 of depreciation and amortisation is included within Exceptional items. 
30. OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS 
As at 26 April 2015 the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
LAND AND BUILDINGS
Within one year 121,749 99,041
In the second to fifth years inclusive 397,054 329,163
After five years 330,118 242,297
 848,921 670,501
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. There are no clauses in relation to restrictions concerning dividends, additional debt and further leasing within our 
portfolio. Contingent rents are payable on certain store leases based on store revenue. For those leases that are turnover-related leases, the annual net lease commitment is calculated 
using the estimated lease liability and any changes in the rental charge are accounted for when known. Amounts of £1,598,000 (2014: £2,213,762) were charged to the income 
statement in relation to contingent rent.
The Group sub-lets certain stand-alone retail stores which are no longer operated by the Group. The property rental income earned during the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2015 was 
£4,832,000 (2014: £6,118,000).
85
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... As at 26 April 2015, the Group had contracts with sub-tenants for the following future minimum lease rentals:
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
LAND AND BUILDINGS
Within one year 3,249 5,800
In the second to fifth years inclusive 10,847 17,812
After five years 10,136 22,388
 24,231 46,000
31. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS 
The Group had capital commitments of £26,899,000 as at 26 April 2015 (2014: £Nil) in relation to the construction of our Shirebrook warehouse.
32. CONTINGENT ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 
There were no material contingent assets or liabilities at the balance sheet date.
33. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
The Group has taken advantage of the exemptions contained within IAS 24 - “Related Party Disclosures” from the requirement to disclose transactions between Group companies as these 
have been eliminated on consolidation.
The Group entered into the following material transactions with related parties:
52 weeks ended 26 April 2015
Relationship
Sales
(£’000)
Purchases
(£’000)
Trade and other 
receivables
(£’000)
Trade and other payables
(£’000)
RELATED PARTY
Heatons Associate 29,472 - 4,926 -
The Flannels Group Limited Subsidiary 18,814 19,825 4,865 1,246
Brasher Leisure Limited Associate 12,482 - 5,057 -
MST Sports Subsidiary 329 - 7,699 -
Rangers Retail Limited Subsidiary 3,834 - 441 -
Robinsons Country Leisure Limited Subsidiary 231 482 3,251 -
Sondico Professional Limited Subsidiary 70 1,061 2,691 -
Newcastle United Football Club Connected persons 2,412 - 205 -
Yeomans Outdoors Limited Subsidiary 38 - 3,027 -
Heaven or Hell Limited Subsidiary 2,152 - 2,581 -
Queensdown Associates Limited Associate 981 - 1,149 -
 
52 weeks ended 27 April 2014
Relationship Sales (£’000) Purchases (£’000)
Trade and other 
Receivables (£’000)
Trade and other 
payables (£’000)
RELATED PARTY
Heatons Associate 28,759 - 5,271 -
The Flannels Group Limited Subsidiary 15,601 13,414 9,898 -
Brasher Leisure Limited Associate 11,508 209 2,179 -
MST Sports Subsidiary 270 - 2,768 -
Rangers Retail Limited Subsidiary 3,843 - 234 -
Robinsons Country Leisure Limited Subsidiary 83 61 1,816 -
Sondico Professional Limited Subsidiary 54 678 1,370 109
Newcastle United Football Club Connected persons 3,395 - 337 -
Yeomans Outdoors Limited Subsidiary 30 - 2,884 -
Heaven or Hell Limited Subsidiary 2,850 661 2,587 -
Queensdown Associates Limited Associate 823 - 948 -
On 6th October 2014, the Group made a drawdown of £40 million on the £250 million loan facility that is held with Mike Ashley through his wholly owned entity Mash Holdings Limited. 
This was fully repaid on 20th October 2014.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
86
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  The Group made further drawdowns of £50 million and £80 million on 31st October and 26th November 2014 respectively and made repayments of £90 million on 7th April 2015 and 
£40 million on 22nd April 2015. At the year end date no balance was due.
The Group has agreements with Rangers Retail Limited and Newcastle United Football Club, amongst other football clubs, whereby the Group provides procurement and warehousing 
services on behalf of the club. All sales are received directly by the clubs and sales disclosed above relate solely to goods bought from the Group at cost plus a small handling fee.
All related party transactions were undertaken on an arms length basis.
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
KEY MANAGEMENT, EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION
Salaries and short-term benefits 1,382 1,435
Share-based payments 988 2,003
Total 2,370 3,438
34. ULTIMATE CONTROLLING PARTY 
The Group is controlled by Mike Ashley through his 100% shareholding in MASH Beta Limited and MASH Holdings Limited, which own 303,507,460 (50.71% of the issued ordinary 
share capital of the Company) and 26,492,540 (4.43% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company) ordinary shares respectively.
35. POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS 
There were no material post balance sheet events after 26 April 2015 up to the date of signing of these accounts.
36. SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS  
The subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 26 April 2015 were as follows: 
NAME
COUNTRY OF 
INCORPORATION
COMPANY 
NUMBER
PERCENTAGE OF ISSUED  
SHARE CAPITAL HELD
3237303 Canada Inc Canada 3237303 100
Acre 653 Limited England & Wales 4579745 100
Activator Brands Limited England & Wales 5344658 100
Activator Products Limited England & Wales 4204611 100
Active Apparel New Corp United States 3270168 100
American Fitness Products Inc United States 366835 100
Antigua Enterprises Inc. United States 26660 100
AP Brands Holdings Ltd Malaysia 4921-A 100
Beauty Brand Management Limited England & Wales 5258421 100
Bellatrix Associates Limited Isle of Man 111671C 100
Bellatrix Holdings Unlimited Isle of Man 111670C 100
Brands & Fashion NV Belgium 0477-995-412 100
Brands 001 Limited England & Wales 5347540 100
Brands Africa Limited England & Wales 6836765 100
Brands Holdings Limited England & Wales 4087435 100
Brands Inc Limited England & Wales 3585719 100
Cafico - Comercio de Artigos de Desportos S.A. Portugal 503751804 50
Campri Limited England & Wales 5398677 100
Carlton Shuttlecocks Limited England & Wales 480582 100
Carlton Sports Company Limited England & Wales 467686 100
CDS IP SA Belgium 406461077 100
Climber & Rambler Limited England & Wales 3938618 100
Cruise Clothing Limited Scotland SC382991 100
David Geoffrey & Associates (UK) Limited England & Wales 670530 100
Direct Fishing Limited England & Wales 8203469 100
Donnay International N.V. Belgium 435392220 100
DSGL Sponsorship Limited England & Wales 9395468 100
Dunlop Australia Limited England & Wales 9217409 100
Dunlop Brands Limited England & Wales 5794296 100
Dunlop Footwear Limited England & Wales 571672 100
87
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... Dunlop International Limited England & Wales 4825179 100
Dunlop Licensing Limited England & Wales 6836773 100
Dunlop Slazenger (ESOP) Limited England & Wales 3408468 100
Dunlop Slazenger (Far East) Sdn Bhd Malaysia 207037-T 100
Dunlop Slazenger (HK) Limited Hong Kong 65306 100
Dunlop Slazenger (Philippines) Inc Phillippines SEC160084 100
Dunlop Slazenger 1902 Limited England & Wales 4983558 100
Dunlop Slazenger Group Holdings Limited England & Wales 4061715 100
Dunlop Slazenger Group Limited England & Wales 3097977 100
Dunlop Slazenger Holdings Inc. United States 2596048 100
Dunlop Slazenger Holdings Limited England & Wales 3139917 100
Dunlop Slazenger International Limited England & Wales 776384 100
Dunlop Slazenger International SA France 39281229300034 100
Dunlop Slazenger Limited England & Wales 2030941 100
Dunlop Slazenger Limited Hong Kong 2002 100
Dunlop Slazenger Sports (Singapore) PTE Limited Singapore 198203096N 100
Dunlop Slazenger Trust Company Limited England & Wales 3151573 100
Dunlop Sport GmbH Germany HRB5726 100
Dunlop Sports Company Limited England & Wales 429750 100
Dunlop Sports Group Americas Inc United States 2047393 100
Eastchance Limited Hong Kong 174348 100
Etail Services Limited England & Wales 5146997 100
European Branded Clearance Company Limited England & Wales 4359910 100
Everlast Australia Limited England & Wales 8103912 100
Everlast Fitness Mfg. Corp United States
121961 (43-
0865535) 100
Everlast Sports International Inc. Corp United States 13-2811380 100
Everlast Sports Mfg. Corp United States 13-1804772 100
Everlast World Boxing Headquarters Corporation United States 13-1804773 100
Everlast Worldwide Acquisitions Inc. United States 4379232 100
Everlast Worldwide Inc United States 13-3672716 100
Exsports Limited England & Wales 2779040 100
Feniger And Blackburn Limited England & Wales 639594 100
Field & Trek (UK) Ltd England & Wales 5622577 100
Field & Trek.Com Limited England & Wales 3943377 100
Firetrap Limited England & Wales 6836684 100
Forever Media Limited England & Wales 8249185 100
Forever Sports Limited England & Wales 9489811 100
Gaelic Boots Limited ROI 520868 100
Gelert IP Limited England & Wales 8576185 100
Gelert Limited England & Wales 8576204 100
Golddigga Brands Limited England & Wales 6636173 100
Goudie Squash International Limited England & Wales 980461 100
Gradidges Limited England & Wales 278122 100
Graduate Clothing Limited England & Wales 2511038 91
Gul IP Limited England & Wales 8612478 100
Gul Watersports Limited England & Wales 7589716 100
Heatons Limited Ireland 11229 50
Heaven or Hell Limited England & Wales 5899282 51
HK Sports & Golf Aktiebolag Sweden 556510-8189 100
Hot Tuna IP Limited England & Wales 6836792 100
IBML Brand Services SA (Pty) Limited South Africa 2006/016700/07 100
International Brand Management Limited England & Wales 5142123 100
James Lillywhites Limited England & Wales 118840 100
Kangol Holdings Limited England & Wales 3317738 100
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
88
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  Kangol Limited England & Wales 3343793 100
Kangol Trustees Limited England & Wales 3505512 100
Karrimor Limited England & Wales 5215974 100
La Jolla (UK) Limited England & Wales 5737550 100
Lillywhites Limited England & Wales 290939 100
Litesome Sportswear Limited England & Wales 207867 100
Lonsdale Australia Limited England & Wales 7665885 100
Lonsdale Boxing Limited England & Wales 3912303 100
Lonsdale Sports Limited England & Wales 4430781 100
Masters Holders Limited England & Wales 8787718 100
Megavalue.com Limited England & Wales 9544685 100
Megavaluedirect.com Limited England & Wales 9545879 100
Mississippi Manufacturing LLC United States 3470413 100
MST Sports Retail Sdn Bhd Malaysia 925116-M 51
Muddyfox Limited England & Wales 4187350 100
NDS ehf Iceland 6301121760 100
Nevica IP Limited England & Wales 6836778 100
No Fear Brand Limited England & Wales 5568043 100
No Fear International Limited England & Wales 5532482 100
No Fear USA limited England & Wales 7712470 100
Oldco 10 Limited England & Wales 5541144 100
Olympus Ventures Limited England & Wales 3945752 100
Outdoor Sports Direct Limited England & Wales 2780756 100
P W P Sportbase Limited England & Wales 1933891 100
Paddle Sport Limited England & Wales 6836690 100
Propeller (HK) Limited Hong Kong 415094 100
Propeller (U.K.) Limited England & Wales 2770207 100
Queensberry Boxing IP Limited England & Wales 7929363 100
Queensberry Rules Limited England & Wales 6723660 100
Rangers Retail Limited England & Wales 8142409 74
Rangers Retail Rights Limited England & Wales 9210817 100
Republic IP Limited   England & Wales 5635015 100
Republic.com Retail Limited       England & Wales 8248997 100
Robinsons Country Leisure Limited England & Wales 1204722 51
S&B Brands Limited England & Wales 5635585 100
SD Equestrian Limited England & Wales 8692780 100
SD Outdoor IP Limited England & Wales 8560252 100
SD Outdoor Limited England & Wales 8560260 51
SDB 2 S.A. Belgium 0848.964.388 100
SDI (Aberwystwyth) Limited England & Wales 2789996 100
SDI (Aintree) Limited England & Wales 3352462 100
SDI (Ashford) Limited England & Wales 7848460 100
SDI (Ashington) Limited England & Wales 7849231 100
SDI (Ayr) Limited England & Wales 5528267 100
SDI (Bangor) Limited England & Wales 5529705 100
SDI (Barrow in Furness) Limited England & Wales 7851574 100
SDI (Basildon) Limited England & Wales 8512592 100
SDI (Beddgelert) Limited England & Wales 8577551 100
SDI (Berwick) Limited England & Wales 2739957 100
SDI (Betws-y-Coed) Limited England & Wales 6836673 100
SDI (Birkenhead) Limited England & Wales 7849198 100
SDI (Bishop Auckland) Limited England & Wales 3004246 100
SDI (Bridgwater) Limited England & Wales 7852061 100
SDI (Brook EU) Limited England & Wales 9336830 100
89
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... SDI (Brook ROW) Limited England & Wales 9336806 100
SDI (Brook UK) Limited England & Wales 9340379 100
SDI (Burton) Limited England & Wales 8495632 100
SDI (Carlisle) Limited England & Wales 7851959 100
SDI (Chatham) Limited England & Wales 6836679 100
SDI (Clacton) Limited England & Wales 7852078 100
SDI (Colchester) Limited England & Wales 5632790 100
SDI (Dunfermline) Limited England & Wales 8483679 100
SDI (East Kilbride) Limited England & Wales 6656368 100
SDI (Epsom) Limited England & Wales 6372181 100
SDI (Exmouth) Limited England & Wales 6328505 100
SDI (Fulham) Limited England & Wales 7852037 100
SDI (Gainsborough) Limited England & Wales 6338907 100
SDI (Galashiels) Limited England & Wales 7852091 100
SDI (Gloucester) Limited England & Wales 7852067 100
SDI (Hartlepool) Limited England & Wales 8972499 100
SDI (Hastings) Limited England & Wales 8625893 100
SDI (Hofco) Limited England & Wales 8319960 100
SDI (Ivy) 1 Limited England & Wales 9127160 100
SDI (Ivy) 2 Limited England & Wales 9127316 100
SDI (Ivy) 3 Limited England & Wales 9127170 100
SDI (Ivy) 4 Limited England & Wales 9127387 100
SDI (Ivy) 5 Limited England & Wales 9127295 100
SDI (Ivy) 6 Limited England & Wales 9127266 100
SDI (Ivy) 7 Limited England & Wales 9127286 100
SDI (Ivy) 8 Limited England & Wales 9127300 100
SDI (Keighley) Limited England & Wales 6260239 100
SDI (Kendal) Limited England & Wales 6338918 100
SDI (Kidderminster) Limited England & Wales 9203731 100
SDI (Kilmarnock) Limited England & Wales 7853433 100
SDI (Kirkcaldy) Limited England & Wales 7852097 100
SDI (Leeds) Limited England & Wales 9293515 100
SDI (Lowestoft) Limited England & Wales 7852265 100
SDI (Neath) Limited England & Wales 7853548 100
SDI (New Cavendish Street) Limited England & Wales 6306917 100
SDI (Newark) Limited England & Wales 7853470 100
SDI (Newport) Limited England & Wales 8679118 100
SDI (Newton Abbot) Limited England & Wales 6836666 100
SDI (Northampton) Limited England & Wales 7852272 100
SDI (Nuneaton) Limited England & Wales 7852249 100
SDI (Oswestry) Limited England & Wales 7852363 100
SDI (Paisley) Limited England & Wales 2933408 100
SDI (Penzance) Limited England & Wales 7852297 100
SDI (Peterlee) Limited England & Wales 7852401 100
SDI (Plymouth) Limited England & Wales 9470468 100
SDI (Poole) Limited England & Wales 5656295 100
SDI (Ramsgate) Limited England & Wales 7852250 100
SDI (Redcar) Limited England & Wales 2731452 100
SDI (Rolle St) Limited England & Wales 7852669 100
SDI (Scarborough) Limited England & Wales 6328463 100
SDI (Scunthorpe) Limited England & Wales 7852055 100
SDI (Slough) Limited England & Wales 7852417 100
SDI (Southampton) Limited England & Wales 8512480 100
SDI (St Austell) Limited England & Wales 7852284 100
SDI (St Helens) Limited England & Wales 7852281 100
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
90
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  SDI (Stafford) Limited England & Wales 8568681 100
SDI (Stoke Longton) Limited England & Wales 7853877 100
SDI (Stoke Newington) Limited England & Wales 7852207 100
SDI (Strood) Limited England & Wales 7852251 100
SDI (Sunderland) Limited England & Wales 8755347 100
SDI (Taunton) Limited England & Wales 7852191 100
SDI (The Lion Hotel) Limited England & Wales 6836880 100
SDI (Wakefield) Limited England & Wales 8483711 100
SDI (Walsall) Limited England & Wales 7852289 100
SDI (Weymouth) Limited England & Wales 6716652 100
SDI (Wigan) IP Limited England & Wales 6835407 100
SDI (Wigan) Retail Limited England & Wales 8208933 100
SDI (Wishaw) Limited England & Wales 6656365 100
SDI (Worksop) Limited England & Wales 9310031 100
SDI Fitness (Armagh) Limited England & Wales 9038768 100
SDI Fitness (Bedford) Limited England & Wales 9038839 100
SDI Fitness (Belfast) Limited England & Wales 9038724 100
SDI Fitness (Birmingham) Limited England & Wales 9038982 100
SDI Fitness (Bury St Edmunds) Limited England & Wales 9038949 100
SDI Fitness (Cambridge) Limited England & Wales 9038881 100
SDI Fitness (Cheltenham) Limited England & Wales 9039840 100
SDI Fitness (Chester) Limited England & Wales 9038943 100
SDI Fitness (Colchester) Limited England & Wales 9039011 100
SDI Fitness (Croydon) Limited England & Wales 9039243 100
SDI Fitness (Dartry) Limited England & Wales 9039023 100
SDI Fitness (Epsom) Limited England & Wales 9039043 100
SDI Fitness (Fareham) Limited England & Wales 9039057 100
SDI Fitness (Formby) Limited England & Wales 9039895 100
SDI Fitness (Glasgow) Limited England & Wales 9038811 100
SDI Fitness (Guildford) Limited England & Wales 9039269 100
SDI Fitness (Hove) Limited England & Wales 9039030 100
SDI Fitness (Huntingdon) Limited England & Wales 9039881 100
SDI Fitness (K Heath) Limited England & Wales 9039717 100
SDI Fitness (K Lynn) Limited England & Wales 9039847 100
SDI Fitness (Kettering) Limited England & Wales 9039852 100
SDI Fitness (Lincoln City) Limited England & Wales 9039331 100
SDI Fitness (Lincoln South West) Limited England & Wales 9039319 100
SDI Fitness (Liverpool) Limited England & Wales 9039347 100
SDI Fitness (Maidstone) Limited England & Wales 9039343 100
SDI Fitness (Manchester) Limited England & Wales 9039339 100
SDI Fitness (Milngavie) Limited England & Wales 9039510 100
SDI Fitness (Newark) Limited England & Wales 9039640 100
SDI Fitness (Northfield) Limited England & Wales 9039412 100
SDI Fitness (Poole) Limited England & Wales 9039481 100
SDI Fitness (Rugby) Limited England & Wales 9039408 100
SDI Fitness (Sale) Limited England & Wales 9039405 100
SDI Fitness (Salisbury) Limited England & Wales 9039429 100
SDI Golf Limited England & Wales 9083512 100
SDI Lifestyle Limited England & Wales 8293614 80
SDI Newco N.10 Limited England & Wales 8578776 100
SDI Newco No.2 Limited England & Wales 8158699 100
SDI Newco No.4 Limited England & Wales 8249185 100
SDI Newco No.5 Limited England & Wales 9062747 100
SDI Newco No.8 Limited England & Wales 8612647 100
91
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... SDI Newco No.9 Limited England & Wales 8576472 100
SDI Newco Shire Limited England & Wales 8177495 100
SDI Properties (USA) Inc. United States 535872 100
SDI Properties (Wigan) Limited England & Wales 6836522 100
SDI Property Limited England & Wales 2767493 100
SDI Retail Services Limited England & Wales 8143303 100
SDI Retailing Limited England & Wales 9283231 100
SDI Shirebrook DC Limited England & Wales 2963189 100
SDI Shirebrook Limited England & Wales 3016549 100
SDI Shirebrook Shop Limited England & Wales 3018210 100
SDI.com Fitness Parent Limited England & Wales 9082454 100
SDIL S.A. Belgium 810.198.636 100
Serverange Limited England & Wales 2997208 100
SIA Sportland Latvia 40003530961 60
Ski and Outdoor Warehouse Limited England & Wales 2917223 100
Slazengers Australia Limited England & Wales 9217319 100
Slazengers Limited England & Wales 116000 100
Smith & Brooks (Germany) Limited England & Wales 5427463 100
Smith & Brooks (India) Limited England & Wales 2964528 100
Smith & Brooks Limited England & Wales 2073720 100
Smith And Brooks Group Limited England & Wales 4079331 100
Smith And Brooks Holdings Limited England & Wales 4983573 100
SNÖ Sport Vertriebs GmbH Austria 272671 m 100
Sondico IP Limited England & Wales 6546121 100
Sondico Professional Limited England & Wales 7258332 51
Sport Eybl & Sports Experts Logistikbetriebs GmbH Austria 96024 m 100
Sport Eybl Holding GmbH Austria 180095 x 100
Sportland Eestie A.S. Estonia 10677712 60
Sportland International Group A.S. Estonia 10993195 60
Sports Commission Limited England & Wales 4824491 100
Sports Direct Brands Limited England & Wales 6026039 100
Sports Direct Estonia A.S. Estonia 12495656 60
Sports Direct Holdings Limited England & Wales 6464317 100
Sports Direct Hong Kong Holdings Ltd Hong Kong 1216339 100
Sports Direct International Holdings Limited England & Wales 6027131 100
Sports Direct Retail Limited England & Wales 6026013 100
Sports Essentials Limited England & Wales 4409470 100
Sports World International Limited England & Wales 6531266 100
Sports World The Netherlands B.V. Netherlands 34056291 100
Sportsdirect.com Austria GmbH Austria 309738 y 100
Sportsdirect.com Belgium S.A. Belgium 416.268.471 100
Sportsdirect.com Cyprus Limited Cyprus HE 230340 100
Sportsdirect.com Czech Republic s.r.o. Czech Republic 24268933 100
Sportsdirect.com Fitness Limited England & Wales 9028577 100
Sportsdirect.com France France
FR27379062813 
RCS379062813 100
Sportsdirect.com Hungary Kft Hungary 01-09-986824 100
Sportsdirect.com Immobilien GmbH Austria 104151 p 100
Sportsdirect.com Luxembourg Luxembourg 2700 3200 297 100
Sportsdirect.com Media Limited England & Wales 9127526 100
Sportsdirect.com Poland S.p. z.o.o. Poland 452610 100
Sportsdirect.com Pty Ltd Australia 603 187 319 100
Sportsdirect.com Retail (Europe) S.A. Belgium 458883046 100
Sportsdirect.com Retail Limited England & Wales 3406347 100
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
92
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  Sportsdirect.com Slovakia s.r.o. Slovakia 47 240 458 100
Sportsdirect.com SLVN d.o.o. Slovenia 1198157000 100
Sportsdirect.com Spain S.L.U. Spain B-86567880 100
Sportsdirect.com Switzerland A.G. Switzerland CHE-331.683.991 100
SSG Sport GmbH (SSD) Germany HRB 7134 100
Sterling Resources (Holdings) Limited England & Wales 4651701 100
Sterling Resources Limited England & Wales 1413254 100
Stirlings (Argyle Street) Limited Scotland SC088108 100
Straub Corporation Limited England & Wales 3003584 100
Summercombe 167 Ltd England & Wales 6217909 100
SWImmo Eupen SA Belgium 878673906 100
Table Tennis Pro Europe Limited England & Wales 5003853 100
Talisway Limited Hong Kong 323181 100
The Antigua Group Inc United States 0734679-4 100
The Flannels Group Limited England & Wales 2318510 51
The Trademark Licensing Company Limited England & Wales 4477829 100
Total Estates Limited England & Wales 4958214 100
UAB Sportland LT Lithuania 135039836 51
Universal Cycles Limited England & Wales 1339667 100
UP Brands Limited England & Wales 6521633 100
USA Pro IP Limited England & Wales 6497914 100
USC IP Limited England & Wales 6836808 100
USC.co.uk Retail Limited England & Wales 8617068 100
Used Tackle Limited England & Wales 7989154 100
Van Mildert (Lifestyle) Limited England & Wales 8319959 100
Visionfigure Limited England & Wales 2951233 100
Voodoo Dolls Brand Limited England & Wales 5323305 100
Waterline Angling Products Limited England & Wales 2696374 100
West Coast Capital (HOFCO) Limited Scotland SC437614 100
Westminster Manufacturing LLC United States 44358 100
Wildlaw Limited England & Wales 4571678 100
William Sykes Limited England & Wales 123229 100
World of Service International Limited England & Wales 1202465 51
World of Service Limited England & Wales 6020729 51
Worthyfund Limited England & Wales 2955978 100
Y.U.V. Limited England & Wales 9350127 100
Yeomans Outdoors Limited England & Wales 8058714 51
 
On 13th January 2015 one of the Group’s subsidiary entities, West Coast Capital (USC) Limited, went into administration. The assets of the business were subsequently purchased by 
Republic.com Retail Limited.
93
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... Sports Direct International plc will provide a parental guarantee for the following United Kingdom incorporated subsidiaries thus entitling them to exemption from statutory audit under 
section 479A of the Companies Act 2006.
NAME COMPANY NUMBER COMPANY NAME COMPANY NUMBER
Direct Fishing Limited 08203469 SDI (Leeds) Limited 09293515
Dunlop Australia Limited 09217409 SDI (Lowestoft) Limited 07852265
Everlast Australia Limited 08103912 SDI (Neath) Limited 07853548
Gelert IP Limited 08576185 SDI (New Cavendish Street) Limited 06306917
Gul IP Limited 08612478 SDI (Newark) Limited 07853470
Hot Tuna IP Limited 06836792 SDI (Newport) Limited 08679118
SD Equestrian Limited 08692780 SDI (Newton Abbot) Limited 06836666
SD Outdoor IP Limited 08560252 SDI (Northampton) Limited 07852272
SDI (Aberwystwyth) Limited 02789996 SDI (Nuneaton) Limited 07852249
SDI (Aintree) Limited 03352462 SDI (Oswestry) Limited 07852363
SDI (Ashford) Limited 07848460 SDI (Paisley) Limited 02933408
SDI (Ashington) Limited 07849231 SDI (Penzance) Limited 07852297
SDI (Ayr) Limited 05528267 SDI (Peterlee) Limited 07852401
SDI (Bangor) Limited 05529705 SDI (Plymouth) Limited 09470468
SDI (Barrow in Furness) Limited 07851574 SDI (Ramsgate) Limited 07852250
SDI (Basildon) Limited 08512592 SDI (Redcar) Limited 02731452
SDI (Beddgelert) Limited 08577551 SDI (Rolle St) Limited 07852669
SDI (Berwick) Limited 02739957 SDI (Scarborough) Limited 06328463
SDI (Betws-y-Coed) Limited 06836673 SDI (Scunthorpe) Limited 07852055
SDI (Birkenhead) Limited 07849198 SDI (Slough) Limited 07852417
SDI (Bishop Auckland) Limited 03004246 SDI (Southampton) Limited 08512480
SDI (Bridgwater) Limited 07852061 SDI (St Austell) Limited 07852284
SDI (Burton) Limited 08495632 SDI (St Helens) Limited 07852281
SDI (Carlisle) Limited 07851959 SDI (Stafford) Limited 08568681
SDI (Chatham) Limited 06836679 SDI (Stoke Longton) Limited 07853877
SDI (Clacton) Limited 07852078 SDI (Stoke Newington) Limited 07852207
SDI (Colchester) Limited 05632790 SDI (Strood) Limited 07852251
SDI (Dunfermline) Limited 08483679 SDI (Sunderland) Limited 08755347
SDI (East Kilbride) Limited 06656368 SDI (Taunton) Limited 07852191
SDI (Fulham) Limited 07852037 SDI (Wakefield) Limited 08483711
SDI (Gainsborough) Limited 06338907 SDI (Walsall) Limited 07852289
SDI (Galashiels) Limited 07852091 SDI (Weymouth) Limited 06716652
SDI (Gloucester) Limited 07852067 SDI (Wishaw) Limited 06656365 
SDI (Hartlepool) Limited 08972499 SDI (Worksop) Limited 09310031
SDI (Hastings) Limited 08625893 SDI Golf Limited 09083512
SDI (Keighley) Limited 06260239 SDI Property Limited 02767493
SDI (Kendal) Limited 06338918 SDI Retail Services Limited 08143303
SDI (Kidderminster) Limited 09203731 SDI.com Fitness Parent Limited 09082454
SDI (Kilmarnock) Limited 07853433 Slazengers Australia Limited 09217319
SDI (Kirkcaldy) Limited 07852097 Stirlings (Argyle Street) Limited SC088108
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
94
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  We have audited the parent company Financial Statements of Sports Direct International PLC for the 52 week period ended 26 April 2015 which comprise the parent company balance 
sheet and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we 
might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
A description of the scope of an audit of Financial Statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. 
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
In our opinion the parent company Financial Statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 26 April 2015;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
OTHER MATTER 
We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of Sports Direct International PLC for the 52 week period ended 26 April 2015.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report for the financial period for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company 
Financial Statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
 
Philip Westerman
Senior Statutory Auditor 
For and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP 
Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants 
London
16 July 2015 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT
95
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
AT 26 APRIL 2015
Notes
2015 
(£’000)
2014 
(£’000)
FIXED ASSETS
Investments 2 1,083,119 1,077,408
CURRENT ASSETS
Debtors 3 25,513 14,984
Cash at bank and in hand 1,418 186
26,931 15,170
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year. 4 (112,488) (114,018)
Net current liabilities (85,557) (98,848)
Net assets 997,562 978,560
CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Called up share capital 5 64,060 64,060
Share premium 6 874,300 874,300
Treasury shares reserve 6 (56,234) (56,234)
Permanent contribution to capital 6 50 50
Capital redemption reserve 6 8,005 8,005
Own share reserve 6 (13,251) (13,251)
Profit and loss account 6 120,632 101,630
Shareholders’ funds 7 997,562 978,560
 
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form part of these Financial Statements.
The Financial Statements were approved by the Board on 16 July 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
 
Dave Forsey 
Chief Executive
Company number: 06035106
 
96
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
These accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards. A summary of the material accounting policies adopted are described below.
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING 
The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, a profit and loss account of the Company is not presented. The Company’s profit after taxation for the 52 week period 26 April 
2015 was £1,824,000 (2014: £417,000 loss).
INVESTMENTS 
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES 
Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs less provision for impairment. Provision for impairment is established when there is objective evidence that 
the company will not be able to collect amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 
Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST 
An Employee Benefit Trust has been established for the purposes of satisfying certain share-based awards. The Group has ‘de facto’ control over the special purpose entity. The Trust is fully 
consolidated within the accounts.
The cost of shares acquired by the Sports Direct Employee Benefit Trust is recognised within ‘Own share-reserve’ in equity.
DEFERRED TAXATION 
Deferred tax is provided for on a full provision basis on all timing differences, which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date. No timing differences are recognised in respect 
of gains on sale of assets where those gains have been rolled over into replacement assets. A deferred tax asset is not recognised to the extent that the transfer of economic benefit in 
future is more unlikely than not.
Deferred tax is calculated on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES 
Items arising from transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. At the balance sheet date all monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the closing rate or at the rate of exchange at which the transaction is contracted to be settled in the future. All exchange 
differences are recognised in the profit and loss account.
DIVIDENDS 
Dividends on the Company’s ordinary shares are recognised as a liability in the Company’s Financial Statements, and as a deduction from equity, in the period in which the dividends are 
declared. Where such dividends are proposed subject to the approval of the Company’s shareholders, the dividends are only declared once shareholder approval has been obtained.
EQUITY INSTRUMENTS 
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Company, with the 
exception of those accounted for via merger relief available under Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006, are recorded at the proceeds received, net of any direct issue costs.
INCOME FROM GROUP UNDERTAKINGS 
Income from Group undertakings is recognised when qualifying consideration is received from the Group undertaking.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with wholly-owned subsidiaries which form part of the 
Group.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 
The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20, “Share-based Payments”. The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain Directors and employees of the 
Company and its subsidiaries. 
The fair value of the share options on the date of the grant is charged to the profit and loss account over the vesting period of the share option, based on the number of options which are 
expected to become exercisable. A corresponding adjustment is made to equity. At each balance sheet date the company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected 
to become exercisable and recognises the impact of any revision of original estimates in the profit and loss account.
97
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations. 
A share-based payment charge of £10,110,000 was recognised for the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2015 based on the Directors’ best estimate of the number of shares that will vest. 
£9,901,000 of this share-based payment was recharged to subsidiary undertakings of the Company.
2. INVESTMENTS
2015
 (£’000)
As at 27 April 2014 1,077,408
ADDITIONS:
Listed investments 45,020
Capital contribution in subsidiary 5,711
DISPOSALS: (45,020)
As at 26 April 2015 1,083,119
None of the Company’s investments at 26 April 2015 are listed.
The Company is the principal holding company of the Group. The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company are set out in note 36 to the Group Financial Statements.
During the year the company acquired and disposed of £45,020,000 of shares in Debenhams plc.
 
3. DEBTORS
2015 
(£’000)
2014
(£’000)
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 318 318
Other debtors 20,891 14,512
Other taxes and social security costs 126 154
Prepayments 4,178 -
25,513 14,984
 
4. CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
2015
(£’000)
2014 
(£’000)
Trade creditors 424 741
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 111,567 112,554
Accruals 476 723
Other taxes and social security costs 21 -
112,488 114,018
 
5. CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL
2015
(£’000)
2014
(£’000)
AUTHORISED
999,500,010 ordinary shares of 10p each 99,950 99,950
499,990 redeemable preference shares of 10p each 50 50
100,000 100,000
CALLED UP AND FULLY PAID
640,602,369 (2014: 640,602,369) ordinary shares of 10p each 64,060 64,060
SHARE CAPITAL  
At 27 April 2014 and 26 April 2015 64,060 64,060
 
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 26 APRIL 2015
98
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  6. RESERVES
Share premium 
account
 (£’000)
Treasury share 
reserve 
(£’000)
Permanent 
contribution to 
capital 
(£’000)
Capital redemption 
reserve 
(£’000)
Own share reserve 
(£’000)
Profit and loss 
account 
(£’000)
At 27 April 2014 874,300 (56,234) 50 8,005 (13,251) 101,630
Profit for the financial period - - - - - 1,824
Share based payments - - - - - 17,178
At 26 April 2015 874,300 (56,234) 50 8,005 (13,251) 120,632
The Company holds 42,137,508 ordinary shares in Treasury. 
 
7. RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENT ON SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS
2015 
(£’000)
Opening shareholders’ funds 978,560
Profit for the financial period 1,824
Share based payments 17,178
Closing shareholders’ funds 997,562
 
8. POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS 
No material post balance sheet events occurred after 26 April 2015 to the date of this Annual Report.
99
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 April 2015
(£’000)
27 April 2014
(£’000)
28 April 2013 (restated)*
(£’000)
29 April 2012
(£’000)
24 April 2011
(£’000)
CONTINUING OPERATIONS:
Revenue 2,832,560 2,705,958 2,185,580 1,835,756 1,599,237
Cost of sales (1,591,748) (1,551,036) (1,290,822) (1,091,480) (940,330)
Gross profit 1,240,812 1,154,922 894,758 744,276 658,907
Selling, distribution and administrative expenses (950,526) (908,843) (689,578) (594,368) (527,273)
Other operating income 8,345 8,583 7,199 3,268 5,289
Legal dispute - - - 2,309 (3,128)
Impairment and accelerated depreciation (13,338) (5,531) - - -
Profit on disposal of property 10,288 - - 1,686 -
Profit on disposal of intangible asset - - 625 1,624 876
Exceptional items (3,050) (5,531) 625 5,619 (2,252)
Operating profit 295,581 249,131 213,004 158,795 134,671
Investment income / (costs) 14,104 7,017 1,473 (5,800) (9,481)
Finance income 8,289 891 1,117 6,426 2,560
Finance costs (7,487) (19,853) (9,688) (8,481) (8,953)
Share of profit of associated undertakings and joint ventures 2,959 2,266 1,320 558 (8)
Profit before taxation 313,446 239,452 207,226 151,498 118,789
Taxation (72,093) (59,839) (55,569) (45,867) (35,566)
Profit for the period 241,353 179,613 151,657 105,631 83,223
Equity holders of the Group 240,397 180,245 151,596 106,198 84,173
Non-controlling interests 956 (632) 61 (567) (950)
Profit for the period 241,353 179,613 151,657 105,631 83,223
 
*Restatement relates to the adoption of the revised IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’.
Notes to the consolidated income statement five year record:
1. All information is presented under IFRS.
2. The five year record has been prepared on the same basis as the Financial Statements for the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2015, as set out in note 1, basis of preparation, of the 
consolidated Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED FIVE YEAR RECORD
UNAUDITED INCOME STATEMENT
100
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER OFFICE 
Computershare Investor Services plc 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol 
BS13 8AE
COMPANY SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE 
Sports Direct International plc 
Unit A, Brook Park East 
Shirebrook 
NG20 8RY
Telephone 0344 245 9200 
Sports Direct International plc is registered in England and Wales (No. 6035106)
SOLICITORS 
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer 
65 Fleet Street 
London 
EC4Y 1HS
BROKERS 
Citigroup Global Markets Limited 
Citi Centre 
Canada Square 
Canary Wharf 
London 
E14 5LB
Espirito Santo Investment Bank 
The London Stock Exchange Building 
10 Paternoster Square 
London 
EC4M 7AL
Goldman Sachs Limited 
Peterborough Court 
133 Fleet Street 
London 
EC4A 2BB
PRINCIPAL BANKERS 
Barclays Bank plc 
5 The North Colonnade 
Canary Wharf 
London 
E14 4BB
HSBC Bank plc 
8 Canada Square 
London 
E14 5HQ
AUDITORS 
Grant Thornton UK LLP 
Grant Thornton House 
Melton Street 
Euston Square 
London 
NW1 2EP
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 11am on Wednesday 9 
September 2015 at Sports Direct International plc, The Auditorium, Unit D, Brook Park 
East, Shirebrook, NG20 8RY. Each shareholder is entitled to attend and vote at the 
meeting, the arrangements for which are described in a separate notice.
RESULTS 
For the year to 24 April 2016: 
Half year results announced: 10 December 2015 
Preliminary announcement of full year results: 7 July 2016 
Annual Report circulated July / August 2016
SHAREHOLDER HELPLINE 
The Sports Direct shareholder register is maintained by Computershare who are responsible 
for making dividend payments and updating the register, including details of changes to 
shareholders’ addresses. If you have a query about your shareholding in Sports Direct, you 
should contact Computershare’s Sports Direct Shareholder Helpline on: 0370 707 4030. 
Calls are charged at standard geographic rates, although network charges may vary.
Address: The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZZ
Website: www.computershare.com
WEBSITE 
The Sports Direct website at www.sportsdirectplc.com provides news and details of the 
Company’s activities plus information for shareholders and contains real time share price 
data as well as the latest results and announcements.
UNSOLICITED MAIL 
The Company is obliged by law to make its share register publicly available and as a 
consequence some shareholders may receive unsolicited mail, including from unauthorised 
investment firms.
For more information on unauthorised investment firms targeting UK investors, visit the 
website of the Financial Conduct Authority at www.fca.org.uk
If you wish to limit the amount of unsolicited mail you receive contact:
The Mailing Preference Service 
DMA House 
70 Margaret Street 
London 
W1W 8SS
Telephone: 020 7291 3310 
Fax: 020 7323 4226 
Email: mps@dma.org.uk or register on-line at 
www.mpsonline.org.uk
COMPANY DIRECTORY Sports Direct International plc Unit A, Brook Park East, Shirebrook, NG20 8RY 
0344 245 9200 
www.sportsdirectplc.com
