 Sportech PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Sportech PLC 
Annual Report and 
Accounts 2015
A WORLD LEADER 
IN POOL BETTING Welcome to our  
Annual Report 2015
Sportech is one of the largest pool betting 
operators and technology suppliers in the 
world, with international reach and a presence 
in over 30 countries. 
Strategic report
01 Highlights of the year
02 Overview
04 Chief Executive’s review
08 KPIs
09 Financial review
14 Principal risks
18 Corporate social 
responsibility report
Corporate governance
20 Chairman’s statement
22 Board of Directors 
23 Senior management
24  Corporate governance report
32  Report of the Remuneration 
Committee
33 Remuneration report
52 Directors’ report
55 Independent Auditors’ report
Financial statements
64 Consolidated income statement
65 Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income/
(expense)
66 Statements of changes in equity
67 Balance sheets
68 Statements of cash flows 
69 Accounting policies
78 Notes to the financial statements
114 Shareholder and 
corporate information
What’s inside this report Group highlights
 – Results in line with expectations with EBITDA of £23.1m  
(2014: £24.0m)
 – Balance sheet strengthened with net debt down by 10%
 – Investment in technology delivering new international customers
 – Expansion into providing lottery products for professional 
sports teams
 – Football Pools division nearing completion of modernisation 
programme
 – Expansion of venues strategy into California
 – Disposal of online interests in New Jersey for a pre-tax gain 
of £8.1m
 – £97m V A T refund appeal to be held in Court of Appeal 
on 7 /8 April 2016
Divisional highlights
Sportech 
Racing and 
Digital
 – EBITDA growth of £0.5m to £8.6m (2014: £8.1m)
 – Continued investment in technology attracting new international 
customers and successful installation of new hardware and 
software for Betfred (T otepool)
 – Opening of office in Asia delivering benefits with new contracts
Sportech 
Venues
 – EBITDA of £2.8m (2014: £3.2m), affected by the previously 
highlighted severe winter weather in Connecticut and year-long 
closure for refurbishment of a key Jai Alai venue
 – Officially opened on 28 January 2016 the only sports bar , 
restaurant and betting venue in San Diego
 – Discussions continue regarding expanded gaming ( slots ) 
in Connecticut
Football  
Pools
 – EBITDA of £15.2m (2014: £16.6m) in line with expectations
 – Ongoing improvements in technology platforms 
and processes
 – The division is now set for stability and growth
Highlights of the year
Investment in technology drives progress
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Overview
Sportech at a glance
We are starting to see the results of 
our technological investments across 
the Group, with the modernisation 
of the Football Pools division, new 
contracts in the US and Asia and the 
expansion of customers for Bump 
50:50. We look forward to a year 
of growth in 2016.
Roger Withers
Chairman
Sportech Racing and Digital
Supplier of tote equipment, services 
and software both on and off-track 
(online and mobile). The division also 
includes Bump 50:50, our professional 
sports charitable lotteries business.
Sportech Venues
Operator of betting on racing in venues 
and online across Connecticut and the 
Netherlands. New venue opened in 
California in 2015.
Football Pools
Operator of pools betting predominantly 
through subscription and online channels.
Division information
The division is the largest supplier of tote 
based technology and services to the global 
racing industry and has expanded into 
sports charitable lotteries
The division operates brands Winners 
(Connecticut), Striders (California) and 
Runnerz (the Netherlands )
300,000 customers playing a range of pools 
and instant win games every week
Location
US, Canada, UK and Ireland US (Connecticut and California) 
and the Netherlands
UK
Customers
Worldwide Connecticut, California and the Netherlands Predominantly UK
Divisional 
performance
Revenue EBITDA
£34.6m £8.6m
Revenue EBITDA
£32.7m £2.8m
Revenue EBITDA
£33.8m £15.2m
Contribution to 
Group revenue
 3 4% 3 3% 3 3%
02 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 We are starting to see the results of 
our technological investments across 
the Group, with the modernisation 
of the Football Pools division, new 
contracts in the US and Asia and the 
expansion of customers for Bump 
50:50. We look forward to a year 
of growth in 2016.
Roger Withers
Chairman
Sportech Racing and Digital
Supplier of tote equipment, services 
and software both on and off-track 
(online and mobile). The division also 
includes Bump 50:50, our professional 
sports charitable lotteries business.
Sportech Venues
Operator of betting on racing in venues 
and online across Connecticut and the 
Netherlands. New venue opened in 
California in 2015.
Football Pools
Operator of pools betting predominantly 
through subscription and online channels.
Division information
The division is the largest supplier of tote 
based technology and services to the global 
racing industry and has expanded into 
sports charitable lotteries
The division operates brands Winners 
(Connecticut), Striders (California) and 
Runnerz (the Netherlands )
300,000 customers playing a range of pools 
and instant win games every week
Location
US, Canada, UK and Ireland US (Connecticut and California) 
and the Netherlands
UK
Customers
Worldwide Connecticut, California and the Netherlands Predominantly UK
Divisional 
performance
Revenue EBITDA
£34.6m £8.6m
Revenue EBITDA
£32.7m £2.8m
Revenue EBITDA
£33.8m £15.2m
Contribution to 
Group revenue
 3 4% 3 3% 3 3%
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 03
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Overview
Sportech is one of the world’s leading pool 
betting operators and technology suppliers, 
focused on highly regulated markets worldwide.
The Group comprises three divisions: Racing 
and Digital, Venues and The Football Pools. 
Both the Racing and Digital division (which 
processes $13bn bets annually) and the 
Venues division (which operates legal betting 
exclusively and in perpetuity in Connecticut in 
venues, online and mobile on horseracing and 
greyhounds) are based in the US and Canada 
where we employ 630 people across field 
operations and four corporate offices. We are 
licensed by gaming regulators in 28 US States. 
The Football Pools is based in the UK, 
and is the oldest football gaming business 
in the world.
Group highlights
 –Results in line with expectations with EBITDA 
of £23.1m (2014: £24.0m)
 –Balance sheet strengthened with 
net debt down by 10%
 –Investment in technology delivering new 
international customers
 –Expansion into providing lottery products 
for professional sports teams
 –Football Pools division nearing completion 
of modernisation programme
 –Expansion of venues strategy into California
 –Disposal of online interests in New Jersey 
for a pre-tax gain of £8.1m
 –£97m VAT refund appeal to be held in 
Court of Appeal on 7/8 April 2016
We have invested substantial time into 
developing our activities and licensing 
position in the US. During the year, we sold 
our iGaming interest in New Jersey, realising 
a threefold return on our investment after 
only three months of operation.
We continue to evaluate opportunities 
to deliver the full potential of our divisions 
whilst ensuring we maintain prudent financial 
ratios. In this regard, over the past twelve 
months we have considered approaches for 
the Group as well as for The Football Pools. 
Chief Executive’s review
Positioning Sportech as one of the 
leaders in the global betting market
The Group has reached an important stage 
in its development, as our US businesses 
make continued progress on many fronts, 
and our UK Football Pools business arrives 
at the inflection point of expected stability 
after years of modernisation.
Business model
           Technology
Implement technology 
to drive operational 
performance
           Stabilise           
Stabilise and 
grow EBITDA
More
contracts
More 
contracts 
with greater 
margins
Continue 
venue roll out
       Based on licences 
       in CT and CA
Enhance
profitability
                Enhance profitability       
from existing and       
future ventures       
Cash flow from core businesses, strength of existing relationships and regulatory footprint drive future opportunities
Opportunities
iGaming and sports 
betting as regulation 
permits
Opportunities
New venues, online, mobile and slots
Opportunities
Grow a trusted brand
Sportech
Racing
and
Digital
The
Football
Pools
Sportech Venues
Responsibility    Expertise    Trust
04 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Bump 50:50 provides in-stadia electronic 
lotteries to professional sports teams. 
Since acquiring the business in late 2014, 
we have grown the seven contracts the 
business had at that time to 21, with new 
customers including teams from the NHL, 
NBA, NFL, Nascar, MLS and the Canadian 
F1 Grand Prix. 2016 has already seen the 
launch of the first 50/50 lottery in the State 
of Texas and the launch of the first-ever 
online raffles, providing fans of the Colorado 
Avalanche, Denver Nuggets, Colorado 
Mammoth and Colorado Rapids, the chance 
to play on PC, tablet and mobile, as well as 
in-stadia. Under Sportech’s ownership, Bump 
50:50 is forecast to make profits for the first 
time in 2016. The acquisition ensures the 
name and responsible betting reputation 
of Sportech is known in the North American 
professional sports market ahead of any 
regulation to enable sports betting.
Despite this, we have remained focused 
on our operations and we will continue to 
investigate any proposals that recognise 
the value of the inherent potential of these 
businesses. We look forward to moving into 
a year of growth in 2016.
Sportech Racing and Digital 
Sportech entered the market in the US five 
years ago, and has substantially developed 
its technology, gaming products and licensing 
position over that time.
In 2015, we have seen the benefits of our 
significant investment in improving our 
systems with the deployment of new 
hardware and software to Betfred’s Totepool 
business in the UK (our largest single 
customer contract to date). Furthermore, 
we have secured several other new customer 
contracts in the US, and two new contracts 
in Asia (Malaysia and Vietnam), following the 
opening of our office in Singapore. However, 
we lost our contract with racing in California 
to an industry competitor with extensive 
interests in racehorse, racetrack, media 
and online betting in the State.
Strategic  
priorities 
Leadership in core markets 
through ongoing investment
 –Stabilise Football Pools 
revenues and earnings
 –Increase the Group’s 
earning capabilities
Using cash from stable core 
business for investment
 –Drive value from exclusive 
licences and US position
 –Invest in innovation and 
new technologies to open 
new markets and 
opportunities
Capitalising on opportunities 
as markets regulate
 –Capitalise on 
regulatory change
 –Continuing leadership in 
technology
Progress in 2015 –Football Pools modernisation 
and rationalisation
 –New Racing and Digital 
contracts including PNG and 
new contracts in Asia
 –Expansion of Venues into CA
 –Investment driving new 
contracts in US, Europe 
and Asia
 –Launch of iGaming in 
New Jersey
 –Continually monitoring 
opportunities for sports 
betting, slots and iGaming
 –Strong growth in sports 
lottery business
Priorities for the future –Complete modernisation of 
Football Pools
 –Stabilise Football Pools 
revenues and earnings
 –Focus on improved margins 
via technology enhancement
 –Finalise plans for Stamford 
and Norco
 –Drive value from regulatory 
position in the US and 
internationally
 –Delivery of strategic value 
for our shareholders
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 05
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements We were pleased to demonstrate the value 
of our licensed position when we sold our 
iGaming interests in New Jersey only three 
months into its operation. The sale generated 
a net profit on disposal before tax of £8.1m 
and consideration of £10.9m, including 2.2m 
shares in the Canadian-listed NYX Gaming 
Group (“NYX”) and £1.1m in contingent 
consideration (which, due to the expected 
introduction of iGaming in North America 
later this decade, we expect to receive). 
The Group continues to hold a 4% stake in 
NYX (whose shares traded at CAD $2.72 each 
at 31 December) as a result of this transaction.
The Group’s existing Indian joint venture with 
Playwin, India’s largest lottery provider, has 
agreed to supply technology and services to 
an Indian company which has been engaged 
by a Sikkim licence holder to support the 
operation of pool games. These operations 
commenced in February 2016.
To further develop our US positioning, 
in September we entered the daily fantasy 
sports market through the acquisition (for 
zero cash consideration and for effecting a 
number of customer introductions) of a 39.2% 
stake in DraftDay Gaming Group, whose 
largest shareholder is the NASDAQ listed 
DraftDay Fantasy Sports, Inc. 
Sportech Venues
In the State of Connecticut, Sportech 
Venues operates all betting on horseracing, 
greyhound racing and Jai Alai under an 
exclusive and in perpetuity licence for retail, 
telephone, internet and mobile. The business, 
which is operated with close consultation and 
oversight from the State, is the only legally 
permitted betting operator in Connecticut. 
In time, we would hope to be in a position 
to offer betting on sports and slots.
Further to this, we remain involved in 
the ongoing debate and discussions 
concerning the expansion of machine slots. 
Our involvement is based on the potential 
opportunity for the business, but also acts 
as a defensive move to counter the expected 
loss of taxation revenues for, and employment 
in, the State through the expected opening 
of new casinos in neighbouring states.
We continue to develop our retail estate 
under our exclusive licence, and have full 
approvals for the development of a $7m 
flagship sports bar, restaurant and betting 
venue in downtown Stamford. As with our 
sports bar and betting facility in Bradley, 
this will be done in partnership with Bobby 
Valentine, who will relocate his existing 
renowned sports bar and restaurant into 
the new facility. An additional venue is 
progressing through the planning stage. 
We have appointed the land and property 
consultant, CBRE, to market and sell surplus 
property and land assets we own in New 
Haven, Connecticut. This is expected to realise 
capital capable of funding the majority of 
our venues build out strategy up to 2018.
We previously announced that our 
Connecticut venues business was impacted 
by the severe winter weather at the beginning 
of 2015 which caused significant race 
cancellations, together with the absence 
of popular betting content due to the 
temporary closure of a Jai Alai venue 
throughout the year. Despite this and 
competition faced from unlicensed illegal 
internet operators who continue to take bets 
(together with tax and jobs) from Connecticut 
residents, despite the issue of cease and desist 
letters, a 50% growth in internet betting was 
achieved. We anticipate support from the 
State to protect the terms of our licence, 
and to grow jobs and State tax revenues.
We have extended our business strategy 
from Connecticut into California, where the 
Group has an agreement to develop up to 
ten new sports bar, restaurant and betting 
venues across Southern California under the 
brand name “Striders”. The first of these had 
its launch on 28 January 2016, having had 
its soft launch in late 2015. This venue has 
been developed as a joint venture with local 
operator, Silky Sullivan Group. The Group 
also has approval to construct a second site 
in the town of Norco.
Chief Executive’s review  continued
06 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate activity
During the year the Group received an 
indicative proposal from Contagious Gaming, 
Inc. but this did not result in a formal offer 
being made. In December, following receipt 
of a number of indicative proposals in respect 
of the Football Pools division, the Board 
invited interested parties to submit their best 
offers in early 2016, and the Board continues 
with this process. 
Outlook
We have started the year well and, for the 
first two months of the year, are trading in 
line with expectations.
Sportech has established a unique position 
in the regulated gaming market worldwide, 
most notably with our licensed gaming 
businesses in the US. Following a number 
of years of significant investment in our 
technology and licensing, we are now in 
the position to grow our business, dispose 
of surplus property assets, benefit from 
regulatory change and deliver earnings 
stability and then growth within the 
Football Pools division. 
We will take the actions that are required 
to deliver value to our shareholders.
Ian Penrose
Chief Executive
3 March 2016 
In the Netherlands we operate a number 
of OTBs, point-of-sale terminals and online 
betting on horseracing, all on an exclusive 
basis under a licence from the Ministry of 
Justice. This licence is in place until December 
2016 and we continue to work closely with 
the Government, the regulator and the 
horseracing industry regarding the future 
regulatory plans.
Football Pools
Several years ago, we set out a clear strategy 
for the Football Pools division, forecasting 
EBITDA of £15.0m in 2015, followed by 
earnings stability and growth thereafter. 
To achieve that position, the business needed 
to improve customer retention, increase spend 
per head from core customers, recruit new 
players and convert existing paper players into 
direct debit and online channels. To support 
delivery of this strategy, the business needed 
to modernise its operations and consolidate 
its customers into a single database, enabling 
greater cross-sell opportunities with a lower, 
more agile operating cost base.
We are pleased, therefore, that the 2015 
Football Pools EBITDA was £15.2m. Ongoing 
improvements in technology platforms will 
provide a basis for stability and subsequently 
growth in future years.
VAT claim
Following the Upper Tribunal’s decision 
in September 2014 to uphold the appeal 
from HMRC in relation to the £97m VAT 
repayment claim regarding Spot the Ball, 
the Group was granted permission to appeal 
to the Court of Appeal and were advised that 
the hearing would take place in November 
2015. Due to a lack of judicial availability, this 
hearing did not take place. We have now 
been advised that the hearing will take 
place on 7/8 April 2016.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 07
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Financial KPIs
Revenue  
£m
2013 110.3 
2014 104.1 
2015 100.2 
EBITDA  
£m
2013 26.0 
2014 24.0 
2015 23.1 
Profit 
before tax 
£m
2013 5.2 
2014  (20.0)
2015 9.7 
Adjusted profit 
before tax 
£m
2013 14.5 
2014 14.4 
2015 11.8 
Net debt  
£m
2013 63.4 
2014 63.8 
2015 57.7 
Capital 
expenditure 
£m
2013 12.6 
2014 10.0 
2015 8.4 
Non-financial KPI
Employees
Number of full-
time equivalents
2013 795 
2014 796 
2015 749 
KPIs
Measuring our performance
08 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Group financial overview
Revenue
2015
£m
2014*
£m
Racing and Digital 34.6 35.2
Venues 32.7 34.2
Football Pools 33.8 38.0
FX effect — (2.3)
Trading divisions 101.1 105.1
Inter-segment 
elimination (0.9) (1.0)
Total 100.2 104.1
EBITDA
2015
£m
2014*
£m
Racing and Digital 8.6 8.2
Venues 2.8 3.4
Football Pools 15.2 16.6
FX effect — (0.3)
Trading divisions 26.6 27.9
Corporate costs 
and inter-segment 
elimination (3.5) (3.9)
Total 23.1 24.0
*  2014 numbers are at “constant currency”, translated 
using 2015 exchange rates
Group revenue was £100.2m (2014: £104.1m 
and £106.4m at constant currency) with 
the £3.9m reduction due primarily to the 
expected fall in revenues from the Football 
Pools collector channel. EBITDA reduced 
by 4% to £23.1m (2014: £24.0m and £24.3m 
at constant currency). Adjusted profit 
before tax was £11.8m (2014: £14.4m), the 
EBITDA shortfall and increased depreciation 
and interest costs being offset by a lower 
share-based payment charge. Profit before 
tax was £9.7m (2014: loss £20.0m) with basic 
earnings per share of 3.3p (2014: loss of 10.4p) 
and adjusted earnings per share of 4.4p 
(2014: 5.5p). The Group’s balance sheet has 
been strengthened, with net debt reducing 
by 10% (£6.1m) to £57.7m.
Financial review
How we have performed
Summary
 –EBITDA at £23.1m (2014: £24.0m) in line with expectations
 –The Group’s balance sheet strengthened with net debt reducing 
by 10% (£6.1m) to £57.7m 
 –Statutory profit before tax increased to £9.7m (2014: loss of £20.0m, 
primarily due to non-cash impairment of the Football Pools goodwill)
 –On a constant currency basis, revenue declined by 6% and EBITDA 
declined by 5%. 2014 revenue and EBITDA were £106.4m and 
£24.3m respectively at constant currency
Net debt bridge
63.8 
3.2 
2.9 
2.3 
2.6 
(5.1) 
2.5 
8.3 
0.3 
57.7 
(23.1) 
2014
Cash from operations
Working capital
Interest paid
Tax paid
Exceptional costs
Disposal proceeds
Investment in JV
Cash capex
Exchange loss
2015
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 09
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements December of our two new customers in Asia, 
Royal Sabah Turf Club of Malaysia and Sports 
Network Limited, a reseller to Vietnamese 
tracks, mark our first steps into Asia, further 
expanding our global presence.
We lost two significant Digital customers earlier 
in the year, one of whom ceased all racing 
operations in April 2015. Cost actions, including 
a management restructure, have helped 
mitigate the EBITDA impact, although EBITDA 
has fallen to £0.6m (2014: £1.2m, constant 
currency basis). However, since then we have 
secured new customers, including Hawthorne 
racecourse in Chicago and a contract with 
Penn National Gaming Inc. to deliver new 
internet and mobile solutions, providing the 
G4 internet betting platform and Digital Link 
mobile betting app, together with associated 
services, including telephone betting, customer 
services and technical support. 
The exit from our contract to operate betting 
for the California racing industry in October 
incurred exceptional costs of £0.6m relating 
to staff restructuring and terminal transport. 
We have reallocated a number of betting 
terminals from the California business to new 
and existing contracts, with the remaining 
book value of those terminals and associated 
software of £2.4m being written off. To drive 
further efficiencies, we also decided to exit 
our loss-making contract with German racing 
at the end of the year. As a result, we have 
consolidated our data and operations centre 
activities into New Jersey, and therefore 
closed the German-based operations centre. 
Restructuring costs of £0.8m were incurred 
as part of these actions. 
Sportech Racing and Digital
Key financials
An analysis of revenue and EBITDA from our Sportech 
Racing and Digital division is set out as follows:
2015
£m
2014*
£m
T ote services 27.3 27.8
Equipment sales 4.8 3.4
Digital 2.5 4.0
FX impact — (0.7)
Total revenue 34.6 34.5
Payroll (12.7) (13.1)
Other costs (13.3) (13.9)
FX impact — 0.6
EBITDA 8.6 8.1
*  2014 numbers are at “constant currency”, translated 
using 2015 exchange rates
For the Racing and Digital division, overall 
revenues have increased to £34.6m (2014: 
£34.5m) with a foreign exchange benefit 
of £0.7m, and EBITDA for the division has 
increased by £0.5m to £8.6m (2014: £8.1m) 
with a foreign exchange benefit of £0.1m. 
Within tote services and equipment sales, 
on a constant currency basis, revenues are 
£0.9m ahead of prior year. Overall revenues 
from the US and Dominican Republic were 
in line with prior year with growth from Bump 
50:50. Total equipment sales revenues in the 
period were £4.8m (2014: £3.4m, constant 
currency basis).
Strong EBITDA performance in tote services 
was driven by the new contract with Betfred 
(Totepool), increased maintenance revenues 
from new customers and cost efficiencies.
In addition to the successful implementation 
of our Quantum Tote system, together with 
supporting software and hardware to Betfred, 
Sportech Racing has signed new long-term 
contracts in the US with Remington Park and 
Lonestar Park to supply on-track technology, 
including the recently launched Digital Link 
mobile betting app. The announcement in 
Financial review continued
10 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 In the Netherlands our business performed 
in line with last year, with revenues stable at 
£4.6m (2014: £4.6m) and EBITDA marginally 
up to £0.2m (2014: £0.1m), comparatives at 
constant currency.
In addition to our recently opened Striders 
venue, in California, we also supply technology 
services to eight independently-owned sports 
bar locations in the south of the State. 
Amounts wagered at these locations 
generated revenues of £0.5m (2014: £0.4m).
Football Pools
Key financials
The key performance indicators of our Football Pools 
division are set out as follows:
2015 2014
Revenue (£m) 33.8 38.0
EBITDA (£m) 15.2 16.6
Weekly revenue 
per subscription 
customer (£) 2.95 2.88
The financial results for the Football Pools 
division were as expected and in line with 
the strategic plan. Revenues for the period 
were £33.8m (2014: £38.0m), with 70% 
of the reduction due to the decrease in 
the number of customers who play by the 
collector channel. As mentioned, EBITDA 
was £15.2m (2014: £16.6m).
The continued focus on the subscription 
channel revenues saw weekly spend per 
customer increasing 2.4% to £2.95 
(2014: £2.88), offsetting some of the 
reduction in customer numbers. Subscription 
revenues showed increasing signs of a move 
towards stability at £27.3m (2014: £28.1m).
In December 2015, our main Classic Pools 
game had 221,000 subscription customers 
(2014: 240,000). Encouragingly, over 60% 
of our customers are now playing by direct 
debit. 18,000 new subscription customers 
were recruited (2014: 23,000), with 9,300 
from digital channels (2014: 8,900). 
Sportech Venues
Key financials
A detailed analysis of our Sportech Venues division 
is set out as follows:
Connecticut Venues
2015
£m
2014*
£m
Revenue 27.6 29.2
Tax (3.8) (4.1)
Track/tote/ 
interface fees (8.0) (8.3)
Margin 15.8 16.8
Payroll (4.9) (5.3)
Facility costs (3.7) (3.7)
Other costs (4.6) (4.5)
Connecticut EBITDA 2.6 3.3
Other EBITDA 0.2 0.1
FX impact — (0.2)
Total Venues EBITDA 2.8 3.2
*  2014 numbers are at “constant currency”, translated 
using 2015 exchange rates
Overall revenues have increased to £32.7m 
(2014: £32.6m), which includes a £1.6m benefit 
from foreign exchange, whilst EBITDA has 
fallen to £2.8m (2014: £3.2m), again with 
a £0.2m benefit from foreign exchange.
The impact of the previously mentioned 
extreme weather in Connecticut and the 
temporary Jai Alai venue closure for 
refurbishment accounted for 6% reduction 
in betting volumes in the year and we 
anticipate a recovery in betting volumes 
in 2016, and indeed the Jai Alai venue has 
now reopened. The reduction in betting 
revenues has contributed to revenues and 
EBITDA in Connecticut declining by £1.6m 
and £0.7m respectively, compared to prior 
year at constant currency.
Our venue at Bradley made a contribution 
of $1.0m, before central costs, and it was 
pleasing that the food and beverage at this 
venue (Bobby V’s sports bar and restaurant) 
moved to break-even in 2015 and in 2016 is 
currently more than 30% up compared to the 
same period last year.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Exceptional income
During the period, the Group completed 
the sale of its iGaming interest in New Jersey, 
generating a profit of £8.1m on disposal. 
We sold our 50% stake in Sportech-NYX 
Gaming, LLC (“SNG”) to our joint venture 
partner, NYX Gaming Group Limited (“NYX”), 
for a total consideration of up to CAD $22.1m 
(£11.3m), comprising £5.1m cash, 2.2 million 
NYX ordinary shares equating to an aggregate 
value of CAD $9.1m (£4.7m) at a price of CAD 
$4.15 per share and up to a maximum of CAD 
$3.0m (£1.5m) in contingent consideration. 
This contingent consideration is discounted 
at disposal date to £1.1m to give a fair value 
of total consideration recognised of £10.9m.
Exceptional costs
The Group has incurred exceptional 
administration costs of £2.6m (2014: £2.3m) 
in the twelve-month period. These costs 
include restructuring and other costs of £1.0m 
(2014: £1.4m) of which £0.8m relate to the 
closure of our loss-making German 
operations. Costs of £0.6m (2014: £nil) 
comprising restructuring, terminal transport 
and storage were incurred following the loss 
of the Californian contract in the Racing and 
Digital division. We incurred costs of £0.2m 
(2014: £nil) in relation to potential corporate 
activity; costs in relation to the set-up of 
our joint venture companies of £0.2m 
(2014: £0.6m); costs in relation to the 
granting of our New Jersey licence of £0.3m 
(2014: £0.1m) and transaction costs in relation 
to acquisitions of £0.1m (2014: £0.1m). Realised 
fair value losses on the NYX ordinary shares 
held by the Group of £0.2m have also been 
incurred in the year (2014: £nil), representing 
movement in the NYX share price from the 
disposal date to the date the shares were 
received. The costs disclosed as exceptional 
are consistent with the type of cost disclosed 
as exceptional in prior periods.
In the second half of 2015, footballpools.com 
released a newly configured version of the 
website. The latest code offers flexibility to 
create new game formats and features, such 
as new payment types, and also gives the 
opportunity for improved analysis of players’ 
online behaviour. These developments also 
provided the launch pad for the development 
of an iOS App, giving the Football Pools the 
opportunity to reach more mobile users 
and raise engagement levels.
These developments have put us in the 
position to drive online revenue growth, 
and our average weekly gross win in the 
first six weeks of 2016 is 59% higher than 
the same period in 2015. 
We anticipate exceptional costs for 
modernisation of up to £3.0m this year. 
Corporate costs
Corporate costs of £3.5m (2014: £3.9m) 
have been reduced by 10% and remain 
tightly controlled. In addition, we also have 
a non-cash share option expense under 
IFRS 2 of £0.5m (2014: £0.6m).
Depreciation, amortisation 
and impairment of assets
The Group’s normal depreciation and 
amortisation charge increased in the period 
to £7.6m (2014: £6.2m), principally due to the 
ongoing capital expenditure in our businesses 
in North America. 
The Group incurred a non-cash amortisation 
charge of £1.2m (2014: £1.4m) on the 
intangible assets acquired with eBet in 2012, 
Datatote in 2013 and Bump in 2014. The prior 
year also included amortisation of intangibles 
acquired with Vernons in 2007 of £2.7m, 
which became fully amortised in June 2014. 
A non-cash impairment charge of £3.7m has 
been charged against the goodwill recognised 
on the original acquisition of eBet in 2012. 
Impairment charges against fixed assets 
previously deployed in California (£2.4m) 
have also been recognised in the year. In 2014, 
an impairment of £28.1m was recorded to 
reduce the carrying value of the Football 
Pools goodwill to £119.5m.
Financial review continued
12 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Capital expenditure
2015
£m
2014
£m
Change
£m
Sportech Racing 
and Digital 4.5 5.7 (1.2)
Sportech Venues 1.1 1.3 (0.2)
Football Pools 2.5 3.0 (0.5)
Corporate costs 0.3 — 0.3
8.4 10.0 (1.6)
The Group is starting to see the benefit of its 
previous heavy technological investment and 
is now able to reduce its capital expenditure 
levels accordingly. As the Group has continued 
to develop its divisional technology offering, 
capital expenditure reduced 16% (£1.6m) in the 
period to £8.4m (2014: £10.0m).
Investment in joint ventures 
and associates
The Group has invested £1.1m into its 
Californian joint venture for build-out and 
start-up costs in relation to its San Diego 
venue. The Group had also invested £2.1m in 
our iGaming interests in New Jersey, prior to its 
profitable disposal and we continue to support 
the running costs of our Indian joint venture at 
£0.2m per annum.
During the year the Group acquired a 39.2% 
share in DraftDay for nil cash consideration. 
The Group has recorded an asset and 
corresponding liability in respect of the 
management time and customer contacts 
that will be provided. 
Dividend
No dividend is proposed. The Board will 
continue to assess when to commence the 
payment of dividends.
Shareholders’ funds
Total equity and the Group’s net assets at 
31 December 2015 have increased to £126.2m 
(2014: £119.8m).
Cliff Baty
Chief Financial Officer 
3 March 2016
Net finance costs
The Group has incurred net interest costs 
in the period of £3.2m (2014: £2.8m), with 
the increase over prior year due to the savings 
made in 2014 from holding £93m in cash in 
relation to the VAT repayment claim from the 
end of June to November 2014, when it was 
repaid. In addition, other finance income 
amounted to £0.6m (2014: £0.3m), reflecting 
the credit of fair value movement on interest 
rate swaps of £0.5m and foreign exchange 
gains on inter-company loans of £0.4m, net 
of £0.3m exceptional finance costs (2014: £nil) 
in relation to banking facility amendments.
Taxation
A tax charge for the period of £3.0m 
(2014: £1.3m) has been provided at the 
weighted average applicable tax rate for 
the Group of 17.0% (2014: 23.0%) together 
with the tax effects of permanent differences 
and other adjustments. The Group has a net 
deferred tax asset of £0.5m (2014: £0.8m), 
representing primarily foreign taxes withheld, 
which can be utilised against future profits. 
Tax payments of £2.3m were made during the 
period (2014: £1.3m), principally representing 
final payments for prior-year tax liabilities 
and overseas tax deducted at source.
Net bank debt
The Group continues to operate comfortably 
within its covenant test ratios. We amended 
the terms of our revolving credit facility during 
the year, reducing the facility to £75m whilst 
obtaining improved covenant terms. The 
facility is in place until August 2018 with a 
banking syndicate of Royal Bank of Scotland 
plc, Barclays Bank PLC and Bank of Scotland 
plc. Net bank debt has decreased by £6.1m 
(10%) in the year to £57.7m (31 December 
2014: £63.8m). The Group’s bank leverage 
ratio for covenant testing purposes (adjusted 
net bank debt/adjusted EBITDA) has 
improved to 2.50x as at 31 December 2015 
(31 December 2014: 2.66x), comfortably 
satisfying the bank leverage covenant test of 
3.00x. Under the revised terms of the facility, 
this leverage covenant decreases to 2.75x at 
December 2016 and 2.50x at June 2017.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Appropriate risk management aids 
effective decision making and helps 
to ensure that the risks the business 
takes are adequately assessed 
and challenged.
Measuring risk
Our risk management strategy is to consider risks 
arising from each area of the business through a  
top-down and bottom-up approach. This is achieved 
by the communication through the Group of a risk 
appetite statement and the activities of the Group’s 
Risk Committee, as further explained below.
The Board has established and approved a risk appetite 
statement, which has been distributed to the Executive 
Boards of the three main business units. This statement, 
which will be reviewed on at least an annual basis, provides 
guidance on the Group’s appetite for risk across business 
areas and supports the Executive Boards in determining 
the appropriate balance of risk and return within their 
businesses. For example, the statement outlines the 
Group’s view on regulatory risk as highly cautious.
The Group‘s Risk Committee, which is led by the Chief 
Financial Officer, meets quarterly with the Executive Boards 
of each of the three main business units to assess risk on an 
ongoing basis and formally update their business-specific 
risk registers. The Risk Committee reports to the Board 
which in turn regularly reviews the overall risks associated 
with the Group’s activities and strategy. The Board formally 
reviews a Group principal risk register annually. In reviewing 
such register, the Board ensures that appropriate systems 
and controls are in place to mitigate the occurrence and 
impact of such risks. 
Risk registers identify the most significant risks to the 
business and rate each risk on a mitigated basis following 
the assessment of the controls and processes put in place 
to reduce the impact of the risk. 
The table below shows the most significant risks to Sportech 
PLC as a Group, the potential impact of such risks and the 
mitigating activities that the Group carries out to reduce the 
likelihood and impact of such risks. The movement in the 
level of the risk in the Board’s opinion is also indicated.
Principal risks
Effective risk management
Risk description Mitigating activities Change
Regulatory 
The Group operates under numerous 
licences worldwide, including the UK 
and US. The loss or inadvertent 
breach of any such licence could have 
a significant impact on the Group’s 
ability to continue to trade within that 
and other jurisdictions and, therefore, 
on the Group’s trading and results. 
In addition, such loss or inadvertent 
breach would potentially lead to the 
imposition of fines and penalties on 
the Group and could lead to 
substantial legal costs. In certain 
jurisdictions, personal liability rules 
could lead to imprisonment of Group 
personnel. There would also be the 
threat of reputation damage, 
hindering the expansion of the 
business into other jurisdictions. 
The Group considers that its licences to operate around the world 
are a key asset to the business and as such looks to mitigate the 
inherent associated risks as follows:
 – the Group employs a Director of Corporate Affairs, one of whose 
primary roles is to ensure compliance with the requirements of 
our licences worldwide; 
 – the Group monitors the territories from which business 
is accepted, to ensure that the threat of legal action against 
the Group is minimised, and that territories presenting  
criminal/terrorist money laundering risk are avoided; 
 – the Group employs a Group General Counsel in the UK who 
oversees regulatory and legal compliance worldwide and also 
employs a General Counsel within its key US subsidiary, 
Sportech, Inc.; 
 – the Group employs third-party specialist legal counsel as 
appropriate to ensure relationships with regulatory bodies are 
maintained at the highest level and specialist local advice is 
available as may be required; 
 – regular updates and training are provided to those employees 
involved in areas of the business that have inherent regulatory 
risk. Policies and procedures are in place to which staff are 
required to adhere; 
 – where commercially realistic insurance policies are available, 
they are purchased;
 – all Directors (including Non-executive Directors) have 
clauses in their contracts requiring them to provide whatever 
information is required by appropriate regulatory authorities 
to ensure Sportech PLC and its subsidiaries remain licensed 
in all jurisdictions;
 – as regulatory compliance can require disclosure from Sportech 
PLC’s shareholders, a resolution was agreed at the 2011 AGM 
to ensure that, if required, shareholders provide the necessary 
information to ensure Sportech PLC and its subsidiaries remain 
fully licensed.
Level
The Group continues 
to operate in the 
same jurisdictions 
and monitors the 
changing gaming 
environment. 
There have been 
no detrimental 
changes of note 
during the period.
14 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risk description Mitigating activities Change
Financial
The Group has historically been 
relatively highly leveraged and 
dependent on the provision of 
debt financing. 
The Group’s existing financing 
facilities expire in August 2018 and 
we expect to be able to refinance 
this facility prior to maturity. 
The  Group is therefore exposed to 
the risk of changing credit markets 
which may reduce the availability 
and increase the cost of finance.
The Group is also exposed to foreign 
exchange movements which can 
impact its reported results.
The Group’s leverage covenant 
within its existing banking facility 
is based on net debt to EBITDA 
ratio. This covenant level is currently 
3.0x and reduces to 2.75x at 
31 December 2016 and 2.5x at 
30 June 2017. As at 31 December 
2015 the Group’s leverage was 2.5x 
net debt to EBITDA.
The Group: 
 – has three principal lenders, Bank of Scotland Plc, Barclays Bank 
PLC and Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. We maintain very close 
relationships with each finance lender; 
 – continues to be focused on cash generation to improve its 
financial position; 
 – maintains relationships with potential future finance partners and 
keeps abreast of changing credit market conditions; 
 – keeps foreign exchange rates under review and if appropriate, 
seeks to mitigate their impact through hedging instruments; and 
 – monitors its performance against covenants on a regular basis. 
Level
In the event that 
performance 
materially worsens 
from 2015 levels, the 
risk of breaching 
existing banking 
covenants will increase. 
Product
A significant proportion of the 
Group’s annual income is derived 
from the traditional football pools 
betting product together with pools 
betting on US horseracing in both 
Venues and Racing and Digital 
divisions. In recent years, both 
products have experienced 
challenges in the recruitment of 
customers, leading to an ageing 
player base. Our objective is to 
modernise our business to address 
these challenges. In the US, certain 
horseracing, greyhound and Jai Alai 
venues that provide the Group’s 
betting content operate under tight 
financial conditions.
Management has taken, and continues to take, mitigating actions 
to protect the Group from the impact of decline in the popularity 
of products offered as follows: 
 – the Football Pools division continues to recruit new players to the 
products on offer and retention and marketing resources are 
being increased;
 – the Football Pools is changing its distribution methods to online 
and direct relationships with customers rather than through 
commission agents;
 – the Group is investing in its venues in Connecticut and California 
with a sports bar concept to attract younger, new customers to 
bet on horseracing; 
 – the Group invests significant amounts in developing new and 
innovative products; 
 – operating cost bases within the key operational divisions are 
structured to offset potential declines in revenue; 
 – revenue channels have been and continue to be expanded 
in terms of both product and territory by the acquisition of 
a broader base of revenue streams for the Group, including the 
diversification into electronic raffle products for professional 
sports teams in North America; 
 – where possible, fixed income or minimum guaranteed income 
contracts (in respect of Sportech Racing and Digital) have been 
entered into with our customers, limiting downside risk; and 
 – management reviews of performance against budget take 
place on a regular basis and would highlight the need to 
implement change. 
Level
If the recruitment 
and retention of 
younger players to 
the Group’s products 
is not successful there 
is an increase in the 
risk that the current 
products will decline 
in popularity. In the 
US, there remains the 
risk of certain racing 
tracks closing. 
However, whilst 
amounts wagered 
on thoroughbred 
horses declined 
between 2008 and 
2011, in 2015 amounts 
wagered showed 
a 1% increase 
over 2014.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Principal risks
Effective risk management continued
Risk description Mitigating activities Change
Technology 
A significant proportion of the 
Group’s annual income is dependent 
on the sale of technology-led 
products and the effective delivery 
of services through such products. 
The Group’s sales are at risk if its 
product technology and development 
are not competitive. 
The Group is also exposed to the risk 
of failure in software/hardware used 
across the business in both operations 
and back office support.
Management ensures that the risks posed by technology are 
mitigated where possible as follows: 
 – the Group has invested heavily in up-to-date server and storage 
infrastructure in its principal data centre and continues to invest 
in improving its applications to ensure compliance with best 
practice and customer needs; 
 – the Group employs skilled and experienced system developers 
and operators to ensure that its applications run without material 
error or interruption;
 – the Group invests significant amounts in developing new 
and innovative products such as Digital Link;
 – the Group is upgrading its finance software in 2016 and 
outsourcing the hosting of the software to minimise risk of  
failure/downtime;
 – Group systems, principally in the US , UK and in the Netherlands, 
are subject to annual third-party audit to provide assurances to 
our customers that our systems are robust and complete; 
 – where third-party software is utilised, leading technology 
providers are chosen as suppliers of choice; and 
 – disaster recovery procedures and infrastructure are in place and 
are regularly reviewed and tested. Insurance cover is obtained to 
mitigate the cost of business interruption. 
Level
The Group 
continues to invest 
in upgrading and 
enhancing its 
technology to 
keep pace with 
technological 
change. Following 
periods of significant 
investment to develop 
and improve the 
Group’s technology, 
this risk is considered 
to be stable. 
Industry competition
The Group’s pool betting processing 
business, Sportech Racing and Digital,  
is dependent on key contracts and 
established software and systems. 
The market for these services in the 
US is particularly competitive, with 
our business being one of the three 
main operators. Contracts have a 
typical three to ten year term. 
Competitive tenders issued as part 
of a renewal process can lead to a 
loss of contract or a reduction in 
revenues in order to retain the same. 
Outside of the US, the business sells 
systems in conjunction with 
maintenance contracts to pools 
operators worldwide. The frequency 
of these systems sales can be 
irregular due to their dependency 
upon a customer’s system and 
upgrade strategy. 
The Group:
 – maintains good relationships with all of its current and 
potential customers;
 – ensures that actual and potential customers are aware of 
the premium products and technologies that it can deliver;
 – provides a first class service to seek to avoid the desire for 
a customer to run a competitive bid process;
 – is developing new and innovative products by which to 
differentiate the Company from the competition;
 – notes that costs of transitioning supplier are significant which 
helps to protect the current customer base and provide a 
barrier to entry. 
Level
The Group’s Racing 
and Digital division 
has retained most of 
its existing customer 
contracts that were 
up for renewal, won 
a number of new 
racetracks, secured 
new international 
system sales, but also 
lost an important 
contract in California. 
16 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Viability statement 
The Board has assessed the prospects 
of the Group over a longer period than the 
12 months required by the going concern 
requirements of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the “Code”). This longer-term 
assessment process supports the Board’s 
statements on both viability, as set out below, 
and going concern, made on page 53. 
The Board conducted this review for a 
period up to December 2018, which was 
selected for the following reasons:
i. The Group’s strategic review process 
generally covers a three-year period.
ii. The Group’s operations are underpinned by 
largely stable businesses and medium-term 
contracts, allowing for sufficient certainty 
to forecast results for this length of time.
The Group’s financing facilities are due 
to expire in August 2018, and an assumption 
has been made for this review that refinancing 
will be available during this period.
The December 2015 strategic review 
considered the Group’s cash flows, earnings, 
leverage, and other key financial ratios over 
the period. These metrics were subject to 
sensitivity analysis which involved flexing a 
number of the main assumptions underlying 
the forecast, both individually and in unison. 
The assumptions included the impact of the 
potential occurrence of the Group’s principal 
risks and the effectiveness of available 
mitigating actions, other than the impact 
of a loss of a key licence or severe technology 
failure. These were not included within the 
forecasts as it is the Board’s opinion that the 
likelihood of those risks occurring is minimal. 
The Group has net debt of £57.7m at year 
end and its banking agreement’s main 
covenant is based on an EBITDA to net 
debt ratio. One of the scenarios modelled 
assumed revenue reductions across all three 
operating divisions. This would lead to 
approximately a 15% decline in the Group’s 
EBITDA from the 2015 figure for each year 
of the three-year forecast period. This 
modelling demonstrated that the Group 
would be able to withstand the impact of 
such an EBITDA decline through taking 
mitigating actions such as a reduction in 
capital expenditure and other cash outflows.
Based on the results of this analysis, the 
Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company will be able to continue 
in operation and meet its liabilities, as they 
fall due, over the period of their assessment.
On behalf of the Board
Cliff Baty
Director 
3 March 2016
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Corporate social 
responsibility report
Operating responsibly
The Group remains focused on identifying 
charitable opportunities to support in the 
communities where our customers live and 
our businesses operate.
Environment
The Group recognises its responsibility 
to achieve good environmental practice 
and continues to strive to improve its 
environmental impact. The nature of its 
business results in the principal environmental 
impact arising from energy and paper 
consumption. Wherever possible, waste 
consumable materials are recycled or 
disposed of in a manner most suitable 
to reduce any impact on the natural 
environment. The Group’s business practices 
encourage the use of technology to facilitate 
information, data collection and dissemination, 
which has led to reduced demand for paper 
resources. All employees are encouraged to 
participate in the implementation of this policy 
and suppliers of consumable products are 
encouraged to be environmentally friendly, 
wherever practical.
In compliance with the Companies Act 2006 
the Group is reporting on greenhouse gas 
emissions (see table below). The Group 
believes that the approach it has taken, 
incorporating the use of relevant audited 
costs and data sourced from highly regarded 
public bodies, is robust. As well as providing 
a summary of the Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO
2
 
emissions produced, an intensity ratio using 
Group revenue is also included. In 2015, an 
increase in intensity of 20% over 2014 has 
occurred due to increased use of natural gas, 
electricity and motor fuel, following business 
developments in the US and an overall decline 
in Group revenues.
2015 2014 2013
CO
2
 (metric tonnes) 7,176 6,202 6,521
Group revenues 100.2 104.1 110.3
Intensity ratio 71.6 59.6 59.1
Increase on  
prior year (%) 20.0 1.0 —
Customers
The Group’s divisions hold licences to 
permit the provision of business-to-business 
services for pari-mutuel betting on horse 
and greyhound racing in over 30 jurisdictions 
in the Americas and Europe. Licences for 
business-to-consumer activity for the same 
products are held in Connecticut, California 
and the Netherlands, and for a wider range 
of gambling products in the UK. To ensure 
that the obligations placed on the Group 
under these licences are adhered to, the 
Group employs a Director of Corporate 
Affairs who is responsible for ensuring that 
the terms of all applicable regulations are 
met. He works closely with the Group General 
Counsel and local Legal Counsel to ensure 
the Group meets its policy of maintaining 
the highest standards of compliance and 
integrity. The Group also employs security 
and compliance staff whose primary role 
is to ensure that our customers are treated 
fairly, that our advertising is compliant with 
advertising standards and codes, that the 
young and vulnerable are prevented from 
accessing our products, and that abuse and 
illegal behaviour are identified and stopped. 
All gaming products are subject to age 
restrictions and age verification software is 
used by the Group where appropriate.
The Group actively promotes GamCare 
to its customers, and nearly £0.5m has been 
contributed to the Responsible Gambling 
Trust, GamCare’s major funder, and its 
predecessor bodies over recent years. The 
Venues business in Connecticut contributes 
over £0.1m annually to promote responsible 
gambling in the State.
Society
The Group’s support for communities across 
the UK is virtually unparalleled. Since the 
mid-1970s The Football Pools has contributed 
£1.3bn at today’s value to football, sport, 
the arts and charitable causes. Today, the 
Group helps to generate £0.5m annually 
for charitable use through its management 
and operation of society lotteries within its 
Football Pools business activities.
18 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Sportech’s support of charitable causes 
in the UK and beyond is fantastic. Over  
£1.3 billion has been given to sport, the 
arts and other charities over the years. 
I am particularly proud to have been 
involved in programs supporting grass 
roots football in the UK.
Alan Hansen  
Liverpool and Scotland legend
Employees
The Board is acutely aware of the vital 
contribution of employees to the future 
success of the business. It recognises the 
importance of providing employees with 
information on matters of concern to them, 
enabling employees to improve their 
performance and make an active contribution 
to the achievement of the Group’s business 
objectives. This is accomplished through 
formal and informal briefings and meetings. 
Employee representatives are consulted 
regularly on a wide range of matters affecting 
their interests. The Group’s ‘Investors in 
People’ accreditation reflects the progressive 
training and development programmes that 
are in place within the business.
The Group is committed to equality of 
opportunity and dignity at work for all, 
irrespective of race, colour, creed, ethnic 
or national origins, gender, marital status, 
sexuality, disability, class or age. It ensures 
that recruitment and promotion decisions 
are made solely on the basis of suitability 
for the job. Information on gender diversity 
is contained in the Corporate governance 
report on page 30.
In the UK, it is the policy of the Group to 
comply with the requirements of the Disability 
and Equality Act 2010 in offering equality of 
opportunity to disabled persons applying for 
employment, selection being made on the 
basis of the most suitable person for the job 
in respect of experience and qualifications. 
Training, career development and promotion 
are offered to all employees on the basis of 
their merit and ability.
Every effort is made to continue to employ, 
in the same or alternative employment, and 
where necessary to retrain, employees who 
become disabled during their employment 
with the Group.
The Group proactively addresses health 
and safety management and we have a 
programme of risk identification, management 
and improvement in place. The Board receives 
a report in respect of health and safety across 
all of its businesses at each Board meeting.
Human rights
Following a review, the Board considers 
that it is not necessary for the Group to 
operate a specific human rights policy 
at present. Our policies operate within 
a framework to comply with relevant laws, 
to behave in an ethical manner and to 
respect the human rights of our employees 
and other stakeholders in the business.
On behalf of the Board
Ian Penrose
Chief Executive
3 March 2016
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Performance
Overall, the Board is pleased with the 
strategic position that each of its divisions 
has secured, but recognises that each 
division will also require further investment, 
ahead of anticipated revenue and profit 
benefits, to better enable them to deliver 
their full potential.
Group results are in line with expectations and 
the reduction in our net debt strengthens the 
Group’s balance sheet. 
Investment in technology across the Group, 
our reputation and regulatory position have 
driven both a significant number of new 
contracts in Racing and Digital whilst we are 
also nearing the completion of the 
modernisation of The Football Pools. 
Technology has also driven an expanding 
customer base in Bump 50:50, the business 
providing lottery products for professional 
sports teams.
We expanded our Venues business into 
California under the brand name “Striders”, 
with the official opening in January 2016.
The Group sold its stake in its US online 
gaming joint venture, SNG, for an £8.1m profit 
in June. This business had only been operating 
for three months and the profit realised is 
recognition of the Group using its US licensing 
and regulatory position to generate value.
Shareholder value
Delivery of shareholder value is our key aim 
as a Group. The profit realised from the sale 
of SNG demonstrates this and the Group 
continues to make investments to support 
its organic strategy. 
In addition, during the year the Group 
received indicative offers for both the 
entire Group and certain operating divisions. 
In reviewing these and any other potential 
offers, the Board together with its advisers 
consider the balance of the immediate 
shareholder value to be realised compared 
to the long-term prospects of the Group.
Chairman’s statement
Technology driving expansion and 
modernisation
Dear Shareholder
It has been another busy year for the Group. 
Our results highlight both the progress made 
and the challenges we have faced.
We have reached an important point in the 
Group’s development, following a long period 
of investment in technology and modernisation.
20 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our report to you on corporate governance 
explains how we approach and implement 
the principles of good governance across 
Sportech and the level of importance we 
give to each area. The effectiveness of our 
Board is a key priority, as we believe this 
to be fundamental in order to deliver on 
business objectives and ultimately to deliver 
shareholder value, whilst operating in an 
ethical way. 
Our Committees are structured to ensure 
the responsibilities of the Board are carried 
out effectively and in line with best practice 
procedure. Detail on each Committee and its 
responsibilities and duties carried out during 
the year under review can be found within 
this report.
We will continue to strive for best practice 
governance. We use our time together 
as a Board, and our communications with 
Directors outside of formal meetings, to 
address the core responsibilities of strategy, 
review of financial and operational 
performance, review of risk management 
and internal controls. This ensures the 
composition of the Board delivers an 
effective governing body for Sportech.
Roger Withers
Non-executive Chairman
3 March 2016
The Group continues to invest in its core 
businesses and potential growth opportunities. 
As such, no dividend is proposed for the year 
to 31 December 2015. The Board continues to 
assess the appropriate time to commence 
dividend payments.
Governance
As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring 
your Board remains effective. I work closely 
with Ian Penrose, Sportech’s Chief Executive, 
to ensure your Board provides the appropriate 
support and guidance to the Executive team. 
This Annual Report as a whole is considered 
by the Board to be “fair, balanced and 
understandable” as is required by the UK 
Corporate Governance Code.
Board and employees
The Board is pleased that the appointment 
of Mickey Kalifa as Chief Financial Officer 
takes effect from today. Mickey has been 
our Corporate Development Director for 
the past six years. He has extensive experience 
in finance and executive roles within some of 
the world’s largest media and technology 
companies, including Young & Rubicam, 
Disney, Time Warner, BSkyB and Liberty 
Media. He succeeds Cliff Baty, whom we 
thank for his contribution to the Group.
Sportech is a geographically diverse business 
which places significant demands upon 
executives and employees. The Board would 
like to thank them for their dedication and 
commitment to the Group.
Corporate governance report
The following report is intended to outline 
the Group’s corporate governance structure, 
policies and procedures, and inform 
shareholders of the activities of the 
Board and its Committees during the year 
to 31 December 2015. I trust the report is 
informative and insightful for shareholders 
and demonstrates the Board’s commitment 
to high standards of governance, and I 
welcome any feedback or comment from 
shareholders or other stakeholders.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Board of Directors 
R  Remuneration Committee
A  Au d it C o m m it te e
N  N om i n a ti on C om m it te e
ID Independent Directors Committee
Note: 
Red icon indicates Chairman of Committee
Roger Withers (73)
Non-executive Chairman
Date of appointment: February 2011 
Board Committees: N
Roger was appointed  
Non-executive Chairman in 
February 2011. Roger has over 
40 years’ experience in the 
leisure and gaming industries. 
He was appointed as Non-
executive Chairman of AIM-listed 
Safecharge International Group 
Limited in March 2014 and has 
previously held a number of 
Non-executive Directorships, 
including Chairman of Playtech 
Ltd, Chairman of Arena Leisure 
PLC and Executive Chairman of 
Bass Leisure South Africa.
Rich Roberts (51)
President:  
Sportech Digital
Date of appointment:  
July 2014
Rich was appointed as 
President of Digital in July 2014, 
having previously served as an 
Independent Non-executive 
Director of the Company. 
He has over 20 years of game 
and gaming experience across 
senior business development 
and C-level positions. Rich was 
Chief Executive Officer of Slingo 
Inc. from 2010 to 2013. Prior 
to that, Rich was VP (Chief 
Revenue Officer) of Playfirst, 
Inc. and previously led Hasbro 
Interactive/Atari into the digital 
game industry. 
Ian Penrose (50)
Chief Executive
Date of appointment:  
October 2005
Ian was appointed Chief 
Executive in October 2005 
and has led the turnaround of 
Sportech from a declining and 
UK-centric business with very 
high levels of debt into one of 
the world’s leading pools and 
tote gaming companies. He was 
previously Chief Executive of 
Arena Leisure PLC, and left in 
September 2005 having built 
the UK’s largest horseracing 
and media group. Ian is also 
a Trustee of the National 
Football Museum.
Peter Williams (62)
Senior Independent  
Non-executive Director
Date of appointment: February 2011 
Board Committees: R, A, N, ID
Peter was appointed Senior 
Independent Non-executive 
Director in February 2011. Peter 
is Chairman of boohoo.com plc 
and Mister Spex. He is also Senior 
Independent Non-executive 
Director of Rightmove plc; 
Chairman Designate at U and 
I Group PLC; and is a trustee of 
the Design Council. In the past 
he has also served on a number 
of boards including ASOS plc, 
Cineworld Group plc, the EMI 
Group, Silverstone Holdings 
Limited and Capital Radio 
Group plc.
Cliff Baty (45)
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed: May 2013 
Date of resignation: March 2016
Cliff was appointed to the 
Board in May 2013 joining 
from Ladbrokes plc, where 
he held a number of senior 
finance roles including Finance 
Director of its e-Gaming and 
international businesses.
David McKeith (64)
Independent  
Non-executive Director
Date of appointment: August 2011 
Board Committees: R, A, N, ID
David was appointed to the Board 
as an Independent Non-executive 
Director in August 2011 and chairs 
the Audit Committee. He has 
around 30 years’ experience as 
a chartered accountant and tax 
adviser in large professional firms, 
latterly as office senior partner for 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in 
Manchester. He is chairman of the 
Hallé Orchestra and a Non-
executive Director of Norcros PLC, 
where he is Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director and Audit 
Committee Chairman.
Mickey Kalifa (49)
Chief Financial Officer
Date of appointment:  
March 2016 
Mickey was appointed to the 
Board in March 2016. Mickey 
has been our Corporate 
Development Director for 
the past six years. He has 
extensive experience in finance 
and executive roles with some 
of the world’s largest media 
and technology companies, 
including Young & Rubicam, 
Disney, Time Warner, BSkyB 
and Liberty Media.
Full biographies of the Board members can be found at www.sportechplc.com
22 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Senior management
Luisa Wright
Group General Counsel 
and Company Secretary
Conleth Byrne
Managing Director
Andrew Gaughan
President
Ted Taylor
President – 
Connecticut Venues
Richard Boardley
Director of 
Corporate Affairs
Carl Lynn
Finance Director
Bob Mercer
Finance Director
Phil Balderamos
Managing Director – 
California Venues
Nicola McCabe
Group Financial Controller
Nick Mounteer
Director of Marketing 
and Operations
Louis Skelton
Vice President of 
Technical Services
James D Birney
Vice President of Finance
Michelle Robbins
Group Marketing and 
Communications Manager
Kevan Woodcock
Director of Technology
Frank J. Chesky III
Executive Vice President 
and General Counsel
Paul Klomp
Managing Director – 
Netherlands Venues  
and Online
Sportech PLC Football Pools
Sportech Racing 
and Digital Sportech Venues
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 23
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements The Board considers Peter Williams and David McKeith 
to be Independent Directors. In light of his previous 
roles as Chairman of Playtech Limited, from which he 
resigned on 10 October 2013 (although he was retained 
as an industry adviser through to September 2014) and 
his capacity as a retained adviser to Scientific Games 
Corporation, Inc. (“SGC”), a position that came to an 
end on 30 September 2013, which were held upon his 
appointment as Chairman of the Board, Roger Withers 
cannot be deemed to be independent. 
Conflicts of interest
The Board has a procedure in place to deal with a 
situation where a Director has a conflict of interest, 
as required by the Companies Act 2006. As part of 
this process, the members of the Board prepare a list 
of other positions held and all other conflict situations 
that may need authorising either in relation to the Director 
concerned or his or her connected persons. The Board 
considers each Director’s situation and decides whether 
to approve any conflict situations, taking into consideration 
what is in the best interests of the Company and whether 
the Director’s ability to act in accordance with his or her 
wider duties is affected. Each Director is required to notify 
the Company Secretary of any potential or actual conflict 
situations that will need to be authorised by the Board. 
Authorisations given by the Board are reviewed annually. 
The Independent Directors Committee of the Board has 
powers to deal with matters concerning the Company and 
its major shareholders, including in relation to areas where 
conflicts of interest might otherwise arise.
 
Compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
Sportech is committed to a high standard of corporate 
governance and, throughout the financial year ended 
31 December 2015, has complied with the provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”). A copy 
of the Code is publicly available from www.frc.org.uk. 
It is the policy of the Board to manage the affairs of the 
Company in accordance with the principles of the Code 
so far as the Board believes it is practical. This report, 
together with the Remuneration report on pages 33 to 
51, describes how the Company has applied the main 
principles of corporate governance as set out in the Code. 
Board of Directors
The Board comprises the Non-executive Chairman, three 
Executive Directors and two Independent Non-executive 
Directors as follows: 
Roger Withers  Non-executive Chairman
Ian Penrose  Chief Executive
Cliff Baty  Chief Financial Officer
Rich Roberts  President: Sportech Digital
Peter Williams   Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director
David McKeith   Independent Non-executive Director
Cliff Baty gave notice in October 2015 and steps 
down from the Board on 3 March 2016. Mickey Kalifa 
is appointed to the Board, as Chief Financial Officer, 
on 3 March 2016. Biographies of these Board members 
appear on page 22. These illustrate the wide-ranging 
business experience of Board members, which is 
essential to manage effectively a business of the 
size and complexity of Sportech. 
Corporate governance report
Board composition
 Non-executive Chairman 17%
 Non-executive Directors 50%
  I nde pe nde n t N o n - e x e c u t i v e 
Directors 33%
Length of service* 
 Up to two years 1
 Two to six years 4
 More than six years 1
* As at 31 December 2015
24 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Board has in place a number of key processes 
designed to ensure that management responsibilities 
are clear. Executive Directors distribute relevant 
information and key financial reports to Board members 
in advance of each meeting, together with other materials 
required to facilitate proper consideration of business 
issues. A schedule of reserved matters for the Board has 
been established and communicated to the Senior 
Management teams. 
An Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, 
oversees the detailed operations of the business. 
The Executive Board meets formally on a regular basis 
to update the Group on ongoing corporate matters 
and to review the performance of each business 
segment and progress against key operational targets. 
The Company maintains insurance cover in respect 
of legal action against its Directors and independent 
professional advice may be taken by the Directors 
as required, at the Company’s cost. 
Board performance evaluation
The Board is satisfied that each Director continues to 
show the necessary commitment, allocates sufficient 
time to discharge their duties and continues to be an 
effective member of the Board due to their skills, expertise 
and business acumen. During the year, it was announced 
that Peter Williams had been approved as Non-executive 
Director and Chairman Designate of U and I Group plc 
with effect from 4 January 2016, to become Chairman 
on 14 July 2016. This additional commitment of the Senior 
Independent Non-executive Director is not anticipated 
to impact his ability to effectively discharge his duties 
to the Company.
Full-scale Board and Committee review processes are 
performed annually towards the end of each financial year. 
All Board members are invited to complete an online 
self-assessment and evaluation of the effectiveness of 
the Board. Amongst other things, Directors are asked for 
their views on Company strategy; key challenges for the 
business; the mix of skills, experience, independence, 
knowledge and diversity on the Board (including gender); 
effectiveness of the Board’s engagement with 
shareholders; and how well the Board operates. The 
confidential questionnaires were completed in January 
2016 and the results were circulated to the Directors in 
February 2016. The results will be discussed by the Board 
at the April 2016 Board meeting. The Board will review the 
key findings and ensure that any follow-up action required 
is undertaken promptly. It will continue to review its 
procedures, its effectiveness and development in the 
financial year ahead.
Board responsibility
Chairman
Board of Directors
Divisional operating boards Corporate business functions
Board effectiveness
Division of responsibilities, information and 
professional development
The Board of Directors is responsible for the 
management of the business of the Company and its 
long-term success. It may exercise all the powers of the 
Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes 
and the Company’s Articles. The Articles, for instance, 
contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding 
the Company’s power to borrow money. A copy of 
the Articles is available to view by request from the 
Company Secretary or from the Company’s website, 
www.sportechplc.com/investors/shareholder-
information/ memorandum-and-articles-of-association. 
The Board is also responsible for setting the Company’s 
strategic objectives and managing the Company’s 
resources to enable those objectives to be met. The 
division of responsibility between the Chairman and the 
Chief Executive is clearly defined and has been agreed 
by the Board. The Chairman is primarily responsible for 
the workings of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness. 
The Chief Executive is responsible for running the Group’s 
business, for implementing Board strategy and policy, 
and for shareholder communication. The Chairman 
also ensures that Directors maintain the appropriate skills 
and knowledge to fulfil their responsibilities and that the 
Company provides the necessary resources to Directors 
to enable this to be achieved, both by way of induction 
upon joining the Board and thereafter by way of updates. 
Luisa Wright, the Company’s Group General Counsel 
and Company Secretary, provides in-house legal advice 
to the Board and management. During Luisa’s maternity 
leave period in 2015, the Board engaged and retained 
various advisers in order to continue to receive counsel 
where and when it was necessary. In addition, the 
Company takes external legal advice where appropriate 
to ensure compliance with best practice. As Company 
Secretary, Luisa Wright also advises the Chairman and 
the Board on all governance matters.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Board meetings
The Board meets at least six times a year. Certain matters are considered at all Board meetings, including the Chief 
Executive’s report; the latest available Group consolidated accounts and Chief Financial Officer’s report; divisional 
reports and the strategic developments report. Directors unable to attend a Board meeting receive all materials to 
be presented and can discuss any issue which may arise with the Chairman or any Executive Director.
Attendance at scheduled meetings of the Board and its Committees in 2015
Main 
Board
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee 
Independent 
Directors 
Committee
Number of meetings held in year 8 3 5 2 —
Executive Directors
Ian Penrose 8 — — — —
Cliff Baty 8 — — — —
Rich Roberts 8 — — — —
Non-executive Directors
Roger Withers 8 — — 2 —
Peter Williams 8 3 5 2 —
David McKeith 8 3 5 2 —
There are seven scheduled Board meetings for 2016.
Board Committees
The Committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and 
the Independent Directors Committee. The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees 
are available on request from the Company Secretary and are available on the corporate website, www.sportechplc.
com/investors/corporate-governance. Management ensures that the Committees are provided with all the necessary 
resources to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective and efficient manner. The Company Secretary or 
her delegate acts as secretary to the Committees.
David McKeith
David McKeith
Peter Williams
David McKeith Peter Williams
Roger Withers 
Chairman
Peter Williams 
Chairman
David McKeith 
Chairman
Board of Directors
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee
Independent Directors 
Committee
Peter Williams 
Chairman
Corporate governance report continued
26 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015  –the consistency of the Annual Report as a whole and 
ensuring it presents a fair, balanced and understandable 
picture of the Company as well as providing shareholders 
with the information necessary to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy;
 –the quality and acceptability of accounting policies 
and practices; 
 –the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with 
financial reporting standards and relevant financial and 
governance reporting requirements; 
 –the material areas in which significant judgements have 
been applied or there has been discussion with the 
external Auditors; and 
 –any correspondence from regulators in relation to the 
Company’s financial reporting. 
During the year, the Committee received a presentation 
from the Finance Director of the Racing and Digital 
division on the control environment of the business. 
The Committee also considered internal reports from the 
Chief Financial Officer and the Group Financial Controller, 
together with the external Auditor’s report, in their half-
year review and annual audit, reviewing the Group’s 
financial reporting function. 
The primary areas of judgement considered by the 
Committee in relation to the 2015 financial statements were:
 –the assumptions underlying impairment testing of 
the Group’s goodwill and intangible assets, particularly 
in relation to the Football Pools goodwill, Sportech 
Venues perpetual licence and eBet goodwill and 
acquired intangibles; 
 –the carrying value of joint venture investments;
 –the carrying value of contingent consideration receivable 
in relation to NYX; and
 –the assessment of going concern and viability statement 
disclosures, including the appropriate time period for 
financial modelling. 
In order to be comfortable with the consistency, fairness 
and accuracy of these financial statements the following 
was undertaken in relation to these key areas of 
judgement: 
 –detailed review and discussion of models used for 
impairment testing and forecasts for going concern 
and viability statement reviews; 
 –detailed review of joint venture business plans;
 –stress testing of assumptions to understand impacts 
and possible mitigations; and 
 –scenario analysis.
Chairman and financial expert
David McKeith
The Audit Committee
Member
Peter Williams
The Audit Committee of the Board comprises the 
Independent Non-executive Directors and is currently 
chaired by David McKeith, who is considered to have 
recent and relevant financial experience. The Committee 
is scheduled to meet at least three times a year. 
The Committee’s main responsibilities include reviewing 
the Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Report, 
including considering significant financial reporting 
issues and judgements that they contain. The Committee 
reviews, and challenges where necessary, the consistency 
and changes to accounting policies, methods used to 
account for significant and unusual transactions, whether 
the Company has followed appropriate accounting 
standards and the clarity of disclosure in the Company’s 
financial statements. Further to this, the Committee is 
delegated from the Board the responsibility for review 
of the effectiveness of internal controls, the Company’s 
whistleblowing procedures and the need for an internal 
audit function as well as the scope, extent and 
effectiveness of such a function. The Chief Financial 
Officer, Chairman and Chief Executive are invited to 
attend the Committee as appropriate. 
Financial reporting
Following updates to the Code and the FRC’s “Guidance 
on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related 
Financial and Business Reporting”, the Committee spent 
time ensuring that the additional requirements were met 
by the Group.
The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial 
reporting is the review, with both management and the 
external Auditors, of the appropriateness of the half-year 
and annual financial statements concentrating on, 
amongst other matters: 
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements to internal PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP quality control 
procedures. A breakdown of non-audit fees charged 
by the Auditors is disclosed in note 5 in the notes to 
the financial statements. A significant proportion of the 
non-audit fees charged by the Auditors in 2015 relates 
to work undertaken in respect of ongoing issues in 
relation to indirect taxes and other advisory services. 
It was concluded by the Committee that it was in the 
interest of the Company to purchase these services on 
a single tender basis from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
due to the cumulative historical knowledge already 
gained, the timing of the work, the tie-in to the financial 
statements and confidentiality.
Effectiveness
The effectiveness of the external audit process is 
dependent on appropriate audit risk identification 
and at the start of the audit cycle we receive from 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP a detailed audit plan 
(“Audit Strategy Memorandum”), identifying their 
assessment of these key risks. For 2015 the significant 
risks identified were in relation to asset impairment, 
management override of controls, fraud in revenue 
recognition and going concern. The Committee spends 
time with the external Auditors without management 
present at each meeting to provide additional 
opportunity for open dialogue and feedback. Matters 
typically discussed include the Auditors’ assessment 
of business risks and management activity thereon, 
the transparency and openness of interactions with 
management, confirmation that there has been no 
restriction in scope placed on them by management, 
independence of their audit and how they have exercised 
professional scepticism. The Chairman of the Audit 
Committee also has regular discussions with the external 
audit partner outside the formal committee process. 
Appointment and reappointment
The Committee considers the reappointment of the 
external Auditors, including the rotation of the audit 
partner each year, and also assesses their independence 
on an ongoing basis. The external Auditors are required 
to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit 
every five years. The current lead audit partner, Nigel 
Reynolds, has performed the role since 2014.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have been the Company’s 
external Auditors since 1998, although a competitive 
tender process was conducted in 2006. As part of the 
Committee’s review of the objectivity and effectiveness of 
the audit process, an assessment was made not to put the 
audit engagement out to tender in 2015. The Committee 
will continue to assess the appropriate time at which an 
audit tender process should be conducted and continues 
to assess the effectiveness, independence and value for 
money of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. 
In testing assets for impairment, the key assumptions 
underpinning their value-in-use are discount rates 
and growth rates applied to projected earnings. 
These assumptions are inherently judgemental. 
The Committee considers those judgements in light 
of regular updates received on business plans and 
performance against targets. In addition, the Committee 
considers findings of the work of the Auditors in this area. 
In assessing the carrying value of the contingent 
consideration receivable from NYX, the Committee 
receives updates from executive management on the 
development of the North American online gaming market 
and the pertinent regulatory and commercial issues.
In assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going 
concern, and its viability statement, the Committee has 
challenged the Group’s strategic cash flow forecasts and 
the appropriateness of the time period through detailed 
review of the outputs. The Committee also considered the 
resilience of the Group to the potential impact of the 
Group’s principal risks and associated mitigating actions.
External audit
The Committee is responsible for the relationship 
with the external Auditors. The Committee considers 
the nature and extent of non-audit services provided 
by the Auditors in order to seek to balance the 
maintenance of objectivity, access to applicable 
technical expertise and value for money. To help 
avoid the objectivity and independence of the external 
Auditors becoming compromised, the Committee 
has a formal policy governing the engagement of the 
external Auditor to provide non-audit services. This policy 
precludes PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP from providing 
certain services such as internal audit work or accounting 
services. For all other services the Chief Financial Officer 
must approve spend on discrete projects in excess of 
£10,000 and secondary approval is required from the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee for spend on 
projects that are estimated will exceed £50,000 in fees. 
The Committee is regularly updated on the spend to 
date with the external Auditors and also with other 
financial advisers. 
The Auditors are also subject to professional standards 
that safeguard the integrity of their auditing role. 
The Committee remains confident that the objectivity 
and independence of the external Auditors are not in 
any way impaired by reason of the audit and non-audit 
services which they provide to the Group. Moreover, 
the Committee is satisfied that such work is best handled 
by them, either because of their knowledge of the 
Group or because they have been awarded it through 
a competitive tendering process. In addition, 
the independence of the Auditors is safeguarded by 
the use of separate teams for individual assignments such 
as acquisition due diligence and the audit being subject 
Corporate governance report continued
28 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 to oversight from the Venues division Vice President of 
Finance to ensure integrity of results and that the Group’s 
high standard of internal control is replicated.
To manage lower-level risks, a risk management 
programme is in place, supported by a business control and 
risk self-assessment process and a business continuity plan. 
The risk management programme places responsibility on 
managers to identify risks facing each business unit and for 
implementing procedures to mitigate those risks. The risk 
appraisal process is regularly reviewed by the Board and 
accords with the Code. The Audit Committee and Board 
have reviewed the effectiveness of the internal controls 
of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015 and 
up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and 
Accounts. This review covered controls in areas of 
finance, operations, risk management and compliance. 
The Group does not have an internal audit function. 
The Audit Committee has considered the use of an 
internal audit function during the year but considers 
that due to the size and nature of the Group there is not 
a requirement for such an internal function. The central 
Group Finance function continues to undertake certain 
work of an internal audit nature and reports its findings to 
the Audit Committee. During the year, the Group Finance 
function performed internal controls reviews of all three 
operating divisions: Football Pools, Sportech Venues and 
Sportech Racing and Digital. The Committee will continue 
to assess the need for specific internal audit reviews and an 
ongoing internal audit strategy during the coming months. 
Whistleblowing policy
The Company is committed to providing a safe and 
confidential avenue for all employees within the Group to 
raise concerns about serious wrongdoings. The Company 
also acknowledges the requirements of the Code in this 
regard, which states that the Audit Committee should 
review arrangements by which staff of the Group may, 
in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties 
in matters of financial reporting or other matters. 
Further to this, an appropriate policy so as to encourage 
and enable staff to raise any such concerns is in place and 
has been throughout the year. No instances of serious 
wrongdoing have been reported to the Audit Committee 
during the period. 
David McKeith
Chairman of the Audit Committee  
3 March 2016
The Audit Committee provided the Board with 
its recommendation to the shareholders on the 
reappointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 
external Auditors for the year ending 31 December 
2016 and as a result, in accordance with Section 489 
of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution proposing the 
reappointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as our 
Auditors will be put to the shareholders at the 2016 Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”). There are no contractual 
obligations restricting the Committee’s choice of external 
Auditors and we do not indemnify our external Auditors. 
The Committee will keep the appointment of the external 
Auditors under annual review.
Internal control and internal audit
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of 
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness; this 
responsibility has been delegated to the Audit Committee. 
On this basis, there is an ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the 
Group. Such a system is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives 
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. Controls 
are monitored by management review. Data consolidated 
into the Group’s financial statements is reconciled to the 
underlying financial systems. A review of the consolidated 
data is undertaken by management to ensure that the true 
position and results of the Group are reflected through 
compliance with approved accounting policies and the 
appropriate accounting for non-routine transactions. 
The Group performs an annual strategy and budgeting 
process and the Board approves the annual Group 
budget as part of its normal responsibilities. The Group 
results are reported monthly to the Board. A quarterly 
forecasting regime is adhered to and revised forecasts 
are produced for the Board whenever significant financial 
trends are identified in the periods between the 
quarterly assessments. 
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the 
internal control environment of the Group, excluding that 
of the Group’s joint ventures. It receives reports from the 
external Auditors, which include recommendations for 
improvement. The Audit Committee’s role in this area 
is confined to a high-level review of the arrangements 
for internal control. Significant risk issues are referred 
to the Board for consideration. The principal risks facing 
the Group and the mitigating actions taken by the Board 
and management are included on pages 14 to 16 of the 
Strategic report. The Group separately employs an 
India-based accountant as a consultant who is responsible 
for ensuring the integrity of results and robustness of 
internal controls and procedures in the Group’s Indian joint 
venture. Similarly, the Group’s Californian joint venture, 
S&S Venues employs a local accounting firm and is subject 
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements The Committee, in its recommendations to the Board, 
acknowledges that diversity extends beyond the 
boardroom and supports management in their efforts 
to build a diverse organisation throughout the Group. 
Out of a workforce of approximately 1,000 employees, 
41% are female and out of 16 members of senior 
management 19% are female. The Committee endorses 
the Company’s policy to attract and develop a highly 
qualified and diverse workforce; to ensure that all selection 
decisions are based on merit and that all recruitment 
activities are fair and non-discriminatory. Although at 
present there are no female Board members, the 
Committee acknowledges the importance of diversity, 
including gender, to the effective functioning of the 
Board. Furthermore, the Board acknowledges the 
recommendations of the Davies Report, and supports 
the principle of improving, in particular, gender imbalance, 
both at a Board level and throughout its businesses. 
Subject to securing suitable candidates, when recruiting 
additional Directors and/or filling vacancies that arise 
when Directors do not seek re-election, we will seek 
to appoint new Directors who fit the skills criteria and 
gender balance that is in line with the Company’s policy. 
We continue to focus on encouraging diversity of business 
skills and experience, recognising that Directors with 
diverse skill sets, capabilities and experience gained 
from different geographic and cultural backgrounds 
enhance the Board.
The Independent Directors Committee
The Independent Directors Committee comprises two 
Independent Non-executive Directors, chaired by Peter 
Williams, and is responsible for dealing with matters 
where conflicts of interest might arise due to the Board’s 
previous composition and shareholder representation. 
The Committee did not meet formally during the year, 
and only meets when circumstances of conflicts of 
interest are considered to have arisen that require review. 
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee of the Board comprised 
the two Independent Non-executive Directors, and is 
chaired by Peter Williams. The purpose of the Committee 
is to ensure that the remuneration of Executive Directors 
and Senior Executives, together with their terms and 
conditions of employment, is sufficient to recruit and 
retain individuals of the calibre required to ensure 
profitable growth of the business. The Remuneration 
report is set out on pages 33 to 51. 
The Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises two Independent 
Non-executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board, 
who also chairs the Committee. 
The Committee’s main objectives are to lead the 
process for any new appointments to the Board, whether 
Executive or Non-executive, and make recommendations 
to the Board in relation to the same, evaluate the balance 
of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, consider 
any matters relating to the continuation in office of any 
Director at any time, review Committee memberships, 
and formulate plans for succession. The Nomination 
Committee’s activities are underpinned by the principle 
that all appointments should be made on merit, against 
objective criteria and with due regard to the benefits of 
diversity on the Board. Accordingly, the Committee 
prepares a description of the role and capabilities 
required for a particular appointment. Notably, during 
the year under review, the Committee recommended 
to the Board the appointment of Mickey Kalifa to the 
role of Chief Financial Officer, upon the departure of 
Cliff Baty, with effect from 3 March 2016.
Corporate governance report continued
30 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Investor relations
There is regular dialogue with shareholders through a 
planned programme of investor relations which includes 
formal presentations of the Group’s results by the Chief 
Executive and Chief Financial Officer. Meetings also take 
place with institutional investors and analysts on a 
regular basis and there is regular communication with 
shareholders through the Annual and Interim Reports 
and Sportech’s corporate website (www.sportechplc.com). 
They are also available at other times, outside close 
periods, to enter into dialogue with shareholders. 
All shareholders have the opportunity to question the 
Board at the AGM both formally and informally. The 
Non-executive Directors have taken steps to develop 
an understanding of the views of the major shareholders 
about the Company through face-to-face contact and 
analyst and broker briefings. 
All resolutions at the 2015 AGM were voted by way of 
a manual poll. This follows best practice and allows the 
Company to count all votes rather than just those of 
shareholders attending the meeting. As recommended 
by the Code, all resolutions were voted on separately and 
the voting results, which included all votes cast for, against 
and those withheld, together with all proxies lodged prior 
to the meeting, were indicated at the meeting and the final 
results were released to the London Stock Exchange as 
soon as practicable after the meeting. The announcement 
was also made available on the Company’s corporate 
website. As in previous years, the proxy form and the 
announcement of the voting results made it clear that a 
‘vote withheld’ is not a vote in law and will not be counted 
in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for or 
against the resolution.
The Board recognises the high level of withholding 
of votes and abstentions in relation to the auditors’ 
remuneration (resolution 6) and reappointment 
(resolution 5) respectively at the 2015 AGM. 
The appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
as external Auditors is subject to regular review by 
the Audit Committee and it is the belief of the 
Committee, as stated in the Audit Committee report, 
that the effectiveness, independence and value for 
money of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as external 
Auditors remains appropriate. 
On behalf of the Board
Cliff Baty
Director  
3 March 2016
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Report of the Remuneration Committee
Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman
Dear Shareholder 
I am pleased to present the Remuneration report 
(the “Report”) for the year ended 31 December 2015.
This Report sets out the remuneration paid to Directors 
over the year under review and details the remuneration 
policy for the forthcoming year. 
The Directors on the Remuneration Committee (the 
“Committee”) are mindful of balancing the increased 
focus and guidance from stakeholders on remuneration 
issues with the need of the Company to attract and retain 
the best available talent. The Committee is comfortable 
that in 2015 it achieved an appropriate balance in this 
regard. More generally, the Committee believes that the 
policy outlined in this Report continues to achieve its 
overriding objective of establishing a stable remuneration 
platform, enabling the recruitment, retention and 
motivation of a talented executive management team 
that is fully incentivised to maximise shareholder value 
and capable of taking the business forward through 
its next phase of strategic development. 
In addition, given that the package has a substantial 
weighting towards long-term performance, the Committee 
is comfortable that the current arrangements do not 
inadvertently encourage undue risk taking and that its 
policy motivates behaviours that are in the long-term 
interests of the Company and its shareholders.
In determining remuneration levels, the Committee has 
taken account of market conditions, the performance 
of the Company, responsibility to shareholders and good 
corporate governance. Accordingly, basic salaries of 
Executive Directors for 2016 have increased by 1%, 
with no increases taking place in the other elements 
of remuneration vis-à-vis 2015.
Performance and reward in 
relation to 2015
As set out in detail in the Strategic report, the Company 
delivered against a number of strategically important 
objectives during the year under review (including 
exploring indicative proposals made during the year for 
the Group, launching the Resorts online casino via SNG 
Interactive, the Group’s joint venture with NYX Gaming 
Group Limited (“NYX”) and subsequently selling its stake 
in such joint venture to NYX, integrating its systems and 
technology into Betfred’s Totepool business and acquiring 
a 39.2% share in DraftDay Gaming Group, an associate 
established to pursue fantasy sports opportunities) and 
delivered EBITDA of £23.1m. Challenging EBITDA targets 
were not met during the year, but a number of personal 
and strategic objectives were achieved. Therefore, overall 
bonuses earned were between 17.5% and 22.5% of 
maximum bonus entitlement. 
Cliff Baty was considered eligible for an annual bonus in 
relation to 2015 on the basis he served as Chief Financial 
Officer for the whole performance period and ensured an 
orderly handover process. He will not be entitled to a 
bonus in relation to the period of service rendered in 2016.
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) awards granted in 2013 
will be eligible to vest in 2016 subject to two independent 
performance conditions. The 50% of the award subject 
to a relative Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance 
condition has a performance period ending in March 2016 
but based on the most recent assessment, TSR 
performance is ranked below the median position on a 
relative basis, so there is no vesting expected from this 
element of the award. The remaining 50% of the PSP 
awards was based on EPS growth over the three-year 
period ending 31 December 2015 with this element of the 
awards not vesting due to EPS growth over the financial 
years not achieving the minimum target.
The Committee has reviewed the variable incentive 
payouts based on the financial period ended 31 December 
2015 and is satisfied that the overall reward reflects the 
performance delivered.
Policy for 2016
The Committee has reviewed the remuneration policy 
in line with the current business strategy and considers 
it to remain fit for purpose. As such, no changes have 
been proposed for 2016 with the exception of an 
increased focus on shareholder value creation through 
the use of a TSR metric as the primary performance 
measure for Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) awards, 
alongside a financial performance underpin.
The remuneration package for the new Chief Financial 
Officer, Mickey Kalifa, will be broadly comparable to his 
predecessor in terms of salary, benefits, pension and 
variable incentive.
Shareholder feedback
The Committee has not proposed any significant changes 
to the remuneration policy for 2015 or 2016 that 
necessitated any direct consultations with shareholders 
during the year. However, the Committee welcomes any 
feedback on this Report and the remuneration policy in 
general and hopes for your continued support at the AGM. 
Peter Williams
Senior Independent Non-executive Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
3 March 2016
32 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration report
for the year ended 31 December 2015
 –provide a total remuneration offering at “target” levels 
of performance that is competitive in the relevant market;
 –incentivise performance beyond “target” levels, 
to be achieved by offering a significant proportion 
of remuneration to be delivered through incentive-
related pay;
 –create a strong alignment between the interests 
of senior management and the sustained delivery 
of shareholder value;
 –take due account/full consideration of the principles 
set out in the Code;
 –take due account of pay and employment conditions 
elsewhere in the Group;
 –provide the foundation for overall reward and 
remuneration structures at senior management 
levels; and
 –provide an appropriate balance between  
non-performance-related and performance-related pay.
The Committee reviews the remuneration policy, and 
in particular performance-related pay scheme structures, 
on an annual basis to ensure that they continue to 
operate within the agreed risk framework of the Group. 
The Committee also ensures that an effective system of 
control and risk management is in place with regards to 
remuneration, which includes access to the Audit 
Committee to discuss matters of operational and financial 
risk. The Committee is satisfied that the current policy 
does not encourage or reward for undue risk taking.
The Committee ensures that performance-related 
pay structures will not raise environmental, social or 
governance (“ESG”) risks by inadvertently motivating 
irresponsible behaviour. More generally, with regard to 
the overall remuneration structure, there is no restriction 
on the Committee which prevents it from taking into 
account corporate governance on ESG matters.
The policy, in relation to subsequent years, will be 
kept under review to ensure that it reflects any 
changing circumstances.
Remuneration for Executive Directors
The main component parts of the remuneration packages 
for Executive Directors are detailed in the table on pages 
34 to 37, which should be read in conjunction with the 
recruitment/promotion policy on page 40, and the 
“Detailed remuneration policy for 2016” section of the 
Annual report on remuneration, which starts on page 41.
This Report has been prepared in accordance with 
the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts & Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013  
(the “Regulations”).
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy report 2013 was 
subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM 
with an effective date of 13 May 2014, with the intention 
being that the policy is applied for the three-year period 
to 13 May 2017. It is re-presented in this report for 
information purposes only, with some minor changes 
to page references, updating references to former/new 
Directors where necessary and the graph illustrating pay 
scenarios removed. The full original report can be viewed 
at www.sportechplc.com/investors/results/2013. Of the 
votes cast on approval of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy at the 2014 AGM, 99.43% were in favour of the 
policy. Less than 1% of the total votes available on this 
resolution were withheld.
The policy detailed in the 2013 report and repeated 
within this report, has operated for the entire current 
financial year. The Chairman’s Statement and the Annual 
Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory 
shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM. This report is intended 
to be in full compliance with the requirements of the 
Regulations and the Code. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
have audited the contents of the Report to the extent 
required by the Regulations.
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The Committee’s key objectives are to: (i) establish 
a competitive remuneration policy for the Executive 
Directors; and (ii) align Senior Executives’ remuneration 
with the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders, 
including customers and employees.
In connection with this, the Committee aims to ensure that 
the remuneration packages offered to Executive Directors 
and Senior Executives:
 –are competitive and attract, retain and motivate 
Executives of the right calibre;
 –reflect their responsibility and experience within 
the business;
 –incorporate a significant element of performance-related 
pay linked to the achievement of challenging 
performance criteria that are aligned with the Group’s 
strategy and increased shareholder value, but remain 
appropriate given the Group’s risk profile;
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Remuneration report continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Policy table
Remuneration element and purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary
To attract and retain key individuals.
Reflects the relevant skills and experience in role.
 –Salaries are set on 1 January each year and 
reviewed annually against performance, experience, 
responsibilities, relevant market information and the 
level of workforce pay increases.
 –The current salaries are set out in the Annual report 
on remuneration on page 41.
 –Annual increases will usually be commensurate with 
those of the wider workforce.
 –If there are significant changes in responsibility or 
a change in scope, increases may exceed this level.
 –New joiners, where pay is initially set below market 
levels, may experience larger increases as their salary 
is progressed towards the market rate, based on their 
development in the role.
A broad-based assessment of individual and Company 
performance is considered as part of any salary review.
Pension
To provide cost-effective, yet market competitive, 
retirement benefits.
 –Contribution to a personal pension arrangement or 
cash in lieu of pension by way of a salary supplement.
 –8% of salary for UK Executive Directors. Only basic 
annual salary is pensionable.
Not applicable.
Benefits
To provide cost-effective, yet market competitive, benefits.
 –A car allowance for certain UK Executive Directors, 
private health insurance and life insurance cover.
 –The Committee may offer Executive Directors other 
employee benefits on broadly similar terms to those 
of the wider workforce.
 –Car allowance of £16,000 for the Chief Executive.
 –Family cover private health insurance.
 –Life insurance cover of four times salary.
 –The value of insured benefits may vary from year to year 
based on the third-party costs of supplying the benefits.
 –Where Executive Directors are recruited from overseas, 
benefits more tailored to their geographical location may 
be provided.
Not applicable.
Annual bonus plan
To motivate Executive Directors and incentivise the 
achievement of key financial and strategic goals and 
targets over the financial year.
 –Bonus is paid wholly in cash.
 –Based on the achievement of performance metrics 
with a sliding scale from a threshold to maximum level 
of performance.
 –Clawback may be applied in the event of material 
misconduct and/or an error in the calculation of the 
bonus payable.
 –Maximum bonus potential is 100% of salary for the 
Chief Executive and 75% of salary for other Directors. 
The Committee, in its discretion, acting fairly and 
reasonably, may alter the bonus outcome (upwards or 
downwards) if it feels that the payout is inconsistent with 
the Company’s overall performance and events taking 
place during the year along with any other factors it 
considers relevant. The Committee will consult with the 
Company’s major shareholders before any exercise of its 
discretion to increase the bonus outcome and will explain 
the use of any such discretion in the relevant Annual 
report on remuneration.
The majority of the bonus will be based on financial 
measures such as EBITDA-targeted performance of the 
Group (and operating divisions as appropriate), which 
takes into account market forecasts, and a minority of the 
bonus will be based on Group strategic objectives and/or 
personal objectives tailored to the achievement of the 
Group strategic goals.
The proportion of the maximum bonus that may become 
payable at the threshold performance level where financial 
targets are set will be 0% of that part of the bonus. 
Bonuses above this level are earned on a graduated basis 
to the maximum performance level. Where strategic 
targets are set, it is not always practicable to operate 
targets that can be assessed using a graduated scale.
The performance measures used for the 2015 annual 
bonus and those proposed for 2016 are described in 
the Annual report on remuneration on page 41.
34 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Policy table
Remuneration element and purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary
To attract and retain key individuals.
Reflects the relevant skills and experience in role.
 –Salaries are set on 1 January each year and 
reviewed annually against performance, experience, 
responsibilities, relevant market information and the 
level of workforce pay increases.
 –The current salaries are set out in the Annual report 
on remuneration on page 41.
 –Annual increases will usually be commensurate with 
those of the wider workforce.
 –If there are significant changes in responsibility or 
a change in scope, increases may exceed this level.
 –New joiners, where pay is initially set below market 
levels, may experience larger increases as their salary 
is progressed towards the market rate, based on their 
development in the role.
A broad-based assessment of individual and Company 
performance is considered as part of any salary review.
Pension
To provide cost-effective, yet market competitive, 
retirement benefits.
 –Contribution to a personal pension arrangement or 
cash in lieu of pension by way of a salary supplement.
 –8% of salary for UK Executive Directors. Only basic 
annual salary is pensionable.
Not applicable.
Benefits
To provide cost-effective, yet market competitive, benefits.
 –A car allowance for certain UK Executive Directors, 
private health insurance and life insurance cover.
 –The Committee may offer Executive Directors other 
employee benefits on broadly similar terms to those 
of the wider workforce.
 –Car allowance of £16,000 for the Chief Executive.
 –Family cover private health insurance.
 –Life insurance cover of four times salary.
 –The value of insured benefits may vary from year to year 
based on the third-party costs of supplying the benefits.
 –Where Executive Directors are recruited from overseas, 
benefits more tailored to their geographical location may 
be provided.
Not applicable.
Annual bonus plan
To motivate Executive Directors and incentivise the 
achievement of key financial and strategic goals and 
targets over the financial year.
 –Bonus is paid wholly in cash.
 –Based on the achievement of performance metrics 
with a sliding scale from a threshold to maximum level 
of performance.
 –Clawback may be applied in the event of material 
misconduct and/or an error in the calculation of the 
bonus payable.
 –Maximum bonus potential is 100% of salary for the 
Chief Executive and 75% of salary for other Directors. 
The Committee, in its discretion, acting fairly and 
reasonably, may alter the bonus outcome (upwards or 
downwards) if it feels that the payout is inconsistent with 
the Company’s overall performance and events taking 
place during the year along with any other factors it 
considers relevant. The Committee will consult with the 
Company’s major shareholders before any exercise of its 
discretion to increase the bonus outcome and will explain 
the use of any such discretion in the relevant Annual 
report on remuneration.
The majority of the bonus will be based on financial 
measures such as EBITDA-targeted performance of the 
Group (and operating divisions as appropriate), which 
takes into account market forecasts, and a minority of the 
bonus will be based on Group strategic objectives and/or 
personal objectives tailored to the achievement of the 
Group strategic goals.
The proportion of the maximum bonus that may become 
payable at the threshold performance level where financial 
targets are set will be 0% of that part of the bonus. 
Bonuses above this level are earned on a graduated basis 
to the maximum performance level. Where strategic 
targets are set, it is not always practicable to operate 
targets that can be assessed using a graduated scale.
The performance measures used for the 2015 annual 
bonus and those proposed for 2016 are described in 
the Annual report on remuneration on page 41.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Remuneration report continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Remuneration element and purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Long term incentive plan
To motivate Executive Directors and incentivise delivery 
of performance over the long term.
To encourage greater shareholder alignment by rewarding 
TSR outperformance.
To facilitate share ownership.
 –Annual awards of performance share awards which vest 
subject to performance after three years.
 –Directors may be entitled to dividends which accrue 
on vested awards.
 –Performance share awards of up to 100% of salary can 
be granted for a normal annual grant, with up to 200% 
of salary used in exceptional circumstances.
 –The policy is to grant awards of up to 100% of salary 
for Directors.
Awards will be granted subject to a combination of relative 
TSR and financial measures (such as EPS) over a three-
year period.
The Committee will review the appropriateness of the 
performance conditions on an annual basis and may make 
changes to the weightings or introduce new measures 
which are aligned to the Company strategy at that time.
A minority (25%) of the award will vest for threshold levels 
of performance, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting 
for outperformance.
The performance measures used for the 2015 PSP award 
and those proposed for the 2016 PSP award are described 
in the Annual report on remuneration.
All Employee Share Plans
To promote wider employee share ownership.
 –All employees (including Executive Directors) may 
be invited periodically to participate in a Company 
Sharesave plan.
 –Participants would have the right to commit to a savings 
contract whereby the proceeds can be used towards the 
exercise of an option granted at the time they participate. 
The exercise price can be discounted by up to 20% of the 
share price on grant.
 –Monthly savings limits are based on HMRC rules which 
currently limit monthly savings towards share purchases 
under three-year savings contracts to £500.
Not applicable.
Executive share ownership
To align Executive Directors’ and shareholders’ interests.
 –All Executive Directors are expected to hold an 
investment of at least 100% of base salary in the 
Company, using 50% of net awards under the Company’s 
LTIPs to achieve the shareholdings, if required.
 –100% of salary for all Executive Directors. Not applicable.
Non-executive fees
To attract and retain high-calibre Non-executive Directors.
To set remuneration by reference to the 
responsibilities and time commitment undertaken  
by each Non-executive Director.
 –Fee levels are reviewed on a regular basis and are set 
based on expected time commitments, responsibilities 
and in context of the fee levels in companies of a 
comparable size and complexity, and reflecting the 
onerous obligations of international racing regimes.
 –The Non-executive Chairman’s fee and Non-executive 
fees are set out in the Annual report on remuneration  
on page 41.
 –Any increase in fees may be above those of the wider 
workforce (in percentage terms) in any particular year, 
reflecting the periodic nature of any review and changes 
to time commitments and/or responsibilities.
Not applicable.
36 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration element and purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Long term incentive plan
To motivate Executive Directors and incentivise delivery 
of performance over the long term.
To encourage greater shareholder alignment by rewarding 
TSR outperformance.
To facilitate share ownership.
 –Annual awards of performance share awards which vest 
subject to performance after three years.
 –Directors may be entitled to dividends which accrue 
on vested awards.
 –Performance share awards of up to 100% of salary can 
be granted for a normal annual grant, with up to 200% 
of salary used in exceptional circumstances.
 –The policy is to grant awards of up to 100% of salary 
for Directors.
Awards will be granted subject to a combination of relative 
TSR and financial measures (such as EPS) over a three-
year period.
The Committee will review the appropriateness of the 
performance conditions on an annual basis and may make 
changes to the weightings or introduce new measures 
which are aligned to the Company strategy at that time.
A minority (25%) of the award will vest for threshold levels 
of performance, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting 
for outperformance.
The performance measures used for the 2015 PSP award 
and those proposed for the 2016 PSP award are described 
in the Annual report on remuneration.
All Employee Share Plans
To promote wider employee share ownership.
 –All employees (including Executive Directors) may 
be invited periodically to participate in a Company 
Sharesave plan.
 –Participants would have the right to commit to a savings 
contract whereby the proceeds can be used towards the 
exercise of an option granted at the time they participate. 
The exercise price can be discounted by up to 20% of the 
share price on grant.
 –Monthly savings limits are based on HMRC rules which 
currently limit monthly savings towards share purchases 
under three-year savings contracts to £500.
Not applicable.
Executive share ownership
To align Executive Directors’ and shareholders’ interests.
 –All Executive Directors are expected to hold an 
investment of at least 100% of base salary in the 
Company, using 50% of net awards under the Company’s 
LTIPs to achieve the shareholdings, if required.
 –100% of salary for all Executive Directors. Not applicable.
Non-executive fees
To attract and retain high-calibre Non-executive Directors.
To set remuneration by reference to the 
responsibilities and time commitment undertaken  
by each Non-executive Director.
 –Fee levels are reviewed on a regular basis and are set 
based on expected time commitments, responsibilities 
and in context of the fee levels in companies of a 
comparable size and complexity, and reflecting the 
onerous obligations of international racing regimes.
 –The Non-executive Chairman’s fee and Non-executive 
fees are set out in the Annual report on remuneration  
on page 41.
 –Any increase in fees may be above those of the wider 
workforce (in percentage terms) in any particular year, 
reflecting the periodic nature of any review and changes 
to time commitments and/or responsibilities.
Not applicable.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Policy on contracts of service
All Directors have rolling contracts with notice periods 
of no more than twelve months.
Date of 
appointment
Notice 
period
Roger Withers 07.02.11 3 months
Ian Penrose 01.10.05 12 months
Cliff Baty* 14.05.13 12 months
Rich Roberts 14.07.14 12 months
Peter Williams 07.02.11 3 months
David McKeith 25.08.11 3 months
*  Cliff Baty gave notice in October 2015 and steps down from the 
Board on 3 March 2016.
Copies of contracts of service are available for inspection 
on request to the Company Secretary.
It is the Committee’s policy for the notice periods 
of Executive Directors to be twelve months or less.
In the event of termination, the Committee’s policy 
is that payments on termination should reflect the 
specific circumstances prevailing. In general it would 
be the Committee’s policy to make a payment in lieu 
of notice where necessary, limited to base salary and 
benefits. To the extent that an individual might otherwise 
seek to bring a claim against the Company in relation to 
the termination of their employment (e.g. for breach of 
contract or unfair dismissal), the Committee retains the 
right to make an appropriate payment in settlement of 
such potential or actual claims. Payments in connection 
with any statutory entitlements (e.g. in relation to 
redundancy) may be made as required. In connection with 
the foregoing, the Committee reserves the right to award 
to an Executive Director a bonus in respect of the period 
of the year in which notice of termination had not been 
served (and, in certain exceptional circumstances, in 
The Committee operates the annual bonus plan and LTIPs 
according to their respective rules and consistent with 
normal market practice, the Listing Rules and HMRC rules 
where relevant, including flexibility in a number of regards. 
These include:
 –the timing of awards and payments;
 –the size of an award (within the limits noted in the 
table on pages 34 to 37), and when and how much 
should vest;
 –who receives an award or payment;
 –dealing with a change of control or restructuring 
of the Group;
 –determining whether a participant is a good or bad leaver 
for incentive plan purposes and whether and what 
proportion of awards vest;
 –any adjustments required to awards in certain 
circumstances (e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, 
events and special dividends); and
 –the weightings, measures and targets for the annual 
bonus plan and LTIP from year to year.
The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the targets 
and/or set different measures and alter weightings for the 
annual bonus plan and to adjust targets for the LTIP if 
events occur (e.g. a major acquisition or disposal) which 
cause it to determine that the conditions are unable to 
fulfil their original intended purpose and the change 
would not be materially less difficult to satisfy.
Existing awards
The Committee intends to honour any commitments, 
including outstanding PSP awards, on the terms 
applicable at the time each such commitment was 
made. The relevant outstanding awards are described 
in more detail on pages 46 to 48.
Remuneration report continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
38 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Other employees’ pay
The Committee did not consult with employees directly 
on matters of Executive remuneration. However, the 
Committee is aware of the disconnect which can be 
created if Executive Director remuneration is set in 
isolation and therefore is updated during the year with 
details of the pay and employment conditions in the wider 
workforce. In particular the Committee is made aware of 
general salary increases, general benefit provision and the 
proposed level of annual bonuses. The Committee is also 
responsible for reviewing the participants of the LTIPs 
and participation levels in the all-employee plans.
Base salary increases across the Group were in the 
range of 1% to 1.5% for 2016, reflecting the RPI prevailing 
in the country in which the individual is employed. The 
Executive Directors received an increase of 1% for 2016 
which is consistent with the general pay award for the 
Group’s employees.
Remuneration policy across the Group
The remuneration policy described in this Report is 
broadly consistent with the policy used for other Senior 
Executives of the Company. A significant proportion of 
remuneration remains performance-related, although 
lower quantums will operate.
The majority of employees will participate in annual 
bonus schemes, although the limits and performance 
metrics will vary according to the seniority and location 
of the role.
Participation in the LTIPs is targeted at senior 
management and key staff, to align employees’ 
interests with those of shareholders.
The majority of new employees are eligible to join 
a defined contribution pension plan.
respect of any period following receipt of notice of 
resignation) that the individual remained in employment, 
subject to the appropriate performance measures being 
achieved. The determination of any share incentive vesting 
would be subject to the rules of the relevant plan, but in 
general where an individual is a good leaver (death, injury 
or disability, retirement, redundancy, transfer of business 
outside of the Group and any other reason the Committee 
decides) their awards would vest on the cessation date, 
unless the Committee decides the award should continue 
to the original vesting date and remain subject to the 
appropriate performance measures being achieved  
and time pro rating (unless the Committee decides  
it is inappropriate to apply time pro rating).
The Committee would intend to apply the above policy 
for any new appointment, which may include the ability 
to make phased payments with mitigation.
The Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment 
which provide for notice by either party giving to the other 
not less than three months’ notice in writing. The Company 
may also terminate by making a payment in lieu of notice.
None of the employment contracts of the Directors 
contain special contractual termination provisions.
Policy on external appointments
Sportech PLC recognises that its Directors are likely 
to be invited to become Non-executive Directors of 
other companies and that such exposure can broaden 
experience and knowledge, which will benefit the 
Company. Executive Directors are therefore allowed to 
accept Non-executive appointments and retain any fees 
earned, with the Board’s prior permission, as long as these 
are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest. In this regard, 
Ian Penrose is a Trustee of the National Football Museum, 
a registered charity, and he receives no remuneration in 
respect of this appointment.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Remuneration report continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Policy on Executive Director recruitments/promotions
In relation to an external executive recruitment or an internal promotion the Committee will follow the principles outlined 
in the table below:
Element of remuneration Policy
Base salary Salary levels will be set based on:
 –the particular experience, knowledge and skill of the individual;
 –market rates for comparable positions in companies of a similar size and complexity; and
 –internal Company relativities.
Where considered appropriate the Committee may wish to set the initial salary below the 
perceived market rate (e.g. to reflect an individual’s limited experience at a PLC Board level) 
but with the view to make phased increases, potentially above those of the wider workforce 
as a percentage of salary, to achieve the desired market positioning over time. Any increases 
would be subject to the individual’s continued development and performance in the role.
Benefits A new appointment would be offered the same benefits package (or equivalent in line with local 
market practice) as that provided to current Executive Directors.
Where considered necessary, the Committee may be required to pay certain relocation expenses, 
legal fees and other costs incurred by the individual in relation to their appointment.
Pension A defined contribution or cash supplement (or equivalent in line with local market practice) at the 
level provided to current Executive Directors may be provided.
Annual bonus The Committee would envisage the annual bonus for any new appointment operating as set out 
in the Policy table for current Executive Directors. The annual bonus maximum would be limited 
to that of the current Chief Executive.
However, the Committee may consider it necessary (depending on timing and the nature of the 
appointment) to set different tailored performance measures for the initial bonus year.
Long-term  
incentives
Ongoing LTIP awards will be made on the same terms as current Executives, albeit possibly 
with different performance periods depending on the timing of the appointment. The maximum 
ongoing award will be no higher than that of the current Chief Executive. An award may be made 
shortly after an appointment.
For internal promotions, existing awards will continue over their original vesting period and remain 
subject to their terms as at the date of grant.
A new appointment would be eligible to participate in the Sharesave Plan under the same terms 
as all other employees.
Buy-out awards To facilitate an external recruitment, it may be necessary to buy out remuneration which would be 
forfeited on the appointee leaving their previous employer. When determining the quantum and 
structure of any buy-out awards the Committee will, where possible, use a consistent basis, taking 
into account the form of remuneration (cash or shares), timing horizons and the application of any 
performance criteria.
Buy-out awards, if used, will be granted using the Company’s existing share plans to the extent 
possible, although awards may also be granted outside of these schemes if necessary and as 
permitted under the Listing Rules.
40 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Shareholder engagement
The Committee considers an open and constructive 
dialogue with investors to be vitally important to 
establishing a successful remuneration policy which 
is considered fair by both Executives and shareholders. 
Therefore, the Committee will consult with major investors 
whenever material changes to the policy are proposed. 
The Committee also welcomes investor feedback and will 
consider views raised at the AGM and regular meetings 
throughout the year when establishing the overall policy.
Annual report on remuneration
The Committee’s Terms of Reference are available 
from the Company Secretary and can be found on the 
Company’s website at www.sportechplc.com/investors/
corporate-governance.
The Committee met five times during the year and 
the following key activities were undertaken:
 –review of best practice;
 –approval and grant of annual awards under the PSP 
in the year under review;
 –review of the PSP performance conditions and approval 
to retain both challenging financial growth conditions 
and TSR conditions;
 –approval of bonus awards, in March 2015, paid out in 
line with the 2014 bonus policy and approval of bonus 
policy for 2015;
 –review of base salaries for the Executive team; 
 –approval of vesting of 2012 PSP awards; and
 –review and approval of new terms of employment 
for Mickey Kalifa.
The Committee’s recommendations in 2015 and early 2016 
were all accepted and implemented by the Board.
Compliance with best practice
During 2015, the Committee has, with the assistance 
of its independent remuneration consultants, New Bridge 
Street (“NBS”) (a trading name of Aon Plc), reviewed its 
practices and policies to ensure they are in line with 
what it perceives to be best practice and the Company’s 
strategic objectives. The Committee continues to be 
committed to the principles of good governance as set 
out in the Code.
Composition of the Remuneration Committee
During the year the Committee consisted of Peter Williams 
(Chairman) and David McKeith. Peter and David are both 
Independent Non-executive Directors. No Committee 
member has any personal financial interest (other 
than as a shareholder), conflicts of interest from cross-
Directorships or day-to-day involvement in the running 
of the business.
The Chief Executive and Chairman are invited to attend 
meetings although neither is present when matters 
affecting his own remuneration are discussed. The 
Company Secretary or their nominee acts as secretary 
to the Committee.
The Committee receive advice from NBS on aspects 
of Executive remuneration. NBS is a member of the 
Remuneration Consultants Group and has signed up 
to its Code of Conduct. NBS has no connection with 
Sportech other than in the provision of advice on 
Executive remuneration. The terms of engagement 
with NBS are available from the Company Secretary 
on request. The fees of the independent remuneration 
consultants in relation to the services provided by them 
to the Company during the financial year were £56,000 
(2014: £35,000).
The Committee reviews its relationships with external 
advisers on a regular basis and believes that no conflicts 
of interest exist.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements For each Executive Director, their performance-related 
bonus is based on the EBITDA performance of the Group 
(and operating divisions as appropriate), delivering on the 
Group strategic objectives and meeting personal targets. 
The EBITDA-based proportion of the bonus, which 
represents 70% of each Director’s bonus entitlement, 
is operated with a range set around a budgeted EBITDA 
figure (taking into account consensus forecasts). Strategic 
and personal objectives include continuing to develop our 
multiple business interests in Connecticut and California, 
rolling out our Racing and Digital footprint, implementing 
plans for growth in The Football Pools and developing the 
Sportech team to take advantage of new and innovative 
business opportunities. Further detail about such strategic 
and personal objectives is considered commercially 
sensitive and will therefore not be disclosed prospectively. 
The Committee will consider whether retrospective 
disclosure is appropriate. This bonus is wholly payable 
in cash.
Recovery provisions may be applied in the event of 
material misconduct and/or an error in the calculation 
of the bonus payable.
Pension arrangements
The Company will contribute into a defined contribution 
scheme for the Executive Directors at a rate of 8%. 
Only basic annual salary is pensionable. In addition, the 
Company matches the contribution into a 401(k) pension 
scheme for Rich Roberts being $6,750 per annum.
Other benefits
Executive Directors are entitled to the following other 
main benefits:
 –Chief Executive – 29 working days’ holiday per 
annum in addition to normal bank and public holidays. 
Other UK Executive Directors – 25 working days’ 
holiday per annum in addition to normal bank and 
public holidays. US-based Directors are entitled to 
20 working days’ holiday per annum in addition to 
normal US public holidays;
 –a car allowance of £16,000 for the Chief Executive;
 –private health insurance for themselves, their spouse 
and children; and
 –life insurance of four times salary (UK Directors only).
Detailed remuneration policy for 2016
Basic annual salary
Each Executive Director’s basic salary is reviewed 
and determined by the Committee annually, taking into 
account the individual’s performance and experience. 
The Committee also makes use of independent 
benchmark data provided by external remuneration 
consultants, takes due account of market median data 
in separate comparator groups based on sector, size and 
complexity, and is aware of the level of salary increases 
awarded to other employees within the Group.
 –Ian Penrose, Chief Executive, was awarded a salary 
increase of 1%, which is consistent with the general pay 
award for all UK-based employees. He is paid a salary 
of £393,000 per annum with effect from 1 January 2016.
 –Cliff Baty, Chief Financial Officer, is paid a salary of 
£249,000 per annum with effect from 1 January 2016, 
an increase of 1%, which is consistent with the general 
pay award for all UK-based employees, until he steps 
down from the Board and ceases to be an employee on 
3 March 2016. The Committee determined that Cliff Baty 
be eligible for the general pay increase in relation to 2016, 
notwithstanding that he served notice of his resignation 
in October 2015, on the basis that he continues to serve 
as Chief Financial Officer until 3 March 2016 when he 
ceases to be an employee of the Company and ensures 
an orderly handover process.
 –Rich Roberts, President: Sportech Digital, is paid a salary 
of $306,000 per annum with effect from 1 January 2016, 
an increase of 1% from the salary set on appointment.
 –Mickey Kalifa, who will be appointed to the Board as 
Chief Financial Officer on 3 March 2016, and commenced 
a handover process from Cliff Baty on 4 January 2016, 
will be paid £230,000 per annum.
Performance-related bonus
The maximum bonus potential for the Chief Executive 
for 2016 is 100% of basic salary, for the new Chief Financial 
Officer, 75% of basic salary and for the President: Sportech 
Digital is 50% of basic salary. Cliff Baty will not be eligible 
for a bonus in relation to the period of service rendered 
in 2016.
Remuneration report continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
42 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Policy on Executive share ownership
The Board has adopted a formal policy in respect 
of Executive share ownership, pursuant to which all 
Executives are expected to invest in the Company to 
a level of at least 100% of annual salary over time, save 
that under such policy Executives may build to this level 
using 50% of net awards under the Company’s long-term 
incentive plans. Current share ownerships are set out 
on page 49.
Non-executive Directors’ fees and incentives
The fees of the Non-executive Directors are set by the 
Board following a review against fee levels operated in 
companies of a comparable size and after taking into 
account the anticipated time commitment of each role. 
The Non-executive Directors do not participate in any 
incentive, pension or benefit schemes of the Company.
The fees set for 1 January 2016 are unchanged from the 
prior year, being £120,000 for the Chairman and a set fee 
of £47,500 (with a further £5,000 for each Committee 
they sit on) for the Non-executive Directors. The fees are 
set competitively against comparable companies, 
reflecting the onerous international regulatory 
environment for Sportech and the fact that Board 
meetings will be held in both the US and the UK, 
necessitating additional travel and time commitments.
Details of each Director’s remuneration for the year ended 
31 December 2015 are given in the table overleaf.
Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 
31 December 2015
Basic annual salary
 –Ian Penrose, Chief Executive, £389,000 per annum, 
with effect from 1 January 2015.
 –Cliff Baty, Chief Financial Officer, £247,000 per annum 
with effect from 1 January 2015.
 –Rich Roberts, President: Sportech Digital, $303,000 per 
annum with effect from 1 January 2015.
Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”)
The Committee believes that share ownership and the 
granting of share-based incentives strengthens the link 
between Executives’ personal interests and those of 
the shareholders. The Company has two long-term 
share plans in place: a share option scheme and a PSP. 
The Company’s policy has been to only grant awards 
under the PSP since its adoption in 2007.
It is the Committee’s intention to grant awards in 2016 
at 100% of salary to the Chief Executive and 75% of salary 
to the other Directors. The targets to apply to the 2016 
awards are to be restructured with a greater focus on 
incentivising growth in TSR. As a result, the primary 
performance metric will be the Company’s relative TSR 
performance measured against the constituents of the 
FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding investment trusts) over a 
three-year performance period (the comparator group set 
as at the date of grant).
No portion of the awards will vest unless Sportech’s TSR 
performance at least matches the median of the TSR 
performance within the comparator group; thereafter 
the following vesting schedule will apply:
The Company’s TSR rank against the  
TSR of the comparator companies Extent of vesting
Median 25%
Between median and upper quartile Pro rata between 
25% and 100%
Upper quartile (or better) 100%
Moving to TSR as the primary performance metric 
(from TSR and EPS) is considered appropriate for the 
2016 awards to reflect Company strategy. However, 
to ensure that financial performance will be taken into 
account when determining the vesting of such awards, 
a general financial underpin will apply. This will require 
the Committee to consider the Company’s financial 
performance over the performance period when 
determining the final vesting result.
The Committee is aware that the PSP does not currently 
operate recovery or withholding provisions. The Committee 
believes there are strong internal controls, a relatively simple 
reporting process and a robust level of oversight which 
means the risk of a material misstatement to the accounts 
or individual misconduct is considered to be extremely 
unlikely. However, the Committee will keep this issue under 
review for future awards.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Directors’ remuneration for 2015 (audited)
Year of 
appointment
Fees/salary 
£000
Taxable 
benefits
1
 
£000
Pension 
£000
Bonuses 
£000
Long-term 
incentives 
£000
2015 
Total 
£000
Executive Directors
Ian Penrose 2005 389 17 31 80 — 517
Cliff Baty 2013 247 1 20 32 — 300
Rich Roberts 2014 198 14 4 22 — 238
Non-executive Directors
Roger Withers 2011 120 — — — — 120
Peter Williams 2011 58 — — — — 58
David McKeith 2011 58 — — — — 58
Aggregate emoluments 1,070 32 55 134 — 1,291
1 Taxable benefits comprise various insurance policies and car allowances.
Directors’ remuneration for 2014 (audited)
Year of 
appointment
Fees/salary 
£000
Taxable 
benefits
1
 
£000
Pension 
£000
Bonuses 
£000
Long-term 
incentives
2
 
£000
2014 
Total 
£000
Executive Directors
Ian Penrose 2005 385 17 31 82 158 673
Cliff Baty 2013 245 1 20 25 — 291
Ian Hogg (resigned 25 September 
2014) 2010 256 14 20 14 32 336
Rich Roberts  
(appointed 14 July 2014) 2014 78 5 1 5 — 89
Non-executive Directors
Roger Withers 2011 120 — — — — 120
Peter Williams 2011 58 — — — — 58
David McKeith 2011 58 — — — — 58
Lorne Weil (resigned 28 April 2014) 2010 20 — — — — 20
Rich Roberts (resigned 14 July 2014) 2013 37 — — — — 37
Aggregate emoluments 1,257 37 72 126 190 1,682
1 Taxable benefits comprise various insurance policies and car allowances.
2 The value of long-term incentives included for 2014 originally reflected an estimate of the number of awards expected to vest in relation 
to performance ended or substantially ended at 31 December 2014. As the awards had not been transferred to the participants before the 
publication of the 2014 report, the value originally recorded was based on the three-month average share price to 31 December 2014 of 
54.8p. These awards have not yet been transferred to participants, due to an extended close period and therefore the numbers have not 
been amended to reflect the actual value transferred.
Remuneration report continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
44 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Performance-related bonus
The maximum bonus potential for the Chief Executive in the year under review was 100% of basic salary, and for the 
Chief Financial Officer was 75% of basic salary. For the President: Sportech Digital, the maximum bonus potential was 
50% of basic salary.
For each Executive Director their performance related bonus was based on (i) the EBITDA performance of the Group 
and (ii) strategic objectives aligned with the Group strategic goals. 
The Committee determined that despite serving notice, Cliff Baty would be eligible to receive a bonus in relation to 2015 
on the basis that he served in an executive capacity for the whole performance year and was facilitating an effective 
handover process.
EBITDA performance
The Committee considered the Group’s EBITDA performance for these purposes and in this respect, achievement 
was determined to be 0% out of a maximum target of 70% of potential bonus. The targets set were to achieve EBITDA 
of between £23.5m and £26.5m, and actual EBITDA performance was £23.1m.
Strategic objectives
With regards to the Chief Executive, his targets related to delivering against a number of growth-focused initiatives 
primarily in relation to the Group’s activities in the UK and US (including progress and growth in respect of the Venues 
division, the launch of the Resorts online casino via SNG Interactive (the joint venture with NYX), delivery of the first 
phase of software and technology integration into Betfred’s Totepool system and developing the product offering 
and increasing customer acquisition in the Football Pools division). His strategic targets also included securing long-
term funding for the Group. Achievements against these targets were assessed, resulting in an award of 20.5% out 
of a maximum target of 30% of potential bonus. The strategic targets relating to the Chief Financial Officer were in 
relation to securing strategic long-term funding for the Group alongside the Chief Executive, supporting the 
achievement of wider Group strategic objectives and implementing new system and process developments. 
Achievements against these targets were assessed, resulting in an award of 17.5% out of a maximum target of 30% of 
potential bonus. The strategic targets of the President: Sportech Digital related to the Connecticut online business, the 
NYX joint venture plans in New Jersey and progressing fantasy sports initiatives. Achievements against these targets 
were assessed, resulting in an award of 22.5% out of a maximum target of 30% of potential bonus. 
The table below summarises the overall bonus result.
Individual Total bonus: % Maximum (% salary payable)
Chief Executive 20.5% out of the maximum entitlement (20.5% of salary payable)
Chief Financial Officer 17.5% out of the maximum entitlement (13.1% of salary payable)
President: Sportech Digital 22.5% out of the maximum entitlement (11.3% of salary payable)
The Committee is comfortable that the level of bonuses paid to Executive Directors reflect both the Company and 
individual performance during the year.
Pension arrangements
The Company contributed into a defined contribution scheme for the UK-based Executive Directors at a rate of 8%. 
Only basic annual salary was pensionable. Two Directors (2014: three Directors) were members of UK defined 
contribution schemes during the year. Contributions paid by the Company in respect of these Directors are as shown 
in the table on page 44. The Company pays a maximum of $6,750 per annum into a defined contribution scheme for 
Rich Roberts, a US-based director.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Long-Term Incentive Plans
Awards vested in relation to performance ending 2015
Awards granted in March 2013 reached the end of their performance periods or were substantially complete in the year 
under review. This includes 50% of awards subject to relative TSR (performance period to end 20 March 2016) and 50% 
of awards subject to EPS (performance period ended 31 December 2015). Summary details of the full conditions 
applying to the 2013 awards are included as a footnote to the PSP table on page 48.
In terms of the 2013 award, the assessment of the TSR measures was made independently by NBS who advised that 
the relative TSR performance measured to 31 January 2016 was (29)% which resulted in the Company being ranked 
below the median ranking position on a relative basis. As a result no vesting of this part of the awards is expected.
The EPS decline over the three-year period to 31 December 2015 was (6.1)% p.a. thereby triggering 0% vesting of this 
element of the award.
In summary the total number of awards for each Executive is shown in the table below.
Performance Share Plan – 2015 Vesting
Measure Condition Threshold Maximum Actual Vesting
Relative TSR (2013) TSR measured against the constituents 
of the FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding 
investment trusts) over the three years 
from date of grant
Median 
rank 
(65.5)
Upper 
quartile 
rank 
(33.0)
TSR 
(29)% 
rank 
(108)
0%
EPS (2013) Annualised adjusted EPS growth measured 
against RPI over three financial years
RPI 
+4% p.a. 
RPI 
+10% p.a. 
(6.1)% 0%
Executive Award
Number 
of awards 
granted Vesting
Number 
of shares 
vesting
Value of 
awards
Ian Penrose 2013 (Part A) 188,700 0% — —
2013 (Part B) 188,700 0% — —
Cliff Baty’s outstanding PSP awards have been treated as lapsed in 2015.
LTIP awards granted during 2015
Share option scheme
A share option scheme is in place, the details of which are described in note 26. The last award under such a scheme was 
made in 2005.
Remuneration report continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
46 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Performance Share Plan
The PSP was introduced in 2007. Under the rules of the PSP, awards may normally be granted up to 100% of salary, 
other than in exceptional circumstances, when they may be granted up to 200% of salary.
The Committee had previously approved the introduction of an annual award policy from 2012 at up to 100% of salary 
to Executive Directors.
Performance Share Plan – 2015 Award
Executive Type of award
Number 
of awards 
granted Basis of award
Share price 
on grant 
Pence Face value*
Percentage 
which vests 
at threshold
Ian Penrose Performance share 584,657 100% of salary 66.5 £388,797 25%
Cliff Baty Performance share 278,851 75% of salary 66.5 £185,436 25%
Rich Roberts Performance share 226,310 75% of salary 66.5 £150,496 25%
*  This is based on the closing share price on the day before the date of grant. The date of grant was 9 March 2015. 
2015 awards – targets
In connection with the awards to the Executive Directors, two distinct performance conditions apply, each in relation 
to one-half of each award.
For ease of reference, such halves are referred to below as Part A and Part B respectively.
The vesting of Part A of each such award will be dependent on Sportech’s TSR over a fixed three-year period relative 
to the TSR of the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding investment trusts) over the same period (the 
comparator group set as at the date of grant).
No portion of Part A will vest unless Sportech’s TSR performance at least matches the median of the TSR performance 
within the comparator group. Thereafter the following vesting schedule will apply:
The Company’s TSR rank against the TSR of the comparator companies Extent of vesting of Part A
Median 25%
Between median and upper quartile Pro rata between 25% and 100%
Upper quartile (or better) 100%
The vesting of Part B of each such award will be dependent on Sportech’s EPS performance over a fixed three-year 
period. No portion of Part B will vest unless Sportech’s EPS growth is at least equal to the Retail Prices Index (“RPI”) plus 
4% per annum; thereafter the following vesting schedule will apply:
The Company’s EPS growth Extent of vesting of Part B
At least RPI + 4% p.a. 25%
Between a minimum of RPI + 4% p.a. and 10% p.a. Pro rata between 25% and 100%
At least RPI + 10% p.a. 100%
EPS performance will be tested from a base year ended 31 December 2014 with EPS being calculated on such adjusted 
basis as the Remuneration Committee determines appropriate. Adjusted EPS for such purposes will be disclosed in due 
course at the time of vesting in the Remuneration report.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Directors’ share-based incentives
Aggregate emoluments disclosed on page 44 do not include any amounts for the value of share-based incentives to 
acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the Directors. The share-based incentives held by the 
Directors are as follows:
Sportech share option scheme
No Director holds outstanding share option awards under this scheme subsequent to the expiry of the 2005 award 
during the year. 
PSP
The following table shows awards outstanding at the start of the year, awarded, vested and lapsed during the year 
and remaining outstanding at the end of the year.
Date of 
grant
As at 
1 January 
2015 
Number
Awarded 
during 
the year 
Number
Vested 
during 
the year 
Number
Lapsed 
during 
the year 
Number
As at 
31 December 
2015 
Number
Vested 
but not 
exercised 
Number
Market price 
on date 
of grant 
Pence
Date 
from which 
exercisable
Award 
expiry date
Ian Penrose 02.12.11
1
— — — — — 193,610 39.75 02.12.14 02.12.15
3
08.03.12
1
751,269 — (173,618) (577,651) — 173,618 51.52 08.03.15 08.03.16
21.03.13
2
377,400 — — — 377,400 — 100.00 21.03.16 21.03.17
07.03.14
2
432,525 — — — 432,525 — 89.00 07.03.17 07.03.18
09.03.15
2
— 584,657 — — 584,657 — 66.50 09.03.18 09.03.19
Total 1,561,194 584,657 (173,618) (577,651) 1,394,582 367,228
Cliff Baty 24.05.13
2
276,000 — — (276,000) — — 90.00 21.03.16 21.03.17
07.03.14
2
206,292 — — (206,292) — — 89.00 07.03.17 07.03.18
09.03.15
2
— 278,851 — (278,851) — — 66.50 09.03.18 09.03.19
Total 482,292 278,851 — (761,143) — —
Rich Roberts 04.09.14
2
349,650 — — — 349,650 — 78.00 04.09.17 04.09.18
09.03.15
2
— 226,310 — — 226,310 — 66.50 09.03.18 09.03.19
Total 349,650 226,310 — — 575,960 —
Total PSP 
awards 2,393,136 1,089,818 (173,618) (1,338,794) 1,970,542 367,228
1  2011 and 2012 awards were subject to relative TSR, absolute TSR and EPS growth performance targets each applying to one-third of the 
awards. The specific details of the performance targets for the 2011 and 2012 awards was disclosed in full in last year’s report. The outstanding 
awards remain unexercised due to an extended close period during 2015. 
2  2013, 2014 and 2015 awards were subject to relative TSR and EPS growth performance targets each applying to one-half of the awards the 
structure for which is outlined on pages 46 and 47.
3 Ian Penrose was unable to exercise the 2011 award prior to the award expiry date due to an extended close period preventing the same 
throughout the exercise window. Further to this, the Committee resolved, in accordance with the rules of the PSP, to extend the award expiry 
date in respect of such award to the date that is 30 days after the date upon which the regulatory restrictions no longer apply.
 The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2015 was 60.0p and the range during the year was 54.5p to 70.5p.
The number of ordinary shares that may be issued under the PSP and any other share plan may not exceed 10% in any 
ten-year period. As at 31 December 2015 the Company’s potential dilution was 6.52%.
Recruitment terms
On 18 December 2015, the Company announced that Mickey Kalifa would be appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 
3 March 2016, following an orderly handover process which would begin on 4 January 2016. His package consists of 
an initial salary of £230,000 per annum, effective from 4 January 2016, with benefit and pension provisions in line with 
other Executive Directors. He is eligible to a full year bonus for 2016 and will be granted a PSP award of 75% of salary, 
both subject to the same terms and performance conditions as other Executive Directors.
Remuneration report continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
48 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Payments to departing Directors
Cliff Baty will step down from the Board following the Company’s results announcement on 3 March 2016 at which time 
entitlements to salary, benefits and pension provision will cease. As noted previously, Cliff was eligible to receive a bonus 
payment in relation to 2015 on the basis that he served in an executive function for the full performance period and 
facilitated an orderly handover to Mickey Kalifa. He will not be eligible for a bonus in relation to any service rendered 
during 2016.
Cliff Baty’s outstanding PSP awards have been treated as lapsed from the date of his resignation in 2015.
Payments for loss of office
There were no payments for loss of office during the period under review.
Payments to past directors
Ian Hogg tendered his notice of resignation as Chief Operating Officer, Consumer Facing Business, to the Company 
on 4 March 2014 and resigned from the Sportech PLC Board on 25 September 2014. He was subject to a twelve-month 
contractual notice period, however, by agreement with the Company, his employment terminated on 31 December 2014 
and he forgave any payment in lieu of the remainder of his notice period. From 25 September 2014 to 31 December 2014, 
Ian Hogg continued to receive his normal salary and contractual benefits. He was eligible for a bonus in respect of the 
2014 financial year at 7.5% of his maximum entitlement of 75% of base salary being a total bonus payment of £14,000. 
This is in line with treatment of “good leavers” and is partly compensatory for waiving his remaining contractual notice. 
The bonus was paid on the normal bonus payment date in 2015. Long-term incentive awards granted in 2011, where the 
relevant performance periods were completed, vested at the normal vesting date, subject to the rules of the PSP, with 
a value of £35,000.
Steve Cunliffe and Brooks Pierce were treated as good leavers under the rules of the PSP following restructurings 
of the Board, which resulted in their roles effectively being made redundant. Further to this, in early 2015, Brooks Pierce 
received a total payment under the 2011 award of £6,000 and Steve Cunliffe received a total payment under the 2011 
award of £17,000. 
Directors’ interests and shareholding guidelines
The following table shows Directors’ interests in the Company:
Director
Total 
shareholding 
at 31 December 
2014
Total 
shareholding 
at 31 December 
2015
 
PSP award 
held unvested
PSP award 
vested but 
not exercised
 Share 
ownership 
guideline 
expected to be 
achieved by third 
anniversary of 
employment
% of 
guideline met 
by 31 December 
2015
Ian Penrose 850,000 850,000 1,394,582 367,228 100% 100%
Cliff Baty 33,000 33,000 — — 100% 12%
Rich Roberts — — 575,960 — 100% 0%
Roger Withers 112,079 112,079 — — N/A N/A
Peter Williams 100,000 100,000 — — N/A N/A
David McKeith 30,000 30,000 — — N/A N/A
All Executive Directors are expected to hold an investment of at least 100% of base salary in Company shares. 
This requirement can be achieved over a period of time using 50% of net awards which vest under the Company’s LTIPs. 
The table above shows shareholdings as at 31 December 2015 and the percentage of the guideline currently met.
Total shareholding which counts towards the measurement of the guideline is calculated on the basis of legally-owned 
shares plus vested PSP awards. The percentage of guideline met is based on the annual base salary and the higher of 
the acquisition cost of the total shareholding or the current market value of the total shareholding. Once an Executive 
Director meets the required holding, the Executive Director is only required to purchase additional shares equivalent 
to the value of any increase in base salary.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Performance graphs and Chief Executive’s remuneration table
The following graph demonstrates the value by 31 December 2015, of £100 invested in Sportech PLC on 31 December 
2010 compared with the same investment in the FTSE Small Cap Index. The other points plotted are the values at 
intervening financial year ends. This time period reflects performance from the point in time that the Company was 
transformed from a highly-geared and declining UK Football Pools business into the business it is today, following the 
acquisition of its international business and associated refinancing in 2010:
50
100
150
200
250
Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 15 Dec 14
Sportech PLC FTSE Small Cap
The graph below shows the value, by 31 December 2015, of £100 invested in Sportech PLC on 31 December 2008 
compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE Small Cap Index. The other points plotted are the values at 
intervening financial year ends:
50
100
150
200
250
Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 15 Dec 14
Sportech PLC FTSE Small Cap
The FTSE Small Cap Index has been chosen as it is the index most closely aligned to Sportech PLC.
The following table sets out the Chief Executive’s total remuneration for the current financial year and the preceding 
seven years: 
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Remuneration before LTIPs (£000) 416 542 502 542 575 515 517
LTIPs (£000) — — — 233 836 158 —
Total remuneration (£000) 416 542 502 775 1,411 673 517
Annual bonus (%) 33% 74% 50% 25% 40% 21.25% 20.5%
LTIP vesting (%) — — — 62.0%  82.7% 29.7% —
Remuneration report continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
50 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive (unaudited)
2015 2014 % change
Chief Executive (£000)
– Salary 389 385 1.0%
– Bonus and benefits 97 99 (2.0)%
Average of Group full-time employee (£000)
– Salary 51 49 2.8%
– Bonus and benefits 2 2 —
The table above shows the actual percentage movement in the salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive 
between the current and previous financial year compared to that for the average full-time salaried employee.
Relative importance of spend on pay (unaudited)
2015 2014 % change
Staff costs (£m) 30.5 31.0 (1.6)%
Distributions to shareholders Nil Nil —
Approval
This report was approved by the Remuneration Committee and signed on its behalf by:
Peter Williams
Senior Independent Non-executive Director 
and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
3 March 2016
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Directors’ report
for the year ended 31 December 2015
The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 
2015. General information of the Company can be found in the Accounting Policies on page 69. 
The Strategic report and Corporate governance report are set out on pages 1 to 31. Under section 414C(11) of the 
Companies Act 2006, information on trading in the year and the Group’s principal risks are included in the Strategic 
report on pages 1 to 16. Therefore this information is omitted from this Directors’ report. 
Directors and their interests in the shares of the Company
The Directors who held office during the year, and up to the date of signing these financial statements (unless otherwise 
stated), had beneficial interests in the share capital of the Company as shown below. 
Details of share options and PSP awards granted during the year ended 31 December 2015 are set out in the 
Remuneration report on pages 33 to 51.
At 3 March 
2016 and 
31 December 
2015 
Number
31 December 
2014 
Number
Roger Withers 112,079 112,079
Ian Penrose 850,000 850,000
Cliff Baty 33,000 33,000
Peter Williams 100,000 100,000
David McKeith 30,000 30,000
Rich Roberts — —
Directors’ third-party indemnity provisions
During the year, qualifying indemnity insurance was provided to the Directors. Such insurance remained in force 
throughout the year up to the date of signing the financial statements. No claim was made under these provisions. 
Employees
Details of the Company’s policy on equal opportunities for disabled employees and on employee involvement are set 
out in the ‘Employees’ section of the Corporate social responsibility report on page 19.
Substantial shareholdings
3 March 2016 31 December 2015
Holder
Ordinary 
shares 
of 50p
% of 
issued share 
capital
Ordinary 
shares 
of 50p
% of 
issued share 
capital
Henderson Global Investments Limited 58,067,362 28.2 58,067,362 28.2
Newby Manor Limited 35,113,010 17.0 35,113,010 17.0
Schroder Investment Management Limited 18,345,331 8.9 18,345,331 8.9
Richard Griffiths and Controlled Undertakings 16,982,614 8.2 16,982,614 8.2
Artemis Investment Management LLP 13,444,756 6.5 13,444,756 6.5
Aviva PLC 11,443,960 5.6 11,443,960 5.6
AXA S.A 11,150,306 5.4 11,150,306 5.4
Total of substantial shareholdings 164,547,339 79.8 164,547,339 79.8
52 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Dividend
No dividend is proposed (2014: £nil) and no dividend 
has been paid during the year (2014: £nil).
Environmental matters
The Corporate social responsibility report provides 
information with respect to the Group’s impact on the 
environment. Greenhouse gas emissions are monitored 
closely by management, and disclosure of those emissions 
can be found in the Strategic report on page 18. 
Corporate governance
The Group’s statement on corporate governance 
is set out on pages 24 to 31 and forms part of this 
Directors’ report.
Significant agreements
There are a number of agreements that take effect, 
alter or potentially terminate upon a change of control 
of the Company following a takeover bid, such as 
commercial contracts and employees’ share plans. 
None of these are deemed to be individually significant 
in terms of their potential impact on the day-to-day 
running of the business of the Group as a whole, other 
than as noted below: 
 –the main banking facilities with the three principal 
lenders, Bank of Scotland plc, Barclays Bank PLC and 
Royal Bank of Scotland plc, have mandatory prepayment 
provisions in respect of a change of control or trade sale, 
with the facilities cancelled and all outstanding debt 
becoming immediately due and payable if a lender 
so requires; and 
 –the Group operates under a number of licences in 
various territories awarded to it by regulatory bodies. 
In the event of a change of control, certain regulatory 
bodies retain the right to pre-approve the acquirer 
in order for a change of control to be permitted. 
There are no clauses in any of the Directors’ contracts that 
are triggered by a change of control of the Company. 
Share capital and authority 
to issue shares
The Company has one class of ordinary shares and these 
shares have equal voting rights. The nature of the holdings 
of the Company’s individual Directors and individually 
significant shareholders are disclosed on page 52. 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares. 
As part of the resolutions approved at the 2015 AGM, 
shareholders’ authority was given to the Directors for:  
(i) the allotment of up to 68,746,016 ordinary shares of 
50p each (representing 33.3% of the issued share capital 
of the Company as at the date of the 2015 AGM); and (ii) 
the allotment of up to 137,492,032 ordinary shares of 50p 
each (representing 66.7% of the issued share capital as 
at the date of the 2015 AGM) in connection with a rights 
issue (including within such limit, any shares pursuant 
to the authority set out at (i)). As at 31 December 2015, 
no shares have been allotted pursuant to such authority.
Certain of the Company’s share incentive schemes contain 
provisions that permit awards or options to vest or become 
exercisable on a change of control in accordance with the 
rules of the schemes.
Going concern
The Group’s forecasts and projections, which have been 
prepared as described on page 17 were reviewed and 
approved by the Board. 
On the basis of this review, the Board has a reasonable 
expectation that the Company will be able to continue in 
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the 
period to June 2017. Accordingly, it is deemed appropriate 
to prepare the financial statements on a going concern 
basis for the financial year ended 31 December 2015.
Financial risk management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial 
risks: fair value and cash flow interest rate risk; liquidity risk; 
credit risk; and foreign exchange risk. Where appropriate, 
the Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge 
certain risk exposures. The policy for each of the above 
risks is described in more detail in note 25.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the 
Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the 
United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Directors’ statement pursuant to the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules
Each of the Directors whose names and functions are 
listed in the Board of Directors section on page 22 confirm 
that, to the best of each person’s knowledge and belief: 
 –the financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and 
profit of the Group; and
 –the Strategic report and other reports contained in the 
Annual Report include a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Group and Company, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that they face. 
Annual General Meeting
The Notice convening the AGM of the Company on  
17 May 2016 is being sent to shareholders with this report. 
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the 
Company, Roger Withers and Peter Williams retire by 
rotation and offer themselves for reappointment at the 
AGM. The profiles of those Directors appear on page 22. 
In addition, Mickey Kalifa, who has been appointed to the 
Board today, will retire and offer himself for reappointment 
as he was appointed to the Board since the last AGM. 
Resolutions will also be proposed at the AGM to receive 
the Accounts and the Directors’ and Independent 
Auditors’ reports, to approve the Remuneration report 
set out on pages 33 to 51, to reappoint the Auditors and 
to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration. 
On behalf of the Board
Cliff Baty
Director 
3 March 2016
Disclosure of information to the Auditors
So far as each Director is aware, at the date of the approval 
of the financial statements there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s Auditors are unaware. 
Each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to 
have taken as a Director in order to make themselves 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s Auditors are aware of that information.
The Auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, have 
indicated their willingness to continue in office, and a 
resolution that they be reappointed will be proposed 
at the AGM.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Report and the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the 
Directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company 
(the “Company”) financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as 
adopted by the European Union. Under company law the 
Directors must not approve the financial statements unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the 
profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing 
these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
 –select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
 –make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
 –state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the 
financial statements; and
 –prepare the financial statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group 
and the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and 
explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and the Group and enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration 
report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection 
of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors’ report continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
54 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent Auditors’ report
to the members of Sportech PLC
Report on the financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion:
 –Sportech PLC’s Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements (the “financial statements”) give 
a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the 
Group’s profit and the Group’s and the Parent Company’s cash flows for the year then ended;
 –the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union;
 –the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
 –the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts (the “Annual Report”), comprise:
 –the balance sheets as at 31 December 2015;
 –the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 
then ended;
 –the statements of cash flows for the year then ended;
 –the statements of changes in equity for the year then ended;
 –the accounting policies; and
 –the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the 
financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law 
and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach
Overview
Areas of
focus
Audit scope
Materiality
 –Overall Group materiality: £575,000 which represents 2.5% of adjusted EBITDA 
(being earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, as adjusted 
also for exceptional items, impairment of assets and share option charges). 
 –The Group consists of 39 statutory entities (excluding dormant entities).
 –Our audit focused on the most significant of these entities in terms of materiality 
to the Group financial statements being; Sportech PLC (the Parent Company), 
The Football Pools Limited, Sportech Racing, LLC and Sportech Venues, Inc.
 –The components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 79% 
of Group revenue and 74% of Group adjusted EBITDA.
 –Goodwill and intangible asset impairment.
 –Impairment of investments in joint ventures.
 –Recoverability of contingent consideration receivable.
 –Going concern – financial covenants on banking facilities of the Group.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Independent Auditors’ report continued
to the members of Sportech PLC
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial 
statements. In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of 
significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently 
uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including 
evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due 
to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources 
and effort, are identified as “areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address 
these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make 
on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by 
our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment 
Refer to page 27 (Audit Committee report), page 69 
(Accounting policies) and pages 86 to 89 (notes).
The Group has goodwill and intangible fixed assets with 
carrying value of £163.4m as at 31 December 2015. Our 
work focused on the following specific balances, being 
those assets which we assessed to have a higher level of 
judgement involved because of key assumptions made 
by the Directors in assessing their carrying values.
We evaluated and challenged the Directors’ future  
cash flow forecasts, and the process by which they  
were drawn up, and tested the underlying value–in-use 
calculations. We noted no material inconsistencies 
between the forecasts and our understanding of the 
Board’s approved future plans for the business gained 
from other areas of our audit. 
We performed the following to address the specific risks 
in each of the areas:
Football Pools goodwill
Goodwill in relation to the Football Pools has a carrying 
value of £119.5m. In arriving at the remaining carrying 
value the Directors have assumed that the business 
will arrest its prolonged declining profitability, and that 
EBITDA will stabilise, and remain broadly at the level 
achieved in the current financial year, £15.2m, growing 
1% over the course of the next five years, before 
remaining at that level into perpetuity. The Directors 
believe this will be achieved primarily as a result of the 
expected stabilisation in the number of customers, 
together with the continued improvement in spend per 
player. We have focused on the Directors’ assumptions 
regarding these EBITDA forecasts, given the historic 
downward trend in profitability in recent years.
Football Pools goodwill
In respect of the Football Pools goodwill we assessed 
the reasonableness of the Directors’ estimate for future 
EBITDA levels through comparison of forecast levels 
of spend per player and customer numbers, against 
the run rate of these assumptions within the current 
and previous years, taking into account expectations 
for the coming year. Further we performed a detailed 
assessment on the historical accuracy of the Directors’ 
forecasts against actual outturn. Based on this work 
we found that the assumptions used within the 
forecasts appear within a range which we consider 
to be reasonable. 
eBet goodwill
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of eBet has a 
carrying value of £1.8m, following the recognition 
in the year of an impairment of £3.7m (note 11). 
In assessing the carrying value of this asset, the 
Directors have assumed that there will be an average 
annual 17% growth in profitability levels over the course 
of the next five years, in spite of the fact that in the 
current year underlying profitability fell. This growth is 
expected to be largely driven by a new contract which 
was signed in 2015. We have therefore focused on the 
Directors’ assumptions regarding the profitability of 
this new contract.
eBet goodwill
In respect of the eBet goodwill we evaluated the 
assumptions surrounding the forecast rise in profitability 
over the coming five years, in particular the profitability 
of the newly signed contract over that period. This has 
been achieved through understanding and assessing the 
causes of the current year performance, and critically 
assessing the likely profitability of the newly signed 
contract in the future. We found that the assumptions 
used are supportable based on our audit work.
56 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Venues intangible assets
Intangible assets associated with the gaming licence 
held within Sportech Venues Inc. (“Venues”) have a 
carrying value of £16.9m. In assessing the carrying value 
of the Venues licence, which applies to both land-based 
and online venues, the Directors have assumed that the 
level of net handle (the total amount of bets taken) 
generated by the land-based venues will increase in 
2016, following the reopening of a key sporting venue, 
before falling 2% per year on average between 2017 to 
2020, and then stabilising into perpetuity at 2020 levels. 
Further, they have assumed the level of net handle in 
respect of internet gambling in Connecticut will grow 
on average 35% between 2016 and 2020. We have 
therefore focused on the Directors’ assumptions around 
the level of net handle generated by the land-based 
venues in these future years, given the context of a fall 
in net land-based handle in the current year on that 
achieved in the prior year, and also the forecast growth 
in net handle surrounding online gambling given this 
business is in its infancy. 
Venues intangible assets
In respect of the Venues gaming licence we evaluated 
the key assumptions surrounding the improvement in net 
handle generated by the land-based venues in 2016 when 
compared with the current year, and the forecasts for net 
handle beyond 2016, by reference to the trend in total 
handle in recent years after removing the impact of 
one-off events in 2015. Further, we have critically 
evaluated the net handle growth assumptions adopted 
by management in respect of online handle via reference 
to market information and historic growth rates. The 
Directors’ assumptions are supported by information 
currently available.
The Directors’ projections in relation to impairment 
of goodwill and intangibles balances are also dependent 
on a range of other judgemental assumptions. In addition 
to those specifically referred to above, we focused on 
the discount rate assumption in each of the value in use 
calculations, given the significant amount of judgement 
involved in establishing an appropriate rate, and given the 
material sensitivity of the carrying values to small changes 
in this assumption.
In addition we have evaluated the discount rates  
used within the above impairment reviews to assess 
whether they are appropriate. This was done primarily  
by comparison of the weighted average cost of capital  
of each of the aforementioned businesses with other 
comparable companies within the same industry or with  
a similar business model. The discount rates were found 
to be supportable.
While inherent uncertainty exists around many of the key 
assumptions used by the Directors in the above impairment 
reviews, our procedures indicated that the key assumptions 
were supportable and reasonable within the context of the 
evidence we obtained and we did not identify any material 
inconsistencies in the Directors’ estimation technique and 
forecasting in these areas.
Furthermore, we performed sensitivity analysis around all 
of the above assumptions to assess the extent of change 
in those assumptions that either individually or collectively 
would be required for the goodwill and intangibles to 
be impaired. We determined that, while the Directors’ 
assumptions are not inappropriate, reasonably possible 
changes in the key assumptions would be likely to lead to  
a material impairment, and hence have determined that the 
Directors’ disclosures (see notes 11 and 12) appropriately 
reflected this fact and are consistent with the requirements 
of accounting standards
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Independent Auditors’ report continued
to the members of Sportech PLC
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Impairment of investments in joint ventures
Refer to page 27 (Audit Committee report), page 69 
(Accounting policies) and page 93 (notes).
The Group has investments in joint ventures with a 
carrying value of £1.7m as at 31 December 2015. Our work 
focused on the following specific balances, being those 
assets which we assessed to have a higher level of 
judgement involved because of key assumptions made by 
the Directors in assessing their carrying values:
We evaluated the Directors’ carrying value assessments, 
including cash flow forecasts, and the process by which 
they were drawn up. We noted no material inconsistencies 
between the forecasts and our understanding of the 
Board’s approved future plans for the business gained 
from other areas of our audit. 
We performed the following to address the specific risks 
in each of the areas:
S&S Venues
The Group’s investment in S&S Venues California, 
LLC  has a carrying value of £1.2m. Given this venture 
was still under construction for much of the year, and 
had only commenced trading in December 2015, in 
arriving at the year end carrying value the Directors have 
made certain assumptions about the likely profitability 
of the operation subsequent to trade commencing. 
We have therefore focused on the likely profitability 
of the venture in the coming years, as well as whether 
the underlying net assets of the venture support the 
Group’s investment.
S&S Venues
In respect of the S&S Venues California, LLC 
investment,we assessed the reasonableness of the 
Directors’ estimate for profitability through comparison 
of the forecast profitability of the venue to other similar 
venues in the region. In addition we assessed the 
valuation of those assets within S&S Venues California, 
LLC which underpin the investment, being primarily 
property, plant and equipment purchased in the year 
prior to the commencement of trading. Based on this 
work we consider the carrying value of the investment 
to  be reasonable.
Sportshub Private Limited
The Group’s investment in Sportshub Private Limited 
has a carrying value of £0.5m. During the year the joint 
venture agreed to supply technology and related 
services to an Indian company which has been engaged 
by EGT Entertainment Pvt. Ltd., a Sikkim licence holder, 
to support the operation of pool games. Trading 
therefore commenced in February 2016. Given the lack 
of historical information as to the profitability of this 
venture, in arriving at the year end carrying value the 
Directors have made certain assumptions about the 
profitability of the venture in the coming years, as 
well as the likelihood of the joint venture being able to 
obtain further customers in India in the future. We have 
therefore focused on the likely profitability of the venture 
in the coming years, which is largely dependent on the 
ability to obtain additional customers across India, as 
well as whether the underlying net assets of the venture 
support the Group’s investment. 
Sportshub Private Limited
We have assessed the Directors’ estimates for the future 
profitability of Sportshub Private Limited through testing 
of the Board-approved business plan, and consideration 
of the likelihood of the joint venture obtaining further 
customers across India in future years. In addition we 
assessed the valuation of those assets within Sportshub 
Private Limited which underpin the Group’s investment, 
being primarily trade and other receivables. Based on 
this work we consider the carrying value of the 
investment to be reasonable.
While inherent uncertainty exists around many of the 
key assumptions used by the Directors in the above 
assessments, particularly given both ventures are in their 
initial set up phase, our procedures indicated that the 
carrying value of the investments were supportable and 
reasonable within the context of the evidence we obtained.
58 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Recoverability of contingent consideration receivable
Refer to page 27 (Audit Committee report), page 70 
(Accounting policies) and page 92 (notes).
During the year the Group disposed of its 50% investment 
in Sportech – NYX Gaming LLC to NYX Gaming Group 
Limited (“NYX”) for £10.9m. This sale generated a gain 
on disposal of £8.1m (note 16).
Included within the consideration receivable by the Group 
for the sale is £1.1m which is contingent on NYX acquiring 
three new customers in the five years subsequent to the 
disposal. The Directors have assumed that the conditions 
for receipt of these amounts will be met within the 
requisite period, and hence that the consideration will be 
received. As such this amount has been included within 
trade and other receivables as at 31 December 2015.
Given the judgement surrounding the likelihood of  
these amounts being received, we have focused on the 
Directors’ assumptions in respect of this consideration.
We have evaluated the Directors’ conclusions surrounding 
the likelihood of this contingent amount being received, 
focusing in on the likelihood of NYX obtaining the 
additional three new customers within the required five 
years for the consideration to be payable.
During our assessment we have considered a number 
of factors which are relevant to the likelihood of NYX 
acquiring new customers in those five years. These factors 
included: the passage of gambling deregulation through 
certain states within the USA in the year; the number of 
credible competitors to NYX in those states; and the 
pre-existing relationships NYX has with a number of 
potential customers which increase the likelihood of a 
new customer being acquired. We verified these factors 
through external research over the regulatory and 
competitive environment in the USA in this industry.
While there is an inherent amount of uncertainty within  
the Directors’ assumptions in respect of this item, we have 
concluded that, at this time, the Directors’ judgement 
is reasonable.
Going concern – financial covenants on banking 
facilities of the Group
Refer to page 27 (Audit Committee report) and page 69 
(Accounting policies).
The Directors have concluded that it is appropriate for 
them to prepare the financial statements using the going 
concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis 
presumes that the Group has adequate resources to 
remain in operation, and that Directors intend it to do so, 
for at least one year from the date the financial statements 
were signed.
In adopting this basis, the Directors have assumed 
that the Group will continue to comply with a variety 
of financial and non-financial covenants over its £75m 
revolving credit banking facilities. As at 31 December 
2015, a total of £62.1m was drawn down from these 
facilities, which expire in August 2018.
The financial covenants attached to the borrowings 
are leverage (being the ratio of EBITDA to net bank debt) 
and interest cover (being the ratio of EBITDA to senior 
finance charges).
We evaluated the Directors’ conclusion around going 
concern and critically assessed the Group’s short-term 
future cash flow forecasts, to assess the likely availability 
of funds to meet liabilities as they fall due, and its profit 
forecasts to assess the likelihood of a breach of covenants. 
The Directors’ judgement in this respect appear reasonable.
We obtained and read the Group’s finance agreements 
to understand the financial and non-financial covenants 
contained therein and assess whether they had been 
considered in the Directors’ forecasts.
We tested the mathematical accuracy of the forecasts  
and the process by which they were drawn up, and agreed 
the covenant ratio calculations to the definitions in the 
finance agreements
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Going concern – financial covenants on banking 
facilities of the Group (continued)
The Directors monitor their cash flow and profit forecasts 
against these covenants regularly to assess the likelihood 
of a breach, and establish mitigating actions should a 
potential breach be identified. While the Group’s forecasts 
and projections, which have been prepared for the period 
to 30 June 2017 for going concern assessment purposes, 
show that it will be able to operate within the level of its 
current facilities and comply with its banking covenants, 
the level of headroom against those covenants, when 
reasonable downside sensitivities are applied, remains 
relatively low.
As such, we identified a heightened risk in this area and 
focused our work on the Directors’ cash flow and profit 
forecasts, in particular on the assumptions around 
projected EBITDA.
Where the Directors’ cash flow assumptions were not 
consistent with current performance, we challenged 
whether these differences were appropriate by comparing 
to growth rates seen in the current year, and by assessing 
the historic accuracy of the Directors’ forecasts against 
actual outturn. We found that inconsistencies were 
supported by current growth trends and borne out 
by the Directors’ history of forecasting.
We challenged the Directors on sensitivities applied to their 
forecasts to test the level of headroom against covenants 
by considering other sensitivities and discussing the impact 
of alternative assumptions. We found the Directors’ 
approach to be reasonable.
We also assessed the mitigating actions proposed by the 
Directors should it appear that the Group may breach its 
covenants, and found them to be reasonable.
Finally we compared the relevant disclosures within the 
financial statements to our testing in this area and found 
that they appropriately reflected the future plans of the 
Parent Company and Group and any uncertainties arising.
Our conclusions in relation to going concern are set out 
in the Going concern section below.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the 
financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes 
and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates. 
The Group is managed divisionally, with the three operating divisions being Football Pools, Racing and Digital, and 
Venues, with the head office function incurring certain central costs on behalf of the Group. The Group’s accounting 
process is structured around a local finance function in each of these divisions. These functions maintain their own 
localised accounting records and controls, distinct from those at the head office level. 
While the Directors operate the Group divisionally we have scoped our audit at a statutory entity level. The Group 
comprises 39 statutory entities (excluding dormant entities). We performed full scope audits over four statutory entities, 
being Sportech plc (the Parent Company), The Football Pools Limited, Sportech Racing LLC and Sportech Venues Inc, 
which we regarded as being financially significant components of the Group given their contribution to the Group’s 
adjusted EBITDA.
The entities that were subject to audit work accounted for 79% of Group revenue and 74% of Group adjusted EBITDA.
Additionally we performed work in another eight statutory entities on specific balances that we regarded to be 
significant to the financial statements. 
We have performed sufficient testing over divisional and head office finance functions to obtain evidence over the 
components in scope for our Group audit. Furthermore, we have performed procedures over the Group’s consolidation 
of these entities and significant consolidation entries. 
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for 
materiality. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, 
timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in 
evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Independent Auditors’ report continued
to the members of Sportech PLC
60 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £575,000 (2014: £592,000).
How we determined it 2.5% of adjusted EBITDA (being earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation, as adjusted also for exceptional items, 
impairment of assets and share option charges).
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that adjusted EBITDA provides us with a consistent year-
on-year basis for determining materiality based on the underlying 
trading performance of the Group but eliminating one-off, non-
recurring and non-cash items.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 
£30,000 (2014: £30,000) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for 
qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement, set out on page 53, in relation to going 
concern. We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add, or to draw attention to, 
in relation to the Directors’ statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the financial statements. We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to. 
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements. The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company 
have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from 
the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the 
going concern basis is appropriate. However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these 
statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s and Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 –information in the Annual Report is:
 • materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 •  apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our 
knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course of performing 
our audit; or
 • otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report.
 –the statement given by the Directors on page 54, in accordance with provision C.1.1 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”), that they consider the Annual 
Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for members to assess the Group’s and Parent Company’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent 
with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of 
performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report.
 –the section of the Annual Report on page 27, as required by provision C.3.8 of the 
Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements The Directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the 
solvency or liquidity of the Group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention 
to in relation to:
 –the Directors’ confirmation on page 17 of the Annual Report, in accordance with 
provision C.2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business 
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity;
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
 –the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they 
are being managed or mitigated;
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
 –the Directors’ explanation on page 17 of the Annual Report, in accordance with 
provision C.2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the 
Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period 
to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related 
disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust 
assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors’ statement in relation to the longer-term viability 
of the Group. Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and 
considering the Directors’ process supporting their statements; checking that the statements are in alignment with 
the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired 
by us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 –we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 –adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 –the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are 
not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to ten further 
provisions of the Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Independent Auditors’ report continued
to the members of Sportech PLC
62 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of the Directors’ responsibilities set out on page 54, the Directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards 
for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Company’s members as a body in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these 
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown 
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error. This includes an assessment of: 
 –whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Parent Company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed 
 –the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and
 –the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming 
our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary 
to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness 
of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or 
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of 
any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Nigel Reynolds (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
3 March 2016
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Group
Note
2015
£m
2014 
£m
Revenue 100.2 104.1
Cost of sales (58.2) (58.1)
Gross profit 42.0 46.0
Distribution costs (0.6) (0.9)
Administrative expenses (36.3) (62.4)
Other operating income 8.1 —
EBITDA before exceptional items, share option expense and impairment of assets 23.1 24.0
Share option expense (0.5) (0.6)
Depreciation and amortisation (excluding amortisation of acquired intangibles) (7.6) (6.2)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (1.2) (4.1)
Impairment of assets (6.1) (28.1)
Exceptional income 2 8.1 —
Exceptional costs 2 (2.6) (2.3)
Operating profit/(loss) 13.2 (17.3)
Finance costs 4 (3.2) (2.8)
Other finance income 4 0.6 0.3
Net finance costs 4 (2.6) (2.5)
Share of loss after tax and impairments of joint ventures and associates 17 (0.9) (0.2)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 5 9.7 (20.0)
Adjusted profit before taxation* 11.8 14.4
Taxation 8 (3.0) (1.3)
Profit/(loss) for the year 6.7 (21.3)
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 6.7 (21.3)
Non-controlling interests — —
6.7 (21.3)
Earnings/(loss) per share attributable to owners of the Company
Basic 10 3.3p (10.4)p
Diluted 10 3.1p (9.9)p
Adjusted earnings per share attributable to owners of the Company
Basic 10 4.4p 5.5p
Diluted 10 4.2p 5.2p
*  Adjusted profit before taxation is profit before taxation, amortisation of acquired intangibles, impairment of assets, exceptional items, share 
of loss after tax and impairment of joint ventures and associates, and other finance income.
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2015 
64 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Group
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit/(loss) for the year 6.7 (21.3)
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss
Actuarial gain/(loss) on retirement benefit liability 32 0.2 (0.4)
Deferred tax on movement on retirement benefit liability 20 (0.1) 0.1
0.1 (0.3)
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit and loss
Revaluation of available for sale financial assets 25 (1.6) —
Currency translation differences 0.6 1.4
Total other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year, net of tax (0.9) 1.1
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 5.8 (20.2)
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 5.8 (20.2)
Non-controlling interest — —
5.8 (20.2)
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income/(expense)
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Other reserves
Group
Ordinary
shares
£m
Share
option
reserve
£m
Pension
reserve
£m
Currency
translation
reserve
£m
Available 
for sale 
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2014 102.4 2.2 (0.3) (1.5) — 36.9 — 139.7
Comprehensive income
Loss for the year — — — — — (21.3) — (21.3)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income
Actuarial loss on retirement benefit liability* (note 32) — — (0.3) — — — — (0.3)
Currency translation differences — — — 1.4 — — — 1.4
Total other comprehensive (expense)/income — — (0.3) 1.4 — — — 1.1
Total comprehensive (expense)/income — — (0.3) 1.4 — (21.3) — (20.2)
Transactions with owners
Share option credit (note 6) — 0.6 — — — — — 0.6
Employment taxes paid on vestings in the year — (0.3) — — — — — (0.3)
Shares issued in relation to PSP 0.2 (0.2) — — — — — —
At 31 December 2014 102.6 2.3 (0.6) (0.1) — 15.6 — 119.8
Comprehensive income
Profit for the year — — — — — 6.7 — 6.7
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Actuarial gain on retirement benefit liability* (note 32) — — 0.1 — — — — 0.1
Revaluation of available for sale financial assets (note 25) — — — — (1.6) — — (1.6)
Currency translation differences — — — 0.6 — — — 0.6
Total other comprehensive income/(expense) — — 0.1 0.6 (1.6) — — (0.9)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) — — 0.1 0.6 (1.6) 6.7 — 5.8
Transactions with owners
Share option credit (note 6) — 0.5 — — — — — 0.5
Shares issued in relation to PSP 0.5 (0.5) — — — — — —
Changes in ownership interests
Acquisition of interest in S&S Venues California, LLC (note 17) — — — — — — 0.1 0.1
Total transactions with owners of the company 0.5 — — — — — 0.1 0.6
Total changes in equity 0.5 — 0.1 0.6 (1.6) 6.7 0.1 6.4
At 31 December 2015 103.1 2.3 (0.5) 0.5 (1.6) 22.3 0.1 126.2
* Net of deferred tax (note 20).
Company
Ordinary 
shares
£m
Other reserve – 
share option reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2014 102.4 2.2 19.4 124.0
Comprehensive expense
Loss for the year (note 9) — — (6.5) (6.5)
Total comprehensive expense — — (6.5) (6.5)
Transactions with owners
Share option credit (note 6) — 0.6 — 0.6
Employment taxes paid on vestings in the year — (0.3) — (0.3)
Shares issued in relation to PSP and reserve transfer 0.2 (0.2) 0.2 0.2
At 31 December 2014 102.6 2.3 13.1 118.0
Comprehensive expense
Loss for the year (note 9) — — (5.7) (5.7)
Total comprehensive expense — — (5.7) (5.7)
Transactions with owners
Share option credit (note 6) — 0.5 — 0.5
Shares issued in relation to PSP and reserve transfer 0.5 (0.5) 0.5 0.5
At 31 December 2015 103.1 2.3 7.9 113.3
* Net of deferred tax (note 20).
Statements of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2015
66 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Group Company
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Goodwill 11 121.3 125.0 — —
Intangible fixed assets 12 42.1 42.1 12.0 11.8
Property, plant and equipment 13 24.0 24.9 0.1 0.1
Investments in subsidiaries 14 — — 203.7 203.7
Net investment in joint ventures and associates 17 2.1 2.2 — —
Trade and other receivables 18 2.0 1.2 — —
Deferred tax assets 20 1.4 1.4 0.1 0.2
192.9 196.8 215.9 215.8
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 18 10.9 10.4 21.9 20.6
Available for sale financial assets 25 2.9 — — —
Inventories 19 2.1 1.5 — —
Cash and cash equivalents 21 4.4 6.3 — 0.1
20.3 18.2 21.9 20.7
TOTAL ASSETS 213.2 215.0 237.8 236.5
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Derivative financial instruments 25 — (0.5) — (0.5)
Trade and other payables 22 (20.6) (20.5) (62.4) (47.9)
Provisions 23 (0.1) (0.2) — —
Current tax liabilities (1.3) (0.8) — —
(22.0) (22.0) (62.4) (48.4)
Net current liabilities (1.7) (3.8) (40.5) (27.7)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities 24 (62.3) (70.6) (62.1) (70.1)
Retirement benefit liability 32 (1.4) (1.6) — —
Provisions 23 (0.4) (0.4) — —
Deferred tax liabilities 20 (0.9) (0.6) — —
(65.0) (73.2) (62.1) (70.1)
TOTAL LIABILITIES (87.0) (95.2) (124.5) (118.5)
NET ASSETS 126.2 119.8 113.3 118.0
EQUITY
Ordinary shares 26 103.1 102.6 103.1 102.6
Other reserves 0.7 1.6 2.3 2.3
Retained earnings 22.3 15.6 7.9 13.1
EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE COMPANY 126.1 119.8 113.3 118.0
Non-controlling interests 0.1 — — —
TOTAL EQUITY 126.2 119.8 113.3 118.0
The financial statements on pages 64 to 113 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 
3 March 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
Company Registration Number: SC069140
Balance sheets
at 31 December 2015
Ian Penrose
Chief Executive
Cliff Baty
Chief Financial Officer
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Group Company
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations, before exceptional items 27 20.2 20.4 13.2 1.1
Interest paid (3.2) (3.0) (3.2) (3.0)
Tax paid (2.3) (1.3) (0.7) —
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 
before cash exceptional items 14.7 16.1 9.3 (1.9)
Cash exceptional costs (2.3) (2.3) (0.9) (0.8)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 12.4 13.8 8.4 (2.7)
Cash flows from investing activities
Investment in joint ventures 17 (2.5) (1.9) — —
Acquisition of Bump Worldwide, Inc. inclusive  
of overdraft acquired 15 — (0.2) — —
Payment of deferred consideration for eBet Online, Inc. — (0.7) — —
Proceeds received on disposal of Sportech-NYX 
Gaming, LLC 16 5.1 — — —
Purchase of intangible fixed assets (4.9) (5.1) (1.2) (0.1)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (3.4) (4.9) — —
Net cash used in investing activities (5.7) (12.8) (1.2) (0.1)
Cash flows from financing activities
Refinancing fee paid – exceptional cost 4 (0.3) (1.4) (0.3) (1.4)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from (repayment)/drawdown 
of borrowings 24 (8.0) 4.1 (8.0) 4.1
Net cash (used in)/generated from financing activities (8.3) 2.7 (8.3) 2.7
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (1.6) 3.7 (1.1) (0.1)
Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents (0.3) — — —
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 6.3 2.6 0.1 0.2
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 21 4.4 6.3 (1.0) 0.1
Reconciliation of net bank debt
(Decrease)/increase in cash in the year (1.9) 3.7
Net cash outflow/(inflow) from repayment/(drawdown) 
of borrowings 8.0 (4.1)
 
Movement in net bank debt for the year 6.1 (0.4)
At 1 January (63.8) (63.4)
At 31 December (57.7) (63.8)
Net bank debt comprises:
Cash and cash equivalents 21 4.4 6.3
Loans repayable after one year 24 (62.1) (70.1)
At 31 December (57.7) (63.8)
Statements of cash flows
for the year ended 31 December 2015
68 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 General information
Sportech PLC (the “Company”) is a company domiciled 
and incorporated in the UK and listed on the London 
Stock Exchange. The Company’s registered office is 
Collins House, Rutland Square, Edinburgh, Midlothian, 
Scotland EH1 2AA. The consolidated financial statements 
of the Company as at and for the year ended 
31 December 2015 comprise the Company, its 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (together 
referred to as the “Group”). The principal activities of the 
Group are pools betting, both B2B and B2C, and supply 
of wagering technology solutions.
Going concern
As discussed in the Directors’ report on page 53, the 
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company 
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the period to 30 June 2017. 
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Basis of accounting
These financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (“IFRSs”) and International Financial Reporting 
Interpretation Committee (“IFRIC”) interpretations 
as adopted by the European Union (“IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union”) and with those parts of the 
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting 
under IFRSs. The financial statements have been prepared 
under the historical cost convention, as modified by the 
revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities 
(including derivative instruments and available for sale 
financial assets) to fair value in accordance with IAS 39 
“Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement”.
The Group’s accounting policies have been set by 
management, approved by the Audit Committee 
and consistently applied. The preparation of financial 
statements in conformity with IFRSs requires the use 
of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial 
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and 
expenses during the reporting period. Although these 
estimates are based on management’s best knowledge 
of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately 
may differ from those estimates. 
Amounts presented in the financial statements have been 
rounded to the nearest £100,000. 
Critical judgements
Critical judgements have been made in the following areas:
Carrying value of goodwill and intangible fixed assets
To determine whether an impairment of goodwill from 
the Littlewoods, Vernons and eBet Online, Inc. acquisitions, 
or of the intangible assets held in the Sportech Venues 
division has occurred, the key assumptions the Group 
uses in estimating future cash flows for value-in-use 
measures are:
 –spend per player;
 –rates of player retention and acquisition;
 –new product uptake;
 –the benefit of our continued investment in technologies;
 –industry handle rates;
 –levels of capital expenditure representing industry norms;
 –rates of industry and market growth/decline;
 –discount rates, which appropriately reflect the risks 
associated with those specific cash-generating units 
(“CGUs”). 
These assumptions, and the judgements of management 
that are based on them, are subject to change as new 
information becomes available. Economic conditions 
and government policy changes can also impact on the 
discount rates applied, which are reviewed annually. 
Further details are disclosed within notes 11 and 12.
Carrying value of joint venture investments
The Group prepares long-term cash flow forecasts 
for each of its joint ventures which are reviewed by 
management on a regular basis. At the reporting date, 
the active joint venture investments held by the Group 
are those for the venue in San Diego, and the Indian 
pools betting venture, Sportshub Private Limited 
(“Sportshub”). As with all start up ventures, the accuracy 
of those projections is based on estimates of local demand 
where the ventures operate, growth in those local markets 
together with potential new markets, combined with the 
success of the venue and product in attracting a strong 
customer base.
Management believe the ventures represent growth 
areas capable of generating future cash flows in excess 
of the net assets held by each of the respective joint 
ventures at the reporting date. Accordingly, it is 
management’s judgement that neither of the Group’s 
net investment in joint ventures are impaired. Further 
details are disclosed within note 17. 
Accounting policies
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Accounting policies continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Carrying value of contingent consideration receivable
An element of the consideration received on the disposal 
of Sportech-NYX Gaming, LLC, as discussed in note 16, 
is contingent upon NYX Gaming Group Limited (“NYX”) 
customers going live on their Real Money Wagering 
Platform. Judgement is therefore applied by management 
as to the likelihood that customers will go-live on this 
platform, and the number of customers who do so. 
The judgements which have been applied by management 
are discussed further in note 16. Changes to market 
conditions, including regulatory change and competition 
from other online gaming suppliers are the key assumptions 
used in making these judgements. Management are 
confident that the assumptions applied represent the best 
estimate of the amount receivable by the Group for future 
customer acquisitions made by NYX. 
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the 
accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries, together 
with a share of the results, assets and liabilities of its 
equity accounted investees, all of which have consistent 
reporting dates with the Company. The Company’s 
accounting reference date is 31 December. Consistent 
with the normal monthly reporting process, the actual 
date to which the balance sheet has been drawn up 
is to 3 January 2016 (2014: 4 January 2015). For ease 
of reference in these financial statements, all references 
to the results for the year are for the year ended 
31 December 2015 (2014: 31 December 2014) 
and the financial position at 31 December 2015 
(2014: 31 December 2014).
Accounting policies
A summary of more important Group accounting policies 
follows. These policies have been applied consistently to 
all the years presented. 
(a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has 
control. Control of an entity is deemed to exist when 
the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns 
through its power over that entity The existence and effect 
of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or 
convertible are considered when assessing whether the 
Group controls another entity. Subsidiaries are fully 
consolidated from the date on which control is transferred 
to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that 
control ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account 
for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The 
consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary 
is the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments 
issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of 
exchange. The consideration transferred includes the fair 
value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent 
consideration arrangement. Contingent consideration is 
recognised at fair value at the acquisition date and 
remeasured at each balance sheet date until settlement. 
The revaluation amount is debited/credited to the income 
statement in the period in which the estimated fair value 
is increased/decreased. Acquisition related costs are 
expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and 
liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business 
combination are measured initially at their fair values at 
the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of acquisition 
over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable 
net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the cost 
of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets 
of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised 
directly in the income statement.
Transactions between subsidiaries are performed on an 
arm’s-length basis. Inter-company transactions, balances 
and unrealised gains on transactions between Group 
companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are also 
eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the 
asset transferred. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have 
been changed where necessary to ensure consistency 
with the policies adopted by the Group.
(b) Equity accounted investees
The Group equity accounts for any investees which are 
considered to be either a joint venture or an associate.
A joint venture is an entity which is jointly controlled by 
the Group and one or more venturers under a contractual 
agreement. An associate is an entity in which the Group 
has no control nor joint control, but bears significant 
influence over that entity. In both cases, the Group holds 
its interest in the entity on a long-term basis.
70 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015  The Group’s share of post-acquisition profits and losses 
made by the investee is recognised in the income 
statement and its share of post-acquisition movements 
in other comprehensive income is recognised in other 
comprehensive income. The cumulative post-acquisition 
movements are adjusted against the carrying amount 
of the investment. When the Group’s share of losses in 
an equity-accounted investee equals or exceeds its 
interest in that entity, including any other unsecured 
receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, 
unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on 
behalf of the joint venture.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and 
its equity accounted investees are eliminated to the extent 
of the Group’s interest in that entity. Unrealised losses are 
also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence 
of an impairment of the asset transferred. The accounting 
policies of the investee have been changed where 
necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted 
by the Group.
(c) Revenue
Revenue from external customers, net of VAT, excise 
duties, returns, rebates and discounts and after eliminating 
sales within the Group, represents:
 –the value of entry fees, net of winnings paid, receivable 
in respect of Football Pools recognised on the date of 
the event;
 –the value of stakes, net of winnings paid, received 
in relation to fixed-odds betting activities recognised 
on the date of the event; 
 –the value of goods and services sold to external 
customers, including management fees to registered 
charities for the management of charity lotteries, is 
recognised when the goods and services are consumed;
 –the sale of terminals and systems, recognised when 
significant risks and rewards of ownership have been 
transferred, which is when title passes to the customer, 
generally being at the point of customer acceptance. 
Sales which involve significant customisation are 
recognised on a percentage of completion basis in 
accordance with IAS 11; and
 –the value of services delivered under service contracts 
generally based on either a percentage of amounts 
wagered or on a predetermined fixed amount depending 
on contract terms.
Although the value of entry fees net of winnings paid 
and the value of bets net of winnings paid is reported as 
revenue, both meet the definition of a gain under IAS 39 
“Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”. 
Under multiple element arrangements, revenue is 
allocated to the various elements based on fair value 
determined by the price charged when the same element 
is sold separately, and revenue is recognised on the 
separate components of the contract in accordance 
with the appropriate revenue recognition policy for that 
item or service.
(d) Accruals and deferred income
Accruals and deferred income includes the value of stakes 
placed prior to the end of the financial period in respect of 
competitions and sporting events held subsequent to the 
end of the financial period and income received in advance 
of a service or product being delivered.
(e) Segmental reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent 
with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating 
decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker, 
who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing 
performance of the operating segments, has been 
identified as the Executive Committee, which makes 
strategic and operational decisions.
The Group has identified its business segments as follows:
 –Football Pools: Football Pools and associated games 
through traditional channels such as mail, telephone, 
agent-based collection, retail outlets, third-party licensed 
betting offices, and through online and digital channels;
 –Sportech Racing and Digital: provision of pari-mutuel 
wagering services and systems worldwide principally 
to the horseracing industry; 
 –Sportech Venues: off-track betting venue management; 
and
 –Corporate costs: central costs relating to the Company 
in its capacity as the holding company of the Group. 
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Accounting policies continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
(f) Taxation
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis 
of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date in the countries where the Company 
and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. 
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax 
returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax 
regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes 
provisions, where appropriate, on the basis of amounts 
expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to 
the extent that it relates to items recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, 
the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income 
or directly in equity, respectively.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability 
method, on temporary differences arising between the tax 
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts 
in the consolidated financial statements. However, the 
deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from 
initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction 
other than a business combination that, at the time of the 
transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit 
or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates 
(and laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted 
by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when 
the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the 
deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available 
against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, 
except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable 
that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when 
there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax 
assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred 
income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes 
levied by the same taxation authority, on either the same 
or different taxable entities, where there is an intention to 
settle the balances on a net basis.
(g) Foreign currencies
Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of 
the Group’s entities are measured using the currency 
of the primary economic environment in which the entity 
operates (the “functional currency”). The consolidated 
financial statements are presented in Sterling (£), which 
is the Company’s functional currency and the Group’s 
presentation currency.
Transactions and balances
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into 
the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling 
at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the rates 
of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Foreign 
exchange gains and losses, resulting from the settlement 
of such transactions and from the translation at year 
end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in 
the income statement, except where deferred in other 
comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to 
borrowings and cash and cash equivalents are presented 
in the income statement within finance income or costs. 
All other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented 
in the income statement within operating profit.
Group companies
The results and financial position of all the Group entities 
(none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary 
economy) that have a functional currency different from 
the presentation currency are translated into the 
presentation currency as follows:
 –assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented 
are translated at the closing rate at the date of that 
balance sheet;
 –income and expenses for each income statement are 
translated at average exchange rates (unless this average 
is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative 
effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, 
in which case income and expenses are translated at 
the rate on the dates of the transactions); and
 –all resulting exchange differences are recognised 
in other comprehensive income.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the 
acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets 
or liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the 
closing rate.
72 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015  (h) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are carried at historical 
cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment. 
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and 
the costs attributable in bringing the asset to its working 
condition for its intended use and any associated 
borrowing costs. Assets in the course of construction 
are not depreciated until the asset is completed. 
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying 
amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, 
only when it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the Group and the 
cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying 
amount of the replaced part is derecognised. All other 
repairs and maintenance are charged to the income 
statement during the financial period in which they 
are incurred.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by 
comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and 
are recognised within administrative expenses in the 
income statement.
Assets in the course of construction are capitalised when 
first brought into use and depreciated from this date.
(i) Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to write 
off the cost of property, plant and equipment down to 
residual value over their anticipated useful lives at the 
following annual rates:
Long leasehold and owned land 
Not depreciated
Long leasehold and owned buildings 
4.0% to 5.0%
Short leasehold land and buildings 
Over the period of the lease
Plant, equipment and other fixtures and fittings 
10.0% to 33.3%
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, 
and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
(j) Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess 
of the fair value of consideration given over the fair value 
of the separately identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill 
arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs 
(4 January 2005) has been frozen at the previous UK 
GAAP net book value at the date of transition, subject to 
being tested for impairment annually at the year end date.
Goodwill is allocated to specific CGUs for the purpose 
of impairment testing. The allocation is made to the CGU 
that is expected to benefit from the business combination 
in which the goodwill arose.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses.  
(k) Intangible fixed assets
Intangible fixed assets are held at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment. Amortisation is charged 
on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of 
the intangible fixed asset.
Customer contracts and relationships
Intangible customer contracts and relationship assets 
relate to the acquisition of eBet Online, Inc., Datatote 
(England) Limited, and Bump Worldwide, Inc. Customer 
contracts and relationships are capitalised in accordance 
with IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” (revised) and on the 
basis of a value-in-use calculation using an income-based 
approach. Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line 
method over their estimated useful lives as outlined in  
note 12. 
Software
Externally acquired computer software licences are 
capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire 
and bring to use the specific software. These costs are 
amortised over their estimated useful lives or contractual 
period if shorter (six to ten years). 
Development costs that are directly attributable to the 
design and testing of identifiable and unique software 
products controlled by the Group are recognised as 
intangible assets when the following criteria are met:
 –it is technically feasible to complete the software product 
so that it will be available for use;
 –management intends to complete the software product;
 –it can be demonstrated how the software product will 
generate probable future economic benefits;
 –adequate technical, financial and other resources to 
complete the development and to use or sell the 
software product are available; and
 –the expenditure attributable to the software product 
during its development can be reliably measured.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Accounting policies continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
(k) Intangible fixed assets (continued)
Directly attributable costs that are capitalised as part of 
the software product include the software development 
employee costs and an appropriate proportion of relevant 
overhead. Other development expenditure that does 
not meet these criteria are recognised as an expense 
as incurred. Development costs previously recognised 
as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a 
subsequent period.
Software development costs are amortised over their 
estimated useful lives, which do not exceed 15 years.
Other intangibles
Included within other intangibles are separately acquired 
licences recognised at historical cost. Licences acquired 
in a business combination are recognised at fair value at 
the acquisition date. Licences that have a finite useful 
life are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation. 
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method 
to allocate cost of licences over their estimated useful lives 
of 15 to 20 years. Licences with an infinite life (licences 
granted in perpetuity) are held at cost or fair value at 
acquisition date and tested annually for impairment.
During 2012, the Group acquired eBet Online, Inc., giving 
rise to the recognition of licences and a non-compete 
agreement. The non-compete agreement fair value was 
derived from a comparative income differential method 
and is amortised over the life of the agreement being 
three years.
(l) Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at historic cost less 
any impairment. Annual impairment reviews are performed.
(m) Impairment reviews
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation 
are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may 
not be recoverable. Goodwill and intangible assets with 
indefinite lives are subject to an annual review for 
impairment in accordance with IAS 36 “Impairment of 
Assets”. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s 
fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use. For the 
purpose of assessing impairments, assets are grouped at 
the lowest levels at which there are separately identifiable 
cash flows. Any impairment losses are recognised in the 
income statement in the year in which they occur. Any 
impairment loss recognised on goodwill is not reversed.
All other individual assets are tested for impairment 
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. With 
the exception of goodwill, all assets are subsequently 
reassessed for indications that an impairment loss 
previously recognised may no longer exist at each 
reporting date.
(n) Pension obligation
The Group operates various pension schemes. 
The schemes are generally funded through payments 
to insurance companies or Trustee administered funds, 
determined by periodic actuarial calculations. The Group 
has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. 
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which 
the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. 
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay 
further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient 
assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to 
employee service in the current and prior periods. 
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a 
defined contribution plan. Typically, defined benefit plans 
define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will 
receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more 
factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in 
respect of the defined benefit pension plan is the fair value 
of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation at the balance sheet date. The defined benefit 
obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries 
using the projected unit credit method. The present value 
of the defined benefit obligation is determined by  
discounting the estimated future cash outflows using 
interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are 
denominated in the currency in which the benefits will 
be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating 
to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience 
adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are 
charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive 
income in the period in which they arise.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the 
income statement.
74 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015  For defined contribution plans, the Group pays 
contributions to privately administered pension insurance 
plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. 
The Group has no further payment obligations once 
the contributions have been paid. The contributions are 
recognised as an employee benefit expense when they 
are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset 
to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future 
payments is available.
(o) Financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce 
exposure to interest rate and exchange rate movements. 
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial 
instruments for speculative purposes. Financial assets 
and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet 
initially at fair value when the Group becomes party to 
the contractual provisions of the instrument. Subsequent 
measurement depends on the designation of the 
instrument in accordance with IAS 39. 
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on 
the date a derivative contract is entered into and 
are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. 
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss 
depends on whether the derivative is designated as 
a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item 
being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives 
as hedges of the variability of cash flows (cash flow 
hedge). The Group documents, at the inception of the 
transaction, the relationship between hedging instruments 
and hedged items as well as its risk management objective 
and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. 
The Group also documents its assessment, both at 
hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether 
the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions 
are highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash 
flows of the hedged items.
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of 
derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow 
hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income. 
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is 
recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income 
statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect 
profit or loss, e.g. when the forecast transaction that is 
hedged takes place. However, when the forecast 
transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of 
a non-financial asset or a liability, the gains and losses 
previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity 
and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the 
asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when 
a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, 
any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time 
remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast 
transaction is ultimately recognised in the income 
statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was 
reported in equity is immediately transferred to the 
income statement.
Available for sale financial assets
Financial assets which do not meet the criteria of being 
loans and receivables, fair value through profit and loss, 
or held to maturity financial assets are classified as 
available for sale financial assets in accordance with IAS 
39. Those assets are remeasured to their fair value at the 
reporting date, with any gains/losses recognised within 
other comprehensive income. An available for sale 
financial asset reserve holds all unrealised gains/losses 
within equity on the balance sheet. 
Gains/losses on available for sale financial assets are 
realised at the point that the asset is disposed of by 
the Group. 
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Accounting policies continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
(p) Share-based payments
The fair value of employee options awarded under the 
Sportech Share Option Scheme is calculated using the 
Black-Scholes model. The fair value of employee PSP 
awards is valued using a stochastic (Monte Carlo) valuation 
model. In accordance with IFRS 2 “Share-based Payment”, 
the resulting cost is charged to the income statement over 
the vesting period of the options/awards. The total 
amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the 
fair value of the options/awards granted including any 
market performance conditions, which are those that are 
based on Sportech PLC’s share price, and excluding the 
impact of any service and non-market performance 
vesting conditions, being profitability and the individual 
remaining an employee over a specified time period. 
At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its 
estimates of the number of options that are expected to 
vest. It recognises the impact of the revision to original 
estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a 
corresponding adjustment to equity.
The charge in relation to employees who provide services 
to subsidiary companies is recharged to those subsidiaries. 
Where the charge is not required to be settled in cash, 
the Company’s investment in that subsidiary is increased 
by the value of the charge and a corresponding increase 
in equity is recognised in the subsidiary.
(q) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents shown on the balance sheet 
represent cash in hand, cash in vaults and cash held 
in current accounts. Bank overdrafts are shown within 
current liabilities. Cash held on behalf of customers is 
netted against the corresponding liability within trade 
and other payables and does not form part of the 
Group’s cash and cash equivalents balance. 
(r) Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of 
transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently 
stated at amortised cost; any difference between the 
proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption 
value is recognised in the income statement over the 
period of the borrowings using the effective interest 
method. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities 
unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve months 
after the balance sheet date. 
(s) Exceptional items
The Group defines exceptional items as those items which, 
by their nature or size, would distort the comparability of 
the Group’s results from year to year.
(t) Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value 
and subsequently measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method, less provision for 
impairment, being the difference between the assets’ 
carrying amounts and the present value of the estimated 
future cash flows, discounted at the original effective 
interest rate. Individually significant receivables are 
considered for impairment when they are past due or 
when other objective evidence is received that a specific 
customer will default or delinquency in payment will arise. 
Any subsequent recovery of amounts written off is 
credited to the income statement.
(u) Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method.
(v) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value. Cost is determined using the first in, 
first out method. Net realisable value is the estimated 
selling price in the ordinary course of business.
(w) Provisions
Provisions for onerous contracts, onerous leases, 
restructuring costs, legal claims and dilapidations are 
recognised when the Group has: a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required 
to settle the obligation; and the amount has been reliably 
estimated. Provisions are not recognised for future 
operating losses where the Group has no contractual 
obligation to deliver the service or product.
(x) Leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and 
rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are 
classified as operating leases. Payments made under 
operating leases (net of any incentives received from the 
lessor) are charged to the income statement on a straight-
line basis over the period of the lease.
(y) Share capital
Ordinary shares are classed as equity. Incremental 
costs directly attributable to the value of new shares 
or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the 
proceeds in the share premium account where the shares 
were issued at a premium or, where issued at par or where 
the issue costs exceed the premium on the issue, to 
retained earnings.
76 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015  (z) New standards, amendments and interpretations adopted by the Group
There are no new standards or amendments to standards or interpretations that are mandatory for the first time for 
the financial year beginning 1 January 2015 that materially impacted the Group financial statements. Accordingly, the 
accounting policies applied in these financial statements are consistent with those of the annual financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014, as described in those financial statements.
(aa) New standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective and not adopted by the Group
The following standards, amendments and interpretations are not yet effective and have not been adopted early 
by the Group. 
Standard or interpretation Content 
Applicable for financial 
years beginning on or after
IFRS 16 Leasing 1 January 2019
Amendments to IFRS 9 Financial instruments 1 January 2018
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers 1 January 2018
Annual improvements 2014 Various 1 January 2016
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2015
1. Segmental reporting
The Executive Committee assesses the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of adjusted 
EBITDA which excludes the effects of non-recurring expenditure such as exceptional items and asset impairment 
charges. The share option expense is also excluded. Interest is not allocated to segments as the Group’s cash position 
is controlled by the central finance team. Sales between segments are at arm’s length.
2015
Football
Pools
£m
Sportech
Racing 
and
Digital 
£m
Sportech
Venues
£m
Corporate
costs
£m
Inter-
segment
elimination
£m
Group
£m
Revenue from sale of goods 33.8 4.7 — — — 38.5
Revenue from rendering of services — 29.9 32.7 — (0.9) 61.7
Total revenue 33.8 34.6 32.7 — (0.9) 100.2
EBITDA before exceptional items, share option 
expense and impairment of assets 15.2 8.6 2.8 (3.5) — 23.1
Share option expense — — — (0.5) — (0.5)
Depreciation and amortisation (excluding 
amortisation of acquired intangibles) (1.8) (3.8) (1.3) (0.7) — (7.6)
Segment result before amortisation of 
acquired intangibles and impairment of assets 13.4 4.8 1.5 (4.7) — 15.0
Amortisation of acquired intangibles — (1.2) — — — (1.2)
Impairment of assets — (6.1) — — — (6.1)
Exceptional income — 8.1 — — — 8.1
Exceptional costs (0.2) (1.5) (0.2) (0.7) — (2.6)
Operating profit/(loss) 13.2 4.1 1.3 (5.4) — 13.2
Net finance costs (2.6)
Share of loss after tax and impairment of joint 
ventures and associates (0.9)
Profit before taxation 9.7
Taxation (3.0)
Profit for the year 6.7
Segment assets 193.0 90.1 39.4 39.2 (148.5) 213.2
Segment liabilities (18.7) (78.0) (8.7) (130.1) 148.5 (87.0)
Other segment items
Capital expenditure (notes 12 and 13) 2.5 4.5 1.1 0.3 — 8.4
Depreciation (note 13) 0.2 1.8 1.2 0.1 — 3.3
Amortisation of intangible assets (including 
acquired intangibles) (note 12) 1.6 3.2 0.1 0.6 — 5.5
78 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2014
Football
Pools
£m
Sportech
Racing 
and
Digital 
£m
Sportech
Venues
£m
Corporate
costs
£m
Inter-
segment
elimination
£m
Group
£m
Revenue from sale of goods 38.0 4.2 — — — 42.2
Revenue from rendering of services — 30.3 32.5 — (0.9) 61.9
Total revenue 38.0 34.5 32.5 — (0.9) 104.1
EBITDA before exceptional items, share option 
expense and impairment of assets 16.6 8.1 3.2 (3.9) — 24.0
Share option expense — — — (0.6) — (0.6)
Depreciation and amortisation (excluding 
amortisation of acquired intangibles) (1.5) (3.5) (1.2) — — (6.2)
Segment result before amortisation of 
acquired intangibles and impairment of assets 15.1 4.6 2.0 (4.5) — 17.2
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (2.6) (1.5) — — — (4.1)
Impairment of assets (28.1) — — — — (28.1)
Exceptional costs (1.4) — (0.1) (0.8) — (2.3)
Operating (loss)/profit (17.0) 3.1 1.9 (5.3) — (17.3)
Net finance costs (2.5)
Share of loss after tax of joint ventures (0.2)
Loss before taxation (20.0)
Taxation (1.3)
Loss for the year (21.3)
Segment assets 179.6 78.2 35.2 34.2 (112.2) 215.0
Segment liabilities (16.1) (64.0) (7.3) (120.0) 112.2 (95.2)
Other segment items
Capital expenditure (notes 12 and 13) 3.0 5.7 1.3 — — 10.0
Depreciation (note 13) 0.3 1.7 1.0 — — 3.0
Amortisation of intangible assets (including 
acquired intangibles) (note 12) 3.8 3.3 0.2 — — 7.3
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
1. Segmental reporting continued
Information by geographical area
Revenues from 
external customers Non-current assets
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
United Kingdom 38.7 41.1 141.9 142.2
North and South America 51.3 50.7 48.6 51.5
Europe 9.3 11.3 2.4 3.1
Other 0.9 1.0 — —
Total 100.2 104.1 192.9 196.8
Revenue is allocated to the country in which the customer is located and the service is performed or product is delivered.
2. Exceptional (income)/costs
Net exceptional (income)/costs by type are as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Included in administrative expenses:
Redundancy and restructuring costs in respect of the rationalisation  
and modernisation of the business 1.0 1.1
Costs incurred in relation to California contract exit 0.6 —
Costs and fees in relation to Spot the Ball VAT claim — 0.2
Transaction costs in relation to Contagious Gaming, Inc. proposal 0.2 —
Transaction costs in respect of the acquisition of subsidiaries and associates 0.1 0.1
Licensing costs in New Jersey in respect of the acquisition of Sportech Racing 0.3 0.1
Costs in relation to the set up of joint ventures 0.2 0.6
IFRS 3 employment costs in relation to Datatote (England) Limited and Bump Worldwide, Inc. 0.2 0.4
Release of contingent consideration accrued for Datatote (England) Limited (0.2) —
Release of contingent consideration accrued for eBet Online, Inc. — (0.5)
Realised fair value loss on receipt of shares in NYX Gaming Group Limited (note 16) 0.2 —
Other exceptional items — 0.3
2.6 2.3
Included in other operating income:
Net gain on disposal of Sportech-NYX Gaming, LLC (note 16) (8.1) —
(8.1) —
Included in net finance costs:
Refinancing fee 0.3 1.4
Movement on derivative financial instruments post designation as ineffective (0.5) (0.8)
(0.2) 0.6
Net exceptional (income)/costs (5.7) 2.9
80 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 3. Expenses by nature
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Selling commissions 1.6 2.6
Betting and gaming duties 5.8 6.4
Track and tote fees 15.4 14.4
Marketing, printing and postage costs 5.2 6.0
Employment costs 6 30.0 30.4
Share option expense 6 0.5 0.6
Depreciation and amortisation 12, 13 8.8 10.3
Impairment of goodwill 11 3.7 28.1
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets in respect of 
the California contract exit 12, 13 2.4 —
Distribution costs 0.6 0.9
IT and telecommunications costs 2.4 2.5
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 19 3.8 3.5
Exceptional costs excluding redundancy and restructuring costs in respect of the 
rationalisation and modernisation of the business 2 1.6 1.2
Property related costs 5.4 5.4
Other costs 7.9 9.1
Total expenses 95.1 121.4
Included in the above table are exceptional costs of £2.6m (2014: £2.3m).
4. Net finance costs
2015
£m
2014
£m
Interest payable on bank loans, derivative financial instruments and overdrafts 3.2 2.8
Foreign exchange gain on financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency (0.4) (0.9)
Movement on derivative financial instruments post designation as ineffective (0.5) (0.8)
Refinancing fee 0.3 1.4
Net finance costs 2.6 2.5
The foreign exchange gain on financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency, fair value movements on 
derivative financial instruments and the refinancing fee are all together shown as other finance income in the income 
statement. Included in the above table is exceptional income of £0.2m (2014: exceptional costs of £0.6m)  
(see note 2).
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 81
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements 5. Profit/(loss) before taxation
Profit/(loss) before taxation is stated after charging:
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Employment costs 6 30.5 31.0
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 3.3 3.0
Impairment of goodwill 11 3.7 28.1
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets in respect of 
the California contract exit 12, 13 2.4 —
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 12 1.2 4.1
Amortisation of other intangibles 12 4.3 3.2
Impairment of net investment in joint venture 17 0.2 —
The fees of the Auditors in relation to their audit of the Company and consolidated accounts are £52,000 (2014: £38,000).
Fees paid to Auditors during the period comprise:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Audit of the Group’s subsidiaries 0.2 0.2
Taxation compliance 0.1 0.1
Taxation advisory services 0.1 0.2
Other assurance services 0.1 0.1
Total fees 0.5 0.6
6. Employment costs
Average number of monthly employees (full-time equivalents) including Executive Directors comprised:
2015
Number
2014
Number
Sales and marketing 96 103
Operations and distribution 516 583
Administration 137 110
Total employees 749 796
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Wages and salaries 25.1 25.6
Social security costs 4.1 3.9
Pension costs – defined contribution scheme (note 32) 0.7 0.7
Pension costs – defined benefit scheme (note 32) 0.1 0.2
Share option expense 0.5 0.6
Total remuneration 30.5 31.0
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
82 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 7. Directors and key management remuneration
Directors
2015
£000
2014
£000
Short-term employee benefits 1,236 1,420
Share-based payments 266 304
Post-employment benefits 55 72
Total remuneration 1,557 1,796
Details of individual Directors’ remuneration and share-based incentives granted are given in the Remuneration 
report on pages 33 to 51. This information forms part of the financial statements. Retirement benefits are accruing 
under defined benefit pension schemes for nil Directors (2014: nil). Nil Directors exercised share options in the year  
(2014: three). 
Key management compensation
2015
£000
2014
£000
Short-term employee benefits 1,559 1,803
Share-based payments 335 386
Post-employment benefits 58 83
Total remuneration 1,952 2,272
Key management is considered to be the Directors of the Company (Executive and Non-executive) and senior Executives. 
8. Taxation
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current tax:
Current tax on profit/(loss) for the year 2.8 1.5
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.4 (0.2)
Total current tax 3.2 1.3
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.7 0.1
Effect of changes in tax rates (0.1) (0.1)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.8) —
Total deferred tax (0.2) —
Total taxation charge 3.0 1.3
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 83
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements 8. Taxation continued
The taxation on the Group’s profit/(loss) before taxation differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the 
weighted average tax rate applicable to profits and losses of the consolidated entities as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit/(loss) before taxation 9.7 (20.0)
Add share of loss after tax and impairment of joint ventures and associates 0.9 0.2
Profit/(loss) before taxation and share of loss after tax of joint ventures 10.6 (19.8)
Tax calculated at domestic tax rates applicable to profits/(losses) in the respective countries 1.8 (4.6)
Tax effects of:
– permanent differences 1.7 6.2
– effect of changes in tax rates (0.1) (0.1)
– adjustments in respect of prior years (0.4) (0.2)
Total taxation charge 3.0 1.3
The weighted average applicable tax rate was 17.0% (2014: 23.0%). The decrease is as a result of a change in mix of 
profits/(losses) in jurisdictions with varying tax rates.
Included within permanent differences in 2015 is the tax effect at 34% of the £3.7m impairment of goodwill attributable 
to eBet Online, Inc., for which no tax relief is received. Similarly no tax relief was received in 2014 for the £28.1m 
impairment of goodwill in the Football Pools segment, and the tax effect at 21.5% of this is reflected within permanent 
differences in that year. 
As the Group’s year end is after the substantive enactment date (26 October 2015) of the Finance Act 2015, these 
financial statements account for the change in the UK Corporation Tax rate from 20% to 19% with effect from 1 April 
2017, with a further change to 18% for financial years beginning 1 April 2020. Therefore the rate at which deferred tax is 
calculated has changed. Deferred tax in the UK is provided at a blended rate, depending on when the deferred tax 
is expected to unwind.
9. Result of Parent Company
Included in the Group’s result for the year is a loss of £5.7m (2014: £6.5m) in respect of its Parent Company, Sportech 
PLC. The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 
and have not presented an income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the Company alone.
The individual income statement of Sportech PLC was approved by the Board on 3 March 2016.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
84 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 10. Earnings per share
(a) Basic
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company 
by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit/(loss) attributable to the owners of the Company 6.7 (21.3)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (’000) 206,051 204,986
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 3.3p (10.4)p
(b) Basic adjusted 
Adjusted EPS is calculated by dividing the adjusted profit after tax attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. Adjusted profit after tax is calculated by applying an estimated 
adjusted tax charge of 23.7% (2014: 22.3%) to adjusted profit before tax as defined on the income statement. This adjusted 
tax charge excludes the tax impact of income statement items not included in adjusted profit before tax. 
2015 2014
Profit
£m
Weighted 
average 
number of
 shares
’000
Per share 
amount
Pence
Profit
£m
Weighted 
average 
number of
 shares
’000
Per share 
amount
Pence
Adjusted profit before taxation 11.8 206,051 5.7 14.4 204,986 7.0
Tax at 23.7% (2014: 22.3%) (2.8) 206,051 (1.3) (3.2) 204,986 (1.5)
Adjusted basic EPS 9.0 206,051 4.4 11.2 204,986 5.5
(c) Diluted
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to 
assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. Certain employee options (202,020 in number; 2014: 707,070) 
have been excluded from the calculated diluted EPS as their exercise price is greater than the weighted average share 
price during the year and therefore would not be dilutive. The weighted average number of shares that have a dilutive 
effect on adjusted EPS is 8,191,000 (2014: 9,005,000). Diluted basic earnings per share is 3.1p (2014: loss per share 9.9p) 
and diluted adjusted EPS is 4.2p (2014: 5.2p).
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 85
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements 11. Goodwill
Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cost
At 1 January and at 31 December 171.0 171.0
Accumulated impairment charges
At 1 January (46.0) (17.9)
Impairment charge (3.7) (28.1)
At 31 December (49.7) (46.0)
Opening net book amount 125.0 153.1
Closing net book amount 121.3 125.0
Goodwill arose on three historic acquisitions made by the Group: the acquisition of Littlewoods Leisure, including the 
Littlewoods Football Pools business, in September 2000 amounting to £145.2m; the acquisition of Vernons Football 
Pools in December 2007 amounting to £20.3m; and the acquisition of eBet Online, Inc. in December 2012 of £5.5m. 
The accumulated impairment charges brought forward relate to the goodwill in the Football Pools segment. 
(a) Football Pools
The goodwill from the Littlewoods Leisure and Vernons acquisitions is attributed to the Football Pools segment. 
During the year the Group carried out its annual impairment review of the carrying value of its goodwill. In testing for 
impairment, other assets used solely to generate cash flows in the Football Pools CGU are also included, totalling £9.2m 
(2014: £7.9m). For the purpose of the annual impairment review, the recoverable amounts are measured based on 
value-in-use, calculated using discounted future cash flows. The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations were:
 –the cash flow forecasts used are based upon the budget approved by the Board for 2016 and on cash flow projections 
for 2017 to 2020 also approved by the Board, with a terminal value at 2020 calculated in accordance with IAS 36 
“Impairment of Assets”. Forecasts assume stabilisation of cash flows in 2016 from 2015 together with an overall 1% 
growth in EBITDA by 2020;
 –trading forecasts for the core Football Pools business reflect the continued improvement in spend per player from 
core customer numbers; the discontinuance of legacy and loss making products/channels; the continuation and 
improvement of new player acquisition activities; the improvement in technology and overall customer offering 
following the continued investment in 2015; and the benefits from operating the whole business from a new single 
customer facing, fully integrated technology platform from the end of H1 2016. The Board believes that the impact 
of all of those factors will lead to a stabilisation of EBITDA within the core Football Pools business in 2016;
 –the terminal value is based on a nil growth rate given the expected stabilisation of profit streams;
 –cash flows have been discounted at 8.4% (2014: 8.3%), reflecting a market-based weighted average cost of capital 
appropriate for the Football Pools CGU; and
 –there are no material adverse changes in legislation.
The recoverable amount of the Football Pools goodwill was estimated to be £129.3m, and therefore no impairment 
is recognised in the income statement (2014: impairment of £28.1m). 
Management consider that the calculated recoverable amount is most sensitive to changes in the following reasonable 
downside assumptions and notes that the changes to the assumptions below, all other variables held constant, would 
cause the indicated further impairments:
Resulting 
impairment
£m
EBITDA decline from 2015 of 3% per annum into perpetuity 40.5
WACC of 10% rather than 8.4% 19.8
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
86 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 (b) eBet Online, Inc.
The goodwill from the eBet Online, Inc. (“eBet”) acquisition is attributed to the Sportech Racing and Digital segment.
In H1 2015, impairment indicators arose in respect of the goodwill attributable to eBet, being the loss of two significant 
customers. Accordingly, an impairment review was performed at that time indicating a reduction in the recoverable 
amount of this asset. An impairment charge of £3.7m has therefore been recognised in the income statement (2014: £nil). 
In accordance with the Group’s annual cycle in its review of all critical judgments, a further impairment review was 
performed to assess the value-in-use of the eBet goodwill at the reporting date. The key assumptions in this value-in-use 
calculation were:
 –EBITDA forecasts are in line with the approved 2016 budget and strategic plans, with compound growth of 17% 
in earnings from 2016 to 2020 given market growth expectations;
 –the terminal value is based on a growth rate of 1.5%, reflecting foreseen growth in the online gambling market 
in the US;  and
 –cash flows have been discounted at 10.0% (2014: 8.3%), reflecting a market-based weighted average cost 
of capital appropriate for the CGU.
On the basis of this latest review, the recoverable amount of the eBet goodwill is estimated to be £8.1m and therefore 
no further impairment charge has been recognised. 
Management consider that the calculated recoverable amount is most sensitive to changes in the following reasonable 
downside assumptions and notes that the changes to the assumptions below, all other variables held constant, would 
cause further impairments to arise:
Resulting
impairment
 £m
Compound growth in EBITDA of 5% per annum from 2016 to 2020, with no terminal growth 1.3
WACC of 12.5% rather than 10.0% 0.2
12. Intangible fixed assets
Group
Customer 
contracts and
relationships 
£m
Software
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2015 36.5 42.1 21.9 100.5
Additions — 4.8 0.1 4.9
Transfer — 1.3 (1.3) —
Disposals — (0.4) — (0.4)
At 31 December 2015 36.5 47.8 20.7 105.0
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2015 35.0 20.7 3.3 59.0
Charged during the year 0.9 4.0 0.6 5.5
Impairment — 0.2 — 0.2
Disposals — (0.4) — (0.4)
At 31 December 2015 35.9 24.5 3.9 64.3
Cumulative exchange differences — 0.4 1.0 1.4
Net book amount at 31 December 2015 0.6 23.7 17.8 42.1
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 87
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements 12. Intangible fixed assets continued 
Company
Software
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2015 15.7 0.9 16.6
Additions 1.2 — 1.2
At 31 December 2015 16.9 0.9 17.8
Accumulated amortisation 
At 1 January 2015 4.4 0.4 4.8
Charged during the year 0.9 0.1 1.0
At 31 December 2015 5.3 0.5 5.8
Net book amount at 31 December 2015 11.6 0.4 12.0
Customer contracts and relationships
Customer contracts and relationships of the Group are in relation to eBet Online, Inc., which have a useful life of four 
years from 19 December 2012, Datatote (England) Limited, which have a useful life of four years and eight months 
from 27 September 2013, and to Bump Worldwide, Inc. which have a useful life of two years from 12 June 2014.
Software
Software owned by the Group largely relates to that providing pari-mutuel services to customers in North America. 
This software is owned by the Company, and has a useful life of 15 years. Other software is predominantly spend on the 
proprietary Football Pools customer database and system, which has a useful life of between six and ten years.
Other intangibles
The Group holds a licence in perpetuity to offer pari-mutuel off-track betting in the State of Connecticut in the US. 
Given this licence is in perpetuity, the book value of the asset amounting to £16.9m (2014: £16.3m) is not amortised 
and the useful economic life allocated to the asset is indefinite. The movement in net book value is as a result of 
movement in exchange rates given the asset value is denominated in US Dollars. 
As required by IAS 36 an impairment test has been carried out as at 31 December 2015. In testing for impairment, 
other assets used solely to generate cash flows in the CGU are also included, totalling £10.4m (2014: £9.9m). 
The recoverable amount of the asset has been determined based on a value-in-use calculation. The following 
assumptions were made in determining the recoverable amount:
 –EBITDA forecasts are in line with the approved 2016 budget and 2017 to 2020 strategic plans which assume year 
on year handle decline in the land-based Venues of 2%, offset by compound growth in online handle of 35% in the 
same period;
 –the future cash flow forecasts include capital expenditure and EBITDA for the build out and trading of a significant 
new venue, which is currently classified as an asset under construction;
 –cash flows beyond the fifth year were extrapolated using a nil growth rate for the land-based Venues, given the 
expected stabilisation of cash flows over time, and a 2% growth rate in the online business, reflecting expected growth 
in the online betting market;
 –capital expenditure was included in the cash flows at management’s best estimate of industry norm for reinvestment 
in retail outlets of the kind under review; and
 –a post tax discount rate of 8.5% (2014: 8.3%) was used representing a market-based weighted average cost of capital 
appropriate for the Sportech Venues CGU. 
Following the impairment review, the recoverable amount of those assets was deemed to be £31.4m and accordingly 
no impairment was charged to the income statement (2014: £nil).
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
88 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Management consider that the calculated recoverable amount is most sensitive to changes in the following reasonable 
downside assumptions and notes that the changes to the assumptions below, all other variables held constant, would 
cause the indicated impairments:
Resulting
impairment
£m
Land-based handle decline of 2% runs into perpetuity; online handle compound growth  
reduced to 11% to 2020; and remove the build out and trading of the venue under construction 7.6
WACC of 10% rather than 8.5% 1.6
Group
 Customer 
contracts and 
relationships
£m
Software
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 36.4 37.5 21.2 95.1
Business combination 0.1 0.2 — 0.3
Additions — 4.4 0.7 5.1
At 31 December 2014 36.5 42.1 21.9 100.5
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2014 31.1 17.5 3.1 51.7
Charged during the year 3.9 3.2 0.2 7.3
At 31 December 2014 35.0 20.7 3.3 59.0
Cumulative exchange differences — 0.2 0.4 0.6
Net book amount at 31 December 2014 1.5 21.6 19.0 42.1
Company
Software 
£m
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 15.7 0.8 16.5
Additions — 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 2014 15.7 0.9 16.6
Accumulated amortisation 
At 1 January 2014 3.4 — 3.4
Charged during the year 1.0 0.4 1.4
At 31 December 2014 4.4 0.4 4.8
Net book amount at 31 December 2014 11.3 0.5 11.8
Amortisation has been included within administrative expenses.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 89
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements 13. Property, plant and equipment
Group
Short 
leasehold 
land and
 buildings 
£m
Long 
leasehold
 and owned 
 land and
 buildings 
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Fixtures 
and fittings 
£m
Assets in 
the course of 
construction 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2015 0.2 11.4 20.3 0.8 4.2 36.9
Additions — — 0.8 — 2.7 3.5
Acquisition of interests in S&S Venues 
California, LLC (note 17) — — — — 0.6 0.6
Disposals — — (5.3) — — (5.3)
Transfer — 0.1 4.3 — (4.4) —
At 31 December 2015 0.2 11.5 20.1 0.8 3 .1 35.7
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2015 0.1 4.0 8.3 0.1 — 12.5
Charged during the year — 0.6 2.5 0.2 — 3.3
Impairment — — 2.2 — — 2.2
Disposals — — (5.3) — — (5.3)
At 31 December 2015 0.1 4.6 7.7 0.3 — 12.7
Cumulative exchange differences — 0.5 0.3 — 0.2 1.0
Net book amount at 31 December 2015 0.1 7.4 12.7 0.5 3.3 24.0
Company
Short 
leasehold 
land and
 buildings 
£m
 Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 January and 31 December 2015 0.1 0.2 0.3
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January and 31 December 2015 0.1 0.1 0.2
Net book amount at 31 December 2015 — 0.1 0.1
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
90 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Group
Short 
leasehold 
land and
 buildings 
£m
Long 
leasehold and
 owned land
 and buildings
 £m
Plant and
 machinery 
£m
Fixtures 
and fittings 
£m
Assets in 
the course of 
construction 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 0.1 9.5 12.7 1.0 10.0 33.3
Additions — — 0.9 — 4.0 4.9
Disposals — (0.1) (0.8) (0.4) — (1.3)
Transfer 0.1 2.0 7.5 0.2 (9.8) —
At 31 December 2014 0.2 11.4 20.3 0.8 4.2 36.9
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2014 0.1 3.5 6.9 0.3 — 10.8
Charged during the year — 0.6 2.2 0.2 — 3.0
Disposals — (0.1) (0.8) (0.4) — (1.3)
At 31 December 2014 0.1 4.0 8.3 0.1 — 12.5
Cumulative exchange differences — — 0.1 (0.1) 0.5 0.5
Net book amount at 31 December 2014 0.1 7.4 12.1 0.6 4.7 24.9
Company
Short 
leasehold 
land and 
buildings 
£m
 Plant and
 machinery 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 January and 31 December 2014 0.1 0.2 0.3
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January and 31 December 2014 0.1 0.1 0.2
Net book amount at 31 December 2014 — 0.1 0.1
14. Investments in subsidiaries
Group Company
Investments in Group companies
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
At 1 January and 31 December — — 203.7 203.7
Investments in Group companies are stated at cost which is the fair value of the consideration paid. 
A full listing of the Group’s subsidiaries, and other related undertakings, is included in note 33. 
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 91
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements 15. Business combinations
(a) Bump Worldwide, Inc.
On 12 June 2014, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Bump Worldwide Inc. (“Bump”), a provider 
of electronic charitable raffles conducted during professional sporting events, known as “50:50 raffles”. 
There were no changes during the hindsight period to the fair value assumptions applied at acquisition in relation 
to the net assets acquired and consideration paid for Bump.
EBITDA estimates for the business continue to indicate that contingent consideration will be due and payable in 2017. 
This is treated as employment costs under IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” (revised) and is accordingly accrued on a 
time apportioned basis to 31 December 2016 (see note 24).
(b) Datatote (England) Limited
On 27 September 2013, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Datatote (England) Limited (“Datatote”). 
An element of the consideration payable for this purchase was contingent based on EBITDA targets. 
Management estimates that the achievement of EBITDA targets required for any contingent consideration to be paid on 
this acquisition is unlikely. As such, the accrual recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2014 has been released 
in full (see note 2).
16. Disposals
On 3 July 2015, the Group disposed of its investment in Sportech-NYX Gaming, LLC for cash consideration of £5.1m, 
2.2m ordinary shares of NYX Gaming Group Limited (“NYX”), and an element of contingent consideration. 
The shares had an aggregate value on the date of disposal of £4.7m, based on the share price at that time of CAD $4.15.
As a condition to the disposal, NYX are required to pay the Group CAD $1.0m for each customer to go-live on the NYX 
Real Money Wagering Platform in the US, its territories and Commonwealth, Canada, and all sovereign Indian Nations in 
these countries prior to 28 May 2020. The maximum consideration receivable by the Group for this condition is CAD 
$3.0m. Management believe that NYX will acquire at least three customers to the relevant platform within the next five 
years, and as such accrued for the contingent consideration in full (discounted to today’s value at a rate of 8.3%), at a 
value of £1.1m. 
The net gain on disposal of Sportech-NYX Gaming, LLC recognised in the year is calculated as follows:
2015
£m
Consideration receivable 10.9
Net investment in joint venture disposed of (note 17) (1.9)
Disposal costs (0.9)
Net gain on disposal before taxation (note 2) 8.1
On the date of receipt, the shares had an aggregate value of £4.5m, based on the share price at that date (16 July 2015) 
of CAD $4.06 per share. The fair value loss on the consideration receivable of £0.2m from disposal date to the date of 
receipt has been recognised as an exceptional cost in the year (see note 2). The shares held in NYX represent an 
available for sale financial asset in accordance with IAS 39. Accordingly, the shares are revalued to their fair value at the 
reporting date, with gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income until their ultimate disposal by the Group. 
At year end, the shares had an aggregate value of £2.9m, representing a share price of CAD $2.72 at that date. 
Contingent consideration of £1.1m is included in non-current trade and other receivables at the reporting date.  
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
92 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17. Net investment in joint ventures/associates
During the year, the Group held the following investments in joint ventures and associates:
Company Description
Country of 
incorporation
Year of 
investment
Joint venture/
associate
% 
holding
Picklive USA, LLC 
(“Picklive”)
Distribution of Picklive’s live fantasy 
sports game across the US
US 2013 Joint 
venture
51
Sportech - NYX Gaming, LLC 
(“SNG Interactive”)
Provides online products and 
services in the US for social and 
pay-to-play gaming
US 2013 Joint 
venture
50
S&S Venues California, LLC 
(“S&S Venues”)
Sports bars with wagering facilities 
in California
US 2013 Joint 
venture
50
Sportshub Private Limited 
(“Sportshub”)
Provides a suite of prediction and 
fantasy games centred on cricket, 
football and Formula 1
India 2008 Joint 
venture
50
DraftDay Gaming Group, Inc. 
(“DraftDay”)
Daily fantasy sports business 
operating in the US
US 2015 Associate 39
(a) Movements in the Group’s net investment in joint ventures and associates
Movements in the Group’s net investment in joint ventures and associates in the year are outlined below:
2015 2014
Picklive
£m
SNG 
Interactive
£m
S&S
 Venues
£m
Sportshub
£m
DraftDay
£m
Total
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 0.2 0.9 0.6 0.5 — 2.2 0.5
Additions 0.1 1.2 1.1 0.1 0.6 3.1 1.9
Acquisition of controlling interest in Norco (b) — — (0.5) — — (0.5) —
Disposals (c) — (1.9) — — — (1.9) —
Impairment (d) (0.2) — — — — (0.2) —
Share of loss after tax (0.1) (0.2) — (0.1) (0.3) (0.7) (0.2)
Currency translation differences — — — — 0.1 0.1 —
At 31 December — — 1.2 0.5 0.4 2.1 2.2
(b) Acquisition of controlling interest in S&S Venues California, LLC
During the year the Group renegotiated the agreement with Silky Sullivan Group, LLC in relation to the joint venture 
company S&S Venues California, LLC, to increase the Group’s share of the venue being constructed in North Corona 
(“Norco”), California, from 50% to 80%. Simultaneously the Group obtained control of this venue. As such this venue is 
now fully consolidated into the Group’s financial statements as a subsidiary, and is no longer equity accounted for as a 
joint venture. All other venues within S&S Venues California, LLC remain jointly controlled and therefore continue to be 
subject to equity accounting.
Prior to this change in control, the Group had an investment in the Norco joint venture of £0.5m. Upon acquiring control 
the fair value of the net assets of Norco were assessed and determined provisionally to be £0.6m, primarily related to 
assets under construction. 
As such the Group has derecognised its previously held investment in the Norco joint venture, £0.5m and recognised 
100% of the fair value of the net assets of Norco in the consolidated balance sheet of £0.6m (note 13). Non-controlling 
interests of £0.1m have also been recognised within equity, representing the stake held in Norco by Silky Sullivan Group, 
LLC. No goodwill or gain on bargain purchase has been recognised upon acquisition of control.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 93
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements 17. Net investment in joint ventures/associates (continued)
(c) Disposal of Sportech-NYX Gaming, LLC
On 3 July 2015, the Group disposed of its 50% share in Sportech-NYX Gaming, LLC to its joint venture partner. The net 
gain on disposal has been recognised in the income statement within exceptional income (see note 16).
(d) Dissolution of Picklive USA, LLC
The Group’s involvement in Picklive came to an end in the year, and the joint venture company was dissolved. 
Accordingly an impairment was recognised in the year, equating to the Group’s net investment in Picklive at that time of 
£0.2m. 
(e) Shareholding acquired in DraftDay Gaming Group, Inc. 
On 8 September 2015, the Group acquired a 39.2% interest in DraftDay Gaming Group, Inc. (“DDGG”), an operator in the 
daily fantasy sports industry. While the Group has significant influence over DDGG through its stakeholding, it does 
not have control nor joint control. As such DDGG is an associate of the Group.
Nil cash consideration was paid on acquisition of this stake in DraftDay. The consideration given by the Group to acquire 
its interest, and hence its cost of investment, was £0.6m, which shall be settled through the Group providing executive 
management services to DDGG over the two years post acquisition. Upon acquisition, the fair value of the net assets of 
DDGG were assessed and have provisionally been determined to be £1.5m. As a result no goodwill nor gain on bargain 
purchase have been recognised on acquisition.
(f) Summarised financial information of joint venture and associate investments held at reporting date
Summary financial statements of those joint ventures or associates in which the Group holds material investments 
at the reporting date are as follows: 
(1) Sportshub Private Limited
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Non-current assets 0.1 0.1
Current assets 0.9 0.9
Total assets 1.0 1.0
Current liabilities — —
Net assets 1.0 1.0
Revenue — —
Expenses (0.2) (0.1)
Loss after tax (0.2) (0.1)
(2) S&S Venues California, LLC - San Diego
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Non-current assets 2.2 0.7
Current assets 0.2 0.5
Total assets 2.4 1.2
Current liabilities (0.1) —
Net assets 2.3 1.2
Revenue 0.1 —
Expenses (0.1) —
Profit after tax — —
(g) Capital commitments
The Group’s share of capital commitments owing by the joint ventures amounted to £nil (2014: £nil).
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
94 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 18. Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current
Trade and other receivables 2.0 1.2 — —
Non-current trade and other receivables 2.0 1.2 — —
Current
Trade receivables 6.4 7.6 — —
Less provision for impairment of receivables (1.2) (1.1) — —
Trade receivables – net 5.2 6.5 — —
Amounts owed by Group companies — — 21.6 20.2
Other receivables 1.2 0.7 0.1 0.1
Accrued income 2.4 1.3 — —
Prepayments 2.1 1.9 0.2 0.3
Current trade and other receivables 10.9 10.4 21.9 20.6
Total trade and other receivables 12.9 11.6 21.9 20.6
Non-current trade receivables relate to contingent consideration due on the disposal of Sportech-NYX Gaming, LLC 
of £1.1m (note 16), and accrued income due after more than twelve months of £0.9m (2014: £nil and £1.2m respectively).
The fair value of trade and other receivables is not considered to be different from the carrying value recorded above 
for either the Group or the Company. 
Trade receivables that are less than three months past due are not considered impaired as management considers 
the amounts to be fully recoverable. As at 31 December 2015, £0.4m (2014: £0.1m) of trade receivables were past due 
and not impaired. Management also considers that these receivables are recoverable in full due to good credit quality.
As at 31 December 2015, trade receivables of £1.2m (2014: £1.1m) were impaired and fully provided for. The Group’s 
provision for impairment has been increased by £0.1m in the year, owing to a £0.2m increase in the sterling value of 
debts denominated in foreign currencies, net of a £0.1m reduction of provisions against specific debts in the Sportech 
Racing and Digital segment. This has been reduced as a result of improved credit control and 2015 payment activity 
of specific customers.
The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Sterling 4.0 2.8 3.1 3.1
US Dollar 6.2 5.8 17.5 16.4
Euro 1.5 0.7 1.3 1.1
Other 1.2 2.3 — —
Total 12.9 11.6 21.9 20.6
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 95
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements 19. Inventories
Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Work in progress 0.4 0.2
Spare parts 1.4 1.1
Finished goods 0.3 0.2
Total 2.1 1.5
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to £3.8m (2014: £3.5m).
Provisions for obsolescence held against inventories at 31 December 2015 amounted to £0.1m (2014: £0.1m).
20. Deferred tax 
The movement on the net deferred tax balance is as follows:
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net deferred tax asset at 1 January 0.8 0.7 0.2 1.0
Income statement charge (0.2) — (0.1) (0.8)
Tax (charged)/credited directly to other comprehensive income (0.1) 0.1 — —
Net deferred tax asset at 31 December 0.5 0.8 0.1 0.2
The tax (charged)/credited directly to other comprehensive income is the deferred tax on the retirement benefit liabilities. 
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of trading losses and all other temporary differences, where it is 
probable that these assets will be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally 
enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the liabilities net. The movements in deferred tax assets 
and liabilities during the year are shown below:
Deferred tax assets
Group
Pension 
£m
Capital 
allowances 
£m
Losses and
foreign tax
credits 
£m
Other 
temporary 
differences 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2014 0.4 (2.2) 1.7 1.9 1.8
Income statement (charge)/credit — (2.6) 3.5 (1.4) (0.5)
T ax credited directly to other comprehensive income 0.1 — — — 0.1
At 31 December 2014 0.5 (4.8) 5.2 0.5 1.4
Income statement (charge)/credit — (0.5) (0.4) 1.0 0.1
Tax charged directly to other comprehensive income (0.1) — — — (0.1)
At 31 December 2015 0.4 (5.3) 4.8 1.5 1.4
Deferred tax of £nil is expected to be recovered within twelve months (2014: £nil) with £1.4m expected to be recovered 
after more than twelve months (2014: £1.4m).
The deferred tax asset in the Company consists of temporary differences of £0.1m and capital allowances of £nil  
(2014: temporary differences of £0.2m and capital allowances of £nil).
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
96 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The losses in the Company have been fully surrendered as Group relief. In addition to the deferred tax asset which 
has been recognised, the Group has not recognised further deferred tax assets of £2.9m (2014: £3.0m) arising from 
unutilised trading losses. The Directors do not consider there will be sufficient future profits against which these 
losses can be offset due to the low level of trading in these particular business units.
Expiry of these losses is as follows:
2015 2014
Gross losses
Provided
£m
Unprovided
£m
Provided
£m
Unprovided
£m
In more than four years 14.3 12.9 15.0 13.3
Deferred tax assets are recognised on losses carried forward when it is probable that future taxable profits will be 
generated against which the losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities
Group
Other
temporary 
differences
 £m
At 1 January 2014 (1.1)
Income statement credit 0.5
At 31 December 2014 (0.6)
Income statement charge (0.3)
At 31 December 2015 (0.9)
21. Cash and cash equivalents
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is not considered to be different from the carrying value recorded in the 
financial statements for either the Group or the Company. 
Cash balances of £1.4m (2014: £2.3m) are held on behalf of customers in respect of certain online and telephone betting 
activities and on behalf of registered charities relating to the sale of charity scratchcards and lotto products. These 
balances are excluded from Group cash and are netted against a corresponding payable within accruals and deferred 
income (see note 22).
22. Trade and other payables
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade payables 6.1 6.6 0.7 0.3
Amounts owed to Group companies — — 59.0 46.7
Other taxes and social security costs 1.6 0.6 — —
Accruals and deferred income 12.9 13.3 1.7 0.9
Bank overdraft — — 1.0 —
Total 20.6 20.5 62.4 47.9
There is no difference between book values and fair values of trade and other payables. All amounts are due within 
one year.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 97
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements 23. Provisions 
Group
Onerous 
contracts 
£m
Other 
provisions 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2014 0.3 0.3 0.6
Utilised during the year — — —
At 31 December 2014 0.3 0.3 0.6
Released during the year (0.1) — (0.1)
At 31 December 2015 0.2 0.3 0.5
Provisions have been recognised where the Group has contractual obligations to provide services where the estimated 
unavoidable costs to carry out the obligation exceed the expected future economic benefits to be received. Other 
provisions include provisions for obligations to reinstate property to its original condition at the start of the lease term. 
Following a revision to expected performance on contracts within the Racing and Digital segment, provisions have been 
reduced by £0.1m in the year. 
Of the provisions included in the above table, £0.1m is expected to be utilised within twelve months (2014: £0.2m) and 
£0.4m is expected to be utilised after twelve months (2014: £0.4m).
24. Financial liabilities 
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current
Drawn revolving credit facility due after one year 62.1 70.1 62.1 70.1
Deferred and contingent consideration due after one year 0.2 0.5 — —
Total non-current financial liabilities 62.3 70.6 62.1 70.1
Bank loans and revolving credit facility
The Group’s borrowings are secured by a composite debenture incorporating fixed and floating charges over all assets 
(excluding monies standing to credit of trust accounts) and undertakings of Sportech PLC, all UK trading companies, 
UK holding companies of overseas entities, and Racing Technology Ireland Limited. In addition, share charges have been 
entered into in respect of shares in Sportech, Inc., Sportech Venues, Inc., Sportech Racing, LLC, Trackplay, LLC and eBet 
Technologies, Inc. (all are US companies). 
During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group repaid borrowings of £8.0m (2014: draw down of £4.1m). 
Covenants on the Group’s borrowings include a leverage covenant (being the ratio of adjusted EBITDA to adjusted 
net bank debt) and an interest cover covenant (being the ratio of adjusted EBITA to senior finance charges). None of 
the covenants were breached during the period.
Deferred and contingent consideration
Deferred and contingent consideration totalling £1.0m (2014: £1.0m) and £5.5m (2014: £5.5m) in relation to the 
acquisitions of Datatote and Bump respectively represent the maximum amounts payable in acquiring these entities. 
As outlined in note 15, management do not believe that EBITDA targets will be met for payment of contingent 
consideration on the Datatote acquisition, and accordingly no amounts are accrued for this at year end.
Deferred and contingent consideration due after one year of £0.2m represents management’s best estimate of the 
consideration to be paid in acquiring Bump. The amount payable on this acquisition is split between the following 
two elements:
 –an amount equivalent to the 2016 EBITDA earned by Bump, up to a maximum consideration payable of £4.7m; and
 –if 2016 EBITDA earned by Bump exceeds £0.8m, an additional contingent consideration will be payable equivalent 
to that excess, up to a maximum of £0.8m. 
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
98 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The amount is payable subsequent to the finalisation of the 2016 financial statements.
The Directors believe that a sum of £0.4m will be payable in respect of these performance targets. This is treated as 
employment costs under IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” (revised) and is accordingly accrued on a time apportioned 
basis to 31 December 2016. 
25. Financial instruments 
Financial risk management policies and objectives
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: fair value and cash flow interest rate risk; liquidity risk; 
credit risk; and foreign exchange risk. Where appropriate the Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge 
certain risk exposures.
The policy for each of the above risks is described in more detail below:
Fair value and cash flow interest rate risk
As the Group has no significant interest-bearing assets, the Group’s income and operating cash flows are substantially 
independent of changes in market interest rates.
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from its long-term bank borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable interest rates 
expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest 
rate risk. The Group’s bank borrowings are a multi-currency, revolving credit facility with Bank of Scotland plc, Barclays 
Bank PLC and Royal Bank of Scotland plc until August 2018 and at variable interest rates (a debt margin payable of 
between 200 and 350 basis points per annum) dependent on leverage ratio. The Group’s policy is to hedge interest rate 
risk where appropriate using interest rate swaps at contract lengths consistent with the expected levels of the long-term 
bank borrowings. This policy is a cash flow hedge and is approved by the Board and the Board receives updates on a 
regular basis in respect of the hedging position. 
The Group has entered into one swap agreement with one month remaining on a total of £10.0m, at an average swap 
rate before any lending margin of 4.80%. The hedge comprises one £10.0m hedge with an expiry date of January 2016. 
The contract is not a designated effective hedge and, as a result, gains and losses are recognised in the income 
statement within finance costs.
At 31 December 2015, if interest rates on borrowings had been 50 basis points higher/lower with all variables held 
constant, post tax loss for the year would have been £0.3m (2014: £0.1m) higher/lower as a result of higher/lower 
interest expense on unhedged variable rate borrowings. This sensitivity is considered a reasonable assumption 
based on current economic conditions.
Liquidity risk
Cash flow forecasting is performed on a weekly basis in the operating entities of the Group and is aggregated by Group 
Finance. This weekly forecasting recognises committed short-term payables of the Group which are monitored and 
managed through regular discussions with suppliers. Group Finance monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity 
requirements to ensure each operating entity has sufficient cash to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient 
headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities at all times so that the Group does not breach borrowing limits 
or covenants on any of its borrowing facilities. Group Finance monitors the level of excess cash over and above that 
required for working capital management and ensures the excess is loaned to the UK to minimise the facility required 
to be drawn. Bank facilities have been agreed at appropriate levels having regard to the Group’s operating cash flows 
and future development plans. The Group’s derivative financial instruments are managed by Group Finance, and the 
risks of loss on those instruments are mitigated through review and regular discussions with external advisers. 
Credit risk
The Group’s UK operation has limited exposure to credit risk. Transactions within the Football Pools segment are 
predominantly either weekly cash receipts in advance or multiple weeks in advance by credit card, debit card or Direct 
Debit. The Group’s main exposure to credit risk is in accounts receivable in the Sportech Racing and Digital segment. 
Credit risk in these entities is managed locally by assessing the creditworthiness of each new customer before agreeing 
payment and delivery terms. The Group does not hold significant amounts of deposits with banks and financial 
institutions. Amounts held in cash for the Sportech Venues division are held in highly secure environments.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 99
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements 25. Financial instruments continued
Foreign exchange risk
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, 
primarily with respect to the Euro and US Dollar. Foreign exchange risk arises from transactions undertaken in foreign 
currencies, the translation of foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities and from the translation into Sterling of 
the results and net assets of overseas operations.
The Group continually monitors the foreign currency risks and takes steps, where practical, to ensure that the net 
exposure is kept to an acceptable level. In doing so, the Group considers whether use of foreign exchange forward 
contracts would be appropriate in fixing the economic impact of forecasted profitability. As at 31 December 2015, there 
were no outstanding commitments on foreign exchange forward contracts (2014: none). 
The average rate of the US Dollar during the year was 1.53 and the Euro was 1.37, and the rates as at the reporting date 
were 1.48 for the US Dollar and 1.36 for the Euro. If the average and closing rates for the US Dollar were 1.65 and for the 
Euro were 1.40, profit after tax would have been £6.1m and net assets would have been £115.6m at 31 December 2015.
Available for sale financial assets and hedging instruments
Group Company
Non-current assets - Available for sale financial assets
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Contingent consideration receivable from disposal  
of Sportech-NYX Gaming, LLC 1.1 — — —
Current assets - Available for sale financial assets
Shares held in NYX Gaming Group Limited 2.9 — — —
Current liabilities - Hedging instruments
Interest rate swaps – cash flow hedges — 0.5 — 0.5
The Group’s available for sale financial assets and hedging instruments are carried at fair value. Alternative valuation 
methods used in applying the relevant fair values are summarised below: 
 –level 1 – quoted prices (adjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
 –level 2 – inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either 
directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices); and
 –level 3 – inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs).
The fair value of contingent consideration is included in level 3. Management observe market activity including industry 
growth and pace of regulatory change in determining the probability that the contingent consideration will be received. 
As outlined in note 16, it is management’s belief that NYX will sign up at least three new customers to the relevant 
platform and therefore the maximum amount of contingent consideration receivable has been recognised. 
The fair value of shares held in NYX are included in level 1, using the quoted share price at the reporting date in 
determining the amount receivable. Fair value movements on those shares are recognised in the available for sale 
reserve within equity until the date of their disposal, at which point the gains will be realised in the income statement 
(note 16). At the reporting date, the fair value of those shares is £2.9m, with £1.6m held in the available for sale reserve.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on 
observable yield curves. Note that all of the resulting fair value estimates are included in level 2.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
100 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern 
in order to provide returns for shareholders, benefits for other stakeholders and to achieve an efficient capital structure 
to minimise the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of its leverage ratio, which is also used for covenant testing purposes. This ratio 
is calculated as Adjusted EBITDA divided by net debt. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA before exceptional items, 
impairment of assets and share option charges, as reflected on the income statement. Net debt is calculated as bank 
debt plus any deferred consideration due under the terms of an acquisition, less cash and cash equivalents. The deferred 
consideration excludes any contingent consideration treated as employment costs in accordance with IFRS 3 “Business 
Combinations”. The Group’s leverage ratio as at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 were as follows:
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Drawn revolving credit facility due after one year 24 62.1 70.1
Less cash and cash equivalents 21 (4.4) (6.3)
Net debt 57.7 63.8
EBITDA before exceptional items, share option expense and impairment of assets 23.1 24.0
Leverage 2.50x 2.66x
During 2015, the Group’s leverage ratio reduced, largely as a result of the proceeds received on the disposal of 
Sportech-NYX Gaming, LLC. 
The Group also monitors capital on the basis of its gearing ratio, calculated as net debt divided by total capital.  
Total capital is calculated as equity, as shown in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, plus net debt.
The Group’s strategy has been to target a reasonable level of gearing for a group of Sportech’s size and industry 
presence. The Board considers gearing of between 20% and 40% to be appropriate. During 2015, net debt reduced 
by £6.1m (9.6%) (2014: £0.4m (0.6%)). Gearing has also reduced in the year given the disposal of Sportech-NYX 
Gaming, LLC. The total net debt and gearing ratios at 31 December 2015 and 2014 were as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net debt 57.7 63.8
Total equity 126.2 119.8
Total capital 183.9 183.6
Gearing ratio 31% 35%
Fair value of non-current borrowings
Group Company
As at 31 December 2015
Book value 
£m
Fair value 
£m
Book value 
£m
Fair value 
£m
Bank borrowings due after one year 62.1 55.2 62.1 55.2
Group Company
As at 31 December 2014
Book value 
£m
Fair value 
£m
Book value 
£m
Fair value 
£m
Bank borrowings due after one year 70.1 65.0 70.1 65.0
The fair values are based on cash flows discounted at a rate of 8.3% (2014: 8.3%) and are within level 2 of the fair value 
hierarchy. Future interest payments are £2.6m payable within one year (2014: £3.0m), £2.6m payable between one and 
two years (2014: £3.0m) and £1.7m payable between two and five years (2014: £5.0m).
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 101
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements 25. Financial instruments continued
Maturity of bank borrowings
Bank borrowings are repayable as follows:
Group Company
Contractual undiscounted amount
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Between two and five years 62.1 70.1 62.1 70.1
The maturity analysis of derivative financial liabilities is as follows:
Group Company
Contractual undiscounted amount
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Within one year — 0.9 — 0.9
The maturity analysis of non-derivative financial liabilities is as follows:
Group Company
Liabilities due at the reporting date
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Within one year 17.2 16.8 62.4 47.9
Between one and two years 0.2 0.5 — —
Between two and five years 62.1 70.1 62.1 70.1
Total 79.5 87.4 124.5 118.0
Group Company
Contractual undiscounted amount
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Within one year 19.9 19.8 63.9 50.9
Between one and two years 2.8 3.5 2.6 3.0
Between two and five years 63.8 75.0 63.8 75.0
Total 86.5 98.3 130.3 128.9
Borrowing facilities
The Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Floating rate:
– expiring beyond one year 12.9 9.9
Total 12.9 9.9
Financial asset and liabilities
The Group had the following categories:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Loans and receivables 9.7 9.7
Available for sale financial assets 4.0 —
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
– designated post refinancing — 0.5
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 79.5 87.4
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
102 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 26. Ordinary shares
Authorised, issued and fully paid
2015 2014
Ordinary shares of 50p each (2014: 50p) ’000 £m ’000 £m
At 1 January 205,221 102.6 204,851 102.4
New shares issued to satisfy PSP vesting 1,017 0.5 370 0.2
At 31 December 206,238 103.1 205,221 102.6
Potential issue of ordinary shares 
Sportech share option schemes
Certain Senior Executives hold options to subscribe for shares in the Company at prices of £1.064 (2014: £0.817 to 
£1.064) under Sportech share option schemes approved by the shareholders. Share options at the end of the period 
had a weighted average exercise price of £1.064 (2014: £0.888). The number of shares subject to options, the periods 
in which they were granted and the periods in which they may be exercised are given below. There were no movements 
in the year.
Year of grant
Exercise 
price
Exercise 
period
Outstanding at 
31 December 2015 
Number
Outstanding at 
31 December 2014 
Number
2005 (September) £0.817 2008–2015 — 505,050
2006 (March) £1.064 2009–2016 202,020 202,020
Total 202,020 707,070
The options are exercisable at any time during the seven-year period commencing three years from the date of 
the grant. The Company has no legal or constructive obligation to settle the options in cash. The weighted average 
remaining contractual life of outstanding share options under the Sportech Share Option Scheme at 31 December 2015 
was three months (31 December 2014: eleven months).
Exercise of the 2006 options is subject to the share price reaching the following closing prices at any time during the 
exercise period:
Shares Closing price
50,505 £1.732
75,757 £2.227
75,758 £2.722
202,020 
The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2015 was £0.595 (2014: £0.670) and the range during the year 
was £0.705 to £0.545 (2014: £0.923 to £0.480).
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 103
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements 26. Ordinary shares continued
Options are granted with a fixed exercise price equal to the market price of the shares under option at the date of the 
grant. Options were valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. No performance conditions are included in 
the fair value calculation. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculations are as follows:
2006
Risk-free interest rate 4.40%
Vesting period 3 years
Option life 10 years
Expected life of options 5 years
Expected share price volatility 48.61%
Dividend growth —
Fair value of option £0.601
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the past three years. The expected life is the average expected 
period to exercise. The risk-free rate is based on Bank of England bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option 
life. Dividend growth is based on historical dividends over the past three years.
The Performance Share Plan 
Certain Executive Directors and Senior Executives have been awarded grants to acquire shares in the Company 
under the PSP, subject to performance conditions. During the year ended 31 December 2015, 2,400,000 shares have 
been awarded (2014: 2,329,000), 2,231,000 awards lapsed due to failure to meet the performance conditions (2014: 
1,095,000) 1,003,000 awards lapsed due to employees ceasing to be employed by the Group (2014: 732,000) and 
505,000 awards expired during the year (2014: nil). 576,000 shares vested during the period of which 330,000 
remain unexercised as at 31 December 2015. 5,826,000 (2014: 7,236,000) share awards remained outstanding 
(unvested) at 31 December 2015.
Performance conditions
The Remuneration Committee can set different performance conditions from those described below for future 
awards provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the Committee, the new targets are not materially less challenging in 
the circumstances than those described below. The Committee determines the comparator group for each award.
The Remuneration Committee may also vary the performance conditions applying to existing awards if an event has 
occurred that causes the Committee to consider that it would be appropriate to amend the performance conditions, 
provided that the Committee considers the varied conditions are fair and reasonable and not materially less challenging 
than the original conditions would have been but for the event in question.
The awards are at nil cost to the employee. Awards will normally vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant 
subject to the participants’ continued employment within the Group and the satisfaction of the performance conditions 
noted below.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
104 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2015, 2014 and 2013 grants
The vesting of one-half of the award (“Part A”) will be dependent on the Company’s TSR over a fixed three-year period 
beginning on the date of grant relative to that of the FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding investment trusts). For the 
purpose of calculating TSR, the base figure is averaged over the six weeks preceding the start of the performance 
period and the end figure is averaged over the last six weeks of the performance period.
No portion of Part A will vest unless the Company’s TSR performance at least matches that of the index. Thereafter, 
a vesting schedule no less demanding than the following will apply:
The Company’s TSR performance over the performance period relative to comparator index Extent of vesting of Part A
Equal to the index 25%
Between equal to the index and upper quartile Pro rata between 25% and 100%
Upper quartile or better 100%
The vesting of the second half of the award is dependent on an EPS performance criterion (“Part B”). The average 
annual percentage growth in the Company’s EPS in excess of the RPI over the EPS performance period must at least 
equal 4%. Vesting is determined by the following schedule:
The Company’s average annual growth in EPS in excess of RPI during the performance period Extent of vesting of Part B
Less than 4% per annum 0%
4% per annum 25%
Between 4% and 10% per annum Pro rata between 25% and 100%
10% or better 100%
All PSP grants
Awards are valued using a stochastic (Monte Carlo) valuation model. The fair value per award granted and the 
assumptions used in the calculations are as follows:
Grant date
Mar
2015
Sep
2014
Mar
2014
May
2013
March
2013
Exercise price £nil £nil £nil £nil £nil
Number of employees issued awards 25 1 23 1 70
Share price at award date £0.667 £0.780 £0.888 £0.900 £1.000
Expected term (fixed) 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected volatility 35.2% 28.2% 28.2% 29.6% 29.6%
Dividend yield 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Fair value of award £0.544 £0.704 £0.704 £0.844 £0.844
The weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards under the PSP at 31 December 2015 was one 
year and three months (2014: one year and one month). The weighted average exercise price of awards granted during 
the period was £nil (2014: £nil). 
PSP awards are not affected by the risk-free rate input since no payment is required by the recipient and therefore 
no interest could be earned elsewhere.
The expected volatility is based on movements in the historical return index (share price with dividends reinvested) 
for the three years prior to the award date. The dividend yield does not affect the fair value of the award as the rules 
of the PSP entitle a participant to receive cash equal in value to the dividends that would have been paid on the 
vested shares in respect of dividends paid during the vesting period and is therefore assumed to be 0%.
See notes 6 and 7 for the total expense recognised in the income statement for share options granted and PSP awards 
made to Directors and employees respectively.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 105
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements 27. Cash generated from operations
Reconciliation of profit/(loss) before taxation to cash generated from operations, before exceptional items:
Group Company
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit/(loss) before taxation 9.7 (20.0) (7.2) (7.5)
Adjustments for:
Net exceptional (income)/costs 2 (5.7) 2.9 1.0 0.8
Share of loss after tax and impairment of joint ventures 
and associates 17 0.9 0.2 — —
Depreciation 13 3.3 3.0 — —
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 12 1.2 4.1 — —
Amortisation of other intangibles 12 4.3 3.2 1.0 1.4
Impairment of assets 6.1 28.1 — —
Finance costs 4 3.2 2.8 4.2 3.9
Other finance income, excluding exceptional finance 
items 4 (0.4) (0.9) (0.6) (0.3)
Share option expense 6 0.5 0.6 0.5 0.6
Movement in retirement benefit liability 32 (0.1) (0.2) — —
Gift of shares to Employee Benefit Trust — — 0.5 0.2
Changes in working capital:
Increase in trade and other receivables (0.1) (2.1) (1.2) (5.3)
Increase in inventories (0.6) — — —
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (2.1) (1.3) 15.0 7.3
Cash generated from operating activities, before 
exceptional items 20.2 20.4 13.2 1.1
28. Contingent assets and liabilities
Contingent assets
The Board has previously announced that the Group had submitted a claim for in excess of £40.0m to HMRC for 
the repayment of VAT overpaid in respect of the “Spot the Ball” game from 1979 to 1996. Interest may also be added 
to the principal sum claimed, which, if successful, given the timeframe of the claim, could increase the sum claimed to 
approximately £97.0m. Following a successful outcome at the First-tier Tax Tribunal an appeal by HMRC was 
heard at the Upper Tribunal in April 2014 and the Group was informed in September 2014 that HMRC’s appeal had 
been successful. The Group has appealed this verdict and the appeal will be heard at the Court of Appeal on either 
7 or 8 April 2016. Accordingly, the claim has not been recognised in the Group’s financial statements.
Contingent liabilities
The Group has contingent liabilities in respect of legal claims in the ordinary course of business; it is not considered 
that any material liabilities will arise from these.
In respect of the acquisitions of Datatote on 27 September 2013, and Bump on 12 June 2014, additional consideration 
is payable under certain circumstances. The maximum amounts payable are outlined in note 24.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
106 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29. Commitments
Capital commitments
The Group had no contracts placed for capital expenditure that were not provided for in the financial statements 
at the current or prior year end dates.
Operating lease commitments
The Group leases various off-track betting venues and other operating sites under non-cancellable operating lease 
arrangements. The lease terms are generally between three and five years and are renewable at the end of the lease 
period at market rates. The expenditure charged to the income statement was £2.2m (2014: £2.0m).
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
No later than one year 2.3 2.0 0.1 0.1
Later than one year and no later than five years 6.3 4.6 0.5 0.7
Later than five years 7.5 6.5 — —
Total 16.1 13.1 0.6 0.8
30. Other financial commitments
In December 1996, an incentive scheme to reward Football Pools collectors was established by a subsidiary company. 
Under the terms of the scheme, the collectors earn points on the basis of their sales. These points can be converted into 
vouchers to purchase items from high street shops. On the basis of similar schemes, a redemption rate attributable to 
these points has been established and an appropriate charge made in these accounts. The potential liability in respect 
of these points not provided for in these financial statements is £0.2m (2014: £0.2m). This liability has not been provided 
for as it is the judgement of management that it will never crystallise.
The Group was required to enter into a performance guarantee bond in October 2010, which is reviewed annually, 
for 15% of the contract value, being $180,000 at 31 December 2015, in relation to a contract to provide and maintain 
pari-mutuel betting terminals to a customer in Turkey.
31. Related party transactions
The extent of transactions with related parties of Sportech PLC and the nature of the relationships with them are 
summarised below:
a. Key management compensation is disclosed in note 7.
b. The Company had the following transactions with subsidiaries during the year:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Management charges received 1.3 1.4
Royalty income received 1.6 1.5
Management charges paid — 0.1
Interest received on inter-company loan balances 0.6 0.4
Interest paid on inter-company loan balances 1.4 1.6
The amount outstanding in relation to management charges at the balance sheet date was £nil (2014: £0.1m).  
All inter-company transactions are on an arm’s-length basis. 
c.  The Company had no transactions during the year and therefore no amounts outstanding at year end with any 
of its joint ventures and associates (2014: £nil and £nil respectively). 
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 107
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements 31. Related party transactions (continued)
The Group also invested cash into its joint ventures during the year as outlined in note 17. There were no trading 
transactions between the Group and any of its joint ventures or associates and no amounts outstanding at the 
31 December 2015 (2014: £nil and £nil).
32. Pension schemes
The Group operates four pension schemes in the UK: for employees other than those employed by Datatote, a defined 
contribution scheme, a funded defined benefit scheme and an auto-enrolment scheme for qualifying employees who 
are not members of the first two schemes. Datatote operates a defined contribution scheme. The Group operates a 
further funded defined benefit scheme in the US, two defined contribution schemes in the US, a defined contribution 
scheme in the Netherlands and a defined contribution scheme in Ireland.
Summary of pension contributions paid
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Defined contribution scheme contributions 0.7 0.7
Defined benefit scheme contributions 0.2 0.3
Total pension contributions 0.9 1.0
Defined contribution schemes
In the UK, those employees who joined the Group consequent to the acquisition of Littlewoods Gaming (formerly 
Littlewoods Leisure) and who were aged under 50 on 4 September 2000 and all other UK employees of Sportech PLC 
(apart from Datatote – see below) can join either a stakeholder pension scheme established on 6 April 2001 or alternate 
defined contribution arrangements, or the auto-enrolment scheme. Group contributions are made at a maximum rate 
of 8% of pensionable salaries. Datatote contributions are made at a maximum rate of 6% of pensionable salaries.
A defined contribution scheme for non-unionised employees, including eBet, is operated in the US, into which the 
Group contributes 37.5% of the first 6% of participant contributions. A further defined contribution scheme is available 
for unionised employees; the Group does not make contributions into this scheme. 
A Registered Retirement Savings Plan (“RRSP”) exists for employees in Canada. The Group matches to a limit of 50% 
of the first 6% of participant contributions. The Group also contributes 3% of gross salary into the RRSP for full time 
Canadian Union employees.
The pension scheme in the Netherlands provides benefits to employees on a percentage of salary basis. 
For employees in Ireland, the Group contributes between 7.5% and 12.5% of salary, dependent on length of service, 
into a defined contribution scheme.
In Germany, the approach adopted resembles life insurance cover rather than pension provision. Gross salary is 
reduced by a specified amount which is transferred to the insurance provider. This is tax-efficient for the employee. 
For employees in France and Turkey, all pensions cover is provided through employer and employee social 
security contributions.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
108 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Defined benefit schemes
Pursuant to the sale agreement between Littlewoods PLC and Sportech PLC, a defined benefit scheme was set up 
for those employees who joined the Group consequent to the acquisition of Littlewoods Gaming (formerly Littlewoods 
Leisure) and who were aged 50 or over on 4 September 2000, the date of the acquisition. The scheme was formed on 
6 April 2001 and is governed by a Definitive Trust Deed and Rules. It is a Registered Pension Scheme under Chapter 2 
of Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004. The scheme is contracted out of the State Second Pension Scheme. The scheme is 
currently not open to new members.
The US defined benefit scheme is administered by an insurance company in the US and provides retirement benefits 
to employees who are members of a collective bargaining unit represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical 
Workers. Benefits are based on value times credited service.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet were as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Fair value of plan assets:
– UK 1.9 2.0
– US 3.0 2.8
Total fair value of assets 4.9 4.8
Present value of the schemes’ liabilities (6.3) (6.4)
Deficit in the schemes (1.4) (1.6)
Included in:
– non-current liabilities (1.4) (1.6)
The figures below have been determined by qualified actuaries at the balance sheet date using the 
following assumptions:
US
 2015
UK
 2015
US 
 2014
UK 
2014
Discount rate 4.00% 3.60% 3.75% 3.40%
Rate of increase in salaries N/A 0% N/A 0%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment:
– 5% LPI N/A 3.00% N/A 3.15%
– rate of inflation N/A 3.00% N/A 3.15%
– mortality table RP-2014 
Total Dataset 
Mortality 
with Scale 
MP-2015
SINxA 
CMI 2012
projections 
1.5% per 
annum
long-term 
rate of 
improvement
2014 IRS 
Static 
Mortality 
T able 
S1NxA 
 CMI 2012 
 projections
 1.5% per 
annum 
long-term 
rate of
 improvement
For the US scheme, under the adopted mortality tables, if the future life expectancy were to be plus/minus one year 
the liabilities would increase/decrease by £12,000.
For the UK, under the adopted mortality tables, if the long-term rate of mortality improvement were to be 1.25%, 
the liabilities would decrease by £30,000.
For the UK, if the discount rate were to be increased to 3.85% the liabilities would decrease by £70,000. For the US, 
if the discount rate were to be increased to 4.50% the liabilities would decrease by £184,000.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 109
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements 32. Pension schemes continued
The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year is as follows:
Present value 
of obligation
 £m
Fair value of
 plan asset 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2015 6.4 (4.8) 1.6
Income statement expense/(income):
- Current service cost 0.1 — 0.1
- Interest expense/(income) 0.2 (0.2) —
0.3 (0.2) 0.1
Remeasurements:
– Currency exchange movements 0.2 (0.1) 0.1
– Gain from change in actuarial assumptions (0.2) — (0.2)
— (0.1) (0.1)
Contributions:
– Employer’s — (0.2) (0.2)
Payments from plans:
– Benefit payments (0.4) 0.4 —
At 31 December 2015 6.3 (4.9) 1.4
Present value
 of obligation 
£m
Fair value of
 plan asset 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2014 5.6 (4.3) 1.3
Income statement expense/(income):
- Current service cost 0.2 — 0.2
- Interest expense/(income) 0.2 (0.2) —
0.4 (0.2) 0.2
Remeasurements:
– Currency exchange movements 0.2 (0.2) —
– Loss from change in actuarial assumptions 0.4 — 0.4
0.6 (0.2) 0.4
Contributions:
– Employer’s — (0.3) (0.3)
Payments from plans:
– Benefit payments (0.2) 0.2 —
At 31 December 2014 6.4 (4.8) 1.6
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
110 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Effect of change of assumptions on liability values
Changes in the financial assumptions used would have the following approximate effect on the schemes’ liabilities 
and hence the deficit at the end of the year:
Change
2015 
Increases
 liability by 
£m
2014
 Increases 
liability by 
£m
Increase inflation by 0.25% (2014: 0.25%) 0.1 0.1
The assets of the UK scheme are held in an independent Trustee administered fund. The Trustee of the scheme 
is Sportech Trustees Limited. The Directors of Sportech Trustees Limited include Carl Lynn, a Sportech employee, 
who also acts as Chair of the Trustee company. The assets of the US scheme are held by an insurance company.
The actuarial method for calculating the liabilities of the scheme is the projected unit method.
The expected employer annual contributions to the schemes for the financial year ending 31 December 2016 amount 
to £0.2m (year ended 31 December 2015: £0.2m).
Estimated future benefit payments for the next ten fiscal years for the US scheme are:
At 31 December 2015
Less than 
a year 
£m
Between 
1 and 2 years 
£m
Between 
2 and 5 years 
£m
Over 5 years 
£m
Total 
£m
Pension benefits 0.5 0.2 0.8 7.4 8.9
The weighted average duration of the US scheme obligation is approximately ten years. 
Estimated future benefit payments for the next ten fiscal years for the UK scheme are:
At 31 December 2015
Less than 
a year 
£m
Between 
1 and 2 years 
£m
Between 
2 and 5 years 
£m
Over 5 years 
£m
Total 
£m
Pension benefits 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.6 1.1
The weighted average duration of the UK scheme obligation is approximately thirteen years.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 111
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements 33. Related undertakings
During the year, the Group held investments in related undertakings as follows:
Subsidiaries, excluding dormant companies Country of incorporation Class of shares held Shareholding
Sportech Gaming Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
The Football Pools Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
C&P Promotions Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Football Pools 1923 Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
TFPL Financial Services Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Football Pools Games Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Pools Promotions Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
UK Lottery Management Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Sportech Mauritius Limited Mauritius Ordinary 100%
Sportech Holdco 1 Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Datatote (England) Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Sportech Holdco 2 Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Sportech, Inc. United States Ordinary 100%
Sportech Racing, LLC. United States Ordinary 100%
Trackplay, LLC. United States Ordinary 100%
Sportech Venues, Inc. United States Ordinary 100%
eBet Technologies, Inc. United States Ordinary 100%
Fantasy Sports Online, LLC United States Ordinary 100%
Sportech Venues California, LLC United States Ordinary 100%
Sportech Venues CA Holdco, LLC United States Ordinary 100%
Sportech Games Holdco, LLC United States Ordinary 100%
Bump Worldwide, Inc. Canada Ordinary 100%
Sportech Racing Canada, Inc. Canada Ordinary 100%
1891323 Ontario, Inc. Canada Ordinary 100%
Sportech Racing Panama, Inc. Panama Ordinary 100%
Sportech Racing Limited British Virgin Islands Ordinary 100%
Racing Technology Ireland Limited Ireland Ordinary 100%
Sportech Racing BV Netherlands Ordinary 100%
Sportech Racing Banen BV Netherlands Ordinary 100%
Autotote Europe GmbH Germany Ordinary 100%
Sportech Racing GmbH Germany Ordinary 100%
Sportech Racing Turkey Turkey Ordinary 100%
Sportech Racing SAS France Ordinary 100%
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
112 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Joint ventures and associates Country of incorporation Class of shares held Shareholding
Sportshub Private Limited India Ordinary 50%
S&S Venues California, LLC United States Ordinary 50%
DraftDay Gaming Group, Inc United States Ordinary 39%
Picklive USA, LLC* United States Ordinary 50%
Sportech-NYX Gaming, LLC** United States Ordinary 50%
*The Group’s involvement in Picklive USA, LLC came to an end in the year. See note 17. 
**The Group disposed of its investment in Sportech-NYX Gaming, LLC in the year. See note 16.
Other undertakings Country of incorporation Class of shares held Shareholding
NYX Gaming Group Limited United States Ordinary 4%
E-Tote Limited England & Wales Ordinary 6.49%
Dormant companies Country of incorporation Class of shares held Shareholding
Sportech Trustees Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Footballpools.com Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
UKCL Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Football Pools Competitions Company Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Bet 247 Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Pools Company Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
The New Football Pools Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Football Pools Trustee Company Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Sportech BV Netherlands Ordinary 100%
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 113
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements Head Office
Sportech PLC
101 Wigmore Street
London W1U 1QU
Company registration number
SC069140
Company Secretary
Luisa Wright
UK Operational Centre
The Football Pools
Walton House
Charnock Road
Liverpool L67 1AA
USA Operational Centres
Sportech Inc.
555 Long Wharf Drive
New Haven, CT 06511
Sportech Racing and Digital
1095 Windward Ridge Parkway
Building 300 Suite 170
Alpharetta, GA 30005
Registered office
Sportech PLC
Collins House
Rutland Square
Edinburgh EH1 2AA
Financial advisers and joint stockbroker
Investec Bank (UK) Ltd
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
Joint stockbroker
Peel Hunt LLP
Moor House
120 London Wall
London EC2Y 5ET
Principal bankers
Bank of Scotland plc
10 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7AE
Barclays Bank PLC
1 Churchill Place
London E14 5HP
Royal Bank of Scotland plc
280 Bishopsgate
London EC2M 4RB
Solicitors
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP
65 Fleet Street
London EC4Y 1HS
Olswang LLP
90 High Holborn
London WC1V 6XX
Statutory Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
1 Embankment Place
London WC2N 6RH
Registrars
Capita Registrars Ltd
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Internet
The Group operates a website which can be found at 
www.sportechplc.com. This site is regularly updated to 
provide information about the Group. In particular, all of 
the Group’s press releases and announcements can be 
found on the site.
Registrar
Any enquiries concerning your shareholding should 
be addressed to the Company’s Registrar. The Registrar 
should be notified promptly of any change in a 
shareholder’s address or other details.
Tel: 0371 664 0300
E-mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Investor relations
Requests for further copies of the Annual Report and 
Accounts, or other investor relations enquiries, should 
be addressed to the UK Head Office.
Tel: 020 7268 2400
E-mail: ir@sportechplc.com
Shareholder and 
corporate information
114 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Designed and produced  
by MerchantCantos 
www.merchantcantos.com Our Iconic Brands
Sportech Racing and Digital • Sportech Venues 
The Football Pools • Winners • Runnerz
Our Offices and Operational Centres
London • Liverpool • Connecticut • Atlanta • Toronto 
New Jersey • Bristol • Dublin • The Hague
Sportech PLC
101 Wigmore Street 
London W1U 1QU 
www.sportechplc.com
Sportech PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015
