 St. Modwen Properties PLC  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Annual Report and  
Financial Statements 2015
WHAT DO YOU SEE? WE SEE JOB CREATION
Formerly home to a BP fuel distribution hub, we have since 
transformed this 65 acre site into the new Bay Campus for 
Swansea University. It opened in September 2015 to 917 
new students, providing 775,000 sq ft of academic space and 
student accommodation. Future phases will increase facilities 
to allow the Campus to accommodate 2,000 students by 
September 2017. 
A true catalyst for economic growth and regeneration across 
South Wales, the Campus is expected to deliver positive 
economic impact for the Swansea Bay City region of £3bn and 
create up to 10,000 jobs over the project’s lifetime and beyond.  WE SEE COMMUNITIES
Previously owned by the Ministry of Defence, this 
479 acre site is quickly transforming into a new Warwickshire 
community known as ‘Meon Vale’. The mixed-use 
redevelopment includes 800,000 sq ft of commercial 
space, employing over 200 people, a leisure hub, public 
open space and a 1-mile extension to the Greenway foot 
and cycle path into Stratford-upon-Avon. With planning 
for 1,050 homes, of which 230 have already been built, 
Meon Vale offers a sustainable solution to the demand for 
both housing and community facilities in this region.  WE SEE INCOME
The 10 year, £90m regeneration programme for Wembley 
Central completed in March 2015. This prominent Town Centre 
scheme comprises an 86-bedroom Travelodge and 120,000 sq ft 
of new retail and leisure space leased to major national retailers 
including TK Maxx, Tesco, Sports Direct, Iceland, Costa and Argos. 
It also includes 273 apartments, a new public square and a 
refurbished and upgraded tube and train station which services 
over 2.5m users each year. This asset is now generating an 
annualised rental income of £2.2m. Corporate Governance
47 Chairman's Introduction
48 The Board
50 The Property Board
52 Corporate Governance Report 
58 Audit Committee Report
66 Nomination Committee Report 
70 Directors’ Remuneration Report
94 Directors’ Report
Additional Information
165 Glossary of terms
167 Notice of Annual General Meeting
175 Information for shareholders
NON-STATUTORY INFORMATION
As the Group utilises a number of joint venture arrangements, additional disclosures are  
provided to give a better understanding of our business. These include information on the 
Group including its share of joint ventures together with non-statutory measures such as 
trading profit and profit before all tax. A full reconciliation of such measures is provided in  
note 2 to the Group Financial Statements.
* Includes £127.4m, being the Group share of the gain from initial recognition of New Covent Garden Market.
** Adjusted gearing is the ratio of net borrowings (excluding finance leases) to net assets. See note 2 to the Group Financial Statements.
Strategic Report
 2 At a glance
 4 Chairman’s Statement
 6 Chief Executive’s Review 
10 Our marketplace
12 Our business model
14 Regeneration and remediation
16 Resources and relationships
18 Our strategy and KPIs
22 Commercial land and development 
24 Residential 
28 Income producing properties
30 Financial Review 
36 Risk management 
38 Our principal risks
42 Corporate Social Responsibility
“It is extremely pleasing to achieve record profits 
and growth from a year of excellent delivery across 
all areas of the portfolio.”
BILL OLIVER
Chief Executive
Financial Statements
100 Independent auditor’s report
106 Group Income Statement
106 Group Statement of Comprehensive 
Income
107 Group Balance Sheet
108	Group	Statement	of	Changes in Equity
109 Group Cash Flow Statement
110 Accounting policies
119	 Notes	to	the	Group	Financial Statements
151 Company Balance Sheet
152	Notes	to	the	Company Financial  
Statements 
164 Five year record
PROFIT BEFORE ALL TAX
£258.4m
*
+91%
PROPERTY PROFITS
£67.4m
+31%
EARNINGS PER SHARE
97.9p
+82%
NET ASSET VALUE PER SHARE
413.5p 
+27%
SEE-THROUGH LOAN-TO-VALUE 
30%
-1%
ADJUSTED GEARING
48%
**
+1%
Audit Committee
Oversees	financial	and	narrative	reporting,	
property portfolio valuations, internal 
control, risk management systems, and 
internal and external audit processes
The Board
Develops strategy and leads St. Modwen to achieve long-term success
Supported by
Nomination Committee
Oversees Board and senior management 
succession planning, leads the process 
for Board appointments and monitors 
membership of Board Committees
Remuneration Committee
Determines the remuneration 
arrangements for the executive directors, 
the Chairman and the Company Secretary 
Executive  
directors 
Implement strategic 
decisions approved 
by the Board and 
monitor operational 
performance
Capital Projects  
Committee 
Established during 
the year to review 
significant projects, 
either in terms of 
capital investment 
and/or risk
Property  
Board 
Reviews performance 
and considers Group-
wide operational 
issues and initiatives
Safety, Health 
and Environment 
Steering Group 
Oversees Group 
strategy, procedure 
and performance 
in relation to 
safety, health and 
environmental matters
CSR Steering  
Group 
 
Co-ordinates the 
Group’s approach 
to and enhance 
the reporting of its 
corporate social 
responsibility 
activities
1
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45
Contents FEBRUARY
Access 18, Avonmouth – planning 
consent	granted	for	148,000	sq	ft	of	
speculative	space	of	which	80,000	sq	ft  
was	subsequently	let	and	sold	upon	tenant	
occupation.	A	further	68,000	sq	ft	of	
speculative space is being progressed
This has been a year of achievement where we 
have	reached	significant	milestones	in	all	areas	
of regeneration	across	our	portfolio.	
WE SEE PROGRESS
ACTIVE LAND BANK
6,000
acres
PROPERTY PORTFOLIO
£1.7bn
COMMERCIAL PROPERTY PIPELINE
1.6m
sq ft
JANUARY
DPD (UK) – following 
a	60,000	sq	ft	unit	in	
Exeter, planning consent 
granted to build two 
additional depots for 
DPD (UK) in Liverpool and 
Stoke-on-Trent. All three, 
totalling	189,000	sq	ft,	
subsequently	sold	upon	
tenant occupation 
Branston Leas 
Woods, Burton 
upon Trent – planting 
of 21,000 trees and 
14,000 bluebells 
commenced at this new 
woodland adjacent to the 
growing community of 
Branston Leas
MAY
Burton Gateway, Burton 
upon Trent – an additional 
230,000	sq	ft	of	industrial	space	
granted planning permission 
at this major employment site, 
bringing total development 
consented	to	1m	sq	ft
Whitley Business Park, 
Coventry – land sale and site 
start	for	a	214,000	sq	ft	regional	
distribution centre for Travis 
Perkins and sale of land to 
Jaguar Land Rover
2014 2015
DECEMBER
Letchworth Business 
Park, Letchworth 
– works commenced 
for	90,000	sq	ft	of	
speculative development. 
Subsequently	100%	
let and	investment	
sale agreed	
APRIL
North	West	acquisitions – of 
two strategic sites, Moorgate Point, 
Liverpool and Old Mill, Preston, 
adding £1.7m of net rental income 
Meon Vale, Warwickshire – 
planning permission secured for an 
additional 550 homes at this mixed-
use new community, bringing the 
total number of consented homes 
to 1,050 
JUNE
Half Year Results 
– record half year profits 
of £203.1m announced
Technology Retail 
Park, Rugby – sale 
of this retail park, 
100%	pre-let	to	major	
retailers, for £17.4m 
to Aberdeen Asset 
Management 
MARCH
Wembley Central, London 
– completion of this 10 year, £90m 
regeneration project. This asset is generating 
an annualised rental income of £2.2m
 We see income Pages 28 and 29
 We see job creation Pages 22 and 23
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
2
At a glance AUGUST
New Covent Garden Market, 
London – further to securing unconditional 
status in April 2015, works commenced to 
the New Covent Garden Market site in Nine 
Elms, London
TOTAL RESIDENTIAL PORTFOLIO
32,516
plots
NUMBER OF DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
100+
TRACK RECORD
30
years
2015
JULY
Brentwood, 
Essex – 
development 
agreement signed 
with Brentwood 
Council for 1m 
sq	ft	of	industrial,	
logistics	and	office	
space, close to 
the M25
OCTOBER
Kirkby Town 
Centre, 
Liverpool – 
acquisition	of	this	
key retail centre, 
with additional 
retail and housing 
development 
potential, for 
£35.8m
Celtic Business 
Park, Newport 
– steel frames 
erected at this 
major new 
business park in 
South Wales 
SEPTEMBER
Bay Campus, Swansea University 
– opens its doors to 917 new students and 
‘St. Modwen Student Living’ established 
to manage the recurring income from the 
student accommodation which will increase 
to	2,000 rooms	by	September	2017
 We see job creation Pages 22 and 23
2016: 
OUR 30
TH
 ANNIVERSARY
2016 marks 30 years of St. Modwen’s status 
as a listed company. Throughout the year we 
will be launching a series of CSR initiatives, 
in	addition	to	reflecting	on	30	years	of	
successful regeneration and looking forward 
to delivering shareholder value in the years 
to come… 
NOVEMBER
Longbridge, Birmingham – Phase 2 
of	the	Town	Centre	opened	with	150,000	sq	ft	
Marks & Spencer store and other national 
retailers, delivering £3.2m annualised 
income as part of this £1bn regeneration 
project
 We see communities Pages 24 to 27 We see income Pages 28 and 29
£1.7bn* portfolio overview
46%
9%
45%
3
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45
*  On a proportionally 
consolidated basis 
including share of joint 
ventures. Please see 
note 2c to the Group 
Financial Statements.
Residential land
£772m
Commercial land 
and development
£152m
Income producing
£768m Looking back over the last 12 months alone, there are many 
examples that illustrate these values in action. 
We think long-term – continually restocking the development 
pipeline with new opportunities: 
Our successful business model is based on 
a long-term approach to regeneration and 
development. Be it a new acquisition offering 
excellent potential for development and income, entering 
a new marketplace that offers a recurring revenue stream 
or building speculatively in an area with good prospects for 
economic growth, this long-term approach ensures we are 
continually adding value to our existing 6,000 acre land bank 
as well as creating new opportunities for its growth. 
In this way, we have maintained an active commercial 
development pipeline this year, which now stands at 1.6m sq ft. 
As we complete our developments, we seek to restock 
the pipeline with new opportunities. For example, Longbridge 
has been transformed from a disused car factory to a living, 
breathing new community and a key business destination 
for Birmingham. At its heart is a new Town Centre for which 
the second phase completed in November 2015 marked 
by opening of the 150,000 sq ft Marks & Spencer and other 
national retailers.
In the coming year, new opportunities include a variety of 
schemes throughout the UK, such as a 214,000 sq ft design 
and build project for Travis Perkins in Whitley, Coventry and 
148,000 sq ft of speculative development in Avonmouth, Bristol 
of which over 50% is now let and sold.
We are innovative – creating new revenue streams:
We have the confidence in our own abilities 
to tackle complex schemes and we embrace 
challenges, always adopting a pragmatic approach 
which enables us to manage risk and make 
the right decisions for business growth whilst delivering 
shareholder value. 
This year is no exception as we completed a major milestone 
for the New Covent Garden Market site which achieved 
unconditional status in April. This is a particularly complex 
and innovative development in terms of planning, design 
and engineering. 
“This exceptional set of results is 
testament to our expertise across the 
many facets of regeneration.”
BILL SHANNON
Chairman
+25%
TOTAL DIVIDEND FOR THE YEAR (p)
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
3.30
3.63
4.00
4.60
5.75
As we approach our anniversary marking 30 years as a listed 
company, I am extremely pleased to report on a record set of 
results for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015. The business 
has achieved a 27% increase in shareholders' equity NAV per 
share to 413.5p (2014: 325.1p) and profit before all tax of 
£258.4m (2014: £135.4m).
This exceptional set of results is testament to our 
expertise across the many facets of regeneration, ranging 
from remediation and planning skills, to construction 
and development, through to project delivery and 
asset management. 
These skills and expertise are driven by our set of core values 
that define both the business and the approach we adopt to 
manage, develop and extract maximum value from our land 
bank. At every point of the development lifecycle ‘we think  
long-term’, ‘we are innovative’ and ‘we do what we say’. 
Our 30
th
 anniversary in 2016 will provide an excellent 
opportunity to reflect on how the business has grown with 
these values at its core, whilst also looking forward to the 
next 30 years of progress. 
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
4
Chairman’s Statement We also demonstrated innovation through the introduction of 
‘Income Producing Residential’ to our portfolio. This comprises 
two new revenue streams for the business that highlight our 
ability to increase the flow of development profits and create 
further sources of income:
• St. Modwen Student Living, Bay Campus – to coincide with 
the opening of the Bay Campus for Swansea University, we 
established a team of facilities management professionals to 
manage the retained student accommodation and associated 
facilities for this major new asset in South Wales. 
• Private Rented Sector (PRS) – having monitored this 
growing marketplace over the last couple of years, in 2015 we 
completed two initial PRS schemes in Wembley and Rugby. 
We expect to grow in this market in 2016/17. 
Finally, the growth of St. Modwen Homes shows how we 
can assess our existing land bank carefully and bring new, 
value-adding opportunities to life. 
We do what we say – delivering for all our stakeholders: 
As a trusted developer, we can be relied upon to 
speak plainly and knowledgeably to our current and 
prospective partners. In addition, when we know 
a decision is the right one, having undertaken the 
appropriate analysis, we will always follow through. 
During 2015 we have taken advantage of strong investor 
interest by disposing of a number of mature assets to which 
we could no longer add material value. At the same time 
we acquired new assets from which we can extract good 
latent value. 
The acquisition of Kirkby Town Centre is a good example 
of our commitment to acquire valuable new property. In a 
£35.8m transaction, we added this Town Centre scheme, 
which combines development and income producing potential, 
to the carrying amount of our £1.7bn* portfolio. 
We also deliver on our promises in terms of the development 
of design and build projects for major UK occupiers. 
This includes Screwfix, which in 2015 extended its existing 
distribution hub in Stoke-on-Trent by 310,000 sq ft to 
630,000 sq ft. Following the completion of this project, we 
converted it into an opportunity to deliver further value for 
shareholders by disposing of the asset for £18.1m to the 
Prudential Assurance Co. Ltd.
From a major project perspective, in 2013 we made a 
commitment to Swansea University that we would complete 
the new Bay Campus by September 2015. This year we 
achieved exactly this, opening the first phase, comprising 
775,000 sq ft, to 917 new students on time and within budget. 
Dividend
Our policy is to increase our dividends in line with the growth 
in net asset value and to reflect the Company’s results. For the 
year ended 30
th
 November 2015, the Board is recommending 
a 25% increase in the total dividend for the year to 5.75p per 
share (2014: 4.6p per share), giving a final dividend for the year 
of 3.85p per share (2014: 3.137p per share). The final dividend 
will be paid on 1
st
 April 2016 to shareholders on the register at 
4
th
 March 2016.
People
These record results would not have been possible without the 
passion of our talented team of dedicated staff. Embodying our 
values of innovation, commitment and long-term thinking, 
they are critical to the success of the business and I would 
like to express my thanks to everyone at St. Modwen for their 
continuing valuable contribution. 
Board changes
In March 2015 John Salmon retired from the Board after more 
than nine years’ service. His position as Audit Committee 
Chairman has been assumed by Ian Bull, who joined the Board 
in September 2014. Ian is currently Chief Financial Officer and 
main board director at Ladbrokes plc.
We welcomed Rob Hudson to the Board in September 2015 
on his appointment as Group Finance Director. Rob, previously 
Group Financial Controller at British Land Company plc, has 
wide-ranging financial skills and experience together with 
property sector knowledge which makes him an excellent 
addition to the Board. 
Prospects
We have a long track record of unrivalled regeneration 
expertise, robust asset management skills and a proven ability 
to realise value from our extensive land bank. 2016 marks 
30 years of such success and we see continued progress in 
each of these areas of the business in the year ahead.
Whilst we are currently experiencing macro-economic 
uncertainty, we anticipate a continued, if slow, overall 
improvement in the UK economy with sustained growth in 
the regions. Our extensive regional portfolio provides us with 
a good base from which we will continue to realise residential 
and commercial development opportunities, either from our 
existing land bank or through new acquisitions. In addition, our 
retained portfolio of assets and new ventures, including income 
producing residential, should ensure a continued stream of 
recurring income that continues to underpin the business 
running costs. 
We therefore look towards 2016 with a sense of optimism and 
look forward to growing the business further and enhancing 
shareholder value. 
Bill Shannon
Chairman
1
st
 February 2016
*  On a proportionally consolidated basis including share of joint ventures.  
Please see note 2c to the Group Financial Statements.
5
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 This has been another record year for the business, resulting 
in an unprecedented increase in profit before all tax of 91% 
to £258.4m (2014: £135.4m) and a significant 27% increase in 
NAV per share to 413.5p (2014: 325.1p). 
It has been a year of major achievement across the portfolio, 
where we have recycled capital through disposals of mature 
assets such as Cranfield University Technology Park into added-
value acquisitions including Kirkby Town Centre purchased off a 
net initial yield of 9% on the main Shopping Centre. 
This was a year in which we brought forward a further 
400,000 sq ft into the commercial development pipeline, 
underlining our ability to secure new opportunities and extract 
maximum value from our 6,000 acre land bank. 
It was also a year during which we established two new 
revenue streams: the first through the management of income 
from student accommodation at the Bay Campus for Swansea 
University by our newly created ‘St. Modwen Student Living’ 
business and the second through delivery of our first two 
developments for the Private Rented Sector (PRS) at Wembley 
Central and Rugby. 
We also saw continued growth of our housebuilding business, 
culminating in an overall profit increase of 21% to £29m 
(2014: £24m), of which St. Modwen Homes contributed £12m 
(2014: £8m) and the Persimmon joint venture* contributed 
£17m (2014: £16m). 
Our achievements in 2015 were exemplified by the completion 
of key milestones across all major projects, making a strong 
contribution to this excellent set of results. Each of these 
projects reflected a specific facet of our business model:
• New Covent Garden Market demonstrated our ability to add 
significant value to brownfield land through our planning skills, 
as we achieved unconditional status in the first half of the 
year, adding a net £127.4m of value to our property portfolio. 
Works to the new market commenced in the second half 
of the year, signifying a major step towards securing vacant 
possession of the 10 acre Nine Elms Square site and we will 
explore our options to either sell, joint venture or develop the 
site during 2016.
“It is extremely pleasing to achieve 
record profits and growth from a year 
of excellent delivery across all areas 
of the portfolio.”
BILL OLIVER
Chief Executive
£258.4m
PROFIT BEFORE ALL TAX (£m)
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
51.7 52.8
77.2
135.4
258.4
413.5p
EQUITY NET ASSETS PER SHARE (p)
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
231.8
250.8
278.8
325.1
413.5
Photo:  We achieved unconditional status for the New Covent Garden 
Market site in April 2015. * A series of commercial contracts with Persimmon.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
6
Chief Executive’s Review • As the second phase opened in November 2015, Longbridge 
Town Centre highlighted our skill in generating an increased 
stream of income from our development projects that helps 
to underpin the running costs of the business. Anchored by 
a 150,000 sq ft Marks & Spencer store, the largest in the 
Midlands, and additional retail already leased to a number of 
major national occupiers, the Town Centre will now generate 
£3.2m of annualised income. 
• The Bay Campus developed for Swansea University is a 
prime example of our expertise in cleaning up brownfield 
sites to develop thriving new communities that contribute 
positively to the local and broader economy, whilst delivering 
substantial recurring income and shareholder value. 
We have retained ownership of the income from the student 
accommodation, the first phase of which opened its doors in 
September 2015 housing 917 new students and the second 
phase opened in January 2016. Demonstrating our long-term 
approach to development, the flexibility of our land bank and 
our ability to deliver continued growth, in December 2015 we 
signed a development agreement with Swansea University 
to develop Phase 3 which will be available to new students in 
September 2017 and will bring the total number of student 
rooms to 2,000. 
Strategy overview
We are constantly adding value to our 6,000 acre land 
bank and growing our development pipeline through 
initiatives carried out by our regional teams of property and 
construction experts. 
These initiatives include remediating brownfield land and 
successfully securing planning permissions in order for sites 
to be carefully and sensitively redeveloped. We also keep our 
retained properties, both mature and newly developed, under 
constant review, running them for income for a period of time 
until we take a strategic decision to either their redevelopment 
or disposal. This income stream underpins the running costs of 
the business. 
We are always looking for the next opportunity and actively 
working our land bank at all stages of the development cycle. 
As our major projects reach their peaks, new prospects 
across our regional portfolio are already being identified and 
prepared in order to deliver maximum value for shareholders 
in the future.
Commercial development pipeline
Number of 
schemes sq ft
% pre-let/
pre-sold
Development 
expenditure
£m
GDV
£m
Movement during the year
Position at 30
th
 November 2014 32 2,045,000 62% 136 259
Sold/transferred to investment properties (10) (855,000)
Schemes added to the pipeline 11 400,000
Position at 30
th
 November 2015 33 1,590,000 51% 114 213
Analysis of position at 30
th
 November 2015
Retail 10 305,000 50% 28 64
Industrial 23 1,285,000 52% 86 149
Total 33 1,590,000 51% 114 213
7
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Market overview
     We see opportunity Pages 10 and 11
As a regeneration specialist, our activities touch many sectors 
of the property market. The way we manage our land bank and 
implement our strategy ensures that we have the flexibility to 
alter our development focus at any time in the economic cycle. 
Our biggest project by value, New Covent Garden Market, is 
located in London but our regional presence in the UK defines 
the business and has done so for the last 30 years. 
Overall, our commitment to the regions has continued to 
produce results during the year. 
Active commercial marketplace 
Our commercial marketplace, predominantly spanning retail 
and industrial space, has fared well with our major projects 
experiencing an exceptional year in terms of delivery and 
income generation. Overall, our programme of commercial 
development is now at 1.6m sq ft and we will continue to add 
new opportunities to the pipeline as schemes complete.
Our programme of speculative space is now at 775,000 sq ft 
for which we have been successful in securing a number of key 
tenants over the last 12 months. We expect this momentum to 
continue in line with current occupier demand. 
We have also secured a number of significant design and build 
projects this year, demonstrating appetite from larger tenants 
for new premises as they expand or relocate. These include 
the Defence Infrastructure Organisation (DIO) which has 
committed to a £32m residential facility for military staff 
working at the Royal Centre for Defence Medicine (RCDM) 
Birmingham, to be delivered at Longbridge and Travis Perkins 
for which we started on site with a 214,000 sq ft regional 
distribution centre in Whitley, Coventry. 
We are experiencing a steady flow of tenant demand for our 
existing space, enabling us to grow our stream of recurring 
income which, in turn, helps to underpin the running costs of 
the business and provides a firm financial footing from which 
we operate. 
Our asset management capabilities continue to deliver strong 
net rental income from our retained development portfolio. 
In particular, the regeneration of Wembley Central, completed 
in March 2015, combines an excellent mix of retail, leisure, 
residential and office space which is now generating an 
annualised net rental income of £2.2m. 
The Company completed or secured a number of acquisitions 
this year for a total value of £95m in order to grow the portfolio 
and extend its development pipeline further. In addition to 
Kirkby Town Centre, other highlights include industrial estates 
at Moorgate Point in Liverpool and Old Mill in Preston. 
The retail market remains competitive across the UK as 
retailers face the challenge of meeting ever-changing customer 
demands in an increasingly crowded space. Nevertheless, we 
have managed to remain successful in this market and have 
created a good level of retailer demand for our schemes which 
are well-located, predominantly mixed-use and therefore offer 
a one-stop-shop for the increasingly busy consumer. 
Strong investment market 
This year saw strong investor interest for commercial property 
which we captured through the sale of a number of our 
mature sites and newly developed assets. This included the 
delivery of three distribution centres, comprising a total of 
189,000 sq ft, for express delivery service DPD (UK) at three 
of our sites across the UK. Demonstrating the appetite within 
the investor marketplace, we disposed of all three assets in 
two separate transactions at the time of tenant occupation at 
yields of 5% and 5.3%.
Photo:  One of the three distribution centres built for DPD (UK) and 
subsequently	sold.	
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
8
Chief Executive’s Review (continued) Strong residential market 
The residential part of our business is a core element of our 
strength in the regions. The planning process continues to 
prove challenging nationwide and has presented a delay to 
some site starts during the year. However, across our extensive 
portfolio we have successfully secured over 1,438 homes 
through planning permissions granted in the year.
Demand still remains high for new homes across the UK with 
regional house price inflation surpassing build cost inflation. 
The Help to Buy initiative has contributed positively to sales 
rates, underlining the need for affordable properties to meet 
demand from first time buyers. 
We have continued to grow in this market and remain strong 
in the regions due to our ability to realise development 
opportunities from our own land bank and our skill in adding 
value through planning which enables us to satisfy quickly third 
party housebuilder demand for land. 
Our residential development activities have grown out of the 
Midlands and we are now active across many other parts of the 
UK including the South West, South Wales, the North West and 
in parts of London.
Business outlook
During the next 12 months we will continue to add value 
to the portfolio and realise milestones across our projects. 
New Covent Garden Market will be a particular focus, where 
we will progress towards vacant possession of the 10 acre Nine 
Elms Square site and we will explore our options to either sell, 
joint venture or develop the site during 2016.
Across our commercial portfolio, we anticipate an ongoing 
steady stream of tenant demand. At the same time, our 
development pipeline will continue to be restocked with new 
opportunities as we embark on new speculative schemes and 
design and build projects. 
We expect an equally keen investor market in 2016 and will 
progress with the disposal of those assets from within our 
portfolio which have reached maturity. Similarly, we will remain 
acquisitive, seeking new opportunities to grow our land bank, 
generate more income and ultimately convert into our ongoing 
programme of development. 
We anticipate steady demand for our residential land from 
third party housebuilders. On the development side, we 
anticipate the continued growth of St. Modwen Homes 
which will become more dominant and replace profits from 
the Persimmon joint venture as it draws to its natural close 
by 2018. 
The newly established Income Producing Residential route to 
market will experience further growth as new opportunities 
come on line and as we look for other prospects within our 
own land bank that enable us to enter emerging or existing 
markets, with the aim of continually bolstering levels of 
recurring income. 
Finally, 2016 marks our 30
th
 anniversary as a listed company 
and provides for an opportunity to celebrate the positive 
impact we have made to the UK landscape during this time; 
creating new communities that lead to job creation, helping to 
boost the local, regional and national economy and delivering 
significant shareholder value.
Bill Oliver
Chief Executive
1
st
 February 2016
9
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 INVESTMENT
Market trends
The low interest rate environment, coupled with 
relatively high and stable income yields of UK 
commercial property, is still proving attractive to 
new investors.	
Investment activity has been aided by greater depth 
and	liquidity	in	the	financing	market,	particularly	in	
the regions, targeting opportunities across prime and 
secondary markets. 
As we enter 2016, yield compression is anticipated to 
continue and strong demand and high pricing expected 
to persist. 
RESIDENTIAL
Market trends
The planning process continues to prove challenging 
nationwide. 
Demand for new homes remains high with regional 
house	price	inflation	surpassing	build	cost	inflation.	
The Help to Buy initiative is making a positive contribution 
to	sales	rates	and	underlining	the	need	for	affordable	
properties	to	meet	demand	from	first	time	buyers.
The Private Rented Sector (PRS) is now the second 
largest	rental	provider	in	England.	19%	of	all	households	
are renting privately whilst home-ownership has fallen 
to	64%.	
RETAIL 
Market trends
Outside of Central London, the retail market remains 
competitive as retailers are trading in an increasingly 
crowded space, with the added challenge of having 
to	continually	diversify	their	offering	to	meet	the	ever	
changing demands of the consumer. 
Technology, accessibility and the combination of 
demand	for	a	leisure	offering	and	night	time	economy	
is growing in importance to satisfy customers’ 
continually evolving tastes.
This considered, there is steady improvement in 
specific	areas	of	the	country.	Secondary	High	Street	
markets have yet to build notable momentum with 
moderate demand.
COMMERCIAL
Market trends
The commercial marketplace is performing well, 
particularly the industrial sector where there is good 
demand across most UK occupational and investment 
markets. 
Despite a steady pick up in speculative development, the 
supply constraints in the big box and multi-let sectors 
show little signs of easing, which is forcing occupiers 
and investors to broaden their search criteria and 
target	good	quality	stock	in	well-located	second	tier	
and secondary	markets.
Demand	for	prime	office	space	in	key	regional	business	
hubs is strengthening, driven by the services sector, 
although overall take up is constrained by the lack of 
prime stock.
As a regeneration specialist, our activities touch many sectors of 
the property	market.	Our	regional	presence	has	defined	the	business	
for the	last	30	years.	Our	commitment	to	this	marketplace	has	
continued to	produce	results	during	the	year	with	our	commercial	
development	pipeline	now	at	1.6m	sq	ft.
WE SEE OPPORTUNITY
Market trends and focus*
*  Source: Cushman & Wakefield.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
10
Our marketplace What does this mean for St. Modwen?
We	will	continue	to	add	to	our	1.6m	sq	ft	
commercial property pipeline as we reach 
completion of those projects in build. 
Our programme of speculative 
development will be progressed across 
the UK to meet ongoing demand. 
We will continue to maximise revenue 
streams through our asset management 
capabilities	and	remain	acquisitive	for	new	
opportunities that enable value creation 
through recurring income and ultimately 
development.
The mixed-use, well-located nature 
of our predominantly	secondary	retail	
portfolio, combining a Town Centre 
offering	with	leisure,	work	space	and	
housing, has enabled us to remain 
successful in this market and attract 
retailers to our schemes. 
We will continue to remain abreast of 
consumer	tastes	and	adapt	our	offering	
accordingly to ensure maximum return 
on investment	across	this	marketplace.
Through our strong regional presence 
we will continue to realise residential 
development opportunities from 
our	own land	bank	as	well	as	making	
appropriate	acquisitions	that	suit	our	
portfolio and expertise. 
St. Modwen Homes will become more 
dominant and take over from the 
Persimmon joint venture as it draws to its 
natural close by 2018.
Having already experienced good returns 
from our two initial PRS schemes, we expect 
to grow in this marketplace in 2016.
We will continue to capture this strong 
investor interest through the disposal 
of those properties within our portfolio 
to which we can no longer add material 
value, reinvesting the revenue raised back 
into the business. 
The disposal of retained property is not 
confined	to	our	mature	assets.	We	also	
release	assets	for	sale	to	satisfy	specific	
investor demand in the marketplace. 
11
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Sales/rental 
income
 
Our business model generates recurring revenue and 
drives portfolio value. It is successful because it enables 
us to reinvest continually into the business, ensuring a 
steady stream of development opportunities and income. 
WE SEE OURSELVES DIFFERENTLY
OUR VALUES
We think long-term We are innovative We do what we say
Cash flow
Shareholder 
returns
Asset 
development
Land bank 
cleaning
Investment
INPUTS INVESTMENT RETURNS OUTPUTS AND 
OUTCOMES
Outputs
New and 
regenerated 
commercial 
spaces and	
new homes
Outcomes
Regenerated 
community 
spaces, local 
employment, 
improved local 
and national 
economies 
Resources
• Employees 
• Financial capital 
• Land bank 
• Buildings
Relationships
•  Local communities 
and tenants
•  Partners and 
joint ventures
• Supply chain
 See Pages 16 and 17
Acquiring	
new assets 
that present 
opportunities for 
value creation 
Remediating 
and reclaiming 
brownfield	land	
in advance of its 
redevelopment 
Managed 
through 
regional teams 
of planning 
experts with local 
knowledge and 
in touch with 
communities 
Income secured 
through 
disposals of 
mature assets 
and retained 
rental income
Creation of new 
income streams 
Proven value-
added approach 
promotes 
NAV growth
Underpins 
running costs 
and reinvested 
into new 
property 
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
12
Our business model Purpose and values
Our business model generates recurring revenue and drives 
portfolio value. It is successful because it enables us to reinvest 
continually into the business, ensuring a steady stream of 
development opportunities and income. At its core sits our 
corporate values: 
• We think long-term
• We are innovative
• We do what we say
These values drive the business model, defining employee 
behaviour and our approaches to development and 
regeneration, ultimately resulting in value creation. 
Land bank cleaning
We have a land bank of 6,000 acres, of which 90% is previously 
used (or brownfield) land. 
As the UK’s leading expert in regeneration, cleaning up or 
remediating brownfield land is fundamental to everything we 
do. In doing so, we have a positive impact on the environment 
and we add value to this low-cost development resource which 
in turn enables us to breathe new life into previously neglected 
areas of the country through redevelopment and without the 
need for significant financing. 
New and existing industrial partners choose us as their 
developer of choice as they trust our proven capability to 
remove risk from any site through our expertise and innovation 
in remediation, leaving them a legacy to be proud of. 
Asset development
Once a site has been cleaned we start to realise our vision for 
its redevelopment through our regional teams. 
Our strong track record in securing consents to develop our 
proposed schemes is testament to the skill of these regional 
teams who, throughout the planning process, will actively 
consult with the local community, the relevant local authorities 
and associated agencies to ensure our proposals remain 
sensitive to local need. In addition, our close contact with these 
key stakeholders ensures our plans include the right balance 
of housing, commercial space, supporting infrastructure and 
community facilities.
Our skills in this area can be applied to small developments or 
long-term and complex regeneration projects.
How we create income
Sales income
We retain acquired commercial properties or existing retail 
centres for income as they await redevelopment. Once a 
development is completed, we either retain it, run it for income 
and then sell on once we can add no further material value, 
or we release it immediately to satisfy investor demand within 
the market. 
Similarly, we sell remediated brownfield land with planning 
permission to housebuilders at a significantly higher value than 
initially acquired.
Rental income
Whether awaiting redevelopment or newly completed, our 
individual properties are worked hard by our teams of highly 
skilled asset managers via regular rent reviews, lease renewals 
and careful property maintenance which delivers a strong 
revenue stream for the business. 
Furthermore, our innovative approach to development 
enables us to assess our existing land bank for other sources 
of revenue. This year we added a new income stream to 
our portfolio by way of ‘Income Producing Residential’ which 
includes revenue received from our properties held in the 
Private Rented Sector (PRS) and through the newly created 
‘St. Modwen Student Living’ business to manage retained 
income from student accommodation at Bay Campus, Swansea 
University. Both streams will increase as we grow into these 
new areas of the business.
How value is returned to shareholders/reinvested
The revenue raised from rental income and property sales 
either helps to underpin the running costs of the business or is 
reinvested into new land or properties that are run for income 
initially, before their ultimate redevelopment which in turn 
triggers the cycle of the business model once more.
This underlying and recurring source of income reduces 
dramatically our reliance on bank finance and third party 
funding and provides us with a firm financial footing from 
which to fund our own development opportunities and deliver 
shareholder value. 
Similarly, our regeneration activities in terms of brownfield 
renewal, the creation of new communities and business 
destinations as well as our investment in new opportunities 
help to promote NAV growth and deliver strong 
shareholder returns. 
Outputs and outcomes
The business model enables us to invigorate once neglected 
spaces, former industrial estates and disused brownfield land 
and create thriving new communities, business parks and new 
Town Centres that help to satisfy housing demand, create 
new jobs and provide a boost to the immediate, regional and 
national economy. It also helps to ensure that we put into place 
the right mix of uses and supporting infrastructure and create 
new places that can be enjoyed for generations to come. 
13
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Photo:  Reclamation at Glan Llyn, site of the former Llanwern steelworks, Newport, 
South Wales where we are now delivering a £1bn new community.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
14
Regeneration and remediation
WE SEE POTENTIAL
The clean up and renewal of previously used 
(brownfield) land is central to the progress of 
development in the UK and is fundamental to 
St. Modwen’s business model. We are experts in 
this field, having reclaimed thousands of acres of 
brownfield land over the last 30 years. Cleaning up, recycling and reusing this previously developed 
land goes hand in hand with safeguarding the countryside and 
preserving natural habitats. It also helps to tackle the blight of 
dereliction by transforming poor quality sites into flourishing 
new communities and successful business destinations that 
trigger future economic growth. 
Our expertise in this area rests with our team of highly 
skilled construction experts who work closely with the 
Environment Agency and other associated Government 
regulators to ensure that we employ the latest and most 
sustainable, environmentally responsible techniques across 
our remediation and construction projects. In doing so, we 
pay close attention to energy consumption, use of sustainable 
resources, minimising waste and reducing our consumption of 
raw materials.
Across our developable land bank there are currently hundreds 
of acres of land in the process of being remediated, reclaimed, 
remodelled and redeveloped. The following case study brings 
our rare skill in this fundamental area of regeneration to life.
Longbridge, Birmingham 
Remediation works commenced on the 468 acre Longbridge 
site in 2001. At the time, it comprised four main sub-sites 
namely North Works, South Works, East Works and West 
Works, with two smaller sites known as Flight Shed (formerly an 
engine test and fuel storage facility) and Cofton Works. All were 
located around the (still operational) Shanghai Automotive 
works. Phased remediation works were agreed with the 
Environmental Authorities in line with an evolving masterplan 
and programme.
The main elements of the remediation strategy included: 
• removal of any hydrocarbon impacted material, including soil 
and ground water;
• use of biophysical techniques to clean up soil in compliance 
with risk-based remediation targets agreed with the 
Environmental Authorities; 
• monitoring and validation of shallow and deep 
groundwater quality;
• careful monitoring of dust, noise, odour and surface 
water levels;
• placement of remediated soil to an engineering specification;
• regular samples taken of remediated materials to 
demonstrate targets have been achieved; 
• installation of gas monitoring boreholes and subsequent 
monitoring to confirm any preventative measures required 
for future development; and
• production of reports for approval by the Environmental 
Authorities to support planning.
Particular remediation challenges at Longbridge included:
• East Works – preparation of development plateau at the 
East Works site which required the transfer and placement of 
approximately 120,000 tonnes of soil;
• Flight Shed – this site has been subject to a six-year long 
hydrocarbon extraction, recovery and recycling exercise to 
remove a plume within former tunnels and the surrounding 
soils; and
• East Works (northern area) – this site was prepared to 
include a cut off wall to protect the site from surrounding 
impacted areas and has since been redeveloped into a 
housing scheme under our joint venture with Persimmon.
This meticulous approach to remediation has been 
instrumental in the transformation of this brownfield site 
from a former car plant to a thriving new community for this 
part of Birmingham which now comprises a Town Centre, 
£66m Bournville College, Technology Park, employment centre, 
residential development and two new parks. 
 Corporate Social Responsibility Pages 42–45
  
For more information on our CSR activities 
please see our February 2016 CSR booklet or 
 v i s i t : www.stmodwen-csr.co.uk
Photo:  Remediation at the Longbridge site. 
15
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Our long lasting partnerships with key stakeholders 
are pivotal to the success of our regeneration activities. 
These relationships are complemented by a key set of 
resources, and together they enable us to create value 
and generate strong returns. 
WE SEE PROSPECTS
Resources Relationships
Employees
Our employees are the driving 
force behind	our	success	and	
we aim to attract, develop and 
retain the best people. Across all 
disciplines we employ a highly skilled 
team	to safeguard	our	values	and	
deliver excellent	returns	whilst	
protecting assets. 
Financial capital
Our recurring income stream 
underpins the running costs of the 
business. Whilst we maintain strong 
relationships with key banks, we are 
not	reliant	on	bank	finance	and	have	
diversified	our	sources	of	funding	
through	equity	and	debt	issues.	
Land bank
Our £1.7bn property portfolio 
is managed across our 6,000 
acre land bank. At any point in 
time	we are	continually	adding	
value	to it	through	remediation,	
planning, development,	disposals	
and	new	acquisitions.
Buildings
Where possible we seek to 
reuse existing buildings during 
development. However, where 
demolition is necessary we will 
reclaim and recycle as much 
existing material	as	is	possible	to	
reduce both cost and the impact 
on the	environment.	
Local communities  
and tenants
We seek to maintain good working 
relationships with our extensive 
tenant base through our regional 
and local asset management teams. 
We engage with communities 
throughout development to ensure 
we remain sensitive to the impact of 
our schemes. 
Private sector and jvs
We have a number of long-term 
relationships with private sector 
partners either in joint venture 
or	through	land	acquisitions	or	
development agreements. Our 
core values help to maintain these 
relationships from which we seek to 
secure maximum mutual value. 
Public sector and regulators
We work with local authorities, 
and public sector organisations 
at a regional level throughout the 
lifecycle of an asset. We also work 
closely with the HSE, Environment 
Agency and other Government 
regulators to ensure best practice is 
met at all stages of delivery.
Supply chain
Our supply chain partners are 
required	to	share	our	core	principles	
of	delivering	to	the	highest	quality,	
on time and within budget. Many 
of our contractors work with us on 
a number of schemes, enhancing 
mutual understanding and trust. 
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
16
Resources and relationships Bay Campus, Swansea University
Professor Iwan Davies, 
Pro-Vice Chancellor, Swansea University
" The Bay Campus has been recognised as among the most 
ambitious projects in the UK higher education sector for decades. 
" Its realisation, in partnership with St. Modwen, heralds a new era 
and new status for Swansea University which is transforming 
into a global exemplar of a 21
st
 Century University and one that 
promotes and champions the student experience. 
" St. Modwen has been fundamental in adopting this vision and 
enabling the University to deliver the first stage of this ambitious 
development on time and on budget. This has been achieved 
through the exceptional and dedicated project management 
of St. Modwen’s senior team and the relationship with the 
construction supply chain that they have managed throughout 
the process.
" In addition, St. Modwen has respected the University’s policy 
in promoting regional opportunities wherever that is possible. 
The impact has been 170 contracts being awarded within Wales 
and almost 7,000 jobs during the 26-month construction period."
Longbridge, Birmingham
Sacha Berendji, Director of Retail, 
Marks & Spencer
" At 150,000 sq ft, M&S Longbridge is one of our biggest 
stores. The vibrancy and connectivity of the area, plus the 
diverse, growing population made it the perfect location and 
St. Modwen's ongoing regeneration of Longbridge is establishing 
it as a truly mixed use model of sustainability."
Richard Burden, 
MP for Birmingham Northfield
" For a hundred years, Longbridge was not only a byword for car 
making – one of the defining industries of the twentieth century. 
It has also been central to the identity of this part of Birmingham; 
part of the its culture and the way people thought about 
themselves and their communities.
" So the collapse of the former MG Rover plant in 2005 was a 
huge blow, not only to the economy but to the self-confidence 
of local people. Therefore redeveloping the site has been about 
rebuilding an identity and a community’s self-confidence as much 
as the massive physical scale of the challenge involved.
" St. Modwen’s – and St. Modwen Homes’ – role in taking this 
forward has been and remains pivotal – from the reclamation of 
acres upon acres of industrial land to the construction of new 
homes, a town centre and the attraction of new businesses. 
The developer has also been pivotal in proactively engaging with 
local people both directly and through their representatives.
" There is still a long way to go until the project is complete but it is 
important to recognise how much the developer has contributed. 
It is good to have them as partners on Longbridge’s climb into 
the future."
17
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 As the UK’s leading regeneration specialist, our expertise 
in remediation, planning, asset development and 
construction supports our strategy of securing excellent 
returns	through	a	focus	on	long-term	significant	added	
value while protecting our assets. 
WE SEE VALUE
Our broad regeneration expertise and land bank 
of	6,000	acres	provides	us	with	the	flexibility	to	
move with market demands and pursue those 
opportunities that generate the greatest value at 
any one time.  
Secure excellent  
returns… 
As the UK’s leading regeneration specialist we strive 
to adopt only the most sustainable approaches to 
regeneration and development. We operate from 
a	firm	financial	footing,	carefully	monitoring	cash	
flow	and	debt,	whilst	our	development	activities	are	
underpinned by a reliable and recurring income 
stream that enables us to fund our cost base and 
progress our longer-term regeneration projects at 
low	risk	and	in	a	profitable	manner.	
…while 
protecting  
our assets 
We	have	the	financial	strength	and	vision	to	
acquire	sites	opportunistically	that	have	clear	
potential	to	benefit	from	our	specialist	value-
adding	skills	and	which	can	generate	profits	
from commercial and residential development at 
every stage of the property lifecycle. 
…through a 
focus on long-
term significant 
added value…
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
18
Our strategy and KPIs Objectives Progress Next steps
Invest at a point in the property lifecycle 
from which we can achieve maximum 
development returns.
Maximise individual asset values through 
our locally-based expertise.
Recycle	assets	where	significant	
opportunities to add value are exhausted in 
order to generate capital for reinvestment. 
We have experienced an exceptional year, 
achieving key value-added milestones 
across our £1.7bn property portfolio, 
resulting in a valuation gain of £201.7m. 
Most	notably	for	all	major	projects:	Phase 2	
of Longbridge Town Centre completed, 
Bay Campus	for	Swansea	University	opened	
and	NCGM	reflected	on	the	Balance	Sheet.	
Net asset value has continued to grow with 
gains predominantly secured through our 
own asset management initiatives, handled 
in each region and including remediation, 
planning gains, rental growth and strategic 
disposal of mature assets. 
Against the backdrop of some economic 
uncertainty, our prevalence in the regions, 
our	strong	financial	position	and	the	
diverse nature of our UK-wide property 
portfolio enables us to avoid overexposure 
to a single scheme, tenant or sector and 
safeguards	our	strong	financial	position.	
Continue	to	grow	development	profits	and	
generate valuation gains through planning 
gain,	strategic	acquisitions	and	identifying	
new opportunities from our existing 
6,000 acre	land	bank.
Continue to promote and enhance the 
Group’s inherent value and long-term 
prospects. 
Develop and grow our net asset base so 
that dividends can grow in line. Continue to 
secure	profitable	development	to	generate	
consistent future returns. 
Principal risks Link to remuneration
Market/economic	changes	affect	market	
confidence	and	in	turn,	property	and	equity	
valuations. 
Changes to local and national planning 
processes could adversely impact our 
strategy by limiting our ability to secure 
viable permissions and/or removing 
competitive advantage. 
The management of development is a 
complex process, with successful delivery 
dependent on our expertise. 
Profit	before	all	tax,	total	dividend	for	
the year and post dividend-growth in 
shareholders’	equity	net	asset	value	
per share were corporate performance 
measures of the annual bonus 
arrangements for executive directors in 
the year.	
Key performance indicators
Secure excellent 
returns...
2011 2012 2013* 2014* 2015
PROFIT BEFORE ALL TAX (£m)
51.7 52.8
77.2
258.4
135.4
2011 2012 2013* 2014* 2015
EQUITY NET ASSETS PER SHARE (p)
231.8
250.8
278.8
413.5
325.1
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
DIVIDEND PAID (p)
3.10
3.41
3.75
5.04
4.13
*  Restated.
19
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Objectives Progress Next steps
Build our land bank to deliver future 
opportunities and secure planning gain, 
with	a	focus	on	brownfield	renewal	and	
sustainable development.
Adapt our asset strategies over the long-
term to meet changing market demands. 
Employ highly-skilled and motivated 
people to	deliver	our	asset	strategies	and	
future growth. 
We	continue	to	acquire	brownfield	sites	
at low cost and prepare for development 
through remediation and securing planning 
permissions which in turn realises value.
We have completed a number of strategic 
acquisitions	during	the	year,	predominantly	
in the North West, including Kirkby Town 
Centre for £35.8m and our appointment 
as development manager on the 200 acre 
MoD Ashchurch site. In this way, we have 
added value to the portfolio in terms of 
securing immediate rental income and 
presenting good future development 
potential.
The business has grown throughout the 
year, expanding each regional team and 
St. Modwen Homes through a number 
of senior appointments. The Group's 
management	team	has	grown	by	5%	to	
63 (2014: 60), with all having completed a 
comprehensive development programme 
during the year.
The CSR Steering Group is now established 
and all 10 objectives set at the start of the 
period either exceeded, achieved or on 
target to achieve.
Selective	and	capital	efficient	acquisitions.	
Continue to adopt the latest, most 
sustainable, development and 
remediation techniques.	
Continued recycling of assets with 
limited opportunity	for	further	significant	
added value. Capitalise on heightened 
investor interest. 
Continue to retain, recruit and motivate 
highly-skilled people throughout the 
business and implement an ongoing 
programme	of	staff	training	and	
management development. 
Principal risks Link to remuneration
Unforeseen or failure to manage long-term 
environmental	issues	relating	to	brownfield	
or contaminated sites. 
Inability	to	recruit,	develop	and	retain	staff	
with the right skills and expertise, resulting 
in disruption/loss of intellectual property. 
Employment	of	inadequate	practices	to	
remediate contaminated sites results in 
reputational damage. 
Executive directors’ individual objectives 
for the year’s annual bonus arrangements 
included people-related targets and 
CSR activities.	
Key performance indicators
…through a focus on long-term 
significant added value…
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
LAND BANK (DEVELOPABLE ACRES)
5,762 5,801
5,943 6,012
5,873
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
MANAGEMENT WITH MORE THAN
3 YEARS’ SERVICE (%)
75
78
82
76
84
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
ASSET RECYCLING: DISPOSALS AS A PROPORTION
OF PROPERTY ASSETS AT THE START
OF THE YEAR (%)
9
12
16
21
22
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
20
Our strategy and KPIs (continued) Objectives Progress Next steps
Maintain an appropriate capital structure 
to meet	our	future	development	and	
funding needs.
Generate cash-backed income streams 
to substantially	cover	the	running	costs	
of our	business.	
Promote positive Group-wide 
culture towards safety, health and 
environmental matters.	
We continue to innovate and secure value 
from our existing land bank with new 
value-added initiatives such as ‘income 
producing residential’ (PRS and St. Modwen 
Student Living) which generates substantial 
recurring income. 
Recurring income levels are enhanced by 
retained	income,	strategic	acquisitions	and	
robust asset management. 
No	facility	refinancing	is	expected	before	
2018,	with	refinancings	staggered	between	
2018 and 2021. 
Sufficient	headroom	now	exists	with	
our corporate facilities to enable us to 
meet future development and funding 
requirements.	At	the	date	of	reporting	we	
have £554m of facilities against year-end 
net borrowings of £443m. 
Accident	frequency	rates	for	our	
development sites and for St. Modwen 
Homes	significantly	outperformed	the	
industry benchmark in the year.
Manage	existing	finance	facilities	to	support	
ongoing growth.
Continued management of investment 
and development programme to maintain 
appropriate debt ratios.
Continue to enhance levels of recurring 
income through robust asset management. 
Actively seek to de-gear and sell more 
assets into a receptive investment market. 
Continue to attain or exceed 2016 health 
and safety related CSR objectives. 
Principal risks Link to remuneration
Reduction in availability of funding, resulting 
in	lack	of	liquidity	that	impacts	borrowing	
capacity and reduces saleability of assets. 
Failure to anticipate market changes 
through poor market intelligence leads 
to selection of inappropriate schemes, 
ultimately impacting commercial and 
residential	profit	levels.	
Safety, health and environment 
culture leads to a major incident, 
resulting	in	financial	penalties	and/or	
reputational damage.	
Failure	to	monitor	major	projects	effectively	
leads to higher costs/reduced margins. 
Gearing levels were a corporate 
performance measure of the annual bonus 
arrangements for executive directors in 
the year.
Key performance indicators
…while protecting 
our assets
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
ADJUSTED GEARING* (%)
79
71
54
48
47
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
SEE-THROUGH LOAN-TO-VALUE (%)
39
41
33
30
31
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
RATIO OF RENTAL AND OTHER INCOME
TO OPERATING COSTS INCLUDING INTEREST (%)
97
92
86
91
88
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
COMMITTED FACILITIES TO COVER DRAWN DEBT
(MONTHS)
36
34
22
43
55
*   Adjusted gearing is the ratio of net borrowings 
(excluding finance leases) to net assets. See note 2 
to the	Group	Financial	Statements.	
21
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 WE SEE JOB CREATION
Photo:  Remediation works at Coed Darcy, the site of the former Llandarcy Oil Refinery, 
Neath Port Talbot, South Wales where we are now delivering a £1.2bn new community. 
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
22
Commercial land and development
Our commercial land and development portfolio 
has fared well, with our major projects experiencing 
an exceptional year in terms of delivery and 
income generation. Overall, our programme 
of commercial development is now at 1.6m sq ft 
and we will continue to add new opportunities 
to the pipeline as schemes complete.  Commercial land 
Commercial land and development makes up 9% of the 
overall portfolio by value, representing £152m. Over the last 
12 months, with a view to adding value to our commercial 
development pipeline, we have continued to secure sites, 
predominantly brownfield, at low cost and prepare them for 
development through remediation and planning. 
Once an asset or new community is built, we either dispose 
of it or retain it as a long-term income producing asset. In line 
with the Company's strategy, many of our assets have further 
development potential.
During the period, we have secured a number of commercial-
led brownfield land opportunities.
Highlights: 
• Kirkby, Liverpool – an existing Town Centre with potential 
for the development of 120,000 sq ft of new retail and leisure 
space including a foodstore which, subject to planning, could 
start on site in 2017.
• Brentwood, Essex – a strategic 58 acre site, situated at 
junction 29 of the M25, for which a development agreement 
was signed with the landowners in July 2015. The site will 
now be progressed through the planning system and 
then developed into 1m sq ft of industrial, logistics and 
office space.
• Formby, Merseyside – a 40 acre site to be progressed 
through planning with a view to developing 100,000 sq ft of 
retail, 350,000 sq ft of new employment space and enhanced 
sports facilities.
Commercial planning and development milestones
We are active across our 6,000 acre land bank at every stage 
of the development cycle, and throughout the year we have 
continued to secure planning approvals for commercial-led 
schemes which have enabled us to add to our pipeline of 
development and delivery. 
Planning highlights:
• Burton Gateway, Burton upon Trent – planning consent 
has been secured for an additional 230,000 sq ft of 
distribution and industrial space at this key site for East 
Staffordshire, taking the total amount of planned employment 
space to 1m sq ft. Construction works began speculatively 
on the first warehouse of 87,000 sq ft in the second half of 
the year.
• Centurion Park, Tamworth – plans to build 200,000 sq ft of 
industrial accommodation have been granted permission by 
North Warwickshire Borough Council. Works to a 53,000 sq ft 
unit started speculatively in August 2015; this is now under 
offer to a tenant for occupation in June 2016. Once complete, 
works to another speculative unit, comprising 153,000 sq ft of 
space, will commence. 
• Nunnery Park, Worcester – planning permission has been 
granted by Worcester City Council for a 20 acre mixed-use 
development which provides up to 160,000 sq ft of business 
and industrial units as well as a car showroom, public house 
and ‘drive-thru’ restaurant.
Commercial development highlights:
• Letchworth Industrial Estate, Letchworth – commenced as 
a speculative development in January 2015, this 90,000 sq ft 
industrial estate is now complete and fully let to two major 
operators; Tyco and Titan Logistics (a DPD (UK)-franchisee) 
have leased 75,000 sq ft and 15,000 sq ft, respectively. 
Generating an annual rental income of £680,000, the 
investment has been sold post year-end at a yield of 5.2%.
• Whitley Business Park, Coventry – following a land sale 
and agreement to build a 214,000 sq ft regional distribution 
centre for Travis Perkins, for which works are due to complete 
in Spring 2016, just seven acres now remain on this 93 acre 
site which is under offer for sale to Jaguar Land Rover. 
• Access 18, Avonmouth – further to securing a pre-let 
with parcel distribution firm ‘MyHermes’ for a 43,000 sq ft 
warehouse which was sold to Associated British Foods for 
£5.6m at a yield of 5.9%, Kent Foods took a 37,000 sq ft 
speculative unit as an owner-occupier for £3.6m. On the back 
of these two transactions we are progressing with a further 
68,000 sq ft of speculative space.
• DPD (UK) – three distribution centres were successfully 
developed, totalling 189,000 sq ft of space, for express 
delivery service DPD (UK) at our sites at Skypark in Exeter, 
Etruria Valley in Stoke-on-Trent and Stonebridge in Liverpool. 
The three assets were subsequently sold in two separate 
transactions at yields of 5% and 5.3%, both completed upon 
tenant occupation.
• Technology Retail Park, Rugby – this 100,000 sq ft retail 
park was already 100% pre-let to major retailers including 
Homebase, Wickes, Bensons for Beds and Pets at Home 
before construction started in 2014. Prior to works 
completing it was sold to Aberdeen Asset Management for 
£17.4m, reflecting a net initial yield of 5.75%.
• Screwfix, Stoke-on-Trent – having extended an existing 
320,000 sq ft distribution hub to 630,000 sq ft for this national 
retailer of trade tools, accessories and hardware products, 
within two months of completion the asset was sold to the 
Prudential Assurance Co. Ltd for £18.1m.
Outlook
We anticipate sustained activity in the commercial sector 
during 2016 and we will continue to build on our 1.6m sq ft 
commercial development pipeline to meet ongoing 
regional tenant demand. 
23
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 WE SEE COMMUNITIES
Photo: Meon Vale, a new £500m Warwickshire community.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
24
Residential
The residential part of our business is a core element 
of our strength in the regions. We have continued 
to grow in this area due to our ability to realise 
development opportunities from our own land bank 
and our skill in adding value through planning.  We acquire potential residential land at low cost and add to its 
value through remediation and securing planning permissions. 
Residential land and development is now the largest part of the 
portfolio, by value, representing 46% or £772m. To date, we 
have realised this value through three routes to market:
• Residential land sales
• St. Modwen Homes
• Persimmon joint venture
This year we added another route to market, namely ‘Income 
Producing Residential’ which demonstrates our ability to 
increase our flow of development profits and create a further 
source of recurring income from our residential land bank. 
There are two facets to this: retained income from student 
accommodation at the Bay Campus managed by the newly 
established St. Modwen Student Living business and our 
first two PRS developments at Wembley Central and Rugby. 
Combined, these represent a further £106m, or 6% of the 
wider portfolio by value.
Performance – Residential land
Our ongoing ability to secure planning permissions for 
residential land has continued this year and 80% of our 
portfolio (over 26,000 plots) has either planning permissions 
or allocations within local plans. Overall, we have increased the 
size of our residential portfolio to 32,516 plots (2014: 28,790) 
as we continue to top-up this part of the land bank with 
new opportunities.
Highlights:
• MoD Ashchurch, Gloucestershire – VINCI St. Modwen (VSM) 
was appointed as Development Manager by the Defence 
Infrastructure Organisation (DIO) for the regeneration of MoD 
Ashchurch. This 200 acre site provides an opportunity to 
deliver a new mixed-use community comprising up to 1,900 
new homes and around 15 acres of land for employment 
use. VSM will work closely with DIO to fund, manage and lead 
the development.
• Whittington Road, Worcester – an 18.5 acre site from the 
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA). 
Once planning permissions are secured we either retain 
the site to develop ourselves or we sell on to third party 
housebuilders. This year we sold or agreed for sale 70.1 acres 
of land securing £87m of value. 
Highlights:
• Millbrook Park, Mill Hill – the sale of 6.9 acres of land to 
Taylor Wimpey and Prime Place (part of Wilmott Dixon Group) 
for a total of £43m.
• Pirelli, Burton upon Trent – the sale of 16.5 acres of land to 
Persimmon for £8.6m.
• Pye Green, Worcestershire – the sale of 17.4 acres of land 
to Barratt Homes for £8.2m.
Planning consents achieved – highlights:
• New Covent Garden Market, London – for 3,019 homes 
(600 affordable) and 100,000 sq ft of office and retail space, 
plus a 500,000 sq ft new market.
• Meon Vale, Warwickshire – for 550 homes at this 479 acre 
leisure-led development in addition to planning already 
obtained for 500 homes, of which over 230 have been 
developed by St. Modwen Homes and Persimmon. 
• Hendrefoilan, Swansea – for up to 300 homes on this 
site which is currently accommodating an existing Swansea 
University student village.
Applications submitted – highlights:
• Wolverton Works, Milton Keynes – for a mixed-use 
development including 375 homes on this rail-related site.
• Leegate, London – for 229 homes as part of a retail-led 
mixed-use development.
• Locking Parklands, Weston-super-Mare – for an additional 
165 homes at this 200 acre site which, when complete, will 
comprise 650,000 sq ft of employment space, 1,450 homes, 
a district centre including retail, library, school and additional 
leisure and community facilities.
Performance – Residential development
We have experienced a year of strong growth across our 
residential business, with the resulting development translating 
into an overall profit increase of 21% to £29m (2014: £24m) of 
which St. Modwen Homes contributed £12m (2014: £8m) and 
the Persimmon joint venture £17m (2014: £16m). Sales rates 
remain strong with a total of 967 house completions achieved 
for the year (2014: 820) comprising 315 for St. Modwen Homes 
(2014: 258) and 652 for the Persimmon joint venture 
(2014: 562). 
We expect to maintain performance in 2016 which will be 
a transitional year as St. Modwen Homes becomes more 
dominant and replaces the profits from the Persimmon joint 
venture to give sustainable future profit levels. 
St. Modwen Homes
At the core of St. Modwen Homes’ success is the competitive 
advantage that our land bank provides. We are able to 
use our extensive expertise in planning from across the 
business and select those sites that are best suited to the 
St. Modwen Homes brand. As a result, we invest by providing 
a good quality product which, in comparison with the average 
new home, benefits from larger gardens, greater ceiling heights 
and a higher specification. 
St. Modwen Homes continues to grow and is now operating 
across the UK with 13 sites under development and 
five due to start on site in 2016. Those currently under 
development include:
• Gregory’s Bank, Worcestershire – a scheme of 165 homes, 
all under development by St. Modwen Homes which has 
already completed 76 units. 
• Edison Place, Rugby – part of a large regeneration scheme 
being carried out by St. Modwen and comprising a new 
college, retail park and associated facilities, along with a total 
of 600 new homes of which St. Modwen Homes is delivering 
350 and to date has completed 132 units. 
25
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Photo: Radley Park, Liverpool, a St. Modwen Homes scheme of 161 homes.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
26
Residential (continued) • Littlecombe, Dursley – part of the broader redevelopment 
of the former Lister Petter factory, this 92 acre scheme 
has planning for 40 acres of public, open green space, 
150,000 sq ft of employment space and 450 homes of 
which St. Modwen Homes is delivering 258. To date, 
St. Modwen Homes has completed 88 homes.
The five sites to come on stream during 2016 include: 
• Meon Vale, Warwickshire – for 258 new homes as part 
of this 479 acre leisure-led, mixed-use community of 1,050 
homes, 800,000 sq ft of commercial accommodation, primary 
school, a community centre, gym and leisure hub.
• Longbridge East, Birmingham – for 175 new homes at 
this 468 acre major regeneration project which has planning 
permission for a total of 2,000 homes. This latest housing 
phase is in addition to the 360 homes already delivered on 
site and will add to this growing community which already 
comprises 750,000 sq ft of commercial space, including a 
new Town Centre, the £66m Bournville College, Longbridge 
Technology Park and Cofton Centre, and the £2m Austin Park.
• St. Andrew’s Park, Uxbridge – for 71 homes at this 110 acre 
former RAF site. Once complete, this new community will 
comprise 1,340 new homes, 2,000 sq ft of commercial space, 
a theatre and other key community facilities including a new 
40 acre park for Greater London.
Persimmon joint venture
Our joint venture with Persimmon is now at its peak with 
all eight sites and the majority of the 2,300 plots under the 
agreement now in development. This partnership will reach 
its natural end by 2018 with the first sites reaching completion 
during 2016. 
Income Producing Residential
This is the latest route to market for our residential portfolio 
and underlines our ability to extract value from our existing 
land bank, embrace new markets and produce a recurring 
stream of income. It currently comprises two key areas:
• Private Rental Sector (PRS) – we have been monitoring 
this growing marketplace closely over the last two years and 
have started to realise private rental opportunities from our 
existing portfolio. We have already delivered and let PRS 
properties at Wembley Central, London and at Edison Place, 
Rugby where we have completed the leasing of a total of 
64 apartments which are generating an annualised income 
of £0.7m. 
We are progressing other opportunities in this sector, having 
recently submitted a planning application for 77 private 
rented apartments at Edmonton Green, London and we 
plan to commence construction of up to 200 apartments at 
St. Andrew’s Park, Uxbridge during 2016, for which we have 
received detailed planning permission. 
We will continue to monitor this emerging marketplace closely 
and selectively designate those sites that are best suited to 
extract maximum value.
• Swansea University, Student Accommodation – coinciding 
with the opening of the Bay Campus in September 2015, 
we established ‘St. Modwen Student Living’ specifically to 
manage the student accommodation which by 2017 will 
comprise 2,000 rooms. This area of the business is generating 
£1.8m of annualised net income which will continue to grow 
as the future phases of student accommodation come 
on line. At the same time, these new phases will provide 
additional scope for further revaluation gains.
Outlook
We expect a continued focus on the regions next year 
with some opportunities in the London market also coming 
through. In terms of development activity, we expect 
St. Modwen Homes to further expand and for 2016 to 
be a year of transition during which St. Modwen Homes 
becomes more dominant and replaces the profits from 
the Persimmon joint venture to give sustainable future 
profit levels. 
There is still strong demand for new homes to be built 
across the UK, consequently we expect continued 
steady demand from third party housebuilders for our 
residential land. 
Income Producing Residential, our newest route to 
market, will expand as we grow the number of sites for 
the PRS business and as Swansea University welcomes 
new students to the next phases of accommodation at 
Bay Campus. 
Overall, we anticipate continued growth of the residential 
business, good profit levels and ongoing delivery across this 
segment of our portfolio.
27
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 WE SEE INCOME
Photo:	Kirkby	Town	Centre,	acquired	for	£35.8m	in	October	2015.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
28
Income producing properties
Our asset management capabilities continue to 
deliver strong rental income and we are experiencing 
a steady stream of tenant demand for our existing 
space. We continue to take advantage of heightened 
investor demand by disposing of properties to which 
we can add no further value. The revenue generated 
from these activities helps to underpin the running 
costs of the business and provides a firm financial 
footing from which we operate.  Performance 
Representing 45% by value of the total portfolio, our income 
producing properties have grown in value this year by 37% 
to £768m (2014: £562m). This growth reflects the strategic 
acquisitions that we have secured during the period which 
include a regional Town Centre and industrial opportunities 
across the UK. 
Growth can also be attributed to a number of newly developed 
assets which we have retained for income, all adding to the 
annual rent roll, including Wembley Central which completed in 
March 2015. 
We manage all of these assets on behalf of over 1,700 
occupiers for which there have been negligible tenant 
administrations in the year. Any tenant vacations have been 
more than offset by new occupiers with new lettings of £13.1m 
(2014: £5.3m), all contributing to an annualised gross rent roll 
of £58.4m (2014: £45.4m). 
Income highlights
• Student Accommodation, Bay Campus, Swansea 
University – the £450m Bay Campus opened in September 
2015 welcoming 917 new students. Phase 2 opened in 
January 2016 and Phase 3 will open in September 2017, 
bringing the total number of student rooms to 2,000. 
Currently this asset provides an annualised net income 
of £1.8m. 
• Longbridge Town Centre, Birmingham – Boots, Poundland 
and Mountain Warehouse have taken 17,500 sq ft of space 
next to the 150,000 sq ft Marks & Spencer store in Phase 2 
of Longbridge Town Centre. The High Street is also filling 
up with new lettings to EE, Countrywide Estate Agents and 
Tailor Made, all contributing to an annualised rental income 
of £3.2m.
• Wembley Central, London – the redevelopment of this 
prominent Town Centre scheme completed in March 2015. 
It comprises an 86-bedroom Travelodge and 120,000 sq ft of 
new retail and leisure space leased to major national retailers 
including TK Maxx, Tesco, Sports Direct, Iceland, Costa and 
Argos. This asset is now generating an annualised rental 
income of £2.2m.
Acquisitions
We have remained predominantly acquisitive during the 
year, adding a number of key opportunities to the portfolio, 
particularly in the North West. 
Highlights:
• Kirkby Town Centre, Liverpool – comprising 400,000 sq ft of 
retail and leisure space leased to 80 tenants and providing an 
immediate gross rental income of £3m, we acquired this site 
from Tesco, along with 80 acres of residential development 
land and the opportunity to develop up to 120,000 sq ft of 
new retail space, for £35.8m, reflecting a net initial yield of 9% 
on the main Shopping Centre. 
• Moorgate Point, Liverpool – comprising 445,000 sq ft 
of industrial and office accommodation with 6.5 acres of 
development land, this new asset provides an immediate 
gross rental income of £1.3m. It was acquired from a private 
vendor for £10m. 
Disposals
We continue to assess our portfolio of retained assets for the 
value they bring to the business. This year we disposed of a 
number of properties which we developed for income or to 
which we could no longer add any material value, including: 
• Cranfield University Technology Park – this 110,000 sq ft 
business park, almost fully let to over 60 businesses, was sold 
in two separate transactions for a total of £16.5m.
• Eccles, Greater Manchester – this 22.6 acre site was fully let 
to Akcros Chemicals and was sold to Friends Life for £8.27m, 
reflecting a net initial yield of 7.4%.
Outlook
We expect continued activity in the investment market and 
we will seek to dispose of those assets to which we can no 
longer add value, and recycle the income to secure new 
opportunities across the business. Equally, we will remain 
acquisitive for the right opportunities in 2016.
We predict a steady occupational market during 2016, 
however rental income will continue to grow as the 
business benefits from those rental streams that have 
come on line towards the end of the period, including 
income producing residential opportunities such as 
Swansea University, as well as Longbridge and Kirkby 
Town Centres. 
29
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Overview
The Group has had an exceptional year, achieving significant 
financial milestones across all of its major projects and 
culminating in the delivery of a record set of results, with profit 
before all tax increasing by 91% to £258.4m (2014: £135.4m).
Our major project, New Covent Garden Market (NCGM), 
achieved unconditional status in April 2015 and has played a 
significant part in these results, with the Group share of the 
valuation gain on initial recognition contributing £127.4m to a 
total revaluation gain of £201.7m (2014: £93.5m). 
Growth has also been delivered during the year from 
strong underlying performance in the business through the 
steady improvement of the regional property markets and 
our ability to perform development, investment and asset 
management actions. 
As a result, our NAV per share increased by 27% to 413.5p over 
the year (2014: 325.1p), and the value of our UK-wide property 
portfolio (on a proportionally consolidated basis including share 
of joint ventures) increased by 34% to £1.7bn. 
The year can be defined as one of net investment, with 
borrowings increasing as a result of some major strategic 
transactions including the £35.8m acquisition of Kirkby Town 
Centre, Liverpool, together with the retention of Longbridge 
Town Centre Phase 2 and the student accommodation at Bay 
Campus, Swansea University. 
We cover our recurring overheads and interest costs 
substantially with revenue from our income producing 
portfolio. In the year, coverage of 91% (2014: 88%) 
demonstrates a good rate, and would be over 100% excluding 
direct residential overhead costs. The retention of major 
completed developments in the second half of the year, 
including the Bay Campus student accommodation and the 
second phase of Longbridge Town Centre (incorporating Marks 
& Spencer and additional retail), provides a platform for further 
increases to net rents in 2016 and continued improvement to 
our coverage of business running costs.
“Growth has been delivered during the year 
and we have achieved significant financial 
milestones across all major projects.”
ROB HUDSON
Group Finance Director
PROFIT BEFORE ALL TAX
£258.4m
+91%
NET ASSET VALUE (PER SHARE)
413.5p
+27%
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
30
Financial Review Presentation of financial information 
As we use a number of joint venture arrangements, the 
statutory financial statement disclosures do not always 
provide a straightforward way of understanding our business. 
To enable a better understanding, we have also provided 
information (including the Group’s share of joint ventures 
and a full reconciliation between the numbers reported 
below and statutory numbers) in note 2 of the Group 
Financial Statements. 
Income Statement
Our 6,000 acre land bank sits at the heart of everything we 
do, enabling us to create long-term added value and generate 
strong returns from our £1.7bn portfolio of property assets, 
amongst which our income producing properties represents 
45% by value. 
These properties are assets that we own and manage, both 
directly and through joint venture arrangements, for income 
whilst we progress the sites through the planning process 
and ultimately redevelop and regenerate. We also retain a 
proportion of our newly developed commercial assets for 
income, until such time we feel it is right to dispose and reinvest 
the proceeds into acquiring and delivering new opportunities. 
Profit and loss
Year ended 
30
th
 November 
2015 
£m
Year ended  
30
th
 November 
2014 
£m
Net 
Rental Income 38.7 37.1
Property Profits 67.4 51.3
Other Income 4.2 3.6
Overheads (26.5) (23.2)
Operating 
Profit 83.8 (+22%) 68.8
Interest (20.5) (23.1)
Trading Profit 63.3 (+39%) 45.7
Added Value 
Valuation Gains 38.6 35.9
NCGM 
Valuation Gain 127.4 –
Market 
Valuation Gain 35.7 57.6
Other 
Finance Charges (6.6) (3.8)
Profit Before 
All Tax 258.4 (+91%) 135.4 (+68%)
Earnings 
Per Share 97.9p 53.8p
The above figures are stated on a proportionally consolidated basis including share of joint 
ventures. Please see note 2 to the Group Financial Statements.
Rental and recurring income
Net rental income increased to £38.7m (2014: £37.1m), largely 
driven by retained income secured from our development 
portfolio. In particular, the last quarter of the financial year saw 
the completion of the first phase of the Bay Campus student 
accommodation for Swansea University and the completion of 
the second phase of Longbridge Town Centre (incorporating 
Marks & Spencer and additional retail). Swansea University 
contributes an annualised net income of £1.8m and 
Longbridge Phase 2 contributes an additional £2.2m of 
annualised net rental income. 
The reduction in rent roll from the disposal of Cranfield 
University Technology Park has been offset by a number of 
acquisitions, most notably Kirkby Town Centre towards the 
end of the financial year, which provides an immediate gross 
rental income of £3m. Together, these actions have increased 
our gross rent roll in the year to £58.4m (2014: £45.4m), and 
will provide a source of continued growth in our reported rents 
for 2016.
Occupancy levels remain stable at 89% and average lease 
length has improved to six years (2014: five years). A degree 
of void period is important for the Group as we prepare our 
retained income producing properties for redevelopment. 
Property profits
Property profits from development for the full year have 
increased by 31% to £67.4m (2014: £51.3m). This comprises:
• £34m (2014: £22m) from commercial development, including 
£5m from Longbridge Town Centre, as our pipeline converts 
into realised profits;
• £4m (2014: £5m) from the completion of 775,000 sq ft of 
academic buildings as part of the Bay Campus development 
at Swansea University; and
• £29m (2014: £24m) from residential development which 
provides positive, tangible returns and improved levels of 
development. It is underpinned by the continued growth of 
St. Modwen Homes which will offset the natural wind down 
of the Persimmon joint venture over future years, giving a 
sustainable level of profits.
31
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Overheads 
Ongoing growth in the business has been supported through 
investment in additional staff to service both the development 
pipeline and St. Modwen Homes. This brings our average 
headcount to 309 full-time equivalent employees (2014: 287). 
Our recruitment drive, coupled with the bonuses paid for 
successful business delivery, means that administrative 
expenses for 2015 increased to £26.5m (2014: £23.2m).
Finance costs and income
Finance costs have reduced during the year, despite average 
debt levels increasing over 2014 with increased investment 
activity. We are still experiencing the benefit of the extensive 
refinancing activity carried out during 2014. This, together 
with increased investment at lower marginal interest rates, 
has reduced our weighted average cost of borrowing to 3.9% 
(2014: 4.8%). At the year-end, 48% of our net debt position 
was fixed. This proportion will increase as the convertible bond 
reverts to fixed rate in March 2017. Net interest charges have 
reduced to £20.5m (2014: £23.1m). 
Trading profit
Overall we have achieved a trading profit increase of 39% to 
£63.3m (2014: £45.7m), this strong result being driven by our 
management actions.
During 2016, we will continue to focus on generating value 
across our land bank and ensuring that our rental and 
recurring income underpins the running costs of the business. 
Investor appetite continues to be strong for commercial 
property and we will dispose of mature assets selectively 
and seek to reinvest in additional added value opportunities. 
Combined with a residential market that continues to perform 
at sustainable levels and our active management activities, 
we anticipate further good prospects to grow the net asset 
value of the Group.
Basis of valuation
All of our investment properties are independently valued 
every six months by our external valuers Cushman & 
Wakefield (formerly DTZ) and Jones Lang LaSalle (for NCGM 
only). Our valuers base their valuations upon an open market 
transaction between a willing buyer and a willing seller at 
the Balance Sheet date. Therefore, no value is taken for any 
future expected increases but discounts are applied to reflect 
any future uncertainties. In accordance with accounting 
standards, valuation movements are reflected as gains or 
losses in the Income Statement. Where appropriate, we 
will also independently assess our work in progress for any 
impairment issues. 
Valuations in all our asset classes have been validated wherever 
possible by open market transactions during the course of 
the year.
Property portfolio
The value of our UK-wide property portfolio which includes 
our share of joint venture arrangements stands at £1.7bn 
(2014: £1.3bn). During the year, we continued to add 
appropriate sites to our development portfolio, most notably 
NCGM which achieved unconditional status in April and, more 
recently, the acquisition of Kirkby Town Centre in October 
2015. The portfolio includes the retained major completed 
developments such as the second phase of Longbridge Town 
Centre and the Bay Campus student accommodation for 
Swansea University, the latter providing future scope for further 
revaluation gains as new phases of accommodation come 
on stream. 
Movements in the year
Property valuation movements are made up of two main 
elements: those resulting from our own actions that we 
undertake specifically to add value to our assets (land renewal, 
planning gain, robust asset management), and those resulting 
from changes in the overall property market.
Our valuers provide this split as part of their independent 
property valuations.
Property valuation
Portfolio – shape Valuation movement
£m Nov 2014 Additions Reductions
Updated 
portfolio Market
St. Modwen 
added Nov 2015
Residential land (46%)
– Residential portfolio 553 167 (187) 533 2 17 552
– NCGM 3 90 – 93 – 127 220
Commercial land (9%) 146 86 (77) 155 – (3) 152
Income producing (45%)
– Industrial 248 22 (14) 256 15 5 276
– Retail 220 102 – 322 16 – 338
– Residential 33 52 – 85 1 20 106
– Office 61 – (15) 46 2 – 48
1,264 519 (293) 1,490 36 166 1,692
• Stated on a proportionally consolidated basis including share of joint ventures. See note 2c to the Group Financial Statements.
• Additions include purchases, capital expenditure and inward reclassifications.
• Reductions include disposals and outward reclassifications.
• Income Producing Residential includes PRS and Bay Campus Student Accommodation.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
32
Financial Review (continued) New Covent Garden Market
2015 saw the culmination of several years of development 
activity resulting in NCGM achieving unconditional status in 
April 2015 and being included on the Balance Sheet. As a 
result of completing the following development activities 
conditionality was removed: 
• documentation and agreement of a section 106 
agreement together with entry into statutory roads and 
services agreements;
• expiry of the subsequent judicial review period; 
• delivery of a Deed of Grant with the US Embassy to provide 
a road from the Embassy on surplus Covent Garden Market 
Authority (CGMA) land; 
• formal issue of planning consent and confirmation of 
acceptability from CGMA and VINCI St. Modwen; and 
• independent certification that the market can be procured 
within CGMA’s affordability limit. 
At the year-end, Jones Lang LaSalle reached its valuation of this 
57 acre site by starting with a serviced land value of £643m, 
based on static residential sales prices. 
This was reduced over the half year position of £660m as a 
result of build cost inflation, partly offset by a discount unwind 
as we move closer to vacant possession of the first 10 acres 
(Nine Elms Square). 
Enabling costs and overage at the year-end of £203m have 
reduced from the £220m at the half year as a result of reduced 
overage on lower serviced land values, resulting in Jones Lang 
LaSalle’s net valuation of £440m remaining unchanged from 
the half year. 
After deduction of the initial land value recognised and 
subsequent costs incurred to date, totalling £185m, the 
resulting gross valuation gain was £255m. Therefore, the 50% 
Group share of the valuation gain also remains consistent with 
the half year at £127m.
Other movements
In addition to this gain, we have continued to generate a 
particularly strong level of added value from the balance of 
our portfolio, with further gains of £38.6m as we successfully 
managed assets through the planning process. Our portfolio 
of residential and commercial land has remained broadly in 
line with last year, with demand remaining steady. The growth 
of St. Modwen Homes continues to provide additional liquidity 
to our residential land bank.
During the year, in line with market movements and the 
growth of our lower yielding residential portfolio, yields for our 
income-producing properties have improved, with equivalent 
yields now at 7.7% (2014: 8.9%). This yield compression, and 
some limited regional rental growth, led to a market driven 
valuation increase for our portfolio of £35.7m across the year 
(2014: £57.6m). 
Added value growth for the full year has therefore increased 
to £166.0m (2014: £35.9m) of which NCGM contributes 
£127.4m. 
Yield analysis (weighted average including Group share of joint 
ventures)
Equivalent Net initial
30
th
 Nov 
2015
30
th
 Nov 
2014
30
th
 Nov 
2015
30
th
 Nov 
2014
Retail 7.6% 8.9% 6.1% 7.1%
Office 8.9% 9.2% 6.6% 7.3%
Industrial 8.4% 8.8% 7.3% 7.7%
Residential 5.0% n/a 5.0% n/a
Portfolio 7.7% 8.9% 6.5% 7.4%
Profit before all tax
Our profit before all tax is stated before tax on joint venture 
income and after movements in the market value of our 
interest rate derivatives (hedges and swaps) and our 
convertible bond. The derivative valuations are based on 
the financial market’s forward prediction curves for interest 
rates. As a result of the convertible bond trading above par 
at the end of the financial reporting period, and together 
with other finance charges, this caused a charge of £6.6m 
(2014: £3.8m charge). 
Including the recognition of NCGM and a net valuation gain of 
£127.4m, profit before all tax increased substantially by 91% to 
a record level of £258.4m (2014: £135.4m).
Taxation and profits after tax
Our record profitability increased our tax charge (including joint 
venture tax and deferred tax included in negative goodwill) for 
the year to £41.1m (2014: £15.4m). Despite this, we achieved a 
substantial result for the year with profits after tax up by 81% to 
£217.3m (2014: £120.0m). The resultant earnings per share of 
97.9p (2014: 53.8p) is up 82% year on year. 
As a property group, tax and its treatment is often an integral 
part of transactions. The outcome of tax treatments, including 
tax planning, is recognised by the Group to the extent that the 
outcome is reasonably certain. The effective rate of tax for the 
year is 14% (2014: 11%) and benefits from certain investment 
gains not being taxable as a result of indexation and the 
property ownership structure within the group. As a result of 
proposed changes in the Group structure the effective tax rate 
is expected to move towards, but remain below, the standard 
rate of tax.
33
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Balance sheet
Balance sheet 30
th
 Nov 2015 30
th
 Nov 2014
Property assets 1,265 1,058
Investments in joint ventures 
and other assets
232 134
Debtors 112 72
Pensions – –
Gross assets 1,609 1,264
Net borrowings (443) (337)
Finance leases (55) (23)
Trade payable etc (189) (180)
Gross liabilities (687) (540)
Net assets 922 724
Non-controlling assets (7) (6)
Shareholders’ funds 915 718
NAV per share
414 (+27%) 325p
EPRA NAV per share
446 (+30%) 342p
Restatements
During the period we were required to adopt a number of 
new accounting standards including IFRS 10 Consolidated 
Financial Statements. The adoption of this standard requires 
that we equity account for VSM Estates (Holdings) Ltd on the 
basis this is jointly controlled with our joint venture partner, 
VINCI Investments Ltd. This entity was previously consolidated 
under SIC 12 as a result of our greater economic interest. 
Comparative information has been restated accordingly and 
details are included in the Accounting Policies note to the 
Group Financial Statements. 
Following receipt of the first rental income, further 
consideration was given to the revenue streams associated 
with the first two phases of student accommodation at the 
Bay Campus development for Swansea University. Due to 
the fixed (subject only to annual RPI adjustment) nature of 
the Group’s annual rental payments to M&G, meaning that 
the Group retains exposure (both positive and negative) to all 
variability in net rentals generated from the properties, it has 
been concluded that the transaction is more appropriately 
accounted for as a finance lease arrangement, rather than 
as the sale of 50% of the assets. Consequently, we have 
restated our 2014 results and opening Balance Sheet to reflect 
recognition by the Group of the following elements: 
• the whole (rather than 50%) of the property interest in the 
student accommodation;
• to account for the amounts due to M&G as a finance 
lease liability; 
• to eliminate the construction contract accounting recognised in 
respect of the proportion of the development work performed 
on these sites that was funded by M&G; and
• to revalue the site during the course of construction. 
Details of both restatements are included in the accounting 
policies note to the Group Financial Statements. 
Funding levels
During the year our Balance Sheet borrowings increased 
reflecting recent investment activities, including the acquisition 
of Kirkby Town Centre for £35.8m and the retention of major 
completed developments at the Bay Campus for Swansea 
University and the second phase of Longbridge Town Centre. 
As a result, net borrowings (as detailed in note 2g to the Group 
Financial Statements) stand at £443m (Nov 2014: £337m). 
At the same time, the value of our property portfolio rose 
throughout the year. This reflected our actions in the 
management of our existing and new assets, continued 
market driven increases and, more specifically, the NCGM site 
achieving unconditional status in April 2015. 
The measure most widely used in our industry is see-through 
loan-to-value. Our see-through loan-to-value ratio of 30% has 
decreased slightly from last year (2014: 31%). Gearing and 
adjusted gearing (at amortised cost and excluding finance 
leases) increased with our net investment activities. 
The Company’s capital structure remains strong. We will 
continue to dispose of assets as they mature and acquire 
opportunities selectively as they arise. 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
GEARING (%)
80
72
54 54
50
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
SEE-THROUGH LOAN-TO-VALUE (%)
39
41
33
30
31
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
ADJUSTED GEARING* (%)
79
71
54
48
47
*   Adjusted gearing is the ratio of net borrowings 
(excluding finance leases) to net assets. See note 2 
to the	Group	Financial	Statements.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
34
Financial Review (continued) New Covent Garden Market
With the contract for NCGM now fully unconditional as of April 
2015, in the first half of the year we recognised the Group’s 
interest in the value of the surplus 19 acres of NCGM land as 
an asset and the cost of procuring the new market as a liability. 
The contract is in joint venture with VINCI Investments Ltd and 
therefore appears as part of joint ventures within our Balance 
Sheet. This represents a step-change to our asset base and 
on a see-through basis the value of our property portfolio is 
now £1.7bn.
Works to the new market commenced in the second half 
of the year, signifying a major step towards securing vacant 
possession of the first 10 acres of surplus land, known as Nine 
Elms Square, and we will explore our options to either sell, joint 
venture or develop the site during 2016.
Net assets
At the year-end the shareholders’ equity value of net assets was 
£915m (2014: £718m) or 413.5p per share which represents 
a 27% increase over the year (2014: 325.1p per share). 
This growth is after payment of increased dividends of £11.1m 
(5.04p per share) in 2015 (2014: £9.1m or 4.13p per share). 
This represents a 25% increase in line with dividend payable 
for 2015 to 5.75p (2014: 4.6p) in line with NAV growth. 
EPRA net asset value
In line with industry best practice we also report net assets per 
share using the EPRA (European Public Real Estate Association) 
methodology*. Our diluted EPRA net asset value rose 30% 
to 446p from 342p per share. A full reconciliation of our net 
assets is provided in note 2 to the Group Financial Statements. 
Corporate facilities
Following the comprehensive refinancing of our banking 
portfolio, the bulk of which was achieved during 2014 and 
completed in January 2015 with an extension to the HSBC 
facility to 2020, we have no facility refinancing expected before 
2018 and going forward refinancings are staggered between 
2018 and 2021. 
Furthermore, we have sufficient headroom with our corporate 
facilities to enable us to meet future development and funding 
requirements. At the date of reporting we have £554m of 
facilities against year-end net borrowings of £443m. 
Hedging and cost of debt
We aim to have predictable costs attached to our borrowing 
and therefore hedge a significant portion of our interest rate 
risk. At the year end, 47% of our borrowings were fixed or 
hedged (2014: 63%). With forward starting swaps in place, and 
the expiry of swaps to floating, our proportion of borrowings 
hedged will increase over time. As any new financing is put in 
place we will ensure that our hedging positions are appropriate 
for our future development expectations. 
As a result of our refinancing activities and our net investment 
at lower marginal costs of borrowing, our weighted average 
cost of borrowing now stands at 3.9% (2014: 4.8%).
 
Corporate funding covenants
We are operating well within the covenants that apply to 
both our corporate banking facilities and to the retail bond. 
These are:
Bank:
• net assets must be greater than £250m (actual £922m);
• gearing must not exceed 175% (actual 54%); and
• interest cover ratio (that excludes non-cash items such 
as revaluation movements) must be greater than 1.25x 
(actual 4.1x).
Retail bond: 
• see-through loan-to-value ratio must not exceed 75% (actual 
30%); and
• interest cover ratio must be greater than 1.5x (actual 5.4x).
Covenant compliance continues to be met at all levels and 
across all metrics. We continue to operate with headroom on 
loan-to-value, net asset value and gearing and even allowing for 
a market decline, expect these to be met comfortably.
Pension scheme
Our defined pension scheme continues to be fully funded on 
an IAS 19 basis. With the scheme being closed to new entrants 
and closed to future accrual we do not currently expect any 
significant material future increase in scheme contributions.
Outlook
The past year has been an exceptional one for the 
business, particularly with the recognition of NCGM in the 
first half. 
Activity across our commercial portfolio is progressing in 
line with the regional market recovery. We are witnessing a 
steady stream of occupational demand, demonstrated by 
the performance of our well-let income producing portfolio, 
and are experiencing encouraging results from our 
speculative commercial development programme. As we 
realise our pipeline of development opportunities these are 
contributing positively to property profits.
Investor appetite continues to remain strong for 
commercial property and we will selectively dispose of 
mature assets and seek to replenish these with new 
opportunities in the marketplace. Combined with a 
residential market that is performing at sustainable levels, 
we anticipate delivering further NAV enhancing activity 
during 2016.
*  As a development business many of the EPRA metrics are inappropriate as they are geared 
to property investment. Relevant EPRA metrics are reported on page 124.
35
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Risk management and internal control
The Board recognises the importance of identifying and 
actively monitoring the full range of financial and non-financial 
risks facing the business. Its policy is to have systems in place 
which optimise the Company’s ability to manage risk in an 
effective and appropriate manner. By regularly reviewing the 
risk appetite of the business, the Board ensures that the risk 
exposure remains appropriate at any point in the cycle.
Importantly the Board perceives risk not only as having a 
potential negative influence on the business but also as 
an opportunity for financial outperformance as we have 
the expertise to take and manage risks that others cannot. 
As the UK’s leading regeneration specialist, exposure to risk is 
inherent in our business but is subject to an extensive range of 
mitigating controls.
The Board is ultimately responsible for maintaining sound risk 
management and internal control systems and for determining 
the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take 
to achieve its strategic objectives. The Board, through the 
Audit Committee, has carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Company, including those that would 
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency 
or liquidity. Its evaluation of these solvency risks is described 
further in the Going Concern section on page 97 and a 
description of how principal risks are managed and mitigated is 
set out on pages 38 to 41.
The Audit Committee also monitors the Company’s risk 
management and internal control systems. During the year 
it considered a detailed report from management which sets 
out the Group’s control environment, the manner in which 
key business risks are identified, the adequacy of information 
systems and control procedures and the manner in which any 
required corrective action is to be taken.
The executive directors are responsible for delivering the 
Company’s strategy and managing operational risk. They in 
turn place reliance on the Property Board and their teams to 
monitor and manage operational risk on an ongoing basis, 
as well as identifying emerging risks. Risk registers, which 
exist at both a Group and regional level, provide a framework 
for all employees to contribute to delivering our strategy 
by recognising their shared responsibility for the effective 
management of risk.
The work of the internal audit function is focused on the 
controls that mitigate the principal risks faced by the Group. 
Key internal controls are reviewed by internal audit as part of its 
annual audit plan and findings are reported to and considered 
by the Audit Committee.
 Audit Committee Report Pages 58 to 65
 Going concern Page 97
Our approach to risk management
At St. Modwen, assessment of risk is a cornerstone of our 
strategy and our risk management framework is fundamental 
to its delivery. Our integrated approach combines a top-
down strategic view with a complementary bottom-up 
operational process.
The top-down approach involves a review of the external 
environment in which we operate, to guide an assessment 
of the risks which we are comfortable exposing the business 
to in pursuit of our strategy. The bottom-up process involves 
the identification, management and monitoring of risks in 
each area of our business to ensure that risk management 
is embedded in our everyday operations. Oversight of this 
process is provided through maintenance of regional risk 
registers. This approach ensures that operational risks are fully 
considered in determining the risk appetite and corresponding 
strategy of the business.
THE BOARD
• Determining and reviewing risk 
appetite in light of strategic objectives
• Maintaining sound risk management 
and internal control systems
• Assessing principal risks
EMPLOYEES
• Sharing responsibility for effective 
management of risk
• Contributing to risk registers at both a 
Group and regional level
EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTORS
• Reviewing 
principal risks
• Delivering 
Company strategy 
and managing 
operational risk
AUDIT 
COMMITTEE
• Reviewing 
principal risks
• Monitoring the 
Company's risk 
management 
and internal 
control systems
PROPERTY 
BOARD
• Monitoring 
and managing 
operational risk 
• Identifying 
emerging risks
INTERNAL 
AUDIT
• Reviewing 
internal controls 
• Reporting to the 
Audit Committee
Our risk management framework
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
36
Risk management Details of the principal risks which could prevent the 
achievement of our strategic objectives and may have 
a material impact on our business are set out on pages 
38 to 41. This year we recognise the increasing risks 
associated with economic uncertainty, upcoming political 
events such as the UK referendum on EU membership 
and cyber-crime.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s 
systems of internal control and risk management during the 
period covered by this Annual Report. It confirms that the 
processes described above, which accord with guidance on 
internal control, have been in place throughout that period 
and up to the date of approval of this report. The Board also 
confirms that it has not identified, nor been advised of, a failing 
or weakness which it has determined to be significant.
St. Modwen’s risk management and internal control systems 
are designed to identify, manage and, where practicable, 
reduce and mitigate the effect of the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives. They are not designed to eliminate such 
risk and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
Key features of St. Modwen’s risk management  
and internal control systems:
• an organisational structure with clear segregation of duties, 
control and authority;
• a robust system of financial reporting, budgeting and  
re-forecasting processes;
• monthly operational reviews between the Chief Executive 
and regional directors;
• comprehensive monthly reporting to the Board through 
development progress reviews, management accounts 
and a comparison of committed expenditure against 
available facilities;
• clearly defined procedures for the authorisation of capital 
expenditure, acquisitions and sales of development and 
investment properties, construction activity, and other 
contracts and commitments;
• recent formation of a capital projects committee;
• a treasury policy;
• a formal schedule of matters, including major investment 
and development decisions and strategic matters, that are 
reserved for Board approval;
• a suite of policies and procedures in respect of anti-bribery 
and corruption, fraud prevention and IT security;
• an independently operated whistleblowing facility to enable 
employees to raise concerns on a confidential basis, with 
investigation overseen by the Audit Committee; and
• other control measures outlined elsewhere in this Annual 
Report, including legal and regulatory compliance and 
health and safety.
Viability statement
The directors have assessed the viability of the Company 
over the period to November 2018, being the first three 
years of the most recent strategy process as this timeframe 
gives more certainty over the forecasting assumptions 
used. The strategy process is conducted at Group level and 
reviewed each year by the Board with key influencers within 
the business having ownership of the outcomes from the 
process. Once approved by the Board, the plan provides 
the basis for setting all detailed financial budgets and 
strategic actions that are subsequently used by the Board to 
monitor performance.
The strategy process considers the Group's cash flows 
including the normal level of capital recycling expected to 
occur, funding requirements and other key financial ratios 
over the period, as well as the headroom in the financial 
covenants contained in its various loan agreements. 
In making their assessment the directors assessed the 
potential impacts, in severe but plausible scenarios, of the 
principal risks set out on pages 38 to 41 together with the 
likely degree of effectiveness of mitigating actions reasonably 
expected to be available to the Company. 
The most relevant potential impact of these risks on viability 
was considered to be:
• market/economic changes such as higher interest rates, 
reduced demand for land/new properties, reduced 
availability of credit and declining investment yields 
restricting business development and causing valuation falls;
• significant political events which may delay or impact 
investment decisions and reduce returns; and
• a reduction in the availability of funding causing a lack of 
liquidity that impacts borrowing capacity and reduces the 
saleability of assets.
On the basis of this and other matters considered and 
reviewed by the Board during the year, the Board has 
reasonable expectations that the Company will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over the periods used for the assessment. In doing so, it is 
recognised that such future assessments are subject to a 
level of uncertainty that increases with time and, therefore, 
future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted 
with certainty.
37
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Strategic objective:
Secure excellent returns..
Risk and potential impact Mitigation Commentary 
Movement in 
the year
Market/economic changes such as higher interest rates, 
reduced demand for land/new properties, reduced availability 
of credit and declining investment yields restrict business 
development and cause valuation falls. Significant upcoming 
political events which delay and/or impact investment 
decisions and reduce returns.
• Regional spread and portfolio diversity mitigates sector or location-
specific risks.
• Active portfolio management achieves a better than market utilisation 
of assets.
• Hedging policy reduces interest rate risk.
• Investment and financing strategy is determined against a backdrop of 
potential outcomes of political events. 
We choose to operate only in the UK, which is subject to relatively low risk and low returns from a stable and 
mature, albeit cyclical, economy and property market. By involvement with all sectors of that economy and 
property market, we are as diversified as possible, without venturing overseas. Our land bank of 6,000 acres 
provides us with the flexibility to move with market demands and pursue those opportunities that generate the 
greatest value at any one time. The outcome of the UK referendum on EU membership has the potential to 
impact the appeal and performance of investment in the UK in general.
Over the course of the last year, the continuing economic problems within the Eurozone and in China and the 
emerging markets mean that the overall market position continues to represent a risk.
Changes to local and national planning processes 
adversely impact our strategy by limiting our ability to 
secure viable permissions and/or by removing our 
competitive advantage.
• Use of high-quality professional advisors.
• Active involvement in public consultation.
• Constant monitoring of all aspects of the planning process by 
experienced in-house experts.
• Contact with lobbying both central and local Government.
Our daily exposure to all aspects of the planning process, and internal procedures for sharing best practice, 
ensure we remain abreast of most developments. Furthermore, we continue our efforts to influence public 
policy debate. Although the ever changing nature of planning legislation means that future rules are uncertain, 
our expertise should enable us to prosper relative to our competitors, irrespective of the planning environment.
Inadequate due diligence on major new schemes, 
programme management, construction delivery and/or 
procurement leads to unforeseen exposures, quality issues 
and/or cost overruns causing customer dissatisfaction and/or 
financial loss.
• Acquisitions, development and ultimate disposals are reviewed and 
financially appraised in detail, with clearly defined authority limits.
• Strong internal construction management team.
• Clearly defined formal tender process that evaluates qualitative and 
quantitative factors in bid assessment.
• Use and close supervision of a preferred supply chain of high-quality 
trusted suppliers and professionals. 
• Contractual liability clearly defined.
Our programme for the year has been completed on time and within budget. Our contractor selection and 
management processes are rigorous and we continue to favour financially stable and robust contractors.
Financial collapse of, or dispute with, a key joint venture 
partner leads to financial loss.
• Monthly review of performance to identify if senior management 
intervention is required.
• Flexible but legally secure contracts with partners.
• Fewer but financially strong partners.
Our key partners are Persimmon PLC, VINCI plc and Salhia Real Estate K.S.C. of Kuwait. These are financially 
strong partners with good prospects and considerable financial resources. We maintain detailed and ongoing 
dialogue with all our joint venture partners.
Strategic objective:
...through a focus on long-term significant added value…
Risk and potential impact Mitigation Commentary 
Movement in 
the year
Failure to manage long-term environmental issues relating 
to brownfield and contaminated sites and human health 
issues leads to a major environmental incident, resulting in 
financial and/or reputational damage.
• Use of high-quality external advisors.
• Highly qualified, experienced staff and proven track record as the UK’s 
leading regeneration specialist.
• Risk assessments conducted as part of due diligence process, with 
contamination remediated following acquisition and cost plans 
allowing for unforeseen remediation costs.
• Full warranties from professional consultants and remediation 
contractors.
• Defined business processes to proactively manage issues.
• Annual independent audit of environmental risk.
• Reputation managed by a core team of skilled PR professionals.
We are willing to accept a degree of environmental risk, enabling higher returns to be made. The inherent risks 
are passed on or minimised where possible but cannot be eliminated, although the residual risks have been 
acceptably low in recent years.
Failure to recruit, develop and retain staff with the 
necessary skills resulting in significant disruption/loss of 
intellectual property.
• Succession planning monitored at Board level and below.
• Targeted recruitment with competitive, performance-driven 
remuneration packages to secure highly-skilled and motivated 
employees.
• Leadership and management development plans in place.
• Exit interviews undertaken.
• Key information is documented to safeguard knowledge.
Staff turnover remains low and the proportion of management with more than three years’ service is at 76%. 
As competition to attract the best people increases, we continue to adapt our recruitment strategy to source the 
skills that will support the Company’s long-term business objectives. 
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
38
Our principal risks Strategic objective:
Secure excellent returns..
Risk and potential impact Mitigation Commentary 
Movement in 
the year
Market/economic changes such as higher interest rates, 
reduced demand for land/new properties, reduced availability 
of credit and declining investment yields restrict business 
development and cause valuation falls. Significant upcoming 
political events which delay and/or impact investment 
decisions and reduce returns.
• Regional spread and portfolio diversity mitigates sector or location-
specific risks.
• Active portfolio management achieves a better than market utilisation 
of assets.
• Hedging policy reduces interest rate risk.
• Investment and financing strategy is determined against a backdrop of 
potential outcomes of political events. 
We choose to operate only in the UK, which is subject to relatively low risk and low returns from a stable and 
mature, albeit cyclical, economy and property market. By involvement with all sectors of that economy and 
property market, we are as diversified as possible, without venturing overseas. Our land bank of 6,000 acres 
provides us with the flexibility to move with market demands and pursue those opportunities that generate the 
greatest value at any one time. The outcome of the UK referendum on EU membership has the potential to 
impact the appeal and performance of investment in the UK in general.
Over the course of the last year, the continuing economic problems within the Eurozone and in China and the 
emerging markets mean that the overall market position continues to represent a risk.
Changes to local and national planning processes 
adversely impact our strategy by limiting our ability to 
secure viable permissions and/or by removing our 
competitive advantage.
• Use of high-quality professional advisors.
• Active involvement in public consultation.
• Constant monitoring of all aspects of the planning process by 
experienced in-house experts.
• Contact with lobbying both central and local Government.
Our daily exposure to all aspects of the planning process, and internal procedures for sharing best practice, 
ensure we remain abreast of most developments. Furthermore, we continue our efforts to influence public 
policy debate. Although the ever changing nature of planning legislation means that future rules are uncertain, 
our expertise should enable us to prosper relative to our competitors, irrespective of the planning environment.
Inadequate due diligence on major new schemes, 
programme management, construction delivery and/or 
procurement leads to unforeseen exposures, quality issues 
and/or cost overruns causing customer dissatisfaction and/or 
financial loss.
• Acquisitions, development and ultimate disposals are reviewed and 
financially appraised in detail, with clearly defined authority limits.
• Strong internal construction management team.
• Clearly defined formal tender process that evaluates qualitative and 
quantitative factors in bid assessment.
• Use and close supervision of a preferred supply chain of high-quality 
trusted suppliers and professionals. 
• Contractual liability clearly defined.
Our programme for the year has been completed on time and within budget. Our contractor selection and 
management processes are rigorous and we continue to favour financially stable and robust contractors.
Financial collapse of, or dispute with, a key joint venture 
partner leads to financial loss.
• Monthly review of performance to identify if senior management 
intervention is required.
• Flexible but legally secure contracts with partners.
• Fewer but financially strong partners.
Our key partners are Persimmon PLC, VINCI plc and Salhia Real Estate K.S.C. of Kuwait. These are financially 
strong partners with good prospects and considerable financial resources. We maintain detailed and ongoing 
dialogue with all our joint venture partners.
Strategic objective:
...through a focus on long-term significant added value…
Risk and potential impact Mitigation Commentary 
Movement in 
the year
Failure to manage long-term environmental issues relating 
to brownfield and contaminated sites and human health 
issues leads to a major environmental incident, resulting in 
financial and/or reputational damage.
• Use of high-quality external advisors.
• Highly qualified, experienced staff and proven track record as the UK’s 
leading regeneration specialist.
• Risk assessments conducted as part of due diligence process, with 
contamination remediated following acquisition and cost plans 
allowing for unforeseen remediation costs.
• Full warranties from professional consultants and remediation 
contractors.
• Defined business processes to proactively manage issues.
• Annual independent audit of environmental risk.
• Reputation managed by a core team of skilled PR professionals.
We are willing to accept a degree of environmental risk, enabling higher returns to be made. The inherent risks 
are passed on or minimised where possible but cannot be eliminated, although the residual risks have been 
acceptably low in recent years.
Failure to recruit, develop and retain staff with the 
necessary skills resulting in significant disruption/loss of 
intellectual property.
• Succession planning monitored at Board level and below.
• Targeted recruitment with competitive, performance-driven 
remuneration packages to secure highly-skilled and motivated 
employees.
• Leadership and management development plans in place.
• Exit interviews undertaken.
• Key information is documented to safeguard knowledge.
Staff turnover remains low and the proportion of management with more than three years’ service is at 76%. 
As competition to attract the best people increases, we continue to adapt our recruitment strategy to source the 
skills that will support the Company’s long-term business objectives. 
Key: (movement in the year)
 Exposure increased
 Exposure reduced
  No significant change
39
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Strategic objective:
...while protecting our assets 
Risk and potential impact Mitigation Commentary 
Movement in 
the year
Availability of funding reduces, causing a lack of liquidity that 
impacts borrowing capacity and reduces the saleability of 
assets. Unforeseen significant changes to cash flow 
requirements (e.g. operating cost increases, pension fund 
shortfall) which limit the ability of the business to meet its 
ongoing commitments.
• Recurring income from rents provides funding for a large percentage 
of overhead and interest costs.
• Strong relationships with key banks; all corporate debt refinanced until 
at least 2018.
• Finance successfully raised through alternative, unsecured means 
(retail bond, equity placing and convertible bond).
• Financial headroom maintained to provide flexibility and scenario 
modelling tools employed to evaluate the likelihood of a breach of 
financing covenant limits.
• Regular and detailed cash flow forecasting enables monitoring of 
performance and management of future cash flows.
Our geared financial structure means that there are inevitable risks attached to the availability of funding and the 
management of fluctuations in our cash flows. Our prudent approach to forward commitments, speculative 
development and asset disposals has enabled us to optimise operational cash flows and offset the impact of 
fluctuating market conditions. The success of our first retail bond (October 2012), a share placing (February 
2013) and a convertible bond (February 2014) has further diversified our debt financing profile by providing 
access to unsecured funding. 
Failure to anticipate market changes through poor market 
intelligence leads to the selection of inappropriate and, 
ultimately, unprofitable schemes.
• Regional offices in touch with their local market.
• Dedicated central resource supporting regional teams.
• Flexible and innovative approach to acquisitions and schemes in order 
to adapt to market changes.
• Acquisitions, development and ultimate disposals are reviewed and 
financially appraised in detail, with clearly defined authority limits.
The excellent reputation and financial capacity of the Company has enabled us to continue to win schemes and 
grow the property portfolio in an improving but still challenging market and economy. In this environment, with a 
reduced number of active competitors, we expect to be able to continue to source attractive acquisitions.
Failure to identify a pipeline of future residential sites or 
reduced availability of mortgage finance adversely impacts the 
performance of our residential business.
• Team of professionals with residential experience and expertise.
• Extensive land bank with a continuing stream of planning applications.
• Flexible approach to mortgage financing (e.g. shared equity schemes).
• Use of joint venture partners with residential expertise 
(e.g. Persimmon).
Whilst the planning environment remains challenging and subject to inevitable delays, our scale and expertise 
enables us to navigate the process with considerable success. Demand for new homes remains strong, 
supported by the NPPF’s housing supply requirements and the availability of mortgage finance (due at least in 
part to the Government’s Help to Buy scheme). Furthermore, the geographic spread of our business means we 
are not overly exposed to any one region.
Failure to manage major projects effectively (e.g. civil 
engineering and earth moving issues) leads to higher costs/ 
reduced margins.
• Most of our big projects can be broken down into smaller, more 
manageable projects (e.g. Longbridge).
• Significant in-house expertise.
• High level of pre-sale agreements.
We use our knowledge and expertise in remediation, planning, asset development and construction to manage 
all of our development activity, including our major projects. Our existing skill base enables us to oversee each 
stage of the development process, progressing activities to completion before subsequent stages are 
commenced. Major projects are also subject to detailed monitoring by executive management, and progress 
reported to the Board at each Board meeting.
Safety, health and environment (SHE) culture leads to a 
major incident (e.g. serious injury to, or death of, an employee, 
client, contractor or member of the public) or non-compliance 
with legislation, resulting in financial penalties and/or 
reputational damage.
• Use of high-quality external SHE advisors.
• Annual cycle of SHE audits.
• SHE Steering Group chaired by the Group Construction Director.
• Regular Board reporting.
• Programme of employee training specific to roles and responsibilities.
• Defined business processes to proactively manage issues.
Health and safety continues to be a high priority. The assessment of environmental costs (and the 
subsequent optimising of remediation solutions) is an integral part of our acquisition and post-acquisition 
processes. We seek to minimise or pass on any such environmental risks, and believe that the residual risk 
remains acceptably low. In other social and ethical areas, our operations are underpinned by a simple but 
rigorous set of operating commitments.
Inadequate security or business continuity and disaster 
recovery planning for operations and IT, leading to 
significant business disruption, financial/intellectual property 
loss and/or reputational damage in the event of an accident, 
act of terrorism or cyber-crime.
• Asset risk assessments (e.g. security, environmental, health and safety).
• Documented disaster recovery and crisis management plans in place 
across the business.
• Dedicated IT team monitors security and performance of all 
information systems.
• Comprehensive insurance arrangements.
Whilst our exposure to the loss of intellectual property is relatively low, we are mindful of the increasing 
threat to corporate security from cyber-crime. As the profile of cyber security continues to grow, our risk 
management approach has adapted to further increase preventative security and enhance the robustness 
of existing procedures. 
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
40
Our principal risks (continued) Strategic objective:
...while protecting our assets 
Risk and potential impact Mitigation Commentary 
Movement in 
the year
Availability of funding reduces, causing a lack of liquidity that 
impacts borrowing capacity and reduces the saleability of 
assets. Unforeseen significant changes to cash flow 
requirements (e.g. operating cost increases, pension fund 
shortfall) which limit the ability of the business to meet its 
ongoing commitments.
• Recurring income from rents provides funding for a large percentage 
of overhead and interest costs.
• Strong relationships with key banks; all corporate debt refinanced until 
at least 2018.
• Finance successfully raised through alternative, unsecured means 
(retail bond, equity placing and convertible bond).
• Financial headroom maintained to provide flexibility and scenario 
modelling tools employed to evaluate the likelihood of a breach of 
financing covenant limits.
• Regular and detailed cash flow forecasting enables monitoring of 
performance and management of future cash flows.
Our geared financial structure means that there are inevitable risks attached to the availability of funding and the 
management of fluctuations in our cash flows. Our prudent approach to forward commitments, speculative 
development and asset disposals has enabled us to optimise operational cash flows and offset the impact of 
fluctuating market conditions. The success of our first retail bond (October 2012), a share placing (February 
2013) and a convertible bond (February 2014) has further diversified our debt financing profile by providing 
access to unsecured funding. 
Failure to anticipate market changes through poor market 
intelligence leads to the selection of inappropriate and, 
ultimately, unprofitable schemes.
• Regional offices in touch with their local market.
• Dedicated central resource supporting regional teams.
• Flexible and innovative approach to acquisitions and schemes in order 
to adapt to market changes.
• Acquisitions, development and ultimate disposals are reviewed and 
financially appraised in detail, with clearly defined authority limits.
The excellent reputation and financial capacity of the Company has enabled us to continue to win schemes and 
grow the property portfolio in an improving but still challenging market and economy. In this environment, with a 
reduced number of active competitors, we expect to be able to continue to source attractive acquisitions.
Failure to identify a pipeline of future residential sites or 
reduced availability of mortgage finance adversely impacts the 
performance of our residential business.
• Team of professionals with residential experience and expertise.
• Extensive land bank with a continuing stream of planning applications.
• Flexible approach to mortgage financing (e.g. shared equity schemes).
• Use of joint venture partners with residential expertise 
(e.g. Persimmon).
Whilst the planning environment remains challenging and subject to inevitable delays, our scale and expertise 
enables us to navigate the process with considerable success. Demand for new homes remains strong, 
supported by the NPPF’s housing supply requirements and the availability of mortgage finance (due at least in 
part to the Government’s Help to Buy scheme). Furthermore, the geographic spread of our business means we 
are not overly exposed to any one region.
Failure to manage major projects effectively (e.g. civil 
engineering and earth moving issues) leads to higher costs/ 
reduced margins.
• Most of our big projects can be broken down into smaller, more 
manageable projects (e.g. Longbridge).
• Significant in-house expertise.
• High level of pre-sale agreements.
We use our knowledge and expertise in remediation, planning, asset development and construction to manage 
all of our development activity, including our major projects. Our existing skill base enables us to oversee each 
stage of the development process, progressing activities to completion before subsequent stages are 
commenced. Major projects are also subject to detailed monitoring by executive management, and progress 
reported to the Board at each Board meeting.
Safety, health and environment (SHE) culture leads to a 
major incident (e.g. serious injury to, or death of, an employee, 
client, contractor or member of the public) or non-compliance 
with legislation, resulting in financial penalties and/or 
reputational damage.
• Use of high-quality external SHE advisors.
• Annual cycle of SHE audits.
• SHE Steering Group chaired by the Group Construction Director.
• Regular Board reporting.
• Programme of employee training specific to roles and responsibilities.
• Defined business processes to proactively manage issues.
Health and safety continues to be a high priority. The assessment of environmental costs (and the 
subsequent optimising of remediation solutions) is an integral part of our acquisition and post-acquisition 
processes. We seek to minimise or pass on any such environmental risks, and believe that the residual risk 
remains acceptably low. In other social and ethical areas, our operations are underpinned by a simple but 
rigorous set of operating commitments.
Inadequate security or business continuity and disaster 
recovery planning for operations and IT, leading to 
significant business disruption, financial/intellectual property 
loss and/or reputational damage in the event of an accident, 
act of terrorism or cyber-crime.
• Asset risk assessments (e.g. security, environmental, health and safety).
• Documented disaster recovery and crisis management plans in place 
across the business.
• Dedicated IT team monitors security and performance of all 
information systems.
• Comprehensive insurance arrangements.
Whilst our exposure to the loss of intellectual property is relatively low, we are mindful of the increasing 
threat to corporate security from cyber-crime. As the profile of cyber security continues to grow, our risk 
management approach has adapted to further increase preventative security and enhance the robustness 
of existing procedures. 
Key: (movement in the year)
 Exposure increased
 Exposure reduced
  No significant change
41
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 WE SEE FUTURE GENERATIONS
Photo:  We regularly engage with the schools and communities related to our sites including pupils from the 
newly built John Locke Academy, St. Andrew's Park, Uxbridge, who created hoardings for the site.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
42
Corporate Social Responsibility
Acquiring brownfield sites, remediating and 
transforming them into cleaner, greener and brighter 
environments where business and communities can 
thrive: this is the essence of what we do. Our approach 
As a brownfield regeneration specialist Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) lies at the very heart of who we are and 
what we do. We are constantly cleaning and greening up 
brownfield land across the country and from dilapidated 
and disused sites we seek to create thriving and inspirational 
new communities. We invest much needed time, money and 
expertise into these areas and across the entire lifecycle of our 
projects, we continue to ensure that environmental, social and 
community considerations are integrated within our day-to-
day practices.
We actively promote responsible construction and 
development that reflects our approach to CSR and look to our 
employees, our partners and our supply chain to enable us to 
achieve our short and long-term goals.
Our CSR objectives 
For the financial year ended 30
th
 November 2015 we 
established a set of 10 CSR objectives and are pleased to 
report that these have been achieved, with good progress 
made against longer-term objectives. These objectives have 
since been reviewed and updated by the CSR Steering Group 
to ensure that we continue to strive for improved performance 
during 2016. 
Both strategic and long-term, our objectives focus on:
• ensuring sustainable business; 
• creating better environments by greening and cleaning up 
brownfield land (which makes up 90% of our developable 
portfolio); and
• supporting the communities in which we build. 
In addition, we also continue to support a number of CSR 
initiatives which are not part of our 10 objectives. These prove 
our innovative and broad-minded attitude to CSR; we are 
constantly mindful of the positive impact our projects can have 
on the community, the environment and the economy. 
  For more information on our CSR results, goals and approach please see our 
February 2016 CSR booklet or visit:  www.stmodwen-csr.co.uk
CSR Steering Group 
The CSR Steering Group, chaired by the Group Construction 
Director, meets quarterly to review progress against our 
CSR objectives and to ensure the Company maintains a best 
practice approach to CSR activities across its operations. 
Photo:  We engage the local community on our sites through events, 
initiatives and	projects.	
Photo:  We create new, and preserve and enhance existing, public spaces 
within and surrounding our developments. 
Our CSR results
3
2
5
Exceeded
Achieved
On target
43
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Employee diversity
We recognise our responsibility as an employer to look after 
the wellbeing of our staff. We are committed to providing 
an inclusive working environment where everyone feels 
valued and respected. The diverse range of talent, skills 
and experience across the business is reflected in the new 
communities that we build and ensures our continued success. 
The Company adheres to a clear equality policy which sets out 
individuals’ rights and obligations as defined by the Equality Act 
2010. This policy covers the responsibilities and approach we 
have to our employees and our duty to avoid discrimination in 
all aspects of recruitment and employment. 
The charts below set out the number of men and women 
employed (full-and part-time) as at 30
th
 November 2015, 
across our business and split between the Board, our senior 
management and our employees.
In considering appointments to the Board and to senior 
executive positions, it is our policy to evaluate the skills, 
knowledge and experience required by a particular role 
with due regard for the benefit of diversity and to make an 
appointment accordingly. 
 Nomination Committee Report Pages 66 to 69
Training and development
We are proud to have a good level of staff retention. 
Well-motivated staff not only perform better but they 
enhance business stability and this is reflected in the effective 
management of our projects and the business as a whole. 
In the period, 76% of management had more than three years’ 
service (2014: 84%). On face value there has been a decline on 
the previous 12 months but the proportion reflects the growth 
of our management team by 5% to 63 (2014: 60). We have 
been successful in attracting more senior professionals into 
the business over the period and this in turn is evidence of the 
strength and appeal of the Company. 
During the first half of 2015, our management team completed 
training sessions, produced by Farscape Developments and 
Pinsent Masons, from which staff initiatives were identified 
and have since been implemented. We have received positive 
feedback from this programme and we will continue to run 
these sessions for new management staff throughout 2016. 
Further training opportunities have also been identified and are 
being pursued.
In addition, due to the geographic spread of our UK-wide 
development portfolio, many staff are required to drive 
significant distances to fulfil their role. To ensure they are 
safe and best equipped to do so, during 2015 all staff with a 
company car, van or car allowance were invited to attend a 
driver training course in partnership with The Royal Society 
for the Prevention of Accidents. Following the success of this 
exercise, we are seeking to carry out further training in 2016.
All employees are encouraged to maintain their Continuing 
Professional Development (CPD) and support is provided for 
staff to attain qualifications and professional memberships 
relevant to their role. 
Finally, we remain committed to taking on bright new talent 
and nurturing skills into appropriate areas of our business. 
We have increased our CSR target to create opportunities for 
a total of 25 full-time or equivalent trainees/graduates across 
the business. 
Human rights
We support the United Nation’s Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights and have policies in place to ensure that we act 
in accordance with our principles in relation to areas such as 
anti-corruption, diversity and whistleblowing. 
Corporate Social Responsibility (continued)
Male
Female
7
2
Board diversity
78%
22%
TOTAL
9
Male
Female
11
1
Senior management diversity
92%
8%
TOTAL
12
Male
Female
195
150
All employee diversity
57%
43% TOTAL
345
Male
Female
177
147
Employee diversity
55%
45% TOTAL
324
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
44 Photo:  We encourage staff to maintain their Continuing Professional 
Development. 
Photo:  We are committed to supporting charities in the vicinity of our 
development projects. 
Approval of Strategic Report
The Strategic Report for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 
has been approved by the Board and was signed on its 
behalf by
Bill Oliver
Chief Executive
1
st
 February 2016
Health and safety
We are committed to safeguarding the health, safety and 
welfare of our employees, contractors, subcontractors, 
customers and visitors to our sites. 
We have a comprehensive safety, health and environmental 
(SHE) management system in place, which is integral to our 
business. This is supported by detailed policies and procedures 
in respect of both our development and residential activities; 
these are continually refreshed to ensure they reflect any 
changes to regulation or best practice. 
The SHE Steering Group, chaired by the Group Construction 
Director, monitors the Company’s SHE management system. 
It receives reports from senior management, reviews incident 
and accident prevention performance and agrees initiatives 
designed to continue the promotion of a positive safety culture 
across St. Modwen’s activities. The Steering Group reports on 
its activities to the Board. 
We engage independent consultants to ensure compliance 
with Construction and Design Management regulation, 
with particular focus on our residential activities through 
St. Modwen Homes where we are the principal contractor. 
All St. Modwen Homes’ sites are registered with the 
'Considerate Contractors Scheme' and a number have been 
awarded certificates of performance beyond compliance, which 
recognise consideration to the locality, the workforce and the 
environment that goes beyond statutory requirements. 
Specialist external consultants carry out regular health and 
safety audits of all our sites under development. Regular risk 
assessments of our properties are undertaken using an online 
management system, with implementation of any resulting 
actions monitored by the Property Board. St. Modwen also 
operates a pre-qualification process to ensure the selection 
of competent consultants and contractors. 
We encourage responsibility for the identification and 
mitigation of health and safety risks at an individual level. 
Regular and appropriate competence training is provided for 
our employees, contractors and subcontractors to ensure that 
health and safety considerations remain at the forefront of 
any activity. 
We measure our health and safety performance through 
accident frequency rates (AFR), measured as the number of 
reportable incidents x100,000 (being the number of hours a 
person works in a lifetime) divided by the total hours worked by 
all persons at risk. 
For the 12 months to 30
th
 November 2015 the AFR for our 
development sites and for St. Modwen Homes was 0.09 and 
0.00 respectively, both significantly outperforming the industry 
benchmark (0.40). With the number of man hours worked in 
the year exceeding 3m we are pleased to report that there 
were no health and safety prosecutions, enforcement actions 
or fatalities arising from our activities during the year.
Working with charities
Due to the variety of projects across our portfolio, we have 
chosen not to focus on a single national charity. Instead, we 
support a number of local charities linked or in close proximity 
to our development sites. 
  For more information and to see case studies on some of the charities we 
have supported throughout 2014/15 please see our February 2016 CSR booklet, 
alternatively please visit:
 
www.stmodwen-csr.co.uk/charities
45
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 WE SEE STEWARDSHIP
Photo:		 Technology	Retail	Park,	Rugby	which	was	100%	pre-let	to	major	national	
retailers before being sold to Aberdeen Asset Management for £17.4m.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
46 As a Board, we are responsible for the stewardship of the 
business and are committed to maintaining high standards 
of corporate governance across the Group. We believe good 
governance enhances business performance as well as our 
reputation within our marketplace and across relationships 
with our stakeholders.
In line with the development of our business, our governance 
framework is kept under close review in order to ensure 
that shareholders’ interests are safeguarded and to 
sustain the success of the Company over the longer term. 
The composition of the Board is also refreshed and in the 
year John Salmon retired from the Board as Audit Committee 
Chairman and Michael Dunn stepped down as Group Finance 
Director. Both have been ably replaced by Ian Bull and Rob 
Hudson respectively.
Our approach to governance is outlined in the following report, 
which describes how we integrate into our business the main 
principles of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
Code). The Code’s principles on remuneration are addressed in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report which is set out on pages 
70 to 93. St. Modwen’s risk management and internal control 
framework together with details of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that the Group faces are described on pages 36 
to 41. This is the first year that the Company has been subject 
to the 2014 Code and I am pleased to confirm that, throughout 
the financial year ended 30
th
 November 2015, we complied in 
full with its provisions.
I hope that you find the corporate governance section of this 
report informative and look forward to seeing you at our AGM 
in March.
Bill Shannon
Chairman
1
st
 February 2016
“Good governance is crucial to ensuring 
we are well managed and can deliver our 
strategic priorities.”
BILL SHANNON
Non-executive Chairman
The Board remains committed to:
• Driving the Group’s long-term objectives.
• Oversight of operations to ensure competent and 
prudent management.
• Sound planning and internal control.
• Developing leadership and succession plans.
• Maintaining strong relationships with key stakeholders.
Areas of focus for 2015/16:
• Competitive tender for the external auditor appointment.
• Full review of remuneration policy for executive directors.
• Monitoring of succession planning at Board and 
senior management level.
Leadership
Continued focus 
on strategy and 
its execution
Effectiveness
A strong, open and 
effective Board
 Pages 52 to 54 Pages 36 to 41 Pages 55 and 56 Page 57 Pages 70 to 93
Accountability
Close scrutiny of 
risks and controls
Remuneration
Prudent oversight 
of executive 
remuneration
Relations with 
shareholders
Open engagement 
with shareholders
Code principles – how they are applied
47
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45
Chairman’s Introduction Appointed: November 2010 as non-executive director and Chairman 
Designate, March 2011 as non-executive Chairman.
Key strengths: significant	management	and	board	experience	across	retail,	
leisure,	financial	services	and	property	sectors.
Experience: a 30 year career at Whitbread plc which culminated in his 
appointment as a main board director for 10 years until his retirement in 
2004. Former Chairman of AEGON UK plc, Gaucho Grill Holdings Ltd and 
Pizza Hut (UK) Ltd, and former non-executive director of The Rank Group plc, 
Barratt	Developments	plc	and	Matalan	plc.	A qualified	Chartered	Accountant	
(Scotland).
External appointments: Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 
of LSL Property Services plc, non-executive director of Johnson Service Group 
plc and Council Member of the University of Southampton.
Appointed: January 2000.
Key strengths:	extensive	strategic	and	operational	leadership	and	financial	
management experience in the property industry.
Experience: over 30 years’ experience in the property industry with 
residential and commercial development companies such as Alfred McAlpine, 
Barratt and The Rutland Group. Finance Director of Dwyer Estates plc from 
1994 to 2000. Joined St. Modwen in 2000 as Finance Director and was 
subsequently	appointed	Managing	Director	in	2003	and	Chief	Executive	in	
2004.	A	qualified	Chartered	Accountant.
External appointments: Member of the advisory board of the Government’s 
Regeneration Investment Organisation.
Bill Shannon
Non-executive Chairman 
N
*
 
R
Bill Oliver
Chief Executive
Appointed: November 2006.
Key strengths: strong operational leadership and project management 
experience in the construction sector.
Experience: joined St. Modwen in 1995 as a Contracts Surveyor after a 
number of years’ construction experience in senior roles with national 
contracting companies including Balfour Beatty and Clarke Construction. 
Appointed Construction Director in 1998 and joined the Board as a director 
in 2006.
External appointments: none.
Appointed: September 2015.
Key strengths:	strong	financial	management,	commercial	and	operational	
experience	in	financial	services,	information	services	and	commercial	
property sectors.
Experience:	over	20	years’	experience	in	finance,	most	recently	as	
Group Financial Controller at British Land PLC from 2011. Joined 
PricewaterhouseCoopers on graduating then moved to Experian PLC in 
2000	where	he	held	a	number	of	senior	financial	roles,	including	Global	
Finance Director of its Decision Analytics business and UK Finance Director. 
A qualified	Chartered	Accountant.
External appointments: member of the Board of Governors of the English 
National Ballet School and chair of its Finance Committee.
Appointed: September 2013 as non-executive director, December 2013 
as Senior	Independent	Director.
Key strengths: extensive experience in investment banking, fund 
management,	capital	markets	and	real	estate	private	equity	investing	with	
considerable board experience.
Experience: Partner and Managing Director at Bankers Trust Company 
from 1992 to 1998 and Managing Director and Head of European Merchant 
Banking from 1998 to 2000. Co-Founder and Managing Partner of Soros Real 
Estate	Partners	LLC	and	its	successor	firm,	Grove	International	Partners	LLP,	
a	major	real	estate	private	equity	firm	from	2000	to	2011.	Former	Senior	
Independent Director of Hansteen Holdings plc.
External appointments: Senior Independent Director of ISG plc,  
non-executive director of Aberdeen Asset Management plc and Supervisory 
Board	member	of	Alstria	Office	REIT-AG.
Appointed: September 2014.
Key strengths:	strong	financial	management	and	operational	experience	
in major	commercial	businesses	across	a	range	of	sectors.
Experience:	Chief	Financial	Officer	and	main	board	director	at	Ladbrokes plc	
since	2011.	Over	20	years’	financial	experience	with	companies	such	as	
Whitbread plc, Buena Vista Home Entertainment (Walt Disney Company) 
and BT Group. Group Finance Director of Greene King plc from 2006 to 2011 
and former non-executive director of Paypoint Ltd. A Fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants. 
External appointments:	Chief	Financial	Officer	and	main	board	director	of	
Ladbrokes plc.
Steve Burke
Group Construction Director
Rob Hudson
Group Finance Director
Richard Mully
Senior Independent Director
A
 
N
 
R
Ian Bull
Independent non-executive 
director
A
*
 
N
 
R
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
48
The Board Appointed: October 2012.
Key strengths: significant	knowledge	of	the	retail	property	sector,	including	
the retail development process, retail mix and leasing and shopping centre 
operations.
Experience: joined Capital Shopping Centres Group plc (now Intu Properties 
plc) on graduating and held a number of senior management positions, 
including Managing Director, during a career spanning 27 years. Also served 
as a main board director from 2005 until leaving the group in 2011. Former 
non-executive director of Boyer Planning Ltd. A member of the Royal 
Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
External appointments: non-executive director of NewRiver Retail Ltd and 
Advisory Board member of Next Leadership.
Appointed: October 2009.
Key strengths: extensive executive remuneration and human resources 
experience and considerable Board experience across public, private, 
voluntary and education sectors.
Experience: HR Director for Tesco plc from 1985 to 1999 and a main board 
director from 1994. Former non-executive director for various companies 
including Alpha Airports Group plc, Anchor Trust, Care UK plc, Inspicio plc, 
Liberty International plc and the West Bromwich Building Society. Former 
trustee of the charity I CAN. Awarded a CBE in 2003 for services to the DTI 
Partnership at Work Assessment Panel. A Companion of the Chartered 
Institute of Personnel and Development.
External appointments: none.
Appointed: October 2004.
Key strengths: strong commercial and management experience in both 
farming and property and extensive knowledge of the Company’s history.
Experience: the son of Sir Stanley Clarke, the founder and former Chairman 
of St. Modwen, he represents the interests of the Clarke and Leavesley 
families, the Company’s largest shareholders, on the Board. Former Deputy 
Chairman of Northern Racing plc and director and Vice-Chairman of The 
Racecourse	Association	Ltd.	An	Honorary	Doctor	of	Staffordshire	University.	
External appointments: Chairman of Dunstall Holdings Ltd. Trustee of 
Racing	Welfare	and	Chairman	of	Racing	Homes.	Member	of	Staffordshire	
University’s	Development	Board.	Deputy	Lieutenant	for	Staffordshire.
Appointed: March 2012.
Experience: over 15 years of governance and compliance experience 
in FTSE listed companies, including Misys plc, Taylor Woodrow plc 
(now Taylor	Wimpey	plc)	and	Travis	Perkins	plc.	Joined	St.	Modwen	
from GKN plc where she was Deputy Company Secretary and Head of 
Secretarial Department. A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries.
Key responsibilities: these include board and board committee support, 
corporate governance, statutory and regulatory compliance, insurance, 
HR and pensions.
Kay Chaldecott
Independent non-executive 
director
A
 
N
 
R
Lesley James, CBE
Independent non-executive 
director
A
 
N
 
R
*
Simon Clarke, DL
Non-executive director
Tanya Stote
Company Secretary
Key:
A
   Member of the  
Audit Committee
N
   Member of the  
Nomination Committee
R
      Member of the  
Remuneration Committee
*   Denotes  
Committee Chairman
Changes to the Board
• John Salmon retired from the Board as independent non-executive 
director and Audit Committee Chairman on 27
th
 March 2015.
• Ian Bull was	appointed	Audit	Committee	Chairman	with	effect	from	
27
th
 March 2015.
• Michael Dunn stepped down from the Board as Group Finance 
Director on 31
st
 May 2015.
• Rob Hudson joined the Board as Group Finance Director on 
28
th
 September	2015.
49
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Length of service: 7 years
Experience: began his career at St. Modwen as Development Manager for 
the Yorkshire and North East region in 2008 and was promoted to Regional 
Manager in 2014 and Regional Director in 2015. Previously Strategic Director 
of Pearson Developments Ltd and worked at Turner & Partners Chartered 
Surveyors. A member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Key activity in the year: continues to oversee the ongoing development of 
Waterdale	Shopping	Centre,	Doncaster,	which	has	seen	a	70%	rise	in	overall	
footfall and new lettings announced in 2015. Managed the sale of a 1.2 acre 
site to Aldi plus four new lettings in the year at Billingham Town Centre 
following	its	acquisition	for	£14.3m	in	2014.
Length of service: 9 years
Experience: joined St. Modwen as Land Director for Project MoDEL in 2006 
and became Residential Director in 2009. Previously Development Director 
at Crest Nicholson PLC overseeing residential-led mixed use developments 
in London and the South East. Led the establishment and development of 
St. Modwen	Homes.
Key activity in the year: promoted to Group Residential Director in 2015 
with responsibility for maximising the value of the Group’s residential 
land bank by optimising St. Modwen’s residential projects, delivery of 
infrastructure, working with joint venture partners and co-ordinating 
development with St. Modwen Homes.
Richard Bannister
Regional Director  
– Yorkshire and North East
Guy Gusterson
Group Residential Director
Length of service: 25 years
Experience: began his career as a chartered surveyor at Louis Taylor 
Ltd advising on commercial property projects before joining St. Modwen 
as Development Surveyor and promoted to Regional Director in 1997. 
Delivered numerous	major	projects	across	the	North	Staffordshire	region	
including Trentham Lakes, Etruria Valley and Festival Park. 
Key activity in the year: continues to oversee the regeneration and 
management of the Trentham Estate, a 725 acre tourist, leisure and shopping 
destination centred on the restored Trentham Gardens and attracting over 
3m	visitors	per	year.	The	Gardens	were	named	BBC	Countryfile	Magazine	
‘Garden of the Year’ in March 2015.
Length of service: 14 years
Experience: joined Chestertons on graduating before moving to Boots 
Properties Ltd and then to Miller Developments Ltd to gain further 
experience in commercial development and estate management. Promoted 
from Midlands Development Surveyor in 2004 and moved to Bristol to 
establish	the	South	West	and	South	Wales	regional	office.	A	member	of	the	
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Key activity in the year: regional	delivery	of	the	first	phase	of	the	new	
Swansea University Bay Campus comprising both student accommodation 
and academic facilities. Responsible for the ongoing mixed-use regeneration 
schemes at Coed Darcy, Neath and Glan Llyn, Llanwern, with the latter 
welcoming	its	first	resident	in	the	year.	Project	lead	for	the	redevelopment	
of MoD	Ashchurch.
Length of service: 12 years
Experience: has over 20 years’ experience in the property sector, including 
in	the	investment	and	development	division	at	Evans	Property	Group Ltd.	
Joined as Northern Development Surveyor in 2003 and promoted to North 
West Regional Director in 2014. A member of the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors.
Key activity in the year: managed	the	£10m	acquisition	of	Moorgate	Point,	
Liverpool and the purchase of Kirkby Town Centre for £35.8m. Continues to 
oversee the regeneration of Great Homer Street, Liverpool and Skelmersdale 
Town Centre.
Length of service: 9 years
Experience: held	commercial	management	and	quantity	surveying	roles	
at a number of companies including Bovis Lend Lease Ltd, Balfour Beatty 
Building Ltd and Skanska Construction UK Ltd. Joined St. Modwen in 2006 
as Construction	Manager	and	has	delivered	both	mixed-use	and	commercial	
schemes such as Wembley Central, Farnborough Town Centre and Skypark, 
Exeter. Promoted to Build Director in 2015.
Key activity in the year: delivery	of	775,000	sq	ft	of	accommodation	and	
academic facilities at Bay Campus, Swansea to welcome over 900 students 
in September 2015. The second phase of the project is on site and a 
development agreement with the University to develop a third phase was 
signed in December 2015.
Mike Herbert
Regional Director 
– The Trentham Estate
Rupert Joseland
Regional Director 
–  South West and 
South Wales
Steven Knowles
Regional Director 
– North West
Richard Powell
Build Director
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
50
The Property Board Length of service: 18 years
Experience: background in surveying, property valuation and asset 
management for both local councils and Allied London Properties PLC. 
Established	the	Yorkshire	and	North	East	office	in	2005	and	became	Regional	
Director for the North in 2012. Promoted to Midlands Regional Director in 
2014. A member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Key activity in the year: oversees the ongoing £1bn regeneration of 
Longbridge,	including	the	new	150,000	sq	ft	Marks	&	Spencer	store	which	
opened in November 2015. Other regional activity includes the mixed-use 
leisure-based Meon Vale scheme in Stratford-upon-Avon, and the extensive 
redevelopment of a 280 acre former industrial site in Branston,  
Burton upon Trent.
Length of service: Less than a year
Experience: joined St. Modwen in 2015 from Morgan Sindall where he 
was Construction Managing Director with responsibility for the north of 
England and Wales. Previously worked for St. Modwen from 2003 until 2009 
as a Construction Manager. A member of the Royal Institute of Chartered 
Surveyors and a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Building.
Key activity in the year: responsible for the ongoing operation of 
St. Modwen	Homes,	the	Group’s	housebuilding	business,	which	has	
13 schemes	under	development	across	the	country	and	five	due	to	
start on site in	2016.
Length of service: 8 years
Experience: joined Deloitte on graduating and became Senior Audit and 
Assurance Manager. Also held positions at Wilson Bowden plc as Group 
Financial Controller and David Wilson Homes as Southern Division Finance 
Director. Became Group Financial Controller for St. Modwen in 2007.
Key activity in the year: led	the	Group’s	finance	team	and	with	
responsibility	for	all	areas	of	operational	finance,	together	with	the	
management	of	corporate	finance	activity,	treasury,	tax	and	internal	and	
external	financial	reporting.	Appointed	Acting	Group	Finance	Director	from	
June to September 2015.
Length of service: 9 years
Experience: began his career at Edward Erdman as Development Surveyor 
before moving to Land Securities PLC in 1994. Here he gained experience 
in	both	the	retail	and	commercial	offices	sectors	and	became	Development	
Director, with responsibility for a number of town and city centre 
regeneration-led projects throughout the UK. 
Key activity in the year: the regeneration of the 57 acre New Covent Garden 
Market sites in Nine Elms, London, which achieved unconditional status in the 
year, and the mixed-use redevelopment of the former RAF site at Uxbridge. 
Will	also	oversee	delivery	of	a	development	agreement	for	a	1m	sq ft	
business park in Brentwood, Essex which was signed in July 2015.
Stephen Prosser
Regional Director 
– Midlands
Dave Smith
Managing Director  
– St. Modwen Homes
Andy Taylor
Group Financial Controller
Tim Seddon
Regional Director 
– London and South East
Length of service: 9 years
Experience: previously worked for various retail agencies dealing in land 
acquisition	and	property	management.	Joined	St.	Modwen	in	2006	from	
LendLease where he was Senior Development Manager. Established 
the	Northern	Home	Counties	office	in	2008	as	Regional	Manager	and	
promoted to Regional Director in 2009. A member of the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors.
Key activity in the year: 90,000	sq	ft	speculative	development	at	Letchworth	
Industrial Estate completed and fully let, with the investment sold post 
year-end	at	a	yield	of	5.2%.	Managed	the	disposal	of	the	Group’s	assets	at	
Cranfield	University	Technology	Park	for	£16.5m	in	July	2015.	Continues	to	
lead St. Modwen Energy, established in 2011 to promote large scale power 
generation projects across the UK, including Wrexham in North Wales and 
Meaford	in	Staffordshire.
Rupert Wood
Regional Director 
– Northern Home Counties
Bill Oliver, Steve Burke, Rob Hudson and Tanya Stote are also 
members of the Property Board. See pages 48 and 49 for their 
biographies.
51
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 This report examines the members of the Board, their role, 
their performance and their oversight. It also looks at the 
induction, succession, independence and effectiveness of 
the directors.
The Board
The Board provides leadership of the Company and direction 
for management. It is collectively responsible and accountable 
to shareholders for St. Modwen’s long-term success. 
It sets the strategy, oversees implementation and reviews 
performance, ensuring that only acceptable risks are taken 
and the appropriate people and resources are in place to 
deliver long-term value to shareholders and benefits to the 
wider community.
To assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure 
independent oversight of matters such as remuneration, 
internal control and risk management, the Board delegates 
certain responsibilities to its three principal Committees. 
Membership of these Committees consists primarily of the 
independent non-executive directors and, in some cases, the 
Chairman. The Chairmen of each Board Committee report to 
the Board on matters discussed at Committee meetings.
Matters reserved to the Board
To help retain control of key decisions, the Board has put in 
place a formal schedule of reserved matters that require its 
approval. The principal reserved matters include:
• strategy;
• new business or geographical areas;
• authorisation of transactions in excess of £10m and those 
which are otherwise significant;
• risk management and internal control;
• dividend policy;
• documents to shareholders and the Annual and Half Year 
Report and Financial Statements; 
• matters relating to share capital, such as share issues or 
buybacks; and
• the appointment/removal of directors and the 
Company Secretary.
Audit Committee
Oversees	financial	and	narrative	reporting,	
property portfolio valuations, internal control, 
risk management systems, and internal and 
external audit processes
 Audit Committee Report 
Pages 58 to 65
The Board
Develops strategy and leads St. Modwen to achieve long-term success
Supported by
Nomination Committee
Oversees Board and senior management 
succession planning, leads the process 
for Board appointments and monitors 
membership of Board Committees
 Nomination Committee Report 
Pages 66 to 69
Remuneration Committee
Determines the remuneration arrangements 
for the executive directors, the Chairman and 
the Company Secretary 
 Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Pages 70 to 93
Executive  
directors 
Implement strategic 
decisions approved by 
the Board and monitor 
operational performance
Capital Projects  
Committee 
Established during the 
year to review significant 
projects, either in terms 
of capital investment 
and/or risk
Property  
Board 
Reviews performance 
and considers Group-
wide operational issues 
and initiatives
Safety, Health 
and Environment 
Steering Group 
Oversees Group 
strategy, procedure and 
performance in relation 
to safety, health and 
environmental matters
CSR Steering  
Group 
 
Co-ordinates the 
Group’s approach to and 
enhance the reporting 
of its corporate social 
responsibility activities
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
52
Corporate Governance Report 
Leadership How the responsibilities of the Board are divided
The Board comprises the Chairman, three executive directors and five non-executive directors. Their responsibilities are 
summarised in the table below and their biographical details can be found on pages 48 and 49. There is a clear division of 
responsibility between the Chairman, who is accountable for the leadership of the Board, and the Chief Executive, who manages 
and leads the business.
Chairman Bill Shannon’s role is to lead the Board and ensure that it operates effectively. His 
responsibilities include:
• setting appropriate agendas for Board meetings and ensuring that all matters are given 
due consideration;
• maintaining a culture of openness, debate and constructive challenge in the boardroom;
• ensuring effective dialogue takes place between St. Modwen and its shareholders;
• providing a tailored induction programme for newly appointed directors and agreeing any 
training and development needs with other members of the Board; and
• ensuring the Board’s effectiveness.
Chief Executive Bill Oliver is responsible for the leadership of the business, managing it within the authorities 
delegated by the Board. His responsibilities include:
• day-to-day management of the business;
• recommending proposals for St. Modwen’s strategic development and implementing the 
strategy agreed by the Board;
• leading the executive management team; and
• ensuring the efficient use of resources.
Group Finance Director Rob Hudson is responsible for devising and implementing the Group’s financial strategy and 
policies. He also oversees investor relations, internal audit and IT.
Group Construction Director Steve Burke is responsible for procurement and programme delivery and oversees the 
Group’s major projects. He also chairs the Company’s Steering Groups for CSR and safety, 
health and the environment.
Senior Independent Director Richard Mully’s role involves:
• acting as a sounding board for the Chairman;
• serving as an intermediary for the other directors when necessary; and
• providing an additional communication channel for shareholders.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors work with and challenge the executive directors in the 
development of St. Modwen’s strategy. They offer an independent, external perspective on 
the business and bring wide and varied commercial experience to both the Board and its 
Committees. With the exception of Simon Clarke, all non-executive directors are deemed to 
be independent.
Company Secretary Tanya Stote:
• supports the Chairman and Chief Executive in fulfilling their duties;
• is available to all directors for advice and support;
• keeps the Board regularly updated on governance matters; and
• attends, and maintains a record of the matters discussed and approved at, Board and 
Committee meetings.
She also oversees the Group’s HR and Insurance functions and supports the trustee of the 
Group’s pension scheme.
53
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Attendance at Board meetings
Director Role Director since
Meetings attended in year 
out of maximum possible
% attended 
in year
Ian Bull Non-executive director Sep 2014 9/9 100%
Steve Burke Group Construction Director Nov 2006 9/9 100%
Kay Chaldecott Non-executive director Oct 2012 9/9 100%
Simon Clarke
(1)
Non-executive director Oct 2004 8/9 89%
Michael Dunn
(2)
Group Finance Director Dec 2010 4/4 100%
Rob Hudson
(3)
Group Finance Director Sep 2015 2/2 100%
Lesley James
(4)
Non-executive director Oct 2009 8/9 89%
Richard Mully Senior Independent Director Sep 2013 9/9 100%
Bill Oliver Chief Executive Jan 2000 9/9 100%
John Salmon
(5)
Non-executive director Oct 2005 3/3 100%
Bill Shannon Chairman Nov 2010 9/9 100%
(1) Unable to attend the Board meeting in June 2015 due to a prior personal commitment.
(2) Stepped down from the Board on 31
st
 May 2015.
(3) Appointed to the Board on 28
th
 September 2015.
(4) Unable to attend the Board visit in April 2015 due to illness.
(5) Retired from the Board on 27
th
 March 2015.
Key Board activity in 2014/15
Dec
• Considered annual renewal of 
insurance arrangements for 
the Group
• Approved the Chairman’s fee
Jan
• Approved the Group’s results for 
the year ended 30
th
 November 
2014, including the Group’s 
property portfolio valuation and 
final dividend recommendation
Mar
• Considered actions arising from 
the internal Board evaluation
• Considered AGM-
related matters
Apr
• Toured commercial 
development sites in 
North Staffordshire
• Considered risks arising from 
the Scottish referendum and the 
UK General Election
Jun
• Considered Group 
financing strategy
• Reviewed and approved the 
acquisition of Kirkby Town 
Centre, Liverpool
Jul
• Toured commercial and 
residential sites in the Midlands, 
including PRS schemes
Sep
• Annual strategy review, 
including input from the 
Company’s brokers
• Approved the appointment of 
a professional trustee to the 
Company’s pension scheme
Oct
• Reviewed and approved the 
2016 budget
• Considered updates on Group 
PR and environmental activity
Nov
• Reviewed the Group’s plans 
in respect of employee 
recruitment, retention 
and development
Board meetings
The Board discharges its responsibilities through an annual 
programme of Board and Committee meetings which are 
supplemented by visits to sites within the Company’s property 
portfolio. In the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 the Board 
held nine meetings; individual director attendance is set out 
in the table below.
Sites visits in the year included the Trentham Estate; the 
310,000 sq ft extension to the Screwfix distribution facility 
at Trentham Lakes, Stoke-on-Trent; the regeneration 
scheme at Branston Leas in Burton upon Trent, comprising 
both residential and commercial development; and 
St. Modwen Homes’ sites at Manorfields, Swadlincote and 
Edison Place, Rugby (including PRS units).
Matters considered at each Board meeting
• Strategic matters
• Acquisition and development opportunities
• Operational updates
• Trading results and forecasts
• Management accounts, key performance indicators 
and financial commentary
• Health and safety
• Board Committee activities 
• Investor relations and shareholder feedback
• Legal, company secretarial and regulatory matters
• Minutes of previous meetings
• Implementation of actions from previous meetings
• Rolling programme of agenda items
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
54
Corporate Governance Report (continued) Induction of a new director
The Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, is 
responsible for the induction of all new directors.
On joining the Board, a director receives a comprehensive 
induction pack which includes background information on the 
Company, material on matters relating to the activities of the 
Board and its Committees and governance-related information 
(including the duties and responsibilities of directors).
Meetings are arranged with the executive directors, for 
briefings on strategy and performance, as well as with the 
external auditor and valuers. Visits to key sites within the 
Company’s property portfolio are scheduled and external 
training, particularly on matters relating to membership 
of Board Committees, is arranged as appropriate. 
Major shareholders are also offered the opportunity to meet 
newly appointed directors should they express a desire to 
do so.
Director development
The Company is committed to the continuing development of 
directors in order that they may build on their expertise and 
develop an ever more detailed understanding of the business 
and the markets in which St. Modwen operates.
Training and development needs are discussed with each 
director by the Chairman as part of the annual individual 
performance evaluation process and kept under review. 
Development activities include visits to sites within the 
Company’s property portfolio, both as a Board and individually, 
regular presentations to the Board by regional directors 
and senior management on key issues and projects, and 
meetings with the external valuers to review their property 
valuation reports.
The attendance by members of Board Committees on courses 
relevant to aspects of their respective Committee specialisms is 
also encouraged.
Director independence and re-election to the Board
The Board considers Bill Shannon to have been independent 
on his appointment as Chairman in 2011 and that he 
remains so.
Simon Clarke, a non-executive director, represents the interests 
of the Clarke and Leavesley families on the Board. Together the 
families hold 14.4% of the Company’s issued share capital and 
are St. Modwen’s largest shareholder. Consequently the Board 
has determined that Simon Clarke is not independent for the 
purposes of the Code.
The Board considers that all other non-executive directors 
are independent and is not aware of any relationship or 
circumstance likely to affect the judgement of any director. 
At the 2016 AGM, and in accordance with the Company’s 
Articles of Association, Rob Hudson will retire and offer himself 
for election. All other directors will retire and offer themselves 
for re-election in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
The explanatory notes set out in the notice of meeting state the 
reasons why the Board believes that each director proposed 
for re-election at the AGM should be re-appointed. The Board 
has based, in part, its recommendation for re-election on 
its review of the results from the Board evaluation process 
and the Chairman’s review of individual evaluations. It has 
concluded that the performance of each director continues 
to be effective, that they continue to demonstrate substantial 
commitment to their respective roles, and that their respective 
skills complement one another to enhance the overall 
operation of the Board.
   Notice of AGM Pages 167 to 174
External appointments
On appointment directors are advised of, and requested to 
make, the necessary time commitment required to discharge 
their responsibilities effectively. This time commitment is 
also outlined in the letters of appointment issued to non-
executive directors.
The Chairman reviews annually the time each director 
has dedicated to St. Modwen as part of their individual 
performance evaluations and is satisfied that their other duties 
and time commitments do not conflict with those as directors 
of the Company. Similarly, the Board is content that the 
Chairman’s external appointments do not impact on his ability 
to allocate sufficient time to discharge his responsibilities to 
St. Modwen.
Conflicts of interest
The Board operates a policy to identify and, where appropriate, 
manage any conflicts of interest affecting directors. 
This enables the Board to consider and, if thought appropriate, 
to authorise a director’s actual or potential conflict of interest, 
taking into consideration what is in the best interests of 
the Company and whether the director’s ability to act in 
accordance with his or her wider duties is affected. 
Governance in action: Rob Hudson’s induction
“On joining St. Modwen as Group Finance Director I 
received a comprehensive, tailored induction. This involved 
business briefings with members of the Board and 
Property Board, meetings with senior managers of 
operating departments such as finance, internal audit, IT 
and HR and a review of Board policies and procedures with 
the Company Secretary.
“I was introduced to key external advisors, including 
the Company’s joint brokers, key banking relationship 
managers and our external valuers and auditor, and have 
had meetings with our joint venture partners.
“I have also taken the opportunity to visit St. Modwen’s 
assets across the country and look forward to building 
a more in depth knowledge of the Company’s property 
portfolio in the coming months.”
55
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45
Effectiveness Performance evaluation 
The annual Board performance evaluation review provides an 
opportunity for the directors to reflect on their collective and 
individual effectiveness and consider any changes that could 
improve the operation of the Board and its Committees.
The evaluation review for 2014 was led by the Chairman 
and involved one-to-one discussions with each director, 
together with a review of the effectiveness of the Committees 
considered collectively by relevant Committee members. 
Progress against those areas for improvement identified by the 
2014 review can be found in the table below.
It was agreed by the Board that the evaluation for 2015 
would commence after Rob Hudson had joined as Group 
Finance Director at the end of September 2015 in order 
that his initial views on the operation of the Board could be 
considered. In accordance with the Code, the assessment is 
being facilitated by Dr. Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Ltd 
(BRR), who received a comprehensive brief from the Chairman, 
including the outturn of areas identified for improvement from 
the 2014 internal review. Neither Tracy nor BRR has any other 
connection with the Company and is considered by the Board 
to be independent.
The outturn of the 2015 evaluation will be considered by the 
Board at a separate meeting to be held in March 2016 and 
reported on in the 2016 Annual Report.
The individual performance of the directors was evaluated 
through one-to-one discussions with the Chairman. 
Richard Mully, as Senior Independent Director, led the review 
by the non-executive directors of the Chairman’s performance, 
which took into account the views of the executive directors. 
No actions were considered necessary as a result of these 
evaluations and the Board is of the view that the performance 
of all directors continues to be effective, that they continue to 
demonstrate commitment to their respective roles, and that 
their respective skills complement one another to enhance the 
overall operation of the Board.
Board Committee performance was also evaluated by means 
of a questionnaire completed by relevant Committee members 
and meeting attendees. The outturn of these evaluations 
will be considered as part of the Board performance review 
meeting in March 2016.
2014 Board evaluation
2014 Findings The Board’s annual schedule 
is to be reviewed in order 
to reduce the frequency of 
meetings (currently nine per 
annum plus two site visits). 
Meeting duration will instead 
be increased to enable greater 
in-depth discussion.
Board agendas are to include 
topical areas for deep-dives to 
enhance the contribution the 
non-executive directors can 
make to key matters affecting 
the business.
The Board and Audit Committee 
will ensure that the Company’s 
risk management systems 
continue to be enhanced 
through regular focus 
and review, supported by 
improved reporting.
Progress in 2015 Six Board meetings now held 
annually, complemented by 
two site visits. Intra-Board 
communication between 
meetings co-ordinated by 
the Chairman.
Members of the management 
team attended Board meetings 
to facilitate discussion on 
issues including PR, people- 
strategy and the Group’s 
environmental activities.
Board workshop held and 
enhancements made to internal 
risk reporting. External advisor 
engaged to facilitate business-
wide improvements to risk 
awareness and culture. 
2015 EVALUATION PROCESS
Review of Governance Framework
A suite of Board and Committee information was sent 
to BRR to provide information on the governance 
framework within which the Board operates.
One-to-One Interviews
Individual in-depth interviews were conducted by BRR 
with each director and the Company Secretary.
Board Meeting Observation
BRR attended a Board meeting to observe the 
conduct and operation of the Board. Copies of 
meeting papers were circulated to BRR in advance 
for briefing purposes.
Reporting
BRR will prepare a discussion document which 
analyses current strengths and future challenges and 
sets out objectives and recommendations.
Discussion and Evaluation 
Draft conclusions will be discussed with the 
Chairman and subsequently considered by all 
directors at a meeting with BRR. The Board will agree 
an action plan to implement, where appropriate, 
any recommendations made.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
56
Corporate Governance Report (continued) Dialogue with investors
The Board has a comprehensive investor relations 
programme which aims to provide existing and potential 
investors with a means of developing their understanding of 
St. Modwen. The programme is split between institutional 
shareholders (which make up the majority of shareholders), 
private shareholders and debt investors. Feedback from the 
programme of events is provided to the Board to ensure 
that directors develop an understanding of the views of the 
Company’s major investors.
As part of the programme, presentations on the half year 
and annual results are given in face to face meetings and 
conference calls with institutional investors, analysts and 
the media. Copies of these presentations, together with 
trading updates, are published on the Company’s website at 
www.stmodwen.co.uk. Meetings with principal shareholders 
were also held and the Company had regular dialogue with 
its key relationship banks. The Chairman is available to meet 
with institutional shareholders and investor representatives 
to discuss matters relating to strategy and governance. 
Private shareholders are encouraged to give feedback and 
communicate with the Board through the Company Secretary.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM provides an opportunity for all shareholders to vote 
on the resolutions proposed and to question the Board and 
the Chairmen of the Board Committees on matters put to the 
meeting. Resolutions for consideration at the 2016 AGM will 
be voted on by way of a poll rather than by a show of hands as 
the Board believes that this is a more transparent method of 
voting as it allows the votes of all shareholders to be counted, 
including those cast by proxy. The results of the poll vote will be 
published on the Company’s website, www.stmodwen.co.uk, 
after the meeting.
   Notice of AGM Pages 167 to 174
This Corporate Governance Report, together with the Audit 
Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the sections of this Annual 
Report entitled ‘Risk management’ and ‘Our principal risks’, 
provide a description of how the main principles of the Code 
have been applied by St. Modwen in 2014/15. The Code is 
published by the Financial Reporting Council and is available on 
its website at www.frc.org.uk.
It is the Board’s view that, throughout the financial year ended 
30
th
 November 2015, the Company was in compliance with the 
relevant provisions set out in the Code.
With the exception of disclosures required by Rule 7.2.6 
which are set out in the Directors’ Report, this Corporate 
Governance Report contains the information required by Rule 
7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
The directors are responsible for preparing this Annual Report. 
The statement of directors’ responsibilities on pages 98 and 
99 is made at the conclusion of a robust and effective process 
undertaken by the Company for the preparation and review 
of the Annual Report. The directors believe that these well-
established arrangements, details of which are set out on 
page 63, enable them to ensure that the information presented 
in this Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the Company’s position and performance, business model 
and strategy.
57
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45
Relations with shareholders Compliance statement “The Committee continues to focus on 
matters important by virtue of size, 
complexity, level of judgement required 
or impact on the Financial Statements.”
IAN BULL
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Principal role 
Monitors the integrity of the Group’s financial reporting and 
audit processes and the development and maintenance of 
sound systems of risk management and internal control.
Key activities in 2014/15
• Considered Balance Sheet recognition of the Group’s 
interest in New Covent Garden Market and prior 
year restatements.
• Examined changes to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the Code) on risk management and assessed how 
these would be implemented.
• Contributed towards a smooth transition following the 
appointment of a new Group Finance Director and on the 
change of Committee Chairman.
Areas of focus for 2015/16
• Competitive tender for the external auditor appointment 
to be commenced.
• Continuing enhancements to the Group’s risk 
assurance framework. 
• Ongoing monitoring of cyber-security and the robustness 
of the Group’s preventative procedures.
• Independent external review of the Internal 
Audit function.
  
Terms of reference 
 www.stmodwen.co.uk/about-us/corporate-governance
Committee member Member since
Meetings 
attended 
in year out of 
maximum  
possible
% attended  
in year
Ian Bull
(1)
Sep 2014 3/3 100%
Kay Chaldecott Dec 2012 3/3 100%
Lesley James Oct 2009 3/3 100%
Richard Mully Sep 2013 3/3 100%
John Salmon
(2)
Oct 2005 1/1 100%
(1) Appointed Chairman of the Committee with effect from 27
th
 March 2015.
(2) Retired from the Board and as Chairman of the Committee on 27
th
 March 2015.
COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDEES (BY INVITATION)
Chairman
Bill Shannon
Group Finance Director
Mike Dunn (1
st
 December 2015 to 31
st
 May 2015)  
Rob Hudson (from 28
th
 September 2015)
Non-executive director
Simon Clarke
Group Financial Controller
Andy Taylor
Internal Audit Manager
David Edwards
Company Secretary and secretary to the Committee
Tanya Stote
External auditor
Representatives from Deloitte
External valuers
Representatives from Cushman & Wakefield and 
Jones Lang LaSalle
External tax advisors
Representatives from PwC
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
58
Audit Committee Report As Chairman of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present 
our report for the financial year ended 30
th
 November 2015. 
The report is intended to provide meaningful insight into the 
Committee’s activities in the year and sets out how we have 
performed our responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, 
internal control and risk management and in relation to the 
external auditor, Deloitte.
Following the appointments of Cushman & Wakefield, formerly 
DTZ, (external valuers) and PwC (tax compliance advisors) in 
2014, 2015 was another key year for the Committee. A new 
Group Finance Director, Rob Hudson, was appointed in 
September 2015 and the Committee has spent time helping 
to ensure a smooth transition from Rob’s predecessor. 
As Committee Chairman I have also discussed with Rob 
his initial priorities and look forward to working with and 
supporting him as he settles into his role.
We have made good progress to further reduce the level 
of non-audit fees payable to Deloitte, our external auditor. 
Amounts paid to Deloitte in the year for non-audit services 
represented 31% of the fees paid for audit and audit-related 
assurance services. The Committee has approved the 
continued engagement of Deloitte Real Estate for the provision 
of property consulting services in respect of a long-term 
development project, subject to a cap on fees.
The tendering of external audit arrangements has been the 
subject of considerable debate in recent years, both at a 
national and European level. Noting the requirements on audit 
tendering set out in the Code, the Competition and Markets 
Authority Order and the Department for Business, Innovation 
and Skills proposals to implement the EU’s June 2014 Audit 
Directive and Regulation, the Committee has agreed that 
a competitive tender process be commenced during 2016 
in readiness for the external audit for the year ending 
30
th
 November 2017.
In terms of risk, the Committee has agreed with management 
that activity should continue to focus on enhancing the risk 
management culture across the business, with individual 
ownership of risks and associated mitigating actions. This in 
turn should further strengthen the linkage between operational 
risk management and risk reporting, both internally and 
externally, with focus being given to those areas of highest risk.
The Committee continues to focus on those matters it 
considers to be important by virtue of their size, complexity, 
level of judgement required or impact on the Financial 
Statements. In 2015 these included accounting for the funds 
received from M&G in relation to the student accommodation 
at Bay Campus, Swansea University and associated 
restatements, and Balance Sheet recognition in respect of the 
Group’s interest at New Covent Garden Market. These and the 
other issues considered by the Committee during the year, 
and the actions taken to address them, are detailed within 
this report.
As I approach the anniversary of my appointment as 
Committee Chairman I would like to thank both my fellow 
Committee members and the management team for their 
continued support and commitment to ensuring effective 
governance through the Committee’s activities. I would also 
like to take this opportunity to thank John Salmon for the 
insight, direction and focus that he provided over the years 
as Committee Chairman and to wish him well for the future.
I hope that the following report provides a useful guide 
to the activities of the Committee during the year.
Ian Bull
Chairman of the Audit Committee
1
st
 February 2016
59
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Committee membership
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive 
directors, with each bringing broad financial and commercial 
experience at senior levels across a range of industries. 
The Committee’s composition is kept under review by the 
Nomination Committee, which is responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board as to its membership. 
In March 2015 John Salmon retired as Committee Chairman and 
was replaced by Ian Bull, Chief Financial Officer of Ladbrokes plc. 
Ian is considered to have significant, recent and relevant financial 
experience as required by the Code. 
All members of the Committee receive an appropriate induction 
to ensure that they have an understanding of the principles of, 
and recent developments in, financial reporting, key aspects of 
the Company’s accounting policies and judgements, and internal 
control and risk management arrangements, as well as the 
role of the internal and external auditors. Ongoing training is 
undertaken as required.
How the Committee operates
The Committee met three times during the year as part of its 
standard schedule of meetings. No supplementary meetings 
were necessary in the year. Meetings of the Committee 
generally take place just prior to a Board meeting to maximise 
the efficiency of interaction with the Board and the Committee 
Chairman reports to the Board, as a separate agenda item, on 
the activity of the Committee and matters of particular relevance 
to the Board in the conduct of its work.
Representatives from the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, are 
invited to each meeting together with other Board members, 
the Group Financial Controller, the Internal Audit Manager and 
the Company Secretary. Representatives from both Cushman 
& Wakefield and Jones Lang LaSalle (JLL), the external valuers, 
are invited to attend meetings at which the half year and annual 
results are considered by the Committee. Representatives from 
the Group’s tax compliance advisor, PwC, are invited to attend 
meetings as appropriate.
At least once a year, immediately following a Committee meeting, 
the Committee meets separately with the external audit 
engagement partner and with the Internal Audit Manager to 
give them the opportunity to discuss matters without executive 
management being present. The Committee Chairman also 
holds separate one to one meetings with the Group Finance 
Director, the Internal Audit Manager and with Deloitte, typically 
ahead of Committee meetings, in order to better understand the 
issues and areas of concerns and to make sure adequate time is 
devoted to these matters at the subsequent meeting.
The Committee has direct access to the Internal Audit Manager, 
the external audit engagement partner and the external valuers 
outside formal Committee meetings. Whilst permitted to do so, 
no member of the Committee, nor the Committee collectively, 
sought outside professional advice beyond that which was 
provided directly to the Committee during the financial year. 
In late 2015 the Committee’s performance was reviewed 
internally by way of a questionnaire which was completed by all 
members of the Committee, the Group’s senior management 
and external audit engagement partner. The feedback received 
will be considered as part of the Board performance review 
meeting in March 2016.
Activities of the Committee during the year
Reporting
The Committee’s primary responsibility in relation to the 
Group’s financial reporting is to review with both management 
and the external auditor the integrity of the Half Year and 
Annual Financial Statements with particular focus on:
• the consistency of, and any changes to, accounting policies 
and practices;
• material areas in which significant judgements have been 
applied or where significant financial issues have been 
discussed with the external auditor;
• the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial 
reporting standards and relevant financial and governance 
reporting requirements, such as statements on viability and 
going concern; and
• whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy.
Accounting policies and practices
The Committee received reports from management in 
relation to the continuing appropriateness of accounting 
policies applied by the Group and any changes required 
as a consequence of the implementation of new 
accounting standards.
During the year the Group was required to adopt a number 
of new accounting standards including IFRS 10 Consolidated 
Financial Statements, which replaced SIC 12 Consolidation 
– Special Purpose Entities in its entirety and changed the 
accounting treatment to be applied in respect of VSM Estates 
(Holdings) Ltd. Whilst this entity is jointly owned with VINCI 
Investments Ltd, under the funding agreement the Group 
obtains the majority of benefits of the entity and also retains 
the majority of the residual risks. This entity was previously 
consolidated under SIC 12, however the conditions for 
consolidation in IFRS 10 do not exist and, as such, the entity is 
now required to be accounted for using the equity method.
Following consideration and discussions with Deloitte, the 
Committee was satisfied that the accounting policies and 
related disclosure in this Annual Report was appropriate.
   Accounting policies Pages 110 to 118
Significant judgements and financial issues
The Committee pays particular attention to matters it 
considers to be important by virtue of their impact on the 
Group’s results, or the level of complexity, judgement or 
estimation involved in their application to the Group Financial 
Statements. The significant financial issues considered by the 
Committee in relation to the 2015 Financial Statements, and 
how these were addressed, are outlined on pages 61 and 62. 
The Committee discussed these with the external auditor and, 
where appropriate, how these were addressed by Deloitte’s 
audit scope.
   Independent Auditor’s Report Pages 100 to 105
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
60
Audit Committee Report (continued) Significant issue Work undertaken by and conclusion of Committee
Valuation of investment property
The independent valuation of St. Modwen’s 
investment property is a key determinant of 
the Group’s Balance Sheet and performance 
as well as executive variable remuneration.
Although the portfolio valuation is conducted 
externally by independent valuers, the nature 
of valuation estimates is inherently subjective 
and requires significant judgements and 
assumptions to be made by the valuers. 
These include market comparable yields, 
estimates in relation to future rental income, 
void periods, purchaser costs, together with 
remediation and other costs to complete, 
some of which require management input.
The Committee adopts a formal approach by which the valuation process, methodology, 
assumptions and outcomes are reviewed and robustly challenged. This includes separate 
review and scrutiny by both management and the Committee, with members of the Committee 
discussing the valuations both prior to and at Committee meetings in January and June. It also 
includes the external auditor which is assisted by its own specialist team of chartered surveyors 
who are familiar with the valuation approach and UK property market. 
The external auditor has direct access to the Group’s valuers and their remit extends to 
investigating and confirming that no undue influence has been exerted by management in 
relation to the valuations. The external auditor reviewed the valuations and process and 
reported its findings to the Committee.
Both Cushman & Wakefield (formerly DTZ) and JLL submit their valuation reports to the 
Committee as part of the half year and full year results process. Both valuers were asked to 
attend and present to the Committee their valuation reports and highlight any significant 
judgements made or disagreements between themselves and management; there were none. 
With the background of continued strength in the property market, the Committee discussed in 
detail the rationale underlying significant increases to valuations, and considered these on a 
case-by-case basis as appropriate. 
Based on the degree of oversight and challenge applied to the valuation process, the 
Committee concluded that the valuation as a whole had each been conducted appropriately, 
independently and in accordance with the valuers’ professional standards.
Valuation of inventory
The Group’s inventory, comprising property 
held for sale, property under development 
commenced with a view to sale and land 
under option, is of significant value.
All inventory is carried at the lower of cost and 
net realisable value and appropriate 
allowances are made for remediation and 
other costs to complete. For the majority of 
inventories held management rely on their 
own internal procedures for assessing the 
carrying value of inventory.
The Committee reviewed management’s assessment as to whether any provision was required 
against the carrying value of inventory, either at Group level or within any joint venture 
arrangements. The assessment process undertaken to determine net realisable value was 
considered by the Committee, which included ongoing monitoring by management as well as 
detailed reviews at both the half and full year. External valuations were also provided by the 
external valuers for certain sites, typically new build units not yet sold.
The Committee concluded that the judgements and estimates made by management were in 
line with Group policy, reasonable and appropriate.
New Covent Garden Market
2015 saw the culmination of several years of 
development activity resulting in this project 
achieving unconditional status in April 2015 
and being included on the Balance Sheet. 
The recognition comprised the Group’s 
interest in the value of the 19 acres of 
surplus land as an asset and the cost of 
procuring the 500,000 sq ft new market 
facilities as a liability. 
As with the rest of our portfolio, significant 
judgements and assumptions were made by 
JLL, our independent valuers of this project, in 
arriving at the valuation, some of which 
required management input.
The Committee reviewed the decision for recognition in the year, and the associated accounting 
treatment. 
In considering the satisfaction of the requirements for unconditional contract status, and 
resulting Balance Sheet recognition, the Committee noted:
• documentation and approval of a section 106 agreement together with entry into statutory 
roads and services agreements;
• expiry of the subsequent judicial review period;
• delivery of a Deed of Grant with the US Embassy to provide a road from the Embassy on 
surplus Covent Garden Market Authority (CGMA) land;
• formal issue of planning consent and confirmation of acceptability from CGMA and VINCI 
St. Modwen; and
• independent certification that the market can be procured within CGMA’s affordability limit.
The Committee also considered:
• accounting for the acquisition of the interest in land, including reviewing with both JLL and 
management the valuation assumptions for the 19 acres of surplus land, enabling costs and 
overage, and the costs of procuring the new market facilities;
• measurement of the liability to procure the new market facilities; and
• the classification of the Group’s interest in the surplus land as investment property.
The Committee concluded (and Deloitte concurred) that the recognition and accounting 
treatment adopted was appropriate.
61
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Significant issue Work undertaken by and conclusion of Committee
Bay Campus, Swansea University
In respect of the Bay Campus development at 
Swansea University, the Committee continued 
to monitor the appropriateness of the 
accounting treatment in respect of revenue 
streams in respect of the academic facilities at 
the Campus.
The Committee also reviewed the accounting 
for the funds received from M&G in relation 
to the student accommodation at the 
Campus and, as part of the valuation of 
investment properties, considered the 
valuation of the Group’s interests in the 
student accommodation facilities.
During the year, following receipt of the first rental income, further consideration was given to 
the revenue streams associated with the first two phases of student accommodation at the Bay 
Campus. Due to the fixed (subject only to annual RPI adjustment) nature of the Group’s annual 
rental payments to M&G, meaning that the Group retains exposure (both positive and negative) 
to all variability in net rentals generated from the properties, it was concluded that the 
transaction was more appropriately accounted for as a finance lease arrangement, rather than 
as the sale of 50% of the assets. 
Consequently the 2014 results and opening Balance Sheet have been restated to reflect 
recognition by the Group of the following elements:
• the whole (rather than 50%) of the property interest in the student accommodation;
• to account for the amounts due to M&G as a finance lease liability;
• to eliminate the construction contract accounting recognised in respect of the proportion of 
the development work performed on these sites that was funded by M&G; and
• to revalue the site during the course of construction.
Both the Committee and Deloitte agreed that the accounting for the project, including the 
revised treatment applied to the student accommodation, was appropriate.
Details of the restatement are set out in the Accounting Policies note on pages 117 and 118.
Tax provisions
As a property group, tax and its treatment is 
often an integral part of transactions 
undertaken by St. Modwen. The outcomes of 
tax treatments are recognised by the Group 
to the extent the outcome is reasonably 
certain. Where tax treatments have been 
challenged by HMRC, or management believe 
that there is a risk of such challenge, or new 
tax regulation is introduced, provision is 
made for the best estimate of potential 
exposure based on the information available 
at the reporting date.
Based on reports from management, Deloitte and PwC (the Group’s tax compliance advisor), 
the Committee considered the individual judgements made by management in respect of tax 
provisions and was satisfied that the resultant level of tax provisioning at both the full year and 
half year remained appropriate. 
Further disclosure on taxation is set out in Note 5 to the Group Financial Statements, page 128 
and the Accounting Policies note on page 116. 
Viability and going concern
The Committee provides advice to the Board on the form and basis underlying both the going concern statement and the new, 
longer-term viability statement.
As both statements rely on forecasts, the Committee considered the assumptions and judgements applied by management 
in relation to the timing of receipt and payment cash flows, the ongoing availability of funding and covenant compliance. 
The Committee also reviewed the sensitivity analysis prepared by management, including the assumptions made.
The Committee concluded that it remains appropriate for the Financial Statements to be prepared on a going concern basis and 
recommended the viability statement to the Board.
  Going concern statement Page 97
  Viability statement Page 37
Activities of the Committee during the year (continued)
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
62
Audit Committee Report (continued) Fair, balanced and understandable
When reporting to shareholders the Board aims to present 
a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the 
Company’s position and performance and is assisted in this 
by the Committee. This responsibility covers the Annual and 
Half Year Reports and Financial Statements, as well as trading 
updates and other financial reporting.
The Committee is satisfied and has confirmed to the Board 
that the 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, 
balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s position 
and performance, business model and strategy.
In reaching this view the Committee considered the robust 
and well-established processes in place to prepare the Annual 
Report and Financial Statements which includes:
• clear guidance and instruction is given to all contributors;
• revisions to regulatory requirements and governance 
principles, including the Code, are continually monitored;
• meetings are held with the auditors in advance of the year 
end reporting process;
• input is provided by senior management to identify relevant 
and material information and ensure accurate, consistent and 
balanced reporting;
• detailed debates and discussions regarding principal risks 
and uncertainties;
• focused review and approval of specific sections by the 
relevant Board Committees, supported by regular reporting 
by Board Committees to the Board on their activities;
• a review by the Committee of reports prepared by 
management on accounting estimates and judgements, 
auditor reports on internal controls, accounting and reporting 
matters and a management representation letter concerning 
accounting and reporting matters;
• consideration of the draft Annual Report and Financial 
Statements by the Committee in advance of final sign-off; and
• review and approval by the external auditor.
The Board takes into account the view of the Committee when 
undertaking its own review of the document prior to giving 
final approval.
External auditor
Deloitte, as the external auditor, is engaged to express 
an opinion on the Company’s and the Group’s financial 
statements. Their audit includes a review and test of the 
systems of internal control and data contained in the Financial 
Statements to the extent necessary to express an audit opinion 
on them.
Audit plan
In respect of the audit for the financial year ended 
30
th
 November 2015, Deloitte presented their audit plan 
(prepared in consultation with management and the Internal 
Audit Manager) to the Committee. The audit plan took into 
account key changes in the business and the impact of these 
on materiality, scope and risk assessment. The audit fee, which 
was approved by the Committee, was felt to be appropriate 
given the scope of work whilst not adversely affecting Deloitte’s 
independence or objectivity.
Non-audit fees
To help safeguard Deloitte’s objectivity and independence, 
the Committee has approved a non-audit services policy 
which sets out the circumstances and financial limits within 
which the external auditor may be permitted to provide 
certain non-audit services (such as tax and other services).
This policy sets a presumption that Deloitte should only 
be engaged for non-audit services where alternative 
providers do not exist or where it is cost effective or in the 
Group’s interest for Deloitte to provide such services. It also 
precludes Deloitte from providing certain services such 
as litigation support, actuarial services or internal audit 
activities. Advance approval of both the Group Finance 
Director and the Committee Chairman is required if fees 
for an engagement are anticipated to exceed £25,000 
or where the fee is contingent in full or in part; no such 
approvals were required in the year. Approval below these 
levels is required from the Group Finance Director and all 
expenditure is reviewed annually by the Committee.
Non-audit fees paid to Deloitte in the year totalled 
£107,000, representing 31% of the fees paid for audit 
and audit-related assurance services. The reduction in 
expenditure over prior years follows the engagement of 
PwC for tax compliance work from June 2014 and the 
conclusion of certain property consulting services provided 
by Drivers Jonas (now part of Deloitte Real Estate) on two 
long-term development projects, their involvement in which 
pre-dated their acquisition by Deloitte. It is anticipated that 
further work will be required in respect of one project, and 
the Committee has approved the continued engagement 
of Deloitte Real Estate subject to an appropriate cap 
on fees. 
Further information on the remuneration of the 
external auditor can be found in note 3b to the Group 
Financial Statements.
63
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 External auditor (continued)
Independence
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing 
the objectivity and independence of the external auditor. 
In undertaking its assessment, the Committee has reviewed:
• the confirmation from Deloitte that they maintain 
appropriate internal safeguards in line with applicable 
professional standards;
• the Financial Reporting Council’s May 2015 Audit Quality 
Inspection Report in respect of Deloitte’s audit engagements 
and the firm’s policies and procedures supporting 
audit quality;
• the mitigating actions taken by the Committee in seeking 
to safeguard Deloitte’s independence status, including the 
operation of policies designed to regulate the appointment of 
former employees of the external audit firm and the extent of 
non-audit services provided by the external auditor;
• the tenure of the audit engagement partner (not being 
greater than five years); and
• the performance evaluation of Deloitte.
Taking the above review into account, the Committee 
concluded that Deloitte remained objective and independent in 
their role as external auditor.
Effectiveness
The Committee has undertaken a review of Deloitte’s 
performance and the effectiveness of the external audit 
process. The review was primarily undertaken by way of 
an extensive questionnaire on external audit effectiveness 
which was completed by management and assessed by the 
Committee. The Committee also considered a self-assessment 
carried out by Deloitte on audit objectives, leadership, 
qualification, quality and independence, together with Deloitte’s 
experience and expertise, the extent to which the audit plan 
had been met, its robustness and perceptiveness with regard 
to key accounting and audit judgements, and the content of its 
audit reports.
The Committee remains satisfied with Deloitte’s performance 
and is of the view that there is nothing of concern that would 
impact the effectiveness of the external audit process.
Tender
Deloitte was appointed in 2007 following a tender process. 
The current audit engagement partner, Jonathan Dodworth, 
was appointed for the 2011/12 financial year audit and, in 
line with ethical standards published by the Auditing Practices 
Board, can remain in post until the 2015/16 financial year audit.
In line with the various requirements on audit tendering in the 
Code, the Competition and Markets Authority Order and the 
Department for Business, Innovation and Skills proposals to 
implement the EU’s June 2014 Audit Directive and Regulation, 
Deloitte is able to complete the audit for the year ending 
30
th
 November 2016. The engagement of an external auditor 
for the 2017 audit will need to be subject to a competitive 
tender process and it is intended that this will be commenced 
during 2016.
Having considered the performance of Deloitte (including 
value for money and quality and effectiveness of the audit 
process), its independence, compliance with relevant statutory, 
regulatory and ethical standards and objectivity, the Committee 
recommended to the Board that a resolution to re-appoint 
Deloitte to office for a further year be proposed at the 
2016 AGM.
There are no contractual obligations which would restrict the 
Company’s selection of an external auditor.
Internal audit
The Group has an internal audit function which reports to the 
Committee and works under the supervision of the Group 
Finance Director. Its key objectives are to provide independent 
and objective assurance that each business area implements 
and maintains appropriate and effective controls. An Internal 
Audit Charter, which is reviewed annually, governs its remit and 
sets out the standards against which activities are undertaken.
Internal audit is an agenda item at each Committee meeting. 
Reports from the Internal Audit Manager usually include 
updates on audit activities, progress of the Group audit plan, 
the results of internal audits and the status of implementation 
of recommendations to address any unsatisfactory areas. 
In 2015 internal audits were carried out across a number of 
areas including the Baglan Solar Park, Group-wide service 
charge arrangements and the Group insurance function.
On an annual basis the Committee reviews and approves 
the audit plan for the year and has input into ensuring that 
adequate resources are made available and that the necessary 
support is provided by the business to accomplish the agreed 
work programme. The Committee Chairman meets with the 
Internal Audit Manager regularly to discuss activities and the 
nature of any significant issues which may have arisen.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
64
Audit Committee Report (continued) The effectiveness of the internal audit function is reviewed 
annually by the Committee, primarily by assessing performance 
against the Internal Audit Charter. The Committee remained 
satisfied that the function continued to operate effectively 
throughout 2015. 
In the spirit of improving all audit activities, and to ensure that 
it remains appropriate for the future strategic direction of 
the Group, in 2016 the Committee will seek an independent 
external review to ensure the continued suitability of the 
Internal Audit function to the business. Initial discussions have 
also taken place with external providers to identify potential 
co-sourcing relationships for agreed audit work and these will 
be explored further during the coming year.
Risk management and internal control
During the year, the Committee monitored and reviewed 
the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control systems, 
accounting policies and practices, standards of risk 
management and risk management procedures and 
compliance controls, as well as the Company’s statements on 
internal controls, before they were agreed by the Board for this 
Annual Report.
In doing so the Committee considered:
• the Group’s risk register, including significant and emerging 
risks, mitigating controls in place and how exposures have 
changed over the reporting period;
• internal audit reports on key audit areas and any significant 
deficiencies in the control environment;
• management reports on the systems of internal controls and 
risk management, including tax compliance;
• external audit reports from Deloitte which included details of 
their risk assessment process for the purposes of audit;
• actual and potential legal claims and litigation involving 
the Group;
• internal audit reports on potential fraudulent activities 
perpetrated against the Group;
• the effectiveness of the internal audit function; and
• the Group’s approach to IT, cyber-security and whistleblowing.
   Risk Management Pages 36 and 37
Whistleblowing and fraud 
The Group’s ‘whistleblowing’ policy encourages employees 
to report, in confidence and anonymously if preferred, 
concerns about suspected impropriety or wrongdoing 
in any matters affecting the business. Reports can be 
made by confidential telephone reporting lines and a 
secure website reporting facility which are operated 
by an independent third party. Any matters reported 
are investigated by the Company Secretary and, where 
appropriate, reported to the Committee together with 
details of any corrective action taken. During the year there 
were no whistleblowing incidents reported.
The Group’s fraud prevention policy requires employees 
to be alert to the possibility of the threat of fraud 
and to report immediately any concerns they have. 
The Company remains vigilant against such risk, including 
fraudulent payment requests, and continues to ensure 
the adequacy of controls and procedures to prevent 
such fraud. The Committee is made aware of all potential 
fraudulent activity.
65
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 “This year was again an important one 
for the Committee, with the primary 
focus on succession planning.”
BILL SHANNON
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
 
Principal role 
Reviews the succession planning and leadership needs of 
the Group and leads the process for Board appointments, 
ensuring that directors have an appropriate range of skills 
and experience to deliver St. Modwen’s strategy.
Key activities in 2014/15
• Selected and recommended the appointment of Rob 
Hudson as Group Finance Director.
• Reviewed and recommended the re-appointment of 
Lesley James and Kay Chaldecott.
• Reviewed succession plans for Board members and 
senior management.
Areas of focus for 2015/16
• Continue to monitor Board and senior 
management succession.
• Ongoing assessment of Board and senior 
management diversity.
• Consider the re-appointments of Lesley James, 
Bill Shannon and Richard Mully.
  
Terms of reference 
 www.stmodwen.co.uk/about-us/corporate-governance
Committee member Member since
Meetings 
attended 
in year out of 
maximum  
possible
% attended  
in year
Ian Bull Sep 2014 7/7 100%
Kay Chaldecott Mar 2013 7/7 100%
Lesley James Oct 2009 7/7 100%
Richard Mully Sep 2013 7/7 100%
John Salmon
(1)
Mar 2013 2/2 100%
Bill Shannon Nov 2010 7/7 100%
(1) Retired from the Board on 27
th
 March 2015.
COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDEES (BY INVITATION)
Chief Executive
Bill Oliver
Non-executive director
Simon Clarke
Company Secretary and secretary to the Committee
Tanya Stote
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
66
Nomination Committee Report The Committee plays a vital role in ensuring that 
St. Modwen is headed by a Board which is collectively 
responsible for the long-term success of the Company and 
is best placed to operate effectively in the context of our 
strategic objectives.
This year was again an important one for the Committee, 
with the primary focus on the process for identifying potential 
candidates for the role of Group Finance Director. I am very 
pleased with the outcome of this process which resulted in 
the appointment of Rob Hudson, previously Group Financial 
Controller at British Land Company plc. We announced Rob’s 
appointment in April 2015 and he formally took up his position 
on 28
th
 September 2015.
The Committee continues to monitor non-executive director 
succession to identify any skills gap whilst ensuring an 
appropriate balance of skills and experience. In the year both 
Lesley James and Kay Chaldecott were re-appointed and Ian 
Bull replaced John Salmon as Audit Committee Chairman 
following John’s retirement in March 2015.
Diversity in all its forms, including gender, remains a key area 
of focus for the Committee. The composition and capabilities 
of all directors is kept under review to ensure that Board 
membership is sufficiently diverse and reflects a broad range 
of skills, knowledge and experience to enable it to meet its 
responsibilities. We are supporting the Government and the 
Equality and Human Rights Commission in their review of the 
recruitment and appointment processes adopted across the 
FTSE 350 and await their findings with interest. 
Looking forward to 2016, we will continue to review 
succession plans to ensure that arrangements are in place 
for the orderly and progressive refreshing of the Board 
and to identify individuals with potential for appointment to 
senior management and Board positions. Recognising the 
benefits that diversity can bring, we will also continue to 
support the Board in its commitment to strengthening female 
representation at both Board and senior management level.
Further information in respect of the Committee and its 
activities during the year is set out in the remainder of this 
report which I hope you find informative.
Bill Shannon
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
1
st
 February 2016
Committee membership
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive 
directors, with each bringing broad financial and commercial 
experience at senior levels across a range of industries. 
The Committee’s composition is kept under review by the 
Nomination Committee, which is responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board as to its membership.
The Chairman of the Board chairs all meetings of the 
Committee unless they relate to the appointment of his 
successor; for these meetings the Senior Independent Director 
is invited to take the Chair.
How the Committee operates
The Committee meets on an ad hoc basis, usually immediately 
prior to or following a Board meeting, but on other occasions 
as may be needed. It met formally on seven occasions during 
the year, primarily to progress the appointment of a new Group 
Finance Director. A number of informal meetings, conference 
calls and discussions also took place between Committee 
members, search consultants and potential candidates 
throughout the recruitment process. The Committee Chairman 
reports to the Board, as a separate agenda item, on the activity 
of the Committee and matters of particular relevance to the 
Board in the conduct of its work.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend 
meetings. However an invitation to attend meetings is 
extended to Simon Clarke, a non-executive director, and the 
Chief Executive attends for all or part of meetings by invitation 
as and when appropriate. Tanya Stote, Company Secretary, is 
secretary to the Committee.
In 2015 the Committee’s performance was reviewed 
internally by way of a questionnaire which was completed 
by all members of the Committee and the Chief Executive. 
The feedback received will be considered as part of the Board 
performance review meeting in March 2016.
Activities of the Committee in the year
Appointment and re-appointment of directors
The Committee leads the process for appointments to the 
Board and makes recommendations to the Board when 
suitable candidates have been identified in line with Board-
approved procedures. When a vacancy arises, the Committee 
evaluates the balance of skills, experience, independence 
and knowledge on the Board before preparing a description 
of the role and capabilities required for that appointment. 
Where appropriate external recruitment consultants are 
engaged to assist with the search process. Appointments are 
made based on merit whilst having regard to the need to 
maintain Board diversity in all its forms.
67
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Activities of the Committee in the year (continued)
Appointment of Group Finance Director
In December 2014 the Committee engaged Odgers Berndtson, 
a leading executive search firm, to assist with the search for a 
Group Finance Director to replace Michael Dunn, who stepped 
down from the Board on 31
st
 May 2015. Odgers Berndtson 
has no other connection with the Company other than in its 
capacity as a search consultant.
The Committee assessed the skills and experience 
required to fulfil the role of Group Finance Director and 
a list of potential candidates, both internal and external, 
was drawn up. These included both men and women that 
occupied senior finance roles in both listed and private 
companies across a range of sectors. This list was reviewed 
by the Committee in early 2015 and a shortlist prepared. 
Interviews were conducted, initially involving both the Chairman 
and Chief Executive, with short-listed candidates meeting 
members of the Committee and the Group Construction 
Director. Psychometric assessments were also undertaken. 
After consideration the Committee unanimously concluded 
that the appointment of Rob Hudson, then Group Financial 
Controller at British Land Company plc, be recommended 
to the Board. The Board unanimously approved the 
recommendation and his appointment was confirmed in April 
2015. Rob joined the Company on 28
th
 September 2015.
Noting that the Company would have no Group Finance 
Director in post for the period from June to September 2015, 
the Committee agreed with the Chief Executive that Andy 
Taylor, the Company’s Group Financial Controller, be appointed 
Acting Group Finance Director for the period.
Re-appointment of non-executive directors
Independent non-executive directors, including the Chairman, 
are appointed by the Board for an initial three-year term 
and typically serve a second three-year term. Beyond this a 
third term of up to three years may be served subject to a 
particularly rigorous review and taking into account the need 
for progressive refreshment of the Board. Appointments are 
subject to satisfactory performance reviews, re-election by 
shareholders and statutory provisions relating to the removal 
of directors.
The terms of service of the Chairman and the other non-
executive directors are contained in letters of appointment. 
These set out the time commitment expected from each 
non-executive director to ensure they perform their duties 
satisfactorily. Each non-executive director confirms that they 
are able to allocate the time commitment required at the time 
of their appointment and thereafter as part of their individual 
annual effectiveness review undertaken by the Chairman 
(or the Senior Independent Director in the case of the 
Chairman’s review).
During the year the Committee considered the re-appointment 
of Lesley James and Kay Chaldecott to the Board, who 
had completed six and three years’ service respectively. 
The Committee was satisfied that both Lesley and Kay 
remained independent and would be able to continue to 
dedicate sufficient time to fulfil their roles as non-executive 
directors of the Company. The Committee recommended, 
and the Board approved, the re-appointment of Kay for a 
second three-year term. Noting that Lesley had completed her 
second three-year term, and the need to ensure continued 
refreshing of the Board, the Board approved the Committee’s 
recommendation that her appointment be renewed for a 
further year, and annually thereafter as appropriate to 2018.
Composition of the Board
Independent directors
Non-independent directors
Non-executive Chairman (independent)
Length of directors’ tenures
Less than 3 years
3–6 years
7–9 years
More than 9 years
3
1
3
2
4
4
1
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
68
Nomination Committee Report (continued) Succession planning
John Salmon, non-executive director and Chairman of the 
Audit Committee, retired at the 2015 AGM. Whilst his tenure 
exceeded nine years, the Board was of the view that John 
was independent in character and judgement and that it was 
appropriate for him to continue in office as Audit Committee 
Chairman to provide continuity for the approval of the results 
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2014.
The Committee recommended to the Board that Ian Bull, 
who was appointed as a non-executive director in September 
2014 and is Chief Financial Officer and main board director of 
Ladbrokes plc, be appointed as Committee Chairman in John’s 
stead. His appointment took effect from 27
th
 March 2015.
The Board recognises the importance of developing employees 
of St. Modwen, particularly in relation to succession planning 
for senior positions within the Company. People development 
is reviewed by both the Nomination Committee and the Board 
to ensure that plans are in place to recognise and grow internal 
talent. For more information see page 44.
Independence and re-election to the Board
Following his appointment in September 2015 Rob Hudson 
will retire and offer himself for election at the 2016 AGM. 
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code all 
other directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election to 
the Board.
Each of the directors has been subject to a formal performance 
evaluation process and both the Committee and the Board 
are satisfied that all directors continue to be effective in, and 
demonstrate commitment to, their respective roles on the 
Board and that each makes a valuable contribution to the 
leadership of the Company. The Board therefore recommends 
that shareholders approve the resolutions to be proposed 
at the 2016 AGM relating to the election and re-election of 
the directors.
With the exception of Simon Clarke, who is not deemed to be 
independent by virtue of his representation of the interests 
of the Clarke and Leavesley families, the Committee has also 
reviewed and confirmed the independence of each non-
executive director seeking re-election at the 2016 AGM. 
Board diversity 
All aspects of diversity, including but not limited to gender, are 
considered during the recruitment process at every level within 
the business, including appointments to the Board.
Recognising the benefits that diversity can bring, the Board 
seeks to recruit directors from different backgrounds with 
a range of experience, perspectives, personalities, skills 
and knowledge. Both the Committee and the Board have 
a fundamental obligation to ensure that appointments are 
of the best candidates, selected on merit against objective 
criteria. Subject to this, the availability of suitable candidates 
and compliance with the requirements of the Equality Act, the 
Board is committed to strengthening female representation 
at Board and senior management level. It has not however set 
prescriptive targets as it does not believe these are in the best 
interests of either the Company or its shareholders.
The Board currently comprises two female non-executive 
directors, Lesley James and Kay Chaldecott, who together 
represent 22% female Board membership. Gender diversity 
below Board level is set out in the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report. 
In support of its diversity policy, the Committee will only engage 
executive search firms who have signed up to the Enhanced 
Voluntary Code of Conduct which supports more female 
appointments to FTSE 350 boards.
 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Pages 42 to 45
Directors’ core areas of expertise
Property & Operations
Finance
HR
Executive directors’ appointments
Internal promotion
External appointment
5
3
1
1
2
69
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45  
“As the focus on executive pay 
continues, the Committee remains 
mindful of the developing 
remuneration landscape.”
LESLEY JAMES, CBE
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Principal role 
Determines the policy for the remuneration of the 
executive directors which is designed to promote the 
long-term success of the Company, be compatible with risk 
policies and systems and be aligned to the Company’s long-
term strategic goals.
Key activities in 2014/15
• Determined the application of the remuneration policy 
in respect of the recruitment of Rob Hudson, Group 
Finance Director.
• Monitored market trends in and the governance 
environment of remuneration arrangements.
• Commenced preparation for remuneration policy activity 
required ahead of the 2017 AGM.
Areas of focus for 2015/16
• Full review of remuneration policy, including proposals for 
replacement long-term incentive arrangements.
• Consult with major shareholder on any proposed 
changes to remuneration policy.
  
Terms of reference 
 www.stmodwen.co.uk/about-us/corporate-governance
Committee member Member since
Meetings 
attended 
in year out of 
maximum  
possible
% attended  
in year
Ian Bull Sep 2014 3/3 100%
Kay Chaldecott Dec 2012 3/3 100%
Lesley James Oct 2009 3/3 100%
Richard Mully Sep 2013 3/3 100%
John Salmon
(1)
Oct 2005 1/1 100%
Bill Shannon Nov 2010 3/3 100%
(1) Retired from the Board on 27
th
 March 2015.
Committee meeting attendees (by invitation)
Chief Executive
Bill Oliver
Non-executive director
Simon Clarke
Company Secretary and secretary to the Committee
Tanya Stote
Committee advisor
Representatives from New Bridge Street
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
70
Directors’ Remuneration Report Annual Statement
On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the report 
on directors’ remuneration for the financial year ended 
30
th
 November 2015.
This report includes an annual report on remuneration (pages 
82 to 93) which describes how the remuneration policy was 
implemented for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 and 
how we intend for the policy to apply for the year ending 
30
th
 November 2016. This report, together with my annual 
statement, will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 
2016 AGM.
To ensure clarity and to enable you to cross reference our 
remuneration practice against our policy, we have also 
republished the key elements of our remuneration policy. 
This policy received binding shareholder approval, for the first 
time, at the 2014 AGM and came into effect on 1
st
 December 
2014. The Committee remains satisfied that the policy 
continues to support the Company’s strategy, to retain and 
motivate our management team, to drive strong returns for 
our shareholders and to promote the long-term success of the 
Company. Shareholders will not therefore be asked to approve 
any revisions to the policy at the 2016 AGM. 
Alignment of remuneration with strategy
As the UK’s leading regeneration specialist, our expertise in 
remediation, planning, asset development and construction 
supports our strategy of securing excellent returns through 
a focus on long-term significant added value while protecting 
existing assets. Pages 18 to 41 of our Strategic Report 
describes how we deliver this strategy whilst managing risk.
To ensure that the interests of our management team are 
aligned to those of our shareholders, the variable elements of 
our remuneration policy are relevant to and support our stated 
strategy. The link between our strategy and relative incentive 
measures is described on pages 18 to 21.
The annual bonus arrangements incorporate both corporate 
and operational performance measures to ensure that 
executive directors are incentivised to deliver across a range 
of key financial and strategic objectives. Awards under our 
Performance Share Plan are based on two separate TSR 
measures (one being relative and the other absolute) which 
are designed to promote clear alignment of interest between 
executive directors and shareholders.
Remuneration outcomes in 2014/15
You will see from our financial results that the Company has 
had another exceptional year, delivering record profits and 
strong growth in net asset value. Performance highlights can 
be found on pages 30 to 35 of the Strategic Report.
Reflecting both the outstanding corporate results for the 
year, which were ahead of both budget and at the top end 
of market expectations, and strong individual performance, 
each executive director was awarded the maximum bonus 
potential of 125% of base salary earned for the year ended 
30
th
 November 2015 (2014: 125% of salary).
The 2013 Performance Share Plan awards are due to vest in 
March 2016 based on performance over the three financial 
years to 30
th
 November 2015. Vesting of half of this award was 
subject to TSR performance relative to the FTSE All-Share Real 
Estate Investment & Services Index, with the remaining 50% 
subject to an absolute TSR condition. To reflect the Company’s 
performance relative to the Index of 142% and absolute TSR 
growth of 123% over the performance period, awards will 
vest in full. Further information, including the Committee’s 
consideration of the underpin conditions which must be met 
before it can permit awards to vest, can be found on pages 84 
and 85. 
Remuneration policy for 2015/16
Our policy has been developed taking full account of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the Code), the views of our 
major shareholders and the advice of New Bridge Street, the 
Committee’s independent advisor on remuneration matters. 
The remuneration packages of our executive directors include 
a significant proportion of performance-related elements 
which are subject to demanding targets, incentive pay is 
subject to withholding and recovery provisions, the annual 
bonus arrangements include an element of compulsory 
investment in and retention of shares in the Company, and 
robust share ownership guidelines apply. The Committee 
considers that these features promote significant alignment 
with shareholders and provide an appropriate level of risk 
mitigation. The structure of remuneration arrangements for 
2015/16 will therefore remain largely unchanged from that 
applied in 2014/15.
In line with the average salary increase awarded to employees, 
salaries of the executive directors have been increased by 
3% with effect from 1
st
 December 2015. Executive directors 
will continue to have the opportunity to earn a bonus of up 
to 125% of salary and will receive long-term incentive awards 
to the same value, both subject to stretching and rigorously 
applied performance conditions.
71
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Annual Statement (continued)
Changes to the Board
We announced on 22
nd
 December 2014 that Michael 
Dunn had agreed with St. Modwen to leave the Company. 
Michael subsequently stepped down from the Board 
on 31
st
 May 2015 and remained on garden leave for the 
remainder of his notice period to 18
th
 December 2015. 
During this period Michael continued to receive salary and 
contractual benefits and remained eligible to be awarded a 
bonus for the period from 1
st
 December 2014 to 31
st
 May 
2015. Michael’s unvested PSP awards will continue with 
performance tested at the end of the relevant performance 
periods and awards pro-rated to 31
st
 May 2015. Full details 
of his remuneration arrangements are set out on page 87.
We are delighted that Rob Hudson has joined us as Group 
Finance Director on 28
th
 September 2015. His remuneration 
arrangements, details of which can be found on page 87, 
are fully consistent with our remuneration policy. In order to 
secure his appointment, the Committee agreed to take into 
account deferred unvested incentive awards from his previous 
employer which Rob would have forfeited. The Committee 
has taken particular care in ensuring that these arrangements 
are appropriate in light of our policy and replicate, as closely 
as possibly, the expected value, form and time horizons of the 
forfeited awards.
Looking ahead
As the focus on executive pay continues, the Committee 
remains mindful of the developing remuneration landscape. 
In 2016 we will consider our current remuneration policy 
against this backdrop, whilst ensuring that it remains 
clearly aligned to business strategy and promotes the 
long-term success of the Company. We will also consult 
with our major shareholders on the proposed scheme 
to replace our Performance Share Plan, which expires in 
2017. Resolutions seeking shareholder approval of both 
the remuneration policy and new long-term incentive 
arrangements will be put to the AGM in 2017.
Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Committee members 
for their hard work and support, including John Salmon who 
retired from the Committee and the Board in March 2015.
I hope that you find the report helpful and informative and I 
look forward to receiving feedback from our investors on the 
information presented.
Lesley James
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
1
st
 February 2016
This	report	complies	with	the	requirements	of	the	Large	and	Medium-
Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 
2008 as amended in 2013 (the Regulations), the principles of the 2014 
UK Corporate Governance Code and the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
72
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) How the Committee sets the remuneration policy
The primary objective of the Company’s remuneration 
policy is to attract, retain and motivate high-calibre senior 
executives through competitive pay arrangements which are 
structured so as to be in the best interests of shareholders. 
Remuneration includes a significant proportion of 
performance-related elements with demanding targets in order 
to align the interests of directors and shareholders and to 
reward appropriately strategic and financial success. The policy 
is structured so as to be aligned with key strategic priorities and 
to be consistent with a Board-approved level of business risk.
In setting the remuneration policy for the executive directors, 
the Committee takes into consideration the remuneration 
practices found in other UK companies of comparable size 
and scope and has regard to the remuneration arrangements 
for the Company’s employees generally. In general, the 
components and levels of remuneration for employees 
will differ from the policy for executive directors which is 
set out below. As a result, greater emphasis is placed on 
variable pay for executive directors and senior employees, 
albeit with lower maximum incentive opportunities at levels 
below the Board. Similarly, long-term incentives are offered 
only to those anticipated to have the greatest impact on 
Company performance.
The Committee does not directly consult with employees 
regarding the remuneration of directors. However, when 
considering remuneration levels to apply, the Committee will 
take into account base pay increases, bonus payments and 
share awards made to the Company’s employees generally.
The Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with 
shareholders and seeks the views of its major shareholders 
when considering significant changes to remuneration 
arrangements. The Committee also considers shareholder 
feedback received in relation to the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report each year at a meeting following the AGM. 
This feedback, plus any additional feedback received from time 
to time, is then considered as part of the Committee’s annual 
review of remuneration policy and its implementation.
Remuneration policy
The remuneration policy that came into effect on 1
st
 December 
2014 is set out on pages 74 to 81. Remuneration arrangements 
for the financial year ending 30
th
 November 2016 will be in line 
with the policy below; further information can be found on 
pages 90 and 91.
The Committee retains the discretion to make any payments, 
notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set 
out below, where the terms of the payment were agreed 
(i) before the policy came into effect, or (ii) at a time when 
the relevant individual was not a director of the Company 
and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not 
in consideration of the individual becoming a director of 
the Company. For these purposes ‘payments’ includes the 
Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, 
in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment 
are determined at the time the award is granted. Details of 
any such payments will be disclosed in the annual report on 
remuneration for the relevant year.
The Committee will operate the annual bonus and long-term 
incentive arrangements according to their respective rules 
and in accordance with the Listing Rules where relevant. 
Consistent with market practice the Committee retains certain 
discretions in respect of the operation and administration 
of these arrangements which include, but are not limited to, 
the following:
• the participants;
• the timing of the grant of an award or payment;
• the size of an award;
• the determination of the extent to which performance 
measures have been met and the corresponding vesting 
or payment levels;
• discretion required when dealing with a change of control 
or restructuring of the Group;
• determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules 
of the respective arrangement and the appropriate treatment 
chosen, including the pro-rating of awards;
• adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights 
issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends);
• the annual review of performance measures, weighting 
and targets from year to year; and
• the manner in which share awards can be satisfied 
(i.e. through the use of new issue, market purchased or 
treasury shares or by way of a cash payment).
Extracts from the Policy Report that was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM are set out below to enable the reported 
remuneration to be assessed in the context of the relevant aspects of the policy. The current intention is that this policy will 
operate until the 2017 AGM.
The original Policy Report approved at the 2014 AGM (which includes charts illustrating the remuneration opportunities for 
executive directors) is published in its entirety in the Company’s Annual Report for the year ended 30
th
 November 2013, which 
is available at www.stmodwen.co.uk. 
Remuneration Policy Report
73
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Remuneration Policy Report (continued)
In addition, the Committee retains the ability to adjust 
the targets and/or set different measures if events occur 
(e.g. a material acquisition and/or divestment of a Group 
business) which cause it to determine that the conditions are 
no longer appropriate and the amendment is required so 
that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not 
materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of the above discretions would be explained in the 
annual report on remuneration for the relevant year and 
may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the 
Company’s major shareholders.
Purpose Operation Opportunity
Performance 
measures
• To attract, retain 
and motivate 
individuals of the 
necessary calibre 
to execute the 
Company’s  
strategy.
• To provide 
competitive 
non-variable 
remuneration 
relative to the 
external market.
• To recognise 
and reward 
performance, 
skills and  
experience.
Normally reviewed annually with 
changes effective from  
1
st
 December. Review reflects:
• individual and 
corporate performance;
• the individual’s level of skill 
and experience;
• increases throughout the 
Company (including cost of 
living awards); 
• internal relativities; and
• prevailing market 
conditions through periodic 
benchmarking for comparable 
roles in companies of a similar 
size and scope. The Committee 
is mindful of institutional 
investors’ concerns on the 
upward ratchet of base 
salaries and does not consider 
benchmark data in isolation.
Salary increases will normally be 
(in percentage of salary terms) 
in line with any general cost 
of living increase throughout 
the Company. However, larger 
increases may be awarded at 
the Committee’s discretion 
to take account of individual 
circumstances such as:
• changes in scope and 
responsibility of a role; and
• where a new director is 
appointed at a salary which 
is at a lower level to reflect 
their experience at that point, 
the Committee may award 
a series of increases over 
time to achieve the desired 
salary position subject to 
satisfactory performance and 
market conditions.
Actual salary levels are 
disclosed in the annual report 
on remuneration for the 
relevant financial year (see 
page 90 for those effective 
1
st
 December 2015).
None, although 
overall performance 
of the individual is 
considered by the 
Committee as part of 
the annual review.
Base salary
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
74
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Purpose Operation Opportunity
Performance 
measures
• To provide a 
competitive and 
cost-effective 
benefits package.
• To assist with 
recruitment 
and retention.
The Company provides a range 
of non-pensionable benefits 
to executive directors which 
may include a combination 
of a company car or car 
allowance, private fuel, driver, 
private medical insurance, 
permanent health insurance, 
life assurance, holiday and 
sick pay, and professional 
advice in connection with 
their directorship. 
Other benefits such as 
relocation allowances may 
be offered if considered 
appropriate and reasonable 
by the Committee.
Benefits are set at a level which 
the Committee considers to be 
appropriately positioned against 
comparable roles in companies 
of a similar size and scope and 
provides a sufficient level of 
benefit based on the role and 
individual circumstances. 
None
Purpose Operation Opportunity
Performance 
measures
• To provide 
competitive 
post-retirement 
benefits in a cost-
effective manner.
• To assist with 
recruitment 
and retention.
The Company offers an 
allowance (expressed as a 
percentage of base salary) which 
can be taken as:
• an employer contribution 
to the defined contribution 
section of the Company’s 
pension scheme;
• a cash allowance (which is not 
bonusable); or
• a blend of the two.
As a result of historic contractual 
commitments retirement 
benefits for Steve Burke are 
also delivered by membership 
of the defined benefit section of 
the Company’s pension scheme 
which is closed to future accrual.
The Committee may amend 
the form of any executive 
director’s pension arrangements 
in response to changes in 
pensions legislation or similar 
developments, so long as any 
amendment does not increase 
the cost to the Company of a 
director’s pension provision.
15% of base salary for all 
executive directors. 
None
Benefits
Pension
75
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Purpose Operation Opportunity
Performance 
measures
• To incentivise and 
reward the delivery 
of stretching, 
near-term 
strategic, financial 
and operational 
measures at 
Company and 
personal levels.
• Corporate measures 
selected are 
consistent with 
and complement 
the budget and 
strategic plan.
• An element of 
compulsory 
investment in 
shares to align 
to shareholders’ 
interests in 
the creation of 
sustainable, long-
term value.
All measures and targets are 
reviewed and set annually by 
the Committee at the beginning 
of the financial year and levels 
of award determined by the 
Committee after the year end 
based on performance against 
the targets set.
The Committee retains an 
overriding discretion to ensure 
that overall bonus payments 
reflect its view of corporate 
performance during the year.
Bonuses are paid in cash 
and are non-pensionable. 
Directors are required to invest 
an amount equal to one third 
of the net bonus received in the 
Company’s shares and to retain 
these shares for a minimum 
period of three years.
Withholding and recovery 
provisions apply to all 
bonuses paid.
(1)
 
Maximum bonus potential 
of 125% of salary for all 
executive directors. On target 
performance would result in a 
bonus payment of 75% of salary.
Performance is 
assessed using the 
following metrics:
• up to 105% of salary 
will be awarded 
based on corporate 
measures; and
• up to 20% of salary 
will be awarded 
based on personal 
measures.
(2)
• The specific 
measures that 
will apply for 
the year ending 
30
th
 November 2016 
are described in the 
annual report on 
remuneration on 
page 90. 
(1) The Committee has discretion to recover some or all of the value of annual bonus if, within four years following payment, it acquires evidence to support the fact that the bonus has been 
overpaid due to a restatement of accounts, or there has been an error, or it is determined that the eligible executive committed an act of gross misconduct which, if known at the time, would 
have meant that a lower or nil bonus would have been paid. Overpayments can be recovered through clawing back the value of bonus payments direct from the executive, or by a reduction 
of future bonus payments or future payments under any other incentive plan.
(2) The annual bonus metrics are designed to ensure that annual performance is focused on key financial measures which support the Company’s strategic targets. These are supported by 
individual performance measures to ensure that executive directors are incentivised to deliver across a range of objectives. Targets are set in line with the Company’s budget and strategic 
plan for the year with a stretch element to reward substantial outperformance.
Annual bonus
Remuneration Policy Report (continued)
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
76
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Purpose Operation Opportunity
Performance 
measures
• To incentivise and 
reward the delivery 
of strong returns  
to shareholders 
and sustained, 
long-term  
performance.
• Aligns the long-
term interests of 
directors and  
shareholders.
• Promotes  
retention.
Awards of nil-cost options are 
normally made annually with 
vesting, in normal circumstances, 
dependent on the achievement 
of stretching performance 
conditions set by the Committee 
and measured over a three 
year period, and the director 
remaining in employment.
The Committee has discretion 
to decide whether and to what 
extent performance conditions 
have been achieved and must 
also be satisfied that two 
underpin conditions are met 
before permitting awards to 
vest.
(1)
On the exercise of vested 
awards, executive directors 
receive an amount (in cash or 
shares) equal to the dividends 
paid or payable between the 
date of grant and the date of 
exercise on the number of 
shares which have vested.
Withholding and recovery 
provisions apply to all awards 
granted.
(2)
Other than in exceptional 
circumstances as determined by 
the Committee, no further grants 
under the Executive Share 
Option Schemes (ESOS) will be 
made to executive directors.
Maximum award level permitted 
under the scheme rules is 150% 
of salary (or 180% in exceptional 
circumstances). The normal 
and current annual award 
limit is 125% of salary for all 
executive directors.
Awards vest on the 
following basis:
• on target performance delivers 
25% of the shares awarded; 
and
• maximum performance 
delivers 100% of the 
shares awarded
with straight line 
vesting between.
Performance is 
measured over a three 
year period with no 
retesting against the 
following metrics:
• 50% of the award 
based on relative TSR 
performance; and
• 50% of the award 
based on absolute 
TSR growth.
(3)
The specific measures 
that will apply for 
the year ending 
30
th
 November 2016 
are described in the 
annual report on 
remuneration on 
page 91. 
(1) The conditions are (i) that the extent of vesting under the performance conditions is appropriate given the general financial performance of the Company over the performance period; and 
(ii) if no dividend has been paid on the last normal dividend date prior to the vesting date or if the Committee believes that no dividend will be paid in respect of the year in which the award 
vests, the award will not vest at that time and vesting will be delayed (subject to continued employment) until dividend payments are resumed.
(2) The Committee has discretion to recover some or all of the value of any awards (calculated at vesting) if, within four years following vesting, it acquires evidence to support the fact that the 
value of awards has been overstated due to a restatement of accounts, or there has been an error, or it is determined that the eligible executive committed an act of gross misconduct which, 
if known at the time, would have meant that a lower or nil award would have vested. Vested awards can be recovered through clawing back the value of awards direct from the executive, or 
by a reduction of future awards on vesting or future bonus payments.
(3) The Committee believes that this combination of TSR measures provides strong alignment with the interests of shareholders and complements the focus on operational performance 
measures in the annual bonus arrangements. Targets are set to ensure that only modest awards are available for delivering on target performance with maximum rewards requiring 
substantial outperformance of the Company’s budget and strategic plans.
Long-term incentives
77
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Purpose Operation Opportunity
Performance 
measures
• To encourage 
all employees to 
make a long-term 
investment in the 
Company’s shares in 
a tax efficient way.
All employees, including 
executive directors, are 
entitled to participate in a UK 
tax approved all-employee 
share scheme.
The Company’s current all-
employee share scheme was 
approved at the 2014 AGM 
and allows employees to make 
monthly savings over a period 
of three or five years linked to 
the grant of an option over the 
Company’s shares.
At the end of the period, 
participants can use the monies 
to purchase shares at a discount 
(up to the maximum permitted 
by HMRC) to the market value of 
shares on the relevant invitation 
date. Alternatively they may ask 
for their savings to be returned 
with any accrued interest.
Maximum participation limits are 
set in line with HMRC guidelines 
in force at the time of award.
None
Purpose Operation Opportunity
Performance 
measures
• To ensure alignment 
of interests of 
executive directors 
and shareholders.
The Company operates a 
shareholding requirement which 
is subject to periodic review.
Executive directors are required 
to build up a shareholding worth 
200% of base salary within five 
years of appointment.
None
All-employee share schemes
Shareholding requirement
Remuneration Policy Report (continued)
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
78
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 79
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45
Purpose Operation Opportunity
Performance 
measures
• To pay fees in  
line with those 
paid by other UK 
listed companies of 
comparable size.
• Additional payments 
are made to the 
Senior Independent 
Director and 
Chairs of Board 
Committees to 
reflect the additional 
responsibilities 
attached to 
these positions.
Normally reviewed annually 
with changes effective 
from 1
st
 December, taking 
into account any cost of 
living increase applied 
throughout the Company. 
Periodic benchmarking for 
comparable roles in companies 
of a similar size and scope is 
also undertaken. 
Fees are structured as follows:
• the Chairman is paid an 
all-inclusive fee for all Board 
responsibilities. This fee is 
determined by the Board on 
the recommendation of the 
Committee; and
• non-executive directors 
are paid a basic fee, plus 
additional fees for chairing 
Board Committees or as Senior 
Independent Director which 
are determined by the Board 
on the recommendation of the 
executive directors.
Fees are currently paid in cash.
Neither the Chairman nor the 
other non-executive directors 
participate in the annual 
bonus or long-term incentive 
arrangements or in the pension 
scheme, nor do they receive 
benefits in kind.
Fees are set at a level which 
reflects the commitment and 
contribution that is expected 
and is appropriately positioned 
against comparable roles in 
companies of a similar size 
and scope.
Overall fees paid to directors 
will remain within the limit set 
out in the Company’s Articles 
of Association.
Actual fee levels are disclosed 
in the annual report on 
remuneration for the 
relevant financial year (see 
page 91 for those effective 
1
st
 December 2015).
None, although 
overall performance 
of the individual is 
considered as part of 
the annual review.
Fees payable to Chairman and non-executive directors Remuneration Policy Report (continued)
Recruitment arrangements
In the event of hiring a new executive director, the Committee 
will seek to align his or her remuneration package with the 
policy set out above. However, the Committee retains the 
discretion to offer appropriate remuneration outside of the 
standard policy to facilitate the hiring of candidates of an 
appropriate calibre and to meet the individual circumstances of 
the recruitment. This may, for example, include the following:
• where an interim appointment is made to fill an executive 
director role on a short-term basis;
• exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or 
a non-executive director takes on an executive function on 
a short-term basis;
• an executive director is recruited at a time in the year when 
it would be inappropriate to provide a bonus or long-term 
incentive award for that year as there would not be sufficient 
time to assess performance. The quantum in respect of the 
months employed during the year may be transferred to the 
subsequent year so that reward is provided on a fair and 
appropriate basis;
• an executive is recruited from a business that offered some 
benefits that the Committee might consider appropriate 
to buy out but that do not fall into the definition of ‘variable 
remuneration forfeited’ that can be included in the buyout 
element under the wording of the Regulations; or
• the executive received benefits from his or her previous 
employer which the Committee considers it appropriate 
to offer.
The Committee will, however, seek to ensure that 
arrangements are in the best interests of both the Company 
and its shareholders and to not pay more than is appropriate. 
For clarity and in line with the assurance given in the 
announcement published on the Company’s website on 
6
th
 March 2014, the Committee does not envisage using the 
discretion outlined above to offer ‘golden hello’ cash payments 
to facilitate recruitment.
Base salary levels for new recruits will be set in accordance with 
the policy, taking into account the experience and calibre of 
the individual recruited. Where it is appropriate to offer a lower 
salary initially to reflect the individual’s experience at that point, 
the Committee may award a series of increases over time to 
achieve the desired salary position subject to performance and 
market conditions. Pension arrangements will be in line with 
the policy.
Unless the Committee deems it appropriate to tailor benefits 
to the unique circumstances of the appointment, benefits 
will be provided in line with those made available to other 
executive directors, with relocation allowances offered if 
considered necessary.
The Committee may structure a remuneration package that 
it considers appropriate to recognise incentive pay or benefit 
arrangements that the individual would forfeit on resigning 
from his or her previous employer. This may take the form 
of cash and/or share awards as appropriate. In doing so the 
Committee will take account of relevant factors including 
the form (e.g. cash or shares), timing and expected value 
(i.e. likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria) of 
the remuneration being forfeited. The Committee will generally 
seek to structure buyout awards on a comparable basis to 
awards forfeited. Replacement share awards, if used, will, to 
the extent possible, be granted using the Company’s existing 
share schemes, although awards may also be granted outside 
of these schemes if necessary and as permitted under the 
Listing Rules (which allow for the grant of awards to facilitate, 
in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of a director).
The Committee may also apply different performance 
measures, performance periods and/or vesting periods for 
initial awards made following appointment under the annual 
bonus and/or long-term incentive arrangements, subject to the 
rules of the scheme, if it determines that the circumstances of 
the recruitment merit such alteration.
The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to 
new executive directors, excluding the value of any buyout 
arrangements, will be in line with the policy.
Where a position is fulfilled internally, the Committee will 
honour any pre-existing remuneration obligations or 
outstanding variable pay arrangements in relation to the 
individual’s previous role such that these shall be allowed to 
continue according to the original terms (adjusted as relevant 
to take account of the Board appointment).
Fees payable to a newly-appointed Chairman or non-executive 
director will be in line with the fee policy in place at the time 
of appointment. 
External appointments
The Board recognises the benefit which the Company can 
obtain if executive directors serve as non-executive directors 
of other companies. Subject to review in each case, the 
Board’s general policy is that an executive director can accept 
one non-executive directorship of another company (but 
not the chairmanship) and can retain the fees in respect of 
such appointment. 
Executive director service contracts and payments for loss 
of office
All current executive directors have service contracts which 
may be terminated by the Company for breach by the 
executive or with 12 months’ notice from the Company and six 
months from the individual. None have fixed terms of service. 
Service contracts for new executive directors will generally be 
limited to 12 months’ notice.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
80
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Remuneration element ‘Good’ leavers Other leavers
Annual bonus An executive director will be treated as a good 
leaver if he or she dies or ceases employment 
due to injury, disability, retirement with the 
Company’s agreement, or sale of the business in 
which he or she is employed.
In these circumstances, the executive director 
remains eligible to be paid a bonus, subject to the 
applicable performance measures. Any payment 
awarded may be pro-rated to reflect the period of 
time served from the start of the financial year to 
the date of termination, but not for any period in 
lieu of notice.
Unless the Committee exercises its discretion to 
treat the executive director as a good leaver, no 
bonus will be payable.
Long-term incentive awards
(as apply to the Company’s current 
Performance Share Plan)
An executive director will be treated as a good 
leaver if he or she dies or ceases employment 
due to injury or disability.
Unvested awards can be exercised either on date 
of cessation or after three years from grant, in 
either case pro-rated for time employed during 
the performance period, achievement of 
applicable performance measures, and having 
regard to such other factors as the Committee 
may deem relevant.
All awards will lapse in full where termination is by 
reason of summary dismissal.
In other circumstances unvested awards will lapse 
in full unless the Committee applies discretion to 
treat the executive director as a good leaver.
If notice is served by either party, the executive director can 
continue to receive base salary, benefits and pension for the 
duration of their notice period during which time the Company 
may require the individual to continue to fulfil their current 
duties or may assign a period of garden leave. The Company 
may elect to make a payment in lieu of notice equivalent 
in value to 12 months’ base salary, payable in monthly 
instalments, which would be subject to mitigation if alternative 
employment is taken up during this time. Alternatively, 
this payment may be paid as a lump sum. In the event of 
termination for cause (e.g. gross misconduct) neither notice 
nor payment in lieu of notice will be given and the executive 
director will cease to perform his services immediately. 
In redundancy situations the Committee will comply with 
prevailing relevant legislation. In addition, and consistent 
with market practice, the Company may pay a contribution 
towards the executive director’s legal fees for entering into 
a statutory agreement and may pay a contribution towards 
fees for outplacement services as part of a negotiated 
settlement. There is no provision for additional compensation 
on termination following a change of control. Payment may 
also be made in respect of accrued benefits, including untaken 
holiday entitlement.
The principles set out in the table below will apply to annual 
bonus and long-term incentive arrangements in the event of 
loss of office.
In respect of all-employee share schemes and the Company’s 
Executive Share Option Schemes, the same leaver conditions 
will be applied to executive directors as those applied to 
other employees.
Non–executive director terms of appointment
The terms of service of the Chairman and the other non-
executive directors are contained in letters of appointment. 
Appointments are for a fixed term of three years, during which 
period the appointment may be terminated by three months’ 
notice by either party. Non-executive directors are typically 
expected to serve two three-year terms subject to mutual 
agreement and satisfactory performance reviews. There are 
no provisions for payment in the event of termination, early 
or otherwise.
81
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Annual Report on Remuneration
This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3, Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013 and with the requirements of the Financial 
Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules. 
Remuneration payable (audited information)
Base salary/fees
£000
Benefits
(1)
£000
Annual bonus
(2)
£000
Share plans 
vesting
£000
Pension 
contribution/
allowance
(5)
£000
Other items
£000
Total
£000
Director 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015
(3)
2014
(4)
2015 2014 2015 2014
(6)
2015 2014
Executive directors
Bill Oliver 485 471 31 34 606 588 1,032 1,750 73 71 – 169 2,227 3,083
Steve Burke 320 311 11 26 400 388 681 1,155 48 47 – 67 1,460 1,994
Michael Dunn
(7)
146 283 6 11 182 353 462 1,051 22 42 – – 818 1,740
Rob Hudson
(8)
49 – 39 – 61 – – – 7 – – – 156 –
Non-executive 
directors
Bill Shannon 155 150 – – – – – – – – – – 155 150
Ian Bull 49 10 – – – – – – – – – – 49 10
Kay Chaldecott 42 41 – – – – – – – – – – 42 41
Simon Clarke 42 41 – – – – – – – – – – 42 41
Lesley James 51 50 – – – – – – – – – – 51 50
Richard Mully 51 50 – – – – – – – – – – 51 50
John Salmon
(9)
17 50 – – – – – – – – – – 17 50
1,407 1,457 87 71 1,249 1,329 2,175 3,956 150 160 – 236 5,068 7,209
(1) All benefits for the executive directors (comprising mainly the provision of company car/car allowance, private fuel and medical insurance) arise from employment with the Company and 
do not form part of final pensionable pay. Rob Hudson is also entitled to a relocation allowance of up to 25% of base salary in respect of reasonable and appropriate costs to enable him to 
relocate to the Midlands following his appointment on 28
th
 September 2015; in the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 payments totalling £37,471 were made to Rob Hudson in connection 
with his relocation.
(2) Bonus payable in respect of the relevant financial year. Further information as to how the level of bonus awarded in 2015 was determined is provided on pages 83 and 84.
(3) Relates to the 2013 PSP awards which are due to vest and become exercisable on 6
th
 March 2016. As the awards had not vested as at the date of this report, their value has been estimated 
using a share price of 433.7p, being the three month average to 30
th
 November 2015, plus 12.92p per share which is the value of the dividend equivalent deliverable in shares on the awards 
that vest. The dividend equivalent is based on dividends paid to shareholders with record dates occurring between the date of grant and 30
th
 November 2015. Further information on the 
awards and the performance conditions to which they were subject can be found on pages 84 and 85.
(4) Relates to the 2012 PSP awards which vested and became exercisable on 17
th
 February 2015. The share price used to value the awards was 470.00p, being the share price on the vesting 
date, plus 11.293p per share which is the value of the dividend equivalent deliverable in shares on vesting. The dividend equivalent is based on dividends paid to shareholders with record 
dates occurring between the date of grant and the date of vesting.
(5) Further details regarding pension entitlements can be found on pages 86 and 87.
(6) Values shown comprise the notional gain on the exercise of options granted under the Company’s Executive Share Option Schemes and Saving Related Share Option Scheme.
(7) Stepped down from the Board on 31
st
 May 2015. Values for 2015 reflect remuneration received as a director in the period from 1
st
 December 2014 to 31
st
 May 2015. Information on the 
payments made to Michael Dunn for the period from 1
st
 June 2015 to 30
th
 November 2015 can be found on page 87.
(8) Appointed to the Board on 28
th
 September 2015. Further information on the recruitment arrangements for Rob Hudson can be found on page 87.
(9) Retired from the Board on 27
th
 March 2015.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
82
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Annual bonus outturn (audited information)
In the financial year ended 30
th
 November 2015 all executive directors had the opportunity to be awarded an annual bonus of 
up to 125% of base salary as at 1
st
 December 2014. Of this, 105% of salary was dependent on achieving corporate measures and 
20% on meeting personal objectives, details of which are set out in the table below.
Measure
On target
performance
(1)
Maximum
performance
(2)
Actual performance
Corporate (105% of salary)
Post dividend growth in shareholders’ equity net asset value per share 21% growth
Committee 
discretion
27% growth to 
413.5p
Profit before all tax £231.2m
Committee 
discretion £258.4m
Total dividend for the year
5.5p 
per share
Committee 
discretion 5.75p per share
Gearing levels
(3)
48% 48% 48%
Covenant compliance Full Full Full 
Achievement against a number of strategic objectives which  
primarily included:
• achieving targeted development milestones to support future  
profit delivery; and
• progressing acquisitions to enhance the Company’s land bank.
Achievement determined 
by the Committee against 
measurable objectives set 
at the beginning of 
the year
Achieved  
in full as detailed 
in the 
Strategic Report
Personal (20% of salary)
Achievement against a number of operational objectives which 
primarily included:
• achieving unconditional status in respect of New Covent Garden Market 
and the identification of procurement options;
• delivering completion of the first phase at Bay Campus, Swansea University;
• initiation and development of PRS programme;
• advancing the embedding of risk management across the Group;
• development of longer-term resourcing arrangements in line with 
business needs; and
• enhancing the Company’s CSR activities.
Achievement determined 
by the Committee against 
measurable objectives set 
at the beginning of 
the year
Achieved in full as 
detailed in the 
Strategic Report
(1) Total bonus which can be awarded for on target performance is 75% of salary (60% of the maximum bonus opportunity).
(2) Total bonus which can be awarded for maximum performance is 125% of salary (100% of the maximum bonus opportunity).
(3) Defined as adjusted gearing, being the ratio of net borrowings (excluding finance leases) to net assets, and consistent with the measure set at the beginning of the year.
The executive directors’ individual performance was assessed by the Committee against the measures, relying on audited 
information where appropriate, and having regard to the value which has been created for shareholders. Weightings were 
not given to individual corporate measures; since they are all of key importance to the short- and longer-term success of the 
Company, the Committee did not wish to distort behaviour by placing particular focus on any single element.
As noted in the Strategic Report, the Company has had an exceptional year, delivering record profits and strong growth in net 
asset value. Performance highlights include:
• shareholders’ equity net asset value per share increasing by 27% to 413.5p per share;
• an unprecedented increase in profit before all tax of 91% to £258.4m;
• realised property profits up by 31% to £67.4m;
• earnings per share up 82% to 97.9p;
• total dividend for the year increased by 25% to 5.75p per share;
• valuation gain of £201.7m, of which £166.0m was as a result of planning and asset management initiatives;
• significant milestones achieved across all major projects, including achieving unconditional status for the redevelopment of New 
Covent Garden Market in April 2015, the opening of Bay Campus at Swansea University in September 2015 and completion of 
the second phase of Longbridge Town Centre, including a new 150,000 sq ft flagship store for Marks & Spencer; and
• the continued recycling of capital through disposals of mature assets, such as Cranfield University Technology Park, into added-
value acquisitions, such as Kirkby Town Centre.
83
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
In light of both corporate and individual performance, the Committee determined that each executive director should be awarded 
the maximum bonus potential of 125% of base salary earned in the year. Consequently the award made to Michael Dunn was 
pro-rated in respect of the period from 1
st
 December 2014 to 31
st
 May 2015 when he commenced garden leave and the award 
made to Rob Hudson reflected his appointment to the Board on 28
th
 September 2015.
Bonus payments made to Bill Oliver and Steve Burke were conditional upon the executive director undertaking to invest at least 
one third of the bonus received, after payment of income tax and national insurance, in the Company’s shares and to retain those 
shares for a minimum period of three years. The payment made to Rob Hudson was similarly conditional, albeit he was required 
to undertake to invest the full bonus received, after payment of income tax and national insurance.
Long-term incentives (audited information)
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
On 9
th
 April 2015, the following PSP awards were granted to executive directors as nil cost options:
Executive director Basis of award
Face value of award 
£000
(1)
Number of shares
% of award that would vest for
threshold performance
(2)
Bill Oliver 125% of salary £606 130,501 25%
Steve Burke 125% of salary £400 86,107 25%
(1) Calculated using the average share price of 464.37p which was, in accordance with the rules of the PSP, used to determine the number of shares to be awarded (being the average over the 
three dealing days immediately preceding the date of grant).
(2) The performance measures that apply to the awards mirror those proposed for the 2016 awards which are described on page 91. The performance period started on 1
st
 December 2014 
and will end on 30
th
 November 2017. 
Following his appointment on 28
th
 September 2015, the following PSP award was granted as a nil cost option to Rob Hudson on 
2
nd
 October 2015:
Executive director Basis of award
Face value of award
£000
(1)
Number of shares
% of award that would vest for
threshold performance
(2)
Rob Hudson 180% of salary £495 119,018 25%
(1) Calculated using the average share price of 415.9p which was, in accordance with the rules of the PSP, used to determine the number of shares to be awarded (being the average over the 
three dealing days immediately preceding the date of grant).
(2) The performance measures that apply to the award mirror those proposed for the 2016 awards which are described on page 91. The performance period started on 1
st
 December 2014 and 
will end on 30
th
 November 2017. 
The three year performance period for the 2013 PSP awards ended on 30
th
 November 2015. The performance conditions which 
applied to the awards together with actual performance are summarised in the table below.
Performance measure Weighting
Threshold
performance
Vesting of award 
at threshold 
performance
Maximum 
performance
Vesting of award 
at maximum 
performance
Actual 
performance
Proportion of 
award to vest
Absolute TSR growth 50% of award 20% 12.5% 50% 50% 122.65% 50%
TSR relative to 
FTSE All-Share Real 
Estate Investment & 
Services Index 50% of award
Equal to
Index 12.5%
120% of
Index 50%
142% of 
Index 50%
TOTAL 100%
To ensure that the level of vesting of PSP awards accurately reflected the performance of the Company during the period, the 
Committee also considered whether it was satisfied that the two underpins (details of which are set out in note 1 on page 77) 
had been met. In respect of the dividend underpin, an interim dividend of 1.9p per share was paid on 3
rd
 September 2015 and 
the Board is recommending that a final dividend for the year of 3.85p per share be paid on 1
st
 April 2016. Furthermore, the 
Committee currently has no reason to believe that dividends will not be paid in respect of the 2016 financial year, being the year 
in which the award will vest. The Committee was also satisfied that the level of vesting was appropriate given the general financial 
performance of the Company over the performance period, noting the following:
Key financial indicator
As at 1
st
 
December 2012
(1)
As at 30
th
 
November 2015 Improvement
Profit before all tax £52.8m £258.4m 389%
Shareholders’ equity net asset value per share 250.8p 413.5p 65%
Total dividend per share for the financial year 3.63p 5.75p 58%
Adjusted gearing 71% 48% 32%
See-through loan-to-value 41% 30% 27%
(1) Due to the negligible impact, financial information has not been restated to reflect the revised accounting treatment of VSM Estates (Holdings) Ltd under IFRS 10. See the Accounting Policies 
note on pages 116 and 117 of the Group Financial Statements for further information.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
84
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) The Committee therefore determined that the PSP awards granted in 2013 will vest in full and become exercisable on the third 
anniversary of grant (6
th
 March 2016). Further details can be found in the table below.
Executive director Total number of shares granted Number of shares to vest
Bill Oliver 231,077 231,077
Steve Burke 152,468 152,468
Michael Dunn 138,802 103,468
(1)
(1) Pro-rated to reflect the time elapsed from the date of grant to 31
st
 May 2015 when Michael Dunn stepped down from the Board. Further information can be found on page 87. 
Dividends will be treated as accruing from the date of grant to the date of exercise; on exercise the total dividend accrued is 
converted into shares using the average market price for the three dealing days immediately prior to the date of exercise and 
released to the director.
All PSP awards held by the executive directors who served during the year, together with any movements, are shown below.
Executive director
Date of  
grant
Awards held on 
1
st
 December 
2014
Awards made 
during year
Awards vested 
during year 
Awards 
exercised 
during year
Awards 
lapsed/
forfeited 
during year
Awards held
on 30
th
November
2015
(1)
End of
performance
period Exercise period
Bill Oliver 17/02/12 363,529 – 350,226 350,226
(2)
13,303
(3)
– 30/11/14
17/02/15 to 
16/02/22
06/03/13 231,077 – – – – 231,077 30/11/15
06/03/16 to 
05/03/23
05/03/14 150,141 – – – – 150,141 30/11/16
05/03/17 to 
04/03/24
09/04/15 – 130,501
(4)
– – – 130,501 30/11/17
09/04/18 to 
08/04/25
744,747 130,501 350,226 350,226 13,303 511,719
Steve Burke 17/02/12 239,863 – 226,560 226,560
(2)
13,303
(3)
– 30/11/14
17/02/15 to 
16/02/22
06/03/13 152,468 – – – – 152,468 30/11/15
06/03/16 to 
05/03/23
05/03/14 99,066 – – – – 99,066 30/11/16
05/03/17 to 
04/03/24
09/04/15 – 86,107
(4)
– – – 86,107 30/11/17
09/04/18 to 
08/04/25
491,397 86,107 226,560 226,560 13,303 337,641
Rob Hudson
(5)
02/10/15 – 119,018 – – – 119,018 30/11/17
02/10/18 to 
01/10/25
Michael Dunn
(6)
17/02/12 218,362 – 205,059 205,059
(2)
13,303
(3)
– 30/11/14
17/02/15 to 
16/02/22
06/03/13 138,802 – – – 35,334 103,468 30/11/15
06/03/16 to 
05/03/23
05/03/14 90,186 – – – 52,911 37,275 30/11/16
05/03/17 to 
04/03/24
447,350 – 205,059 205,059 101,558 140,743
(1) The performance conditions for all awards held on 30
th
 November 2015 mirror those proposed for the 2016 awards as described on page 91.
(2) Awards exercised on 17
th
 February 2015. In addition to the shares exercised, the executive directors received shares representing the value of dividends paid from the date of award to the 
date of exercise as follows: Bill Oliver: 8,753 shares; Steve Burke: 5,775 shares; Michael Dunn: 5,257 shares.
(3) The awards granted in 2012 comprised an approved ESOS award over 19,769 shares with an exercise price of 151.75p and a PSP award for the balance. On exercise the value delivered by 
the PSP awards was scaled back by the value delivered by the approved ESOS award to ensure that the total pre-tax value delivered to executive directors remained unchanged. Details of 
the approved ESOS awards granted in 2012 can be found in the table on page 86.
(4) The share price used to calculate the number of shares awarded, under the rules of the PSP, was 464.37p. The closing mid-market share price on the date of the award was 470p.
(5) Appointed to the Board on 28
th
 September 2015. The share price used to calculate the number of shares awarded to Rob Hudson in the year, under the rules of the PSP, was 415.9p. 
The closing mid-market share price on the date of award was 417p.
(6) Stepped down from the Board on 31
st
 May 2015 and ceased to be an employee on 18
th
 December 2015. PSP awards granted in 2013 and 2014 have been pro-rated to reflect the time 
elapsed from the date of grant to 31
st
 May 2015. Further information can be found on page 87.
85
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
Executive Share Option Schemes (ESOS)
ESOS awards held by the executive directors who served during the year, together with any movements, are shown below.
Executive director Date of grant
Options held 
on 1
st
 
December 
2014
Options 
granted during 
year
Options 
exercised 
during year
Options  
lapsed  
during year
Options held 
on 30
th
 
November 
2015
Exercise  
price 
Exercise  
period
Bill Oliver 15/08/05 102,955 – 102,955
(2)
– – 375.22p
(1)
15/08/08 to 
14/08/15
17/02/12
(3)
19,769 – 19,769
(2)
– – 151.75p
17/02/15 to 
16/02/22 
122,724 – 122,724 – –
Steve Burke 15/08/05 39,825 – 39,825
(2)
– – 375.22p
(1)
15/08/08 to 
14/08/15
17/02/12
(3)
19,769 – 19,769
(2)
– – 151.75p
17/02/15 to 
16/02/22 
59,594 – 59,594 – –
Michael Dunn
(4)
17/02/12
(3)
19,769 – 19,769
(2)
– – 151.75p
17/02/15 to 
16/02/22 
(1) Adjusted to take account of the dilutive effect of the 2009 equity issue.
(2) Exercised on 17
th
 February 2015.
(3) Granted in conjunction with the 2012 PSP awards so as to enable the executive directors to benefit from UK tax efficiencies under HMRC agreed share schemes legislation. For further 
information see note (3) to the table on page 85.
(4) Stepped down from the Board on 31
st
 May 2015.
No further grants under the ESOS will be made to executive directors other than in exceptional circumstances as determined by 
the Committee.
Saving Related Share Option Scheme (SAYE)
SAYE awards held by the executive directors who served during the year, together with any movements, are shown below.
Executive director Date of grant
Options held 
on 1
st
 
December 
2014
Options 
granted during 
year
Options 
exercised 
during year
Options  
lapsed  
during year
Options held 
on 30
th
 
November 
2015
Exercise  
price
Exercise  
period
Steve Burke 16/08/11 9,887 – – – 9,887 156p
01/10/16 to 
31/03/17
Michael Dunn
(1)
16/08/11 9,887 – – – 9,887 156p
01/10/16 to 
31/03/17
(1) Stepped down from the Board on 31
st
 May 2015 and ceased to be an employee on 18
th
 December 2015.
The closing mid-market share price on 30
th
 November 2015 was 432.5p and the price range during the year was 370.0p to 493.6p.
Pension entitlements (audited information)
All executive directors receive a pension contribution of 15% of base salary which is paid either into the defined contribution 
section of the Company’s pension scheme or as a cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution (or a combination of both). 
No compensation is offered for any additional tax suffered by an executive director in the event that the value of their pension 
exceeds the statutory Lifetime Allowance.
Pension contribution 
£
Cash allowance in lieu of 
pension contribution 
£
Total 
£
Executive director 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Bill Oliver – – 72,721 70,603 72,721 70,603
Steve Burke 39,996 42,192 7,987 4,393 47,983 46,585
Michael Dunn 18,000
(1)
38,136 3,841
(1)
4,273 21,841
(1)
42,409
Rob Hudson
(2)
– – 7,344 – 7,344 –
57,996 80,328 91,893 79,269 149,889 159,597
(1) Contributions made from 1
st
 December 2014 to 31
st
 May 2015 when Michael Dunn stepped down from the Board. Pension contributions paid from 1
st
 June 2015 to 30
th
 November 2015 are 
detailed on page 87.
(2) Appointed to the Board on 28
th
 September 2015.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
86
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Steve Burke is also a deferred member of the defined benefit section of the Company’s pension scheme, which was closed to new 
members in 1999 and to future accrual in 2009. Benefits are based on years of credited service and final pensionable pay; the 
maximum benefit generally payable under the scheme is two-thirds of final pensionable pay.
Information required by the Regulations in respect of defined benefit pension arrangements is set out below.
Executive director
Age at 
30
th
 November  
2015
Accrued 
pension at 
30
th
 November
2014
(1) 
£pa
Accrued
pension at 
30
th
 November
2015
(1) 
£pa
Increase in 
accrued pension 
during the year  
£pa
Increase in 
accrued pension 
during the year 
(excluding 
inflation)  
£pa
Steve Burke 56 28,006
(2)
28,342
(2)
336 0
(1) The accrued annual pension includes entitlements earned as an employee prior to becoming an executive director as well as for qualifying services after becoming an executive director and 
is that which would be paid annually on retirement at age 65 based on service to the end of the year.
(2) These figures have been calculated by applying deferred revaluation to Steve Burke’s deferred pension as at 1
st
 September 2009, being the date that accrual ceased under the defined 
benefits section of the scheme.
(3) The following is additional information relating to the defined benefit pension arrangements applicable to Steve Burke:
 – Normal retirement age is 65 years. Retirement may take place at any age after age 55 subject to Company consent. Pensions may be reduced to allow for their earlier payment.
 – There are no death in service benefits payable and no additional benefits due on early retirement.
 – Deferred pensions are assumed to increase in line with CPI capped at 5% per annum in the period before retirement.
Further information on the Company’s pension scheme is shown in note 18 to the Group Financial Statements.
Recruitment arrangements for Rob Hudson
Rob’s service contract and remuneration arrangements are consistent with the remuneration policy set out on pages 74 to 
81. His base salary is £275,000 and he is eligible for an annual bonus of up to 125% of that salary. He will also be eligible for 
an annual award under the Company’s PSP (the normal and current annual award limit is 125% of base salary). Additionally he 
receives a pension allowance of 15% of base salary and other benefits in line with the remuneration policy; these benefits include 
a relocation allowance of up to 25% of base salary in respect of reasonable and appropriate costs to enable Rob to relocate to 
the Midlands.
As a consequence of joining the Company, Rob was required to forfeit certain long-term incentives from his previous employer. 
In order to compensate him for that, the Committee agreed:
• a one-off cash payment of £414,000 in recognition of an outstanding long-term incentive award which had reached the end of 
the performance measurement period in March 2015 (such that the full value could be determined) but which was not due to 
vest until December 2015. As the vesting date fell soon after his appointment, a cash payment (rather than an award of shares) 
was considered fair and reasonable. The payment was made in December 2015 and was subject to the deduction of tax and 
national insurance contributions; and
• a PSP award over 119,018 shares in the Company granted on 2
nd
 October 2015, representing 180% of base salary. This award 
was in recognition of two outstanding long-term incentive awards for which performance measurement periods would end 
in March 2016 and 2017. The Committee took the view that the PSP award was appropriate as it was of a lower fair value and 
matched the form of and would vest later than the awards forfeited. Subject to the achievement of the same performance 
measures and period as apply to the PSP awards granted on 9
th
 April 2015, the award will vest on the third anniversary of grant.
Payments to past directors and for loss of office (audited information)
Further to the disclosure in last year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report, Michael Dunn stepped down from the Board on 31
st
 May 
2015. He remained on garden leave for the remainder of his notice period to 18
th
 December 2015 when he ceased to be an 
employee of the Company.
Details of his remuneration from 1
st
 December 2014 to 31
st
 May 2015 can be found in the table on page 82. For the period 
from 1
st
 June 2015 to 30
th
 November 2015 Michael received £145,605 in base salary, £5,644 in benefits and £21,841 in pension 
contribution. He remained eligible to be awarded a bonus, subject to the achievement of performance measures, in respect of the 
period from 1
st
 December 2014 to 31
st
 May 2015; further details can be found on pages 83 and 84.
The Committee has exercised discretion under the rules of the PSP to allow unvested awards to continue subject to time pro-
rating and performance assessment. Awards have been pro-rated to reflect the time elapsed from the date of grant to 31
st
 May 
2015; details can be found on pages 84 and 85. Satisfaction of the performance conditions will be assessed at the end of the 
relevant performance periods in line with the PSP rules and vesting will remain subject to the Committee’s determination as to 
whether the two financial underpins (details of which are set out in note 1 on page 77) have been met. To the extent that they 
vest, awards will be exercisable for a period of six months from the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The SAYE award held by Michael Dunn is exercisable to the extent of accumulated savings (plus any applicable interest) in the six 
months following 18
th
 December 2015.
The Company also paid £1,250 plus VAT to Michael Dunn’s lawyers in respect of legal fees incurred by him in connection with 
his departure.
87
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
Statement of directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited information)
The interests of the directors and their connected persons in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company are shown in the 
table below.
As at 30
th
 November 2015 As at 1
st
 December 2014
Ordinary 
shares
PSP awards 
vested but 
unexercised
PSP awards 
not yet 
vested
ESOS 
awards
SAYE 
awards
Ordinary 
shares
PSP awards 
vested but 
unexercised
PSP awards 
not yet 
vested
ESOS 
awards
(1)
SAYE 
awards
Executive 
directors
Bill Oliver 879,625 – 511,719 – – 854,625 – 744,747 102,955 –
Steve Burke 500,258 – 337,641 – 9,887 480,489 – 491,397 39,825 9,887
Michael Dunn 247,861
(2)
– 140,743
(2)
– 9,887
(2)
222,861 – 447,350 – 9,887
Rob Hudson – – 119,018 – – –
(3)
–
(3)
–
(3)
–
(3)
–
(3)
Non-executive 
directors
Bill Shannon 75,000 – – – – 75,000 – – – –
Ian Bull 15,000 – – – – 15,000 – – – –
Kay Chaldecott 10,000 – – – – 10,000 – – – –
Simon Clarke 3,112,657 – – – – 3,112,657 – – – –
Lesley James 20,000 – – – – 20,000 – – – –
Richard Mully 20,000 – – – – 20,000 – – – –
John Salmon 30,000
(4)
– – – – 30,000 – – – –
(1) Awards had vested but had not been exercised.
(2) On stepping down from the Board on 31
st
 May 2015.
(3) On appointment to the Board on 28
th
 September 2015.
(4) On retirement from the Board on 27
th
 March 2015.
There were no changes in these shareholdings or interests between 30
th
 November 2015 and the date of this report.
In order to reinforce the alignment of their interests with those of shareholders, executive directors are required to build up a 
holding of ordinary shares in the Company over a five year period worth at least 200% of their base salary. Both Bill Oliver and 
Steve Burke have met and exceeded the shareholding requirement; Rob Hudson has until 28
th
 September 2020 to do so.
Executive director
Ordinary shares held as at  
30
th
 November 2015
Shareholding requirement  
as % of base salary
Shareholding at 30
th
 November
 2015 as % of base salary
(1)
Bill Oliver 879,625 200% 785%
Steve Burke 500,528 200% 676%
Rob Hudson – 200% 0%
(1) Based on the closing mid-market share price on 30
th
 November 2015 of 432.5p and salary as at 30
th
 November 2015.
The Committee has noted investor sentiment and the provisions of the Code in respect of holding periods following the vesting or 
exercise of long-term incentive awards. Given the substantial shareholding requirement set out above, the element of compulsory 
investment in shares of the annual bonus arrangements and robust incentive withholding and recovery provisions, the Committee 
does not currently feel that such holding periods are necessary for the Company’s PSP arrangements. However, detailed 
consideration will be given to this area in 2016 in respect of both future long-term incentive design and remuneration policy 
provisions, both of which will be put to shareholders for approval at the 2017 AGM.
External appointments
Michael Dunn is a non-executive director of Metropolitan Housing Trust. He received and retained fees of £5,417 for the period 
from 1
st
 December 2014 to 31
st
 May 2015 when he ceased to be a director of the Company.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
88
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Historic Company performance and Chief Executive remuneration
The following information allows comparison of the Company’s TSR (based on share price growth and dividends reinvested) with 
the remuneration of Bill Oliver, Chief Executive, over the last seven financial years.
The chart is prepared in accordance with the Regulations. It shows the Company’s TSR and that of the FTSE 250 and the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment & Services Indices based on an 
initial investment of £100 on 30
th
 November 2008 and values at intervening financial year ends over a seven year period to 30
th
 November 2015. Since the Company was a constituent of both 
the FTSE 250 and the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment & Services Indices during the year, these are considered to be appropriate benchmarks for the graph.
Chief Executive remuneration for year ended  
30
th
 November 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Total remuneration (£000)
 (1)
876 902 1,049 1,672 2,419 3,083 2,227
Annual bonus awarded  
(as a % of maximum opportunity) 50.00
(2)
80.00 95.00 90.00 95.00 100.00 100.00
PSP vesting (as a % of 
maximum opportunity) 0.00 0.00 0.00 45.77
(3)
100.00 100.00 100.00
(1) Total remuneration includes those elements shown in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 82. 
(2) In addition to the annual bonus, the Chief Executive was also awarded a one-off, exceptional payment of £100,000 in relation to the successful equity raising and financial restructuring 
undertaken in the year. 
(3) Comprises 45.64% of the 2009 PSP awards and 45.89% of the 2010 PSP awards.
Change in remuneration of Chief Executive compared to employees
The table below shows the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus between the years ended 30
th
 November 
2015 and 30
th
 November 2014 for both the Chief Executive and for all permanent employees of the Company.
Change in base 
salary % 
Change in 
benefits % 
Change in 
annual bonus %
Chief Executive 3.0 0.0
(2)
3.0
All permanent employees 3.0
(1)
0.0
(3)
11.4
(4)
(1) General cost of living increase for permanent employees. Including adjustments for promotions and recognition of exceptional performance, the weighted average increase in  
salary was 4.6%.
(2) The year on year decrease in benefits shown in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 82 reflects a reduction in taxable benefit arising following a change of company car.
(3) There was no change to the overall structure of benefits available to permanent employees.
(4) Weighted average increase.
89
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45
30
th
 Nov
2008
30
th
 Nov
2009
30
th
 Nov
2010
30
th
 Nov
2011
30
th
 Nov
2012
30
th
 Nov
2013
30
th
 Nov
2014
30
th
 Nov
2015
£500
£0
£50
£100
£150
£200
£250
£350
£300
£400
£450
St. Modwen FTSE 250 FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment & Services Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
Relative spend on pay
The table below shows the total expenditure on remuneration for all employees of the Company (including pension, variable pay 
and social security costs) compared to other key financial indicators as reported in the audited Group Financial Statements for the 
last two financial years. Information in respect of profit and net asset value performance has been provided for context.
Measure
Relevant note to 
the Group 
Financial 
Statements
Year ended 
30
th
 November 
2014
Year ended 
30
th
 November 
2015 % Increase
Total spend on pay 3c £17.4m £21.8m 25%
Profit before all tax 2a £135.4m £258.4m 91%
Dividends paid 7 £9.1m £11.1m 22%
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 2f £718.1m £914.7m 27%
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2015/16
Base salary
In line with the general cost of living salary increase awarded to the Company’s permanent employees, Bill Oliver and Steve Burke 
received an annual salary increase of 3% with effect from 1
st
 December 2015. In light of his length of service the Committee 
determined that it was not appropriate to apply an increase to the salary payable to Rob Hudson.
Executive director
Base salary as at 
30
th
 November 
2015
Base salary 
with effect 
from 
1
st
 December 
2015 % Increase
Bill Oliver £484,807 £499,351 3.0%
Steve Burke £319,885 £329,481 3.0%
Rob Hudson
(1)
£275,000 £275,000 0.0%
(1) Appointed to the Board on 28
th
 September 2015.
Benefits and pension arrangements
Benefits and pension arrangements for the financial year ending 30
th
 November 2016 will be consistent with the respective 
policies detailed on page 75. 
Annual bonus
The annual bonus arrangements for the financial year ending 30
th
 November 2016 will operate on the same basis as for 2014/15 
and will be consistent with the annual bonus policy detailed on page 76 (including the Committee’s overriding discretion to ensure 
that payments reflect its view of corporate performance, the requirement for directors to invest an amount equal to one third of 
the net bonus received in the Company’s shares and the operation of withholding and recovery provisions).
Executive directors will have the opportunity to earn a bonus of up to 1 25% of salary based on achievement of the following measures:
Measure Proportion of salary payable
Corporate • Growth in shareholders’ equity net asset value per share
• Increase in profit before all tax
• Increase in total dividend for the year
• Gearing levels
• Covenant compliance
• Achievement against a number of strategic objectives
For on target performance: 65%
For maximum performance: 105%
Personal Achievement against a number of operational objectives For on target performance: 10%
For maximum performance: 20%
The measures have been selected to reflect a range of key financial and operational goals which support the Company’s strategic 
objectives. The respective targets have not been disclosed as they are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive. 
However, retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be provided in the Remuneration Report for 
the year ending 30
th
 November 2016 provided that they do not remain commercially sensitive at that time.
Bonus payments will not be dependent on achievement of any single target in isolation, since the measures and targets are all of 
key importance to the short and longer-term health of the Company and the Committee does not wish to distort behaviour by 
focusing on any single element. The executive directors’ performance will be assessed individually by the Committee against the 
measures and targets, relying on audited information where appropriate, and having regard to the value which has been created 
for shareholders.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
90
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Long-term incentives – PSP
As in 2014/15, PSP awards granted to executive directors in the financial year ending 30
th
 November 2016 will be over shares 
worth 125% of salary and will be consistent with the long-term incentives policy detailed on page 77 (including the application of 
the two underpin conditions before awards can vest and the operation of withholding and recovery provisions).
The Committee has undertaken a review of the TSR performance targets which will apply to the awards in order to consider 
changes in the outlook for the sector and the Company. It remains satisfied that the existing targets remain sufficiently challenging 
and intends to apply these to the awards to be granted in 2016; these targets are set out in the table below and will be measured 
over the three financial years ending on 30
th
 November 2018.
Performance measure Weighting
Threshold 
performance
Vesting of award 
at threshold 
performance
Maximum 
performance
Vesting of award 
at maximum 
performance
Absolute TSR growth 50% of award 20% 12.5% 50% 50%
TSR relative to FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment 
& Services Index 50% of award
Equal 
to Index 12.5%
120% 
of Index 50%
Vesting of awards between threshold and maximum performance will be on a straight line basis.
In calculating TSR, a three month average is used at both the start and the end of the performance period to ensure that the 
calculation is not impacted by potential volatility arising from day-to-day share price fluctuations. The TSR data and relative 
positioning of St. Modwen is provided by New Bridge Street to ensure that performance is independently verified.
Chairman and non-executive director fees
Following a review by the Board, the annual fees payable to the Chairman and non-executive directors have been increased in line 
with the cost of living salary increase awarded to the Company’s employees with effect from 1
st
 December 2015.
Fee as at 
30
th
 November 
2015
Fee with effect 
from 
1
st
 December 
2015 % Increase
Base fee
Chairman £154,500 £159,135 3.0%
Non-executive directors £42,436 £43,709 3.0%
Additional fees
Senior Independent Director £9,000 £9,000 0.0%
Audit Committee Chairman £9,000 £9,000 0.0%
Remuneration Committee Chairman £9,000 £9,000 0.0%
Dates of appointment of directors
Director Date of appointment
Date of contract/original  
letter of appointment Expiry of current term
Executive directors
Bill Oliver 24
th
 January 2000 7
th
 January 2016 N/A
Steve Burke 30
th
 November 2006 18
th
 January 2016 N/A
Rob Hudson 28
th
 September 2015 20
th
 April 2015 N/A
Non-executive directors
Bill Shannon
(1)
1
st
 November 2010 18
th
 October 2010 30
th
 October 2016
Ian Bull 1
st
 September 2014 21
st
 August 2014 31
st
 August 2017
Kay Chaldecott 22
nd
 October 2012 22
nd
 October 2012 21
st
 October 2018
Simon Clarke 11
th
 October 2004 4
th
 October 2014 10
th
 October 2016
Lesley James 19
th
 October 2009 19
th
 October 2009 18
th
 October 2016
Richard Mully 1
st
 September 2013 16
th
 July 2013 31
st
 August 2016
(1) Appointed Chairman on 22
nd
 March 2011.
91
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
Dilution limits
In line with the rules of the PSP, ESOS and SAYE, the Company observes the recommendation of The Investment Association that 
the number of new shares that may be issued to satisfy awards is restricted to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company over any rolling 10 year period. Whilst not formally within the rules of the Company’s existing executive share schemes, 
the Company also adheres to the recommended 5% in any rolling 10 year limit for its discretionary schemes.
The total number of shares which could be allotted under the Company’s share schemes compared to the dilution limits as at 
30
th
 November 2015 was as follows:
Type of scheme Limit Actual
All schemes 10% 3.24%
Executive schemes only 5% 2.99%
During the year a total of 500,000 shares were allotted to the Company’s Employee Share Trust (the Trust) to enable it to 
satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards. As at 30
th
 November 2015 the Trust held a total of 690,274 shares in the Company 
(2014: 460,427 shares) and has, in accordance with the Trust deed, waived the right to receive dividends paid on these shares with 
the exception of a hundredth of a penny per share.
Committee membership
The Committee’s composition is kept under review by the Nomination Committee, which is responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board as to its membership.
All members of the Committee receive an appropriate induction to ensure that they have a sound and objective understanding of 
the principles of, and recent developments in, executive remuneration matters. Ongoing training is undertaken as required. 
Remuneration Committee members Committee meetings and attendance during the year ended 30
th
 November 2015
(1)
Lesley James Chairman 3/3
Ian Bull Member 3/3
Kay Chaldecott Member 3/3
Richard Mully Member 3/3
John Salmon Member
(2)
1/1
Bill Shannon Member 3/3
(1) Actual attendance/maximum number of meetings a director could attend.
(2) Until retirement from the Board on 27
th
 March 2015.
Remuneration Committee attendees (by invitation)
Bill Oliver Chief Executive
Simon Clarke Non-executive director
Tanya Stote Company Secretary and secretary to the Committee
Representatives from New Bridge Street Remuneration Committee advisor
Advice provided to the Committee
New Bridge Street (NBS), a trading name of Aon Hewitt Ltd (the parent company of NBS) and part of Aon plc, was re-appointed by 
the Committee in 2014 following a tender process to provide independent advice on remuneration matters. Representatives from 
NBS attend Committee meetings and provide advice to the Committee Chairman outside of meetings as necessary. In 2014/15 
NBS provided specific advice to the Committee on remuneration arrangements relating to the departure of Michael Dunn and 
the appointment of Rob Hudson, the application of withholding and recovery provisions and TSR monitoring services. Fees are 
charged on a cost incurred basis and totalled £50,500 in the year ended 30
th
 November 2015.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and operates voluntarily under the Group’s code which sets out 
the scope and conduct of the role of executive remuneration consultants when advising UK listed companies. Neither NBS nor 
Aon plc undertakes any other work for the Company, and the Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by NBS remains 
objective and independent.
The Committee also receives input from Bill Oliver, the Chief Executive, on the remuneration arrangements of the other 
executive directors and of the Company Secretary, and advice from Tanya Stote, the Company Secretary, on governance matters. 
Neither the Chief Executive nor the Company Secretary were present when their own remuneration was discussed.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
92
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Activities of the Committee
The Committee met on three occasions in the financial year ended 30
th
 November 2015 to consider the following matters:
• to review the executive directors’ base salaries and the fee payable to the Chairman;
• to set corporate and personal objectives for the 2015/16 annual bonus arrangements for executive directors and undertake an 
assessment of performance against targets for 2014/15;
• to approve the outturn of PSP awards granted in 2012;
• to approve share awards granted in 2015 together with associated performance criteria;
• to approve the application of withholding and recovery provisions to the rules of both the PSP and annual bonus arrangements 
in line with Code requirements;
• to determine the application of the remuneration policy for the recruitment of Rob Hudson;
• to consider investor feedback on the Company’s remuneration policy and the report on directors’ remuneration for the 2014 
Annual Report;
• to review market trends and the governance environment in respect of remuneration arrangements;
• to formulate actions required to enable shareholder approval of the Company’s proposed remuneration policy and revised long-
term incentive arrangements to be sought in 2017; 
• to review the Committee’s performance and terms of reference; and
• to prepare this report on directors’ remuneration.
Statement of shareholder voting at the AGM
At the AGM held on 27
th
 March 2015 votes cast in respect of directors’ remuneration were as follows:
Resolution No. of votes for % of vote for
No. of votes 
against % of vote against Total votes cast Votes withheld
(1) 
To approve the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report  
(excluding the policy section) 165,897,466 98.54% 2,458,130 1.46% 168,355,596 387,682
(1) A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast for or against a resolution.
This report on remuneration has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
Lesley James
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
1
st
 February 2016
93
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 The directors present their report for the year ended 
30
th
 November 2015.
As permitted by legislation, some of the matters historically 
included in this report have instead been included in the 
Strategic Report on pages 1 to 45 as the Board considers 
them to be of strategic importance. Specifically these relate 
to the Company’s business model and strategy, future 
business developments and risk management. The corporate 
governance statement as required by the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is 
set out on pages 46 to 93 and is incorporated into this report 
by reference.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM of the Company will be held at 12.00 noon 
on Wednesday, 23
rd
 March 2016 at the Evolution Suite, 
Innovation Centre, 1 Devon Way, Longbridge Technology Park, 
Birmingham B31 2TS. The notice of meeting, which includes 
the special business to be transacted and an explanation of all 
the resolutions to be considered at the meeting, is set out on 
pages 167 to 174.
Dividend 
An interim dividend of 1.9p per ordinary share (2014: 1.463p) 
was paid on 3
rd
 September 2015.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 3.85p per ordinary 
share in respect of the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 
(2014: 3.137p), making a total dividend for the year of 5.75p per 
share (2014: 4.6p), payable on 1
st
 April 2016 to shareholders 
on the register on 4
th
 March 2016.
Other than as referred to under the heading ‘Share capital’ 
below, during the year there were no arrangements under 
which a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any 
dividends nor any agreement by a shareholder to waive 
future dividends.
Share capital 
Capital structure
The Company has a single class of share capital which is 
divided into ordinary shares of 10p each, all ranking pari passu. 
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of 
the Company.
At 30
th
 November 2015 there were 221,876,988 ordinary 
shares in issue and fully paid. Further details relating to share 
capital, including movements during the year, are set out in 
note (K) to the Company Financial Statements.
Share allotments
During the year, and in accordance with the authority granted 
by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, 500,000 ordinary shares 
were allotted at par value to the Company’s Employee Share 
Trust to enable it to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards 
of ordinary shares made under the Company’s share-based 
incentive arrangements. 
Purchase by the Company of its own shares
At the 2015 AGM, shareholders renewed the Company’s 
authority to make market purchases of up to 22,137,698 
ordinary shares, representing 10% of the issued share capital 
at that time. No shares were repurchased during the year 
and the Company does not hold any shares in treasury. 
This standard authority will expire at the 2016 AGM and a 
resolution to renew it will be proposed.
Employee Share Trust (Trust)
As at 30
th
 November 2015, the Trust held 690,274 shares 
(2014: 460,427 shares), representing 0.31% (2014: 0.21%) of 
the Company’s issued share capital. The Trust deed contains 
a dividend waiver provision in respect of shares held by the 
Trust, such that dividends are waived with the exception of a 
hundredth of a penny per share. Any voting or other similar 
decisions relating to shares held by the Trust would be taken by 
the Trustee, who may take account of any recommendations of 
the Company. There were no purchases of shares by the Trust 
during the financial year.
Further details regarding the Trust and of shares issued 
pursuant to the Company’s share-based incentive 
arrangements are set out in note (K) to the Company Financial 
Statements.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares 
The holders of ordinary shares in the Company are entitled 
to receive dividends when declared, to receive the Company’s 
annual report, to attend and speak at general meetings of the 
Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights. 
Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in 
respect of the resolutions to be considered at the 2016 AGM 
are set out in the notice of meeting on pages 167 to 174. 
Restrictions on the transfer of shares 
As at 30
th
 November 2015 and the date of this report, except 
as referred to below:
• there were no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares 
in the Company;
• there were no limitations on the holding of ordinary shares;
• there were no requirements to obtain the approval of the 
Company, or of other holders of ordinary shares in the 
Company, for a transfer of shares; and
• no person held shares in the Company carrying any special 
rights with regard to control of the Company.
The directors may refuse to register the transfer of a share 
in certificated form which is not fully paid or on which the 
Company has a lien, where the instrument of transfer does 
not comply with the requirements of the Company’s Articles 
of Association (Articles), or if the transfer is in respect of more 
than one class of share or is in favour of more than four joint 
holders. The directors may also refuse to register a transfer 
of a certificated share, which represents an interest of at least 
0.25% in a class of shares, following the failure by the member 
or any other person appearing to be interested in the shares 
to provide the Company with information requested under 
section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 (Act). 
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using 
CREST and the directors can refuse to register the transfer 
of an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations 
governing the operation of CREST.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of 
shares or on voting rights. 
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
94
Directors’ Report Interests in voting rights 
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the FCA’s 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTR 5) is published on a 
Regulatory Information Service and on the Company’s website. 
As at 30
th
 November 2015, the following information had been 
received in accordance with DTR 5 from holders of notifiable 
interests in the Company’s issued share capital.
The information provided below was correct at the date of 
notification; however the date the notification received may 
not have been within the current financial year. It should be 
noted that these holdings are likely to have changed since 
the Company was notified. Notification of any change is not 
required until the next notifiable threshold is crossed.
Shareholder Nature of holding Total voting rights
% of total voting 
rights
The late Lady Clarke and connected parties  
(including Simon Clarke) Direct interest 18,575,196 8.43%
J.D. Leavesley and connected parties Direct interest 13,447,099 6.07%
Aviva plc Direct interest 8,889,142 4.02%
Indirect interest 5,582,987 2.52%
Total 14,472,129 6.54%
BlackRock, Inc. Indirect interest 11,075,661 5.03%
Royal London Asset Management Ltd Direct interest 11,186,531 5.04%
TR Property Investment Trust plc Direct interest 6,802,638 3.40%
No changes in interests in the voting rights of the Company’s issued share capital have been notified to the Company in 
accordance with DTR 5 between 30
th
 November 2015 and 1
st
 February 2016.
Directors
The Board
The following served as directors during the year ended 
30
th
 November 2015: 
• Ian Bull
• Steve Burke
• Kay Chaldecott
• Simon Clarke
• Michael Dunn (stepped down from the Board on 
31
st
 May 2015)
• Rob Hudson (appointed on 28
th
 September 2015)
• Lesley James
• Richard Mully
• Bill Oliver
• John Salmon (retired on 27
th
 March 2015)
• Bill Shannon
The biographical details of all the directors serving at 
30
th
 November 2015, including details of their relevant 
experience and other significant commitments, are shown 
on pages 48 and 49.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report, which includes details 
of directors’ service contracts and their interests in the 
Company’s shares, is set out on pages 70 to 93. Copies of the 
service contracts of the executive directors and the letters of 
appointment for the non-executive directors are available for 
inspection at the Company’s registered office during normal 
business hours and will be available for inspection at the 
Company’s AGM.
Appointment and replacement of directors 
The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by 
the Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code (Code), the Act 
and related legislation. Under the Articles:
• the number of directors is not subject to any maximum but 
must not be less than three, unless otherwise determined by 
the Company in general meeting;
• directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of 
the Company or by resolution of the directors, either to fill a 
casual vacancy or as an additional director; and
• a director appointed by the directors must retire at the 
next AGM and is not taken into account in determining the 
directors who are to retire by rotation at the meeting.
The Articles require that at least one third of the Board 
must retire by rotation at each AGM. Notwithstanding these 
provisions, the Board has agreed that all directors will seek  
re-election at each AGM in accordance with the Code. At the 
2016 AGM Robert Hudson, who was appointed by the 
directors in September 2015, will retire and be offering himself 
for election; all other directors will be offering themselves for 
re-election.
95
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Directors (continued)
A director may be removed by a special resolution of the 
Company. In addition, a director must automatically cease 
to be a director if he or she:
• resigns from his or her office by notice in writing to the 
Company or, in the case of an executive director, the 
appointment is terminated or expires and the directors 
resolve that his or her office be vacated;
• becomes bankrupt or makes any arrangement or 
composition with his or her creditors generally;
• is suffering from a mental disorder;
• is absent from meetings of the directors for more than six 
consecutive months without permission of the directors and 
the directors resolve that his or her office be vacated; or
• becomes prohibited by law from acting as a director.
Powers of the directors 
The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the 
Company, subject to the Articles, UK legislation including 
the Act and any directions given by the Company in 
general meeting.
The directors have been authorised by the Articles to issue 
and allot ordinary shares and to make market purchases of 
the Company’s own shares. These powers are referred to 
shareholders for renewal at each AGM. Further information is 
set out under the heading ‘Share capital’ on page 94.
Conflicts of interest
With the exception of service contracts or those contracts 
detailed in note 22 to the Group Financial Statements, no 
director had a material interest in any significant contract with 
the Company or any of its operating companies at any time 
during the year.
Under the Act, directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts 
of interest with the Company. As permitted by the Act, the 
Articles enable non-conflicted directors to authorise actual 
or potential conflicts of interest, either with or without limits 
or conditions. Formal procedures for the notification and 
authorisation of such conflicts are in place. Any potential 
conflicts of interest in relation to newly appointed directors are 
considered by the Board prior to appointment. All directors 
have a continuing duty to update any changes to conflicts.
Indemnities and insurance
The Company has granted indemnities to each of its directors 
and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law in 
respect of costs of defending claims against them and third 
party liabilities. These provisions, deemed to be qualifying third-
party indemnity provisions pursuant to section 234 of the Act, 
were in force during the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 and 
remain in force as at the date of this report.
A copy of the indemnity is available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office during normal business hours and 
will be available for inspection at the Company’s AGM.
The Company also maintains directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action 
taken against its directors.
Articles of Association 
The Articles can only be amended, or new Articles adopted, by 
a special resolution at a general meeting of the Company.
A resolution to adopt new Articles will be put to shareholders at 
the 2016 AGM; further information can be found in the notice 
of meeting on pages 167 to 174.
Change of control 
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or 
terminate upon a change of control of the Company following 
a takeover bid. These include committed bank facilities, 
which would be terminable at the bank’s discretion, and the 
Company’s retail and convertible bonds, holders of which 
would have an option to require the Company to redeem 
the bonds.
The Company’s share-based incentive arrangements contain 
provisions that take effect in the event of a change of control 
but do not entitle participants to a greater interest in the shares 
of the Company than created by the initial grant or award 
under the relevant scheme.
There are no agreements between the Company and its 
directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of 
office or employment that occurs specifically as a result of a 
takeover bid.
Financial instruments 
The Group’s exposure to and management of capital risk, 
market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk is set out in note 16 to 
the Group Financial Statements.
Employee involvement 
St. Modwen is committed to regular communication and 
consultation with its employees and encourages employee 
involvement in its performance. News concerning St. Modwen, 
its activities and performance is published on the Company’s 
intranet. Regular management meetings are held to inform 
senior staff about matters affecting them as employees, at 
which their feedback is sought on decisions likely to affect their 
interest, and where a common awareness of the financial and 
economic factors affecting the Company’s performance is 
developed; this information is then cascaded to all employees. 
A performance-related annual bonus scheme and share 
option arrangements are designed to encourage and support 
employee share ownership.
Employment of disabled persons 
It is the policy of the Company to give full and fair consideration 
to applications for employment received from disabled 
persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and 
abilities. The policy includes, where practicable, the continued 
employment of those who may become disabled during 
their employment with the Company and the provision 
of appropriate training. St. Modwen provides the same 
opportunities for training, career development and promotion 
for disabled as for other employees.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
96
Directors’ Report (continued) Greenhouse gas emissions 
The disclosures required by law relating to the Group’s 
greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) are set out in the table below. 
GHG from those sources for which the Company is deemed to 
be directly responsible are monitored for reporting purposes, 
namely gas and electricity purchased for consumption at 
properties under the Company’s operational control (such 
as Head Office, certain regional offices, St. Modwen Homes’ 
sales offices and vacant space), and petrol and diesel used in 
Company cars.
Political donations 
In accordance with the Company’s policy, no political donations 
were made and no political expenditure was incurred during 
the year.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely 
to affect its future development, performance and position, are 
set out in the Strategic Report. The directors have considered 
these factors and reviewed the financial position of the Group, 
including its joint ventures and associates.
The review included an assessment of future funding 
requirements based on cash flow forecasts extending for 
18 months from the date of signing the Financial Statements, 
valuation projections and the ability of the Group to meet 
covenants on existing borrowing facilities. The directors were 
satisfied that the forecasts and projections were based on 
realistic assumptions and that the sensitivities applied in 
reviewing downside scenarios were appropriate.
As described in the Financial Review on pages 30 to 35, there 
are no corporate or joint venture facilities that require renewal 
before 2018. As a result the directors are satisfied that the 
Group will have sufficient ongoing facilities available to meet its 
financing requirements.
Based on their assessment, the directors are of the opinion 
that the Group has adequate available resources to fund its 
operations for the foreseeable future and so determine that 
it remains appropriate for the Financial Statements to be 
prepared on a going concern basis.
2015 intensity ratio 2014 intensity ratio
(3)
GHG
CO2 emissions 
(tonnes)
tCO2
emissions/
full-time
employees
(1)
tCO2
emissions/£m
property
portfolio
(2)
CO2 emissions 
(tonnes)
tCO2 emissions/
full-time
employees
(1)
tCO2 emissions/
£m property
portfolio
(2)
Scope 1:
Total purchased gas 433 222
Petrol and diesel 586 542
Total Scope 1 1,019 3.3 0.5 764 2.7 0.6
Scope 2:
Total purchased electricity 1,529 937
Total Scope 2 1,529 4.9 0.7 937 3.3 0.7
Total Scope 1 & 2 2,548 8.2 1.2 1,701 6.0 1.3
(1) Equivalent CO2 emissions per full-time employee. 
(2) Equivalent CO2 per £m of property portfolio held by the Company. 
(3) Due to the negligible impact, information has not been restated to reflect the revised accounting treatment of VSM Estates (Holdings) Ltd under IFRS 10. See the Accounting Policies note on 
pages 116 and 117 of the Group Financial Statements for further information. 
Methodology 
Emissions from gas and electricity consumption have been calculated using the main requirements of the GHG Protocol Standard (revised edition) and emission factors from UK Government’s 
GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014. The measurement of emissions from Company cars is based on the ‘Environmental Reporting Guidelines: Including mandatory 
greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance’ (June 2013) issued by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA). DEFRA’s 2013 conversion factors have also been used 
within the reporting methodology. 
Organisation boundary and responsibility 
The Company does not have responsibility for GHG that are beyond the boundary of the Company’s operational control. As such, gas and electricity purchased and consumed by tenants is not 
included within the Scope 1 and 2 data above. Data also excludes the purchase for and consumption by those sites which fall within the Persimmon joint venture as Persimmon controls the 
procurement of utilities to these sites. GHG for all other joint ventures has been included as the Company is deemed to be wholly responsible for such GHG.
97
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Disclosure required by Listing Rule 9.8.4R
The information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.4R of the FCA’s Listing Rules can be found on the following pages of this 
Annual Report:
Important events since 30
th
 November 2015 
There have been no important events affecting the Company 
or any subsidiary since 30
th
 November 2015.
Auditor
Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the 
Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine 
their remuneration will be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
Management report
The Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report together 
comprise the ‘management report’ for the purposes of the 
FCA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTR 4.1.8R).
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Financial 
Statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors 
are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Company 
Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company law 
the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Company and of the Group and of their profit or loss for 
that period. 
In preparing the Group Financial Statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; 
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance; and
• make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
In preparing the Company Financial Statements, the directors 
are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the Financial 
Statements; and
• prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
Section Topic Page reference
(1) Interest capitalised N/A
(2) Publication of unaudited information N/A
(4)
Details of long-term incentive schemes established specifically to recruit 
or retain a director N/A
(5) & (6) Waiver of emoluments by a director N/A
(7) & (8) Non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash 144
(9) Parent company participation in placing by a listed subsidiary N/A
(10) Contracts of significance N/A
(11) Provision of services by a controlling shareholder N/A
(12) & (13) Shareholder waiver of dividends 94
(14) Agreements with controlling shareholders N/A
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Corporate Governance
98
Directors’ Report (continued) The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of the Company and enable them 
to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Act. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website (www.stmodwen.co.uk). Legislation in the 
United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination 
of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors in office as at the date of this report, 
whose names and functions are set out on pages 48 and 49, 
confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
• the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the 
relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole;
• the management report (which comprises the Strategic 
Report and the Directors’ Report) includes a fair review of 
the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of 
the principal risks and uncertainties that they face; and
• the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a 
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s position and performance, business model 
and strategy.
Each of the directors in office as at the date of this report also 
confirms that:
• so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and 
• the director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have 
taken as a director in order to make himself/herself aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Act. 
The Directors’ Report, prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Act and the FCA’s Listing and Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules and comprising pages 94 to 99, was 
approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by 
Tanya Stote
Company Secretary
1
st
 February 2016
99
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Opinion on Financial 
Statements of 
St. Modwen Properties PLC
In our opinion:
• the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the 
Parent Company’s affairs as at 30
th
 November 2015 and of the Group’s profit for the year 
then ended;
• the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union;
• the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance 
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation.
The Financial Statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow 
Statement, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and the related Group notes 1 to 22 and Parent 
Company notes (A) to (P). The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation 
of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The 
financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company 
Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Separate opinion in relation to 
IFRSs as issued by the IASB
As explained in the Accounting Policies note to the Group Financial Statements, in addition to 
complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has 
also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
In our opinion the Group Financial Statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern and the 
directors’ assessment of the 
principal risks that would 
threaten the solvency 
or liquidity of the Group 
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ statement regarding the 
appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within the Directors’ Report and 
the directors’ statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within Risk Management.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
• the directors’ confirmation on page 36 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity;
• the disclosures on pages 38 to 41 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed 
or mitigated;
• the directors’ statement on page 97 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting in preparing the Financial Statements and their identification of any 
material uncertainties to the Group’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months 
from the date of approval of the Financial Statements; and
• the directors’ explanation on page 37 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over 
what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their 
statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue 
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any 
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors’ adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not 
identify any such material uncertainties. However, because not all future events or conditions can be 
predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical Standards for Auditors and we 
confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with those standards. We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited 
non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of 
material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on 
our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement 
team. In 2015, as part of the ‘one-off property transactions’ risk we have also considered the risk 
around the correct accounting for the material prior period error, as disclosed in the Accounting 
Policies note to the Group Financial Statements. Last year our auditor’s report included covenant 
compliance and liquidity disclosure risk, which is not separately included in our report this year, since 
the Group’s headroom has significantly grown over the years with significantly improved trading 
results, and reduced gearing. 
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
100
Independent auditor’s report to the members of  
St. Modwen Properties PLC Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Valuation of investment property
Valuation of investment property is an area of 
judgement which could materially affect the Financial 
Statements. The Group’s investment property 
portfolio, as detailed in note 8, together with the 
Group’s share of joint ventures and associates is held 
at fair value. The Group’s accounting policy is 
described on page 111 and further details of 
investment properties in note 2c. The directors 
employ external valuers to assist in determining the 
fair value, who make a number of key estimates and 
assumptions, in particular assumptions in relation to 
market comparable yields and estimates in relation to 
future rental income increases or decreases, void 
periods, occupancy rates, lease incentives, break 
clauses, lease lengths and purchaser costs. 
We met with the third-party valuers, appointed by the directors, and assessed the 
competence, capabilities and objectivity of those external valuers.
We selected a sample of investment properties (based on value, absolute and 
percentage movement, and some random properties). For this sample, we assessed 
and challenged the reasonableness of the significant judgements and assumptions 
applied in the valuation model. We assessed the completeness and accuracy of the data 
provided by St. Modwen to the valuers for the purposes of their valuation exercise.
With the assistance of expert members of our audit team who are chartered surveyors, 
we reviewed the significant assumptions in the valuation process, tested a sample of 
properties by benchmarking against external appropriate property indices, understood 
the valuation methodology and the wider market analysis. We reviewed the information 
provided by the valuers both in the meeting and contained in the detailed valuation 
reports; and we undertook our own research into the relevant markets to evaluate the 
reasonableness of the valuation inputs and the resulting fair values.
Valuation of inventories
The Group’s accounting policy on inventory is 
disclosed on page 112 and further details of inventory 
in note 12. The Group’s inventory balance of £183.7m 
(2014: £201.0m) includes assets for resale (those 
being actively marketed) and properties being 
developed with a view to sale. 
The Group has continued to use its own internal 
appraisal monitoring process during the year to assess 
the net realisable value (NRV) of those properties held 
within inventories through the preparation of 
appraisals for each site which calculate forecast 
revenues and costs.
The risk here is that the NRV could be overstated by 
using inappropriate forecast revenue and forecast 
cost to complete.
Moreover, management appraisals also include a 
number of judgements, assumptions and estimates 
regarding future costs and revenues. Given the 
quantum of the inventories balance recorded by the 
Group in its Financial Statements, a misstatement in 
this balance could have a material impact on the 
Financial Statements as a whole. At 30
th
 November 
2015, a limited proportion of inventory included on 
the Balance Sheet (mainly income generating 
inventory) is valued externally – this involves significant 
judgements as demonstrated under valuation of 
investment property.
The risk also involves proper classification and 
valuation of inventory items transferred to and 
from investment properties on a change in use 
of the property.
We identified the various components of the Group’s inventories and we sampled the 
balance of £183.7m and challenged management’s appraisal documentation for a 
representative sample of £145m. We have challenged whether the expected revenues 
in site appraisals have been updated to reflect the cost and yields seen on similar assets 
in the investment property portfolio and challenged the key assumptions within the 
appraisals to supporting evidence through test of the management forecasts and 
valuation reports. Where a site has been appraised by management over a period 
of time, we have also sought to understand the changes to assumptions over time. 
In addition we have also:
• reviewed a sample of marketed sites and post year-end sales prices to assess whether 
any inventory held is marketed below its valuation;
• challenged the lack of NRV write-downs identified in the current period and challenged 
whether evidence exists to reverse NRV write-downs recorded in prior periods 
through review of documentation supporting the status of the project and 
management’s plans; and
• for a representative sample of income generating sites valued by the external valuers 
we assessed valuation yields used in appraisals for developments against yields used 
on the investment property portfolio in line with the work set out above on valuation 
of investment properties. Our real estate experts assisted us in this review.
For a representative sample we tested properties which have been transferred from 
investment property to inventories and from inventories to investment property during 
the year based on the documents, supporting management’s plans for future use of the 
property, both to assess whether those transfers met the IFRS transfer criteria, and also 
that the properties transferred to inventories are properly valued.
101
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 One-off property transactions
The Group has restated the way that it accounts for its 
Swansea student accommodation development.
Previously the Group position focused on the 
provision of construction services to an M&G fund and 
treated the contract as a development agreement with 
M&G. During the current year, on revisiting the 
underlying judgements and facts behind the 
development, it became clear that the Group 
continues to retain the risks and rewards of owning 
the entire property, with M&G receiving a fixed 
(subject only to RPI) return. In its 2015 Financial 
Statements the Group has restated its 2014 
comparatives in respect of this as is disclosed on 
pages 116 and 117, resulting in the reversal of £5.4m 
of development profits recognised in the year ended 
30
th
 November 2014 and £2.1m recognised in the 
year ended 30
th
 November 2013; recognition of a 
finance lease obligation of £22.6m as at 
30
th
 November 2014; the recognition of an asset of 
£22.7m, for the proportion of the property that had 
previously been derecognised and reflected as 
development expenditure on behalf of M&G. This has 
been classified as an investment property. Investment 
property revaluation gain of £8.4m was recognised in 
the year ended 30
th
 November 2014.
In addition, property acquisitions and disposals can be 
significant and complex transactions for the Group’s 
results in a given period. The most significant added 
value movement in the year was the recognition of the 
New Covent Garden Market (NCGM) site in Nine Elms, 
London, for the regeneration of the 57 acre site, which 
achieved unconditional planning status in April 2015. 
The Group recognised the interest in land as 
investment property when the contract became 
unconditional, with a liability recorded at initial 
recognition reflecting the obligation that was taken on 
in exchange for the land. We have identified it as a 
significant risk area for our annual audit, considering 
the risks around contractual terms, initial classification, 
initial measurement and subsequent valuation of 
property (the model for which uses many assumptions 
and inputs), initial measurement of the liability, as well 
as alternative accounting treatments. The NCGM value 
as at 30
th
 November 2015 was £440m, which was held 
in a joint venture as investment property. The results 
of the joint venture were accounted for by the Group 
under equity method.
We have analysed management’s accounting judgement paper on the Swansea student 
accommodation development accounting, which summarised the facts and background 
of the transaction, as well as previous accounting treatment, possible alternative 
treatments and the reasons for a restatement. We have audited management’s 
calculation of the correction, through review of the supporting contracts, challenging the 
details of the calculation and resulting disclosures made in the Financial Statements. 
We also audited other property transactions on a representative sample basis to 
confirm there were no similar arrangements, which might have resulted in similar prior 
period errors.
We assessed the NCGM transaction and evaluated the accounting treatment adopted 
by management on initial recognition and on revaluation to fair value, as well as 
available alternative treatments. We involved our real estate experts to review and 
challenge valuation assumptions used by the external valuer in their valuation. In our 
testing we:
• assessed the competence, capabilities and objectivity of the external valuers;
• reviewed the contractual conditions and ensured they were satisfied to render the 
NCGM contract unconditional;
• assessed whether the interest in land under the contract meets the definition of 
investment property under IFRS, and when they should be recognised;
• tested the value of the initial recognition of the liability arising from the contract 
becoming unconditional including challenge of the key assumptions in the model;
• reviewed the asset valuation methodology applied by the Group’s external valuers as 
well as assumptions used;
• challenged the key assumptions in the model used in initial recognition of the liability 
arising from the contract becoming unconditional;
• reviewed management’s plans as part of the going concern analysis to ensure no 
contradictory evidence exists as to the classification of the property interests as 
investment property on the grounds of uncertain future use; and
• held a meeting attended by senior members of our core engagement team, our real 
estate experts, who are also chartered surveyors, and the external valuers of the 
Group. During this meeting, the valuation basis and assumptions used were 
challenged by our experts and the audit team. Our experts also reviewed sensitivity 
analysis around the key assumptions used by the external valuers in the valuation of 
the NCGM property to illustrate how the property value responds to changes in those 
assumptions.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
102
Independent auditor’s report to the members of  
St. Modwen Properties PLC (continued) Accounting for taxation
As set out in the Group’s use of estimates and 
judgements on pages 115 to 116, tax planning is often 
an integral part of transactions as the Group is a 
property group. Further details of provision are 
disclosed in note 5. Where tax planning has been 
challenged by HMRC, or management believe there is 
a risk of such challenge, provision is made for the best 
estimate of the potential exposure based on the 
information available at the Balance Sheet date.
We tested the Group tax workings and considered the current and deferred tax 
implications of property acquisitions, disposals and valuation movements which 
occurred during the year. We utilised our tax specialists to appraise the likely outcome 
of uncertain tax positions, including reviewing any correspondence with HMRC and 
considered the adequacy of disclosures made in the Annual Report.
Revenue recognition
We have defined this risk for the Group as arising from 
revenue recognition from development income under 
IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’ and IFRIC 
Interpretation 15 – Agreements for the Construction 
of Real Estate. This is due primarily to the fact that 
judgement is required as to whether revenue can be 
recognised on a contract basis. Judgement is also 
exercised in determining the costs to complete for 
each site and the stage of completion at the Balance 
Sheet date.
The significant risk in relation to revenue recognition 
also arises from rental income and property disposal 
transactions occurring near the period-end being 
recognised in the wrong period.
The Group’s accounting policy on revenue is disclosed 
on pages 113 to 114 and further revenue details in 
note 1.
We tested a representative sample of revenue recognised under IAS 11 during the year 
to ensure the Group policy is in line with the standards. We assessed whether the stage 
of completion at the Balance Sheet date was reasonable by vouching the assessment of 
stage of completion to independent certification where possible or to management’s 
best estimate and contractual terms, recalculating any profit recognised and through 
our audit of inventories assessing the costs to complete for reasonableness.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on 
pages 61 and 62.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do 
not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that 
makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person 
would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our 
audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £9.0m (2014: £7.0m), which is 
approximately 1% of equity (2014: 1% of equity). We consider the Group’s equity to be 
the most appropriate benchmark for materiality, which is one of the main areas of 
interest for the investors in property companies.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit 
differences in excess of £0.18m, (2014: £0.14m) as well as differences below that 
threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when 
assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit scope is consistent with our scope in the previous year. As the Group 
auditors we are responsible for the majority of the Group’s subsidiaries and joint 
ventures, notably KPI and VSM Uxbridge Group. The subsidiaries and joint ventures 
for which the Group audit team are not auditors amount to 0.54% (2014: 0.23%) of 
the Group’s assets, 0.74% (2014: 0.06%) of Group revenue and 0.69% (2014: 0.03%) 
of the Group’s profit before tax, as such, there are no component auditors reporting 
into Group.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out 
analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of 
material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining 
components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
103
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Opinion on other matters prescribed by 
the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial 
Statements.
Matters on which we are required to 
report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and 
accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain 
disclosures of directors’ remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records 
and returns. We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate 
Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with certain provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the 
Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report 
to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our 
knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies 
between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors’ statement that 
they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the 
annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit 
Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. We confirm that we have 
not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditor
As explained more fully in the statement of directors’ responsibilities, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on 
the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). We also comply with International Standard on Quality 
Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our 
quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls 
and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and 
independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or 
for the opinions we have formed.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
104
Independent auditor’s report to the members of  
St. Modwen Properties PLC (continued) Scope of the audit of the 
Financial Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial 
Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are 
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the 
Parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; 
and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements. In addition, we read all the 
financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information 
that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of 
any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report.
Jonathan Dodworth (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
Birmingham, UK
1
st
 February 2016
105
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Notes
2015 
£m 
2014 restated
£m
Revenue 1 287.5  266.5 
Net rental income 1 32.8  31.2 
Development profits 1 51.7  42.3 
Gains on disposals of investments/investment properties 1 11.7  5.2 
Investment property revaluation gains 8 73.9  63.9 
Release of negative goodwill to income 19 –   2.1 
Other net income 1 4.2  3.6 
Profits of joint ventures and associates (post-tax) 10 106.8  27.1 
Administrative expenses 3 (26.1) (22.7)
Profit before interest and tax 255.0  152.7 
Finance costs 4 (25.2) (26.2)
Finance income 4 5.4  5.3 
Profit before tax 235.2  131.8 
Taxation 5a (17.9) (11.8)
Profit for the year 217.3  120.0 
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 216.4  118.6 
Non-controlling interests 0.9  1.4 
 217.3  120.0 
 pence  pence 
Basic earnings per share 6 97.9  53.8 
Diluted earnings per share 6 90.4 49.9
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015
Notes
2015 
£m 
2014 restated 
£m
Profit for the year 217.3  120.0 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss:
Pension fund actuarial losses 18 (0.1) – 
Deferred tax thereon 18 –   – 
Total comprehensive income for the year 217.2  120.0 
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 216.3  118.6 
Non-controlling interests 0.9  1.4 
Total comprehensive income for the year 217.2  120.0 
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
106
Group Income Statement
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 Notes
30
th
 November
2015
£m
30
th
 November
2014 restated
£m 
1
st
 December
2013 restated
£m 
Non-current assets 
Investment properties  8  1,081.0  856.8  744.6 
Operating property, plant and equipment  9  4.2  7.0  6.6 
Investments in joint ventures and associates  10 227.3 127.2  120.1 
Trade and other receivables  11  6.1  6.0  7.0 
 1,318.6  997.0  878.3 
Current assets 
Inventories  12  183.7  201.0  199.7 
Trade and other receivables  11  104.7  63.9  52.1 
Derivative financial instruments 16  0.8  1.9  – 
Cash and cash equivalents  4.8  3.2  3.2 
 294.0  270.0  255.0 
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables  13  (146.6) (148.6) (144.6)
Derivative financial instruments 16  (8.0) (8.7) (12.8)
Borrowings and finance lease obligations 14  (0.4)  (0.1)  (62.5)
Current tax 5  (11.1) (7.3) (3.6)
 (166.1) (164.7) (223.5)
Non-current liabilities 
Trade and other payables  13 (3.1) (3.5) (9.1)
Borrowings and finance lease obligations  14  (506.5) (363.1) (275.6)
Deferred tax  5  (15.4) (11.7) (8.5)
 (525.0) (378.3) (293.2)
Net assets  921.5  724.0  616.6 
Capital and reserves 
Share capital  17  22.2  22.1  22.0 
Share premium account  102.8  102.8  102.8 
Retained earnings  739.3  544.0  439.3 
Share incentive reserve  5.2  4.8  2.1 
Own shares  (1.0) (1.8) (0.3)
Other reserves  46.2  46.2  46.2 
Equity attributable to owners of the Company  914.7  718.1  612.1 
Non-controlling interests 6.8  5.9  4.5 
Total equity  921.5  724.0  616.6 
These Financial Statements were approved by the Board and authorised for issue on 1
st
 February 2016.
Bill Oliver Rob Hudson
Chief Executive Group Finance Director
Company Number: 349201
107
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45
Group Balance Sheet
as at 30
th
 November 2015 Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium 
account
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Share
incentive
reserve
£m
Own 
shares
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Equity 
attributable 
to owners
of the
Company
£m
 Non-
controlling 
 interests 
£m
Total 
equity
£m
Equity at 30
th
 November 
2013 (as reported) 22.0  102.8  441.4  2.1  (0.3) 46.2  614.2  12.8  627.0 
Prior year adjustment –  –  (2.1) –  –  –  (2.1) (8.3) (10.4)
Equity at 30
th
 November 
2013 (restated) 22.0  102.8  439.3  2.1  (0.3) 46.2  612.1  4.5  616.6 
Profit for the year 
attributable to shareholders 
(restated) –  –  118.6  –  –  –  118.6  1.4  120.0 
Pension fund actuarial 
losses (note 18) – – – – – – – – –
Total comprehensive income 
for the year (restated) –  –  118.6  –  –  –  118.6  1.4  120.0 
Equity issue 0.1  –  –  –  (0.1) –  –  –  – 
Share-based payments –  –  (6.2) 2.7  –  –  (3.5) –  (3.5)
Share transfers –  –  1.4  –  (1.4) –  –  –  – 
Dividends paid –  –  (9.1) –  –  –  (9.1) –  (9.1)
Equity at 30
th
 November 
2014 (restated) 22.1  102.8  544.0  4.8  (1.8) 46.2  718.1  5.9  724.0 
Profit for the year 
attributable to shareholders –  –  216.4  –  –  –  216.4  0.9  217.3 
Pension fund actuarial 
losses (note 18) –  –  (0.1) –  –  –  (0.1) –  (0.1)
Total comprehensive income 
for the year –  –  216.3  –  –  –  216.3  0.9  217.2 
Equity issue 0.1  –  –  –  (0.1) –  –  –  – 
Share-based payments –  –  (8.6) 0.4  –  –  (8.2) –  (8.2)
Share transfers –  –  (0.9) –  0.9  –  –  –  – 
Adjustment arising from 
change in 
non-controlling interest –   –   (0.4) –   –   –   (0.4) –   (0.4)
Dividends paid –  –  (11.1) –  –  –  (11.1) –  (11.1)
Equity 
at 30
th
 November 2015 22.2  102.8  739.3  5.2  (1.0) 46.2  914.7  6.8  921.5 
Own shares represent the cost of 690,274 (2014: 460,427) shares held by The St. Modwen Properties PLC Employee Share Trust. 
The open market value of the shares held at 30
th
 November 2015 was £2,985,435 (2014: £1,763,435).
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
108
Group Statement of Changes in Equity
for the two years ended 30
th
 November 2015 Notes
2015 
£m 
2014 restated 
£m
Operating activities 
Profit before interest and tax  255.0  152.7 
Gains on disposal of investments/investment properties  (11.7) (5.2)
Share of profits of joint ventures and associates (post-tax) 10 (106.8) (27.1)
Investment property revaluation gains 8 (73.9) (63.9)
Release of negative goodwill to income 19 –  (2.1)
Depreciation 9 0.8  0.5 
Impairment losses on inventories 12 1.4  0.1 
(Increase)/decrease in inventories  (49.0) 10.1 
Increase in trade and other receivables  (29.0) (0.2)
Decrease in trade and other payables  (8.3) (0.3)
Pensions  –  (0.1)
Share options and share awards  (7.8) (3.4)
Tax paid 5c (9.4) (5.0)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from operating activities  (38.7) 56.1 
Investing activities 
Proceeds from investment property disposals  84.4  31.4 
Investment property additions  (160.5) (97.8)
Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking 19 (0.2)  (0.8)
Property, plant and equipment additions 9 (0.6) (1.0)
Dividends received from joint ventures 6.7  20.0 
Net cash outflow from investing activities  (70.2) (48.2)
Financing activities 
Dividends paid 7 (11.1) (9.1)
Interest paid  (18.0) (23.9)
Amounts advanced under finance lease arrangements 32.5 22.6
New borrowings drawn 190.9  115.0 
Repayment of borrowings  (83.8) (112.5)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities  110.5  (7.9)
Increase in cash and cash equivalents  1.6 –
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year  3.2  3.2 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year  4.8  3.2 
Cash  4.8  3.2 
Bank overdrafts  –  – 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year  4.8  3.2 
109
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45
Group Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 Basis of preparation
The Group’s Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and as adopted by the EU as they apply to the Group for the year 
ended 30
th
 November 2015, applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain properties, 
derivative financial instruments and the defined benefit section of the Group’s pension scheme.
In the current year the Group has adopted:
• IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’
• IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’
• IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’
• IAS 27 (revised) ‘Separate Financial Statements’
• IAS 28 (revised) ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’
• IAS 32 (amendment) ‘Financial instruments: Presentation’ (assets and liability offsetting)
• IAS 36 (amendment) ‘Impairment of Assets’
• IAS 39 (amendment) ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’
• Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11, IFRS 12 (transition guidance)
The Group undertook an assessment of the treatment of its subsidiaries, joint ventures and interests in other entities prior to 
the adoption of IFRS 10, 11 and 12. Other than as detailed below in prior year restatements for IFRS 10, it was concluded that no 
changes in relation to the presentation of these interests was required. 
IFRS 10 replaces those parts of IAS 27 that relate to consolidated financial statements and SIC 12 in its entirety. It outlines 
the requirements for the preparation of consolidated financial statements, requiring an entity to consolidate the results of all 
investees it is considered to control. Control exists where an entity is exposed to variable returns and has the ability to affect those 
returns through its power over the investee. 
The Company’s functional currency (together with that of all of its subsidiaries) and the presentation currency for the Group is 
pounds sterling and its principal IFRS accounting policies are set out below.
Basis of consolidation
The Group’s Financial Statements consolidate the Financial Statements of St. Modwen Properties PLC and the entities it controls. 
Control comprises exposure, or rights, to variable returns, the power to direct the relevant activities of the investee and the ability 
to use its power over the investee to affect the returns. This is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights or by 
contractual agreement. A list of the entities controlled is given in note (F) to the Company’s Financial Statements.
All entities are consolidated from the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that 
such control ceases. All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expense are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets that are not held by the Group and are presented 
separately within equity in the Group Balance Sheet.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
110
Accounting policies
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 Interests in joint arrangements
Arrangements under which the Group has contractually agreed to share control with another party or parties are assessed to 
determine whether they represent joint ventures or joint operations. Joint arrangements are classified as joint ventures where 
the parties have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. Should the parties have rights to assets and obligations for liabilities 
relating to the arrangement they would instead be classified as joint operations. Currently, all arrangements where the Group has 
contractually agreed to share control have been determined to be joint ventures.
The Group recognises its interests in joint ventures using the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, the interest 
in the joint venture is carried in the Group Balance Sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of its net 
assets, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of individual investments. The Income Statement reflects the 
Group’s share of the joint venture’s results after interest and tax.
Financial Statements of joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group. Where necessary, adjustments 
are made to bring the accounting policies used into line with those of the Group.
The Group Statement of Comprehensive Income reflects the Group’s share of any income and expense recognised by the joint 
venture entities outside the Income Statement.
Interests in associates
The Group’s interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant influence and which are neither 
subsidiaries nor joint arrangements, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, as described above.
Business combinations
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the 
acquisition of a subsidiary comprises the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners and the 
equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred also includes the fair value of any contingent consideration 
arrangement and is adjusted to reflect the fair value of any pre-existing equity interest in the subsidiary.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in 
a business combination are, with limited exceptions, measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at 
the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net identifiable assets.
The excess of the consideration transferred (adjusted to reflect the fair value of any pre-existing equity interest in the subsidiary) 
and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable 
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If those amounts are less than the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired 
subsidiary and the measurement of all amounts has been reviewed, the difference is recognised directly in the Income Statement 
as a release of negative goodwill to income. 
Where settlement of any part of cash consideration is deferred, the amounts payable in the future are discounted to their present 
value as at the date of exchange. The discount rate used is the entity’s incremental borrowing rate, which is the rate that a similar 
borrowing could be obtained from an independent financier under comparable terms and conditions. 
Contingent consideration is classified either as equity or a financial liability. Amounts classified as a financial liability are 
subsequently remeasured to fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the Income Statement.
Properties
Investment properties
Investment properties, being freehold and leasehold properties held to earn rental income, for capital appreciation and/or for 
undetermined future use, together with land options where the land is for an undetermined future use, are carried at fair value 
following initial recognition at the present value of the consideration payable. To establish fair value, investment properties are 
independently valued on the basis of market value. Any surplus or deficit arising is recognised in the Income Statement for 
the year.
Once classified as an investment property, a property remains in this category until development with a view to sale commences, 
at which point the asset is transferred to inventories at current valuation.
Where an investment property is being redeveloped for continued use as an investment property, the property remains within 
investment property and any movement in valuation is recognised in the Income Statement.
Investment property disposals are recognised on completion. Profits and losses arising are recognised through the Income 
Statement and the profit or loss on disposal is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount 
of the asset.
Investment properties are not depreciated.
111
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Properties (continued)
Inventories
Inventories principally comprise properties held for sale, properties under construction and land under option with a view to 
future sale. All inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises land, direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs that have been incurred in bringing the inventories 
to their present location and condition. When inventory includes a transfer from investment properties, cost is recorded as the 
book value at the date of transfer. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be 
incurred to completion and disposal. Inventory is transferred to investment properties only when the asset meets the definition of 
an investment property and there has been a change in use evidenced by commencement of an operating lease.
Due to the scale of the Group’s developments, the Group has to allocate site-wide development costs between properties on 
the site. Such site-wide costs are allocated to properties based on the forecast value of each individual unit as a proportion of the 
aggregate forecast value of the individual units on the site. In making these assessments, there is a degree of inherent uncertainty. 
The Group has developed internal controls to assess and review carrying values and the appropriateness of estimates made. 
Operating	property,	plant	and	equipment
Operating property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. 
Such cost includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is provided on all operating property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated 
residual value of each asset evenly over its expected useful life as follows:
• leasehold operating properties – over the shorter of the lease term and 25 years; and
• plant, machinery and equipment – over two to five years.
Leases
The Group as lessee
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Non-property assets held under finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease with a corresponding liability being 
recognised for the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments 
are apportioned between the reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the Income Statement so as to achieve a 
constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Non-property assets held under finance leases are depreciated 
over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Interests in leasehold investment properties are accounted for as finance leases with the value of guaranteed minimum rents 
inherent within the carrying value of the property and the liability reflected within long-term liabilities. On payment of a guaranteed 
rent, initially the majority of such costs is charged to the Income Statement as interest payable, with the balance reducing 
the liability.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Group as lessor
Rental income from operating leases, adjusted for the impact of any cash incentives given to the lessee and to reflect any rent-free 
incentive periods, is recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Initial direct costs incurred in 
negotiating and arranging a new lease are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Income taxes
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to, the taxation authorities, 
based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable result for the year. The taxable result differs from the result as reported in the 
Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further 
excludes items that will not be taxable or deductible.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the Financial Statements, using the rates of tax expected to apply based on legislation enacted or 
substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date, with the following exceptions:
• in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, where the 
timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future; and
• deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which 
the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
112
Accounting policies (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply 
when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet 
date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same authority and the Group intends to settle its current 
tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive income if it relates to items that are credited or 
charged to equity or other comprehensive income. Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the Income Statement.
Pensions
The Group operates a pension scheme with both defined benefit and defined contribution sections. The defined benefit section 
is closed to new members and, from 1
st
 September 2009, to future accrual.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit section is determined using the projected unit credit method, which 
attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine current service cost) and to the current and prior periods 
(to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation) and is based on actuarial advice. Past service costs are recognised 
in the Income Statement on the earlier of:
• the date on which the plan amendment or curtailment occurs; or
• when the Company recognises related restructuring costs or termination benefits.
Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset and is recognised in the Income 
Statement as finance cost.
Actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling (if applicable) and the return on scheme assets (excluding interest) are 
recognised in full in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year in which they occur. The defined benefit pension asset 
or liability in the Balance Sheet comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation, less the fair value of plan assets out 
of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
When a pension asset (net surplus) arises from the above calculation, it is limited to the present value of any economic benefits 
that will be available to the Company in accordance with the requirements of IFRIC14.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised in the Income Statement in the year in which they become payable.
Own shares
Shares in St. Modwen Properties PLC held by the Group are classified as a deduction from equity attributable to owners of the 
Company and are recognised at cost.
Dividends
Dividends declared and approved after the Balance Sheet date are not recognised as liabilities at the Balance Sheet date.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be 
reliably measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received (including the fair value of any residential 
properties received in part-exchange), excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes or duty. Where required, revenue 
is allocated between components in a multi-element transaction (e.g. where there is simultaneously a sale of land and a 
construction contract with the purchaser of the land) based on their respective fair values of the components.
The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised:
Sale of property
Revenue arising from the sale of property is recognised on legal completion of the sale. 
Construction contracts
Revenue arising from construction contracts is recognised in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy on construction 
contracts (see below). An appropriate proportion of revenue from construction contracts is recognised by reference to the stage 
of completion of contract activity.
Rental income
Rental income arising from investment properties is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Management and performance fees 
Where the Group is solely providing development management services (without being responsible for the performance of the 
underlying construction), management fees receivable are recognised over time as the service is performed in the period to which 
they relate. Performance fees are recognised when the Group has substantially fulfilled its obligations in respect of the transaction 
and hence the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group.
113
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Revenue recognition (continued)
Interest income
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, 
which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts over the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net 
carrying amount.
Dividend income
Dividend income from joint ventures is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
Construction contracts
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the 
stage of completion of the contract activity at the Balance Sheet date. The extent to which the contract is complete is determined 
by the total costs incurred to date as a percentage of the total anticipated costs of the entire contract. Variations in contract work, 
claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that it is probable that they will result in revenue.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of 
contract costs incurred where it is probable they will be recoverable. Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in 
which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an 
expense immediately.
Government grants
Government grants relating to property are treated as deferred income and released to profit or loss over the expected useful life 
of the assets concerned.
Share-based payments
The Group’s equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant using an appropriate option 
pricing model. The fair value at the date of grant (or at date of reclassification from cash settled to equity settled) is expensed 
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value hierarchy 
Assets and liabilities that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, are required to be grouped into Levels 1 to 3 
based on the degree to which the fair value is observable. 
• Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets. 
• Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are 
observable for the asset, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and 
• Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset that are not based 
on observable market data (unobservable inputs.) 
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument. The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash 
flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the 
asset to another entity. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues 
to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for any amounts it 
may have to pay. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group 
continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received. The Group 
derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled, or expire.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value or recoverable amount. Provision is made 
when there is evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full. Balances are written off when the probability of 
recovery is assessed as being remote.
Cash	and	cash	equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and short-term deposits with banks with initial maturity less than 
three months.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are recorded at amortised cost. Where payment is on deferred terms the liability is initially recorded by 
discounting the nominal amount payable to net present value. The discount to nominal value is amortised over the period of the 
deferred arrangement and charged to finance costs.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
114
Accounting policies (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, loans 
and borrowings are measured at amortised cost.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised in finance income 
or finance expense, as appropriate.
The effective interest rate method is used to charge interest to the Income Statement.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate 
fluctuations. Such instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a contract is entered into and are 
subsequently re-measured at fair value. The Group has determined that the derivative financial instruments in use do not qualify 
for hedge accounting and, consequently, any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken to the 
Income Statement.
Equity	instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all its liabilities. 
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received less direct issue costs.
Convertible bonds
Convertible bonds are assessed on issue as to whether they should be classified as a financial liability, as equity or as a compound 
financial instrument with both debt and equity components. This assessment is based on the terms of the bond and in 
accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation. The Group’s convertible bonds have been designated as at fair value 
through profit and loss.
Use of estimates and judgements
To be able to prepare Financial Statements according to generally accepted accounting principles, management must make 
estimates and assumptions that affect the asset and liability items and revenue and expense amounts recorded in the Financial 
Statements. These estimates are based on the Group’s systems of internal control, historical experience and the advice of external 
experts (including qualified professional valuers and actuaries) together with various other assumptions that management and the 
Board believe are reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these considerations form the basis for making judgements 
about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
The areas requiring the use of estimates and critical judgements that may significantly impact the Group’s earnings and financial 
position are:
Going concern  
The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. This is discussed in the Strategic Report and as confirmed 
in the Directors’ Report it is considered appropriate to prepare the Financial Statements for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 
on a going concern basis.
Valuation of investment properties  
Management has used the valuation performed by its independent valuers as the fair value of its investment properties. 
The valuation is performed according to RICS rules, using appropriate levels of professional judgement for the prevailing market 
conditions. Professional judgement is applied in determining such things as an appropriate yield for a given property and 
estimated rental values.
Net realisable value of inventories  
The Group has ongoing procedures for assessing the carrying value of inventories and identifying where this is in excess of 
net realisable value. Management’s assessment of any resulting provision requirement is, where applicable, supported by 
independent information supplied by the external valuers. The estimates and judgements for both revenue and costs were based 
on information available at, and pertaining to, 30
th
 November 2015. Any subsequent adverse changes in market conditions may 
result in additional provisions being required.
Estimation of remediation and other costs to complete for both development and investment properties  
In making an assessment of these costs there is inherent uncertainty and the Group has developed systems of internal control 
to assess and review carrying values and the appropriateness of estimates made. Any changes to these estimates, some of 
which involve costs which will be settled only gradually over a number of years and the application of discounting, may impact the 
carrying values of investment properties and/or inventories and/or the quantum of liabilities recognised.
Complex transactions  
Certain property transactions entered into by the Group involve an element of complexity and the need to exercise judgement 
to determine the most appropriate accounting policy. Such transactions include the accounting for the acquisition of land at New 
Covent Garden Market together with the associated obligation to procure the new market for the Covent Garden Market Authority 
and the accounting for the first two phases of student accommodation at the Bay Campus development for Swansea University.
115
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Use of estimates and judgements (continued)
Calculation of the net present value of pension scheme liabilities  
In calculating this liability it is necessary for actuarial assumptions to be made, including discount and mortality rates and the long-
term rate of return upon scheme assets. The Group engages a qualified actuary to assist with determining the assumptions to be 
made and evaluating these liabilities.
Taxation  
As a property group, tax and its treatment is often an integral part of transactions. The outcome of tax treatments are recognised 
by the Group to the extent the outcome is reasonably certain. Where tax treatments have been challenged by HMRC, or 
management believe that there is a risk of such challenge, provision is made for the best estimate of potential exposure based 
on the information available at the Balance Sheet date. Management’s assessment of the level of provision required is, where 
applicable, supported by the Group’s tax advisors. If HMRC were to be successful in challenging tax treatments to a greater extent 
than has been provided at the Balance Sheet date then additional provisions may be required. 
Standards and interpretations not yet effective
At the date of approval of these Financial Statements, the following standards, amendments and interpretations which have not 
been adopted in these Financial Statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by 
the EU):
• Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 – 2012 cycle 
• Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011 – 2013 cycle 
• IAS 16 (amended) ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’ 
• IAS 19 (amended) ‘Employee Benefits’ 
• IAS 27 (amended) ‘Separate Financial Statements’ 
• IAS 38 (amended) ‘Intangible Assets’ 
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
• IFRS 10 (amended) ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ 
• IFRS 11 (amended) ‘Joint Arrangements’ 
• IFRS 14 ‘Regulatory Deferral Accounts’ 
• Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012 – 2014 cycle 
• IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’
• IFRS 16 ‘Leases’
The directors are still assessing the impact that the adoption of these standards, amendments and interpretations will have 
on the Financial Statements of the Group in future periods. Adoption of the majority of these standards, amendments and 
interpretations are expected to have little or no impact on the reported results of the Group, although amended disclosures 
may be required.
IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments and is effective for the Group’s year ending 
31
st
 March 2019. The Group has not yet completed its evaluation of the effect of the adoption. 
IFRS 15 may have an impact on revenue recognition and related disclosures. Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to 
provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 15 until a detailed review has been completed. 
IFRS 16 – the standard provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases 
unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value. Lessors continue to classify leases as operating 
or finance, with IFRS 16’s approach to lessor accounting substantially unchanged from its predecessor, IAS 17. The Group has not 
yet completed its evaluation of the effect of the adoption. 
Prior year restatements
VSM Estates (Holdings) Ltd
VSM Estates (Holdings) Ltd is 50% owned by St Modwen Properties PLC, however under the funding agreement the Group 
obtains the majority of the benefits of the entity and also retains the majority of the residual risks. In prior years, this entity was 
consolidated in line with SIC 12 ‘Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities’. However the conditions for consolidation set out in 
IFRS 10 do not exist and accordingly, the entity is now required to be accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the interest is carried in the Balance Sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share 
of its net assets, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of individual investments. The Income Statement 
reflects the Group’s share of the results after interest and tax.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
116
Accounting policies (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 The adoption of IFRS 10 requires the restatement of the comparative financial information for the two years ended 
30
th
 November 2014. 
IFRS 11 replaced IAS 31 ‘Interests in Joint Ventures’ and SIC 13 ‘Jointly Controlled Entities – Non-monetary Contributions by 
Venturers’. It defines two types of joint arrangement (joint operations and joint ventures) and specifies the accounting for each 
arrangement. Joint operations must be accounted for by including the owner’s share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses 
on a line by line basis. Joint ventures are equity accounted in accordance with IAS 28 (revised). 
VSM Estates (Holdings) Ltd is 50% owned by St. Modwen Properties PLC and is accounted for as a joint venture under IFRS 11. 
Swansea University
During the year, further consideration was given to the revenue streams associated with the first two phases of student 
accommodation at the Bay Campus development for Swansea University. Due to the fixed (subject only to annual RPI adjustment) 
nature of the Group’s annual rental payments to M&G, the Group retains exposure (both positive and negative) to all variability 
in net rentals generated from the properties, it has been concluded that the transaction is more appropriately accounted for as 
a finance lease arrangement, rather than as the sale of 50% of the assets. Consequently, we have restated our 2014 results to 
reflect recognition by the Group of the following elements: 
• the whole (rather than 50%) of the property interest in the student accommodation;
• to account for the amounts due to M&G as a finance lease liability; 
• to eliminate the construction contract accounting recognised in respect of the proportion of the development work performed 
on these sites that was funded by M&G; and
• to revalue the site during the course of construction. 
The impact on previously reported financial information for the year ended 30
th
 November 2014 and the opening Balance Sheet 
as at 1
st
 December 2013 is as follows:
Income statement
Year ended 
30
th
 November 
2014 
£m 
Decrease in development profits (5.4)
Decrease in gains on disposals of investments/investment properties (4.0)
Decrease in investment property revaluation gains (11.9)
Increase/(decrease) in profits of joint ventures and associates (post tax) 13.5 
Decrease in administrative expenses 0.2 
Decrease in profit before interest and tax (7.6)
Decrease in finance costs 1.7 
Decrease in profit before tax (5.9)
Decrease in tax charge 3.8 
Decrease in profit for the year (2.1)
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 2.4 
Non-controlling interests (4.5)
(2.1)
Year ended 
30
th
 November 
2014 
£m 
Lease accounting adjustments (Swansea) 2.4
IFRS 10 adjustments (VSM Estates) (4.5)
(2.1)
Basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended 30
th
 November 2014 each increased by 1.1p as a result of the prior year 
restatements above.
117
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Prior year restatements (continued)
Assets, liabilities and equity
As at 30
th
 November 2014 As at 1
st
 December 2013
Previously 
reported
£m
IFRS 10 
adjustments
£m
Lease 
accounting 
adjustments
£m
Total 
restated
£m
Previously 
reported
£m
IFRS 10 
adjustments
£m
Lease 
accounting 
adjustments
£m
Total 
restated
£m
Investment properties 903.3 (69.2) 22.7 856.8 813.3 (68.7) – 744.6 
Operating property, plant 
and equipment 7.0 – – 7.0 6.6 – – 6.6 
Investments in joint ventures 
and associates 88.9 38.3 – 127.2 95.3 24.8 – 120.1 
Non-current trade and other receivables 14.5 (8.5) – 6.0 17.6 (10.6) – 7.0 
Inventories 201.0 – – 201.0 205.9 (6.2) – 199.7 
Current trade and other receivables 80.2 (16.3) – 63.9 59.7 (7.6) – 52.1 
Derivative financial instruments 1.9 – – 1.9 – – – –
Cash and cash equivalents 6.5 (3.3) – 3.2 7.4 (4.2) – 3.2 
Current trade and other payables (163.7) 18.2 (3.1) (148.6) (157.4) 14.9 (2.1) (144.6)
Derivative financial instruments (8.7) – – (8.7) (12.8) – – (12.8)
Current borrowings and finance 
lease obligations – – (0.1) (0.1) (62.5) – – (62.5)
Tax payables (9.3) 2.6 (0.6) (7.3) (3.4) (0.2) – (3.6)
Non-current trade and other payables (28.5) 21.1 3.9 (3.5) (46.2) 37.1 – (9.1)
Non-current borrowings and finance 
lease obligations (340.6) – (22.5) (363.1) (285.6) 10.0 – (275.6)
Deferred tax (16.0) 4.3 – (11.7) (10.9) 2.4 – (8.5)
Total effect on net assets 736.5 (12.8) 0.3 724.0 627.0 (8.3) (2.1) 616.6 
Equity attributable to owners of 
the Company 717.8 – 0.3 718.1 614.2 – (2.1) 612.1 
Non-controlling interests 18.7 (12.8) – 5.9 12.8 (8.3) – 4.5 
Total effect on equity 736.5 (12.8) 0.3 724.0 627.0 (8.3) (2.1) 616.6 
The impact on cash flows for the two years ended 30
th
 November 2013 and 30
th
 November 2014 from these adjustments is to 
change the movement on the cash and cash equivalents for those years as follows.
Previously 
reported
£m
IFRS 10 
adjustments
£m
Total 
restated
£m
30
th
 November 2013 (1.5) (4.2) (5.7)
30
th
 November 2014 (0.9) 0.9 –
The impact on other, previously reported non-statutory financial information is shown in note 2.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
118
Accounting policies (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 1. Segmental information
IFRS 8 – Operating Segments, requires the identification of the Group’s operating segments, defined as being discrete 
components of the Group’s operations whose results are regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (being the 
Chief Executive) to allocate resources to those segments and to assess their performance. The Group divides its business into the 
following segments:
• residential development, being housebuilding activity through St. Modwen Homes and the Persimmon joint venture; and 
• the balance of the Group’s portfolio of properties which the Group manages internally, and reports as a single business segment.
 2015  2014 restated 
Revenue 
Portfolio
£m
 Residential 
development
£m 
 Total
£m 
 Portfolio
£m 
 Residential 
development
£m 
 Total 
£m
Rental Income  41.2  –  41.2  39.2  –  39.2 
Development  98.4  140.5  238.9  104.2  116.7  220.9 
Other Income  7.4  –  7.4  6.4  –  6.4 
Total revenue  147.0  140.5  287.5  149.8  116.7  266.5 
All revenues in the table above are derived from continuing operations exclusively in the UK. 
The Group’s total revenue for 2015 was £300.8m (2014: £276.5m) and in addition to the amounts above included service charge 
income of £9.4m (2014: £7.8m), for which there was an equivalent expense and interest income of £3.9m (2014: £2.2m). 
 2015  2014 restated 
Profit before tax 
Portfolio
£m
 Residential 
development
£m 
 Total
£m 
 Portfolio
£m 
 Residential 
development
£m 
 Total 
£m
Net rental income  32.8  –  32.8  31.2  –  31.2 
Development profits  22.6  29.1  51.7  17.9  24.4  42.3 
Gains on disposal of investments/
investment properties  11.7  –  11.7  5.2  –  5.2 
Investment property revaluation gains  73.9  –  73.9  63.9  –  63.9 
Negative goodwill attributable to 
property assets
(1)
  –  –  –  2.6  –  2.6 
Other net income  4.2  –  4.2  3.6  –  3.6 
Profits of joint ventures and associates
(2)
  125.6  –  125.6 28.8 – 28.8
Administrative expenses  (20.9) (5.2) (26.1) (17.7) (5.0) (22.7)
Finance costs
(3) 
 (15.1) (2.0) (17.1) (15.5) (2.4) (17.9)
Finance income
(4)
  3.9  –  3.9  2.2  –  2.2 
Attributable profit  238.7  21.9  260.6 122.2 17.0  139.2 
Negative goodwill attributable to tax
(1)
  –  (0.5)
Other losses of joint ventures and 
associates
(2)
  (18.8) (1.7)
Other finance costs
(3)
  (8.1) (8.3)
Other finance income
(4)
  1.5  3.1 
Profit before tax  235.2  131.8 
(1) Negative goodwill has been split between amounts relating to property revaluations arising as a result of fair value adjustments of £nil (2014: £2.6m) and deferred tax thereon of £nil 
(2014: £0.5m). 
(2) Stated before mark-to-market of derivatives, amortisation of loan arrangement fees, other non-cash items and tax of £18.8m (2014: £1.7m). These amounts are reclassified to other profits of 
joint ventures and associates. 
(3) Stated before mark-to-market of derivatives, amortisation of loan arrangement fees and other non-cash items of £8.1m (2014: £8.3m). These amounts are reclassified to other finance costs. 
(4) Stated before mark-to-market of derivatives and other non-cash items of £1.5m (2014: £3.1m). These items are reclassified to other finance income. 
119
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 1. Segmental information (continued)
Other net income of £4.2m (2014: £3.6m) comprises revenue of £7.4m (2014: £6.4m) less associated costs of £3.2m 
(2014: £2.8m). 
Cost of sales in respect of rental income comprise direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) related to the 
investment property portfolio and total £8.4m (2014: £8.0m), of which £0.6m (2014: £0.3m) is in respect of properties that did not 
generate any rental income.
During the year the following amounts were recognised (as part of development revenue and cost of sales) in respect of 
construction contracts:
2015 
£m 
2014 restated 
£m 
Revenue  87.7  87.6 
Cost of sales  (75.2) (62.0)
Gross profit  12.5  25.6 
Amounts recoverable on contracts as disclosed in note 11 comprise £23.5m (2014: £5.3m) of contract revenue recognised and 
£7.8m (2014: £0.7m) of retentions. Contracts in progress at 30
th
 November 2015 include the aggregate amount of costs incurred 
of £134.3m (2014: £127.9m), recognised profits less recognised losses to date of £35.5m (2014: £44.2m) and advances received 
of £27.4m (2014: £85.3m).
There were no amounts due to customers (2014: £nil) included in trade and other payables in respect of contracts in progress at 
the Balance Sheet date.
 2015  2014 restated 
Net assets 
Portfolio
£m
 Residential 
development
£m 
 Total
£m 
 Portfolio
£m 
 Residential 
development
£m 
 Total 
£m
Investment property  1,081.0 – 1,081.0  856.8  –  856.8 
Inventories  84.2  99.5  183.7  90.0  111.0  201.0 
Investments in joint ventures 
and associates  227.3 – 227.3  127.2  –  127.2 
Attributable assets  1,392.5  99.5  1,492.0  1,074.0  111.0  1,185.0 
Operating property plant 
and equipment  4.2  7.0 
Trade and other receivables 110.8 69.9 
Cash and cash equivalents  4.8  3.2 
Trade and other payables  (149.7) (152.1)
Derivative financial instruments (7.2) (6.8)
Borrowings and finance lease obligations  (506.9) (363.2)
Tax payables  (11.1) (7.3)
Deferred tax  (15.4) (11.7)
Net assets  921.5  724.0 
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
120
Notes to the Group Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 2. Non-statutory information
a. Trading	profit	and	profit	before	all	tax
The non-statutory measures of trading profit and profit before all tax, which include the Group’s share of joint ventures and 
associates, have been calculated as set out below:
2015 2014 restated
Group
£m
Joint ventures 
and associates 
£m 
Total 
£m
Group
£m
Joint ventures 
and associates 
£m 
Total 
£m
Net rental income  32.8  5.9  38.7  31.2  5.9  37.1 
Development profit
(1)
  53.1  –   53.1  42.4  –  42.4 
Gains on disposal of investments/ 
investment properties  11.7  2.6  14.3  5.2  3.7  8.9 
Other income  4.2  –   4.2  3.6  –  3.6 
Administrative expenses  (26.1) (0.4) (26.5) (22.7) (0.5) (23.2)
Finance costs
(2)
  (17.1) (8.3) (25.4) (17.9) (7.4) (25.3)
Finance income
(3)
  3.9  1.0  4.9  2.2  –  2.2 
Trading profit  62.5  0.8  63.3  44.0  1.7  45.7 
Investment property revaluation gains
(1)
  72.5  129.2  201.7  66.4  27.1  93.5 
Other net finance costs
(2)
  (8.1) (0.6) (8.7) (8.3) (0.1) (8.4)
Other finance income
(3)
  1.5  0.6  2.1  3.1  1.5  4.6 
Profit before all tax  128.4  130.0  258.4  105.2  30.2  135.4 
Taxation
(4)
  (17.9) (23.2) (41.1) (12.3) (3.1) (15.4)
Profit for the year  110.5  106.8  217.3  92.9  27.1  120.0 
(1) Stated before the deduction of net realisable value provisions of: Group £1.4m (2014: £0.1m); Joint ventures and associates £nil (2014: £nil). These items are reclassified to investment 
property revaluations together with negative goodwill arising on acquisitions as a result of fair value adjustments to property assets of £nil (2014: £2.6m).
(2) Stated before mark-to-market of derivatives, amortisation loan arrangement fees and other non-cash items of: Group £8.1m (2014: £8.3m) ; Joint ventures and associates £0.6m 
(2014: £0.1m). These items are reclassified to other finance costs.
(3) Stated before mark-to-market of derivatives and other non-cash items of: Group £1.5m (2014: £3.1m) ; Joint ventures and associates £0.6m (2014: £1.5m). These items are reclassified to 
other finance income.
(4) Stated after inclusion of negative goodwill arising as a result of deferred tax on property revaluations included as part of fair value adjustments of £nil (2014: £0.5m). 
b. Property	valuations	
Property valuations, including, the Group’s share of joint ventures and associates, have been calculated as set out below:
2015 2014 restated
Group
£m
Joint ventures 
and associates 
£m 
Total 
£m
Group
£m
Joint ventures 
and associates 
£m 
Total 
£m
Property revaluation gains  73.9  129.2  203.1  63.9  27.1  91.0 
Release of negative goodwill to income –  –  –  2.6  –  2.6 
Net realisable value provisions  (1.4) –  (1.4) (0.1) –  (0.1)
Property valuation gains  72.5  129.2  201.7  66.4  27.1  93.5 
Added value  37.7  128.3  166.0  22.5  13.4  35.9 
Market movements  34.8  0.9  35.7  43.9  13.7  57.6 
Property valuation gains  72.5  129.2  201.7  66.4  27.1  93.5 
The split of property valuation gains between added value and market movements is based on an analysis of total property 
valuation movements provided by the Group’s external valuers.
121
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 2. Non-statutory information (continued)
c. Property	portfolio
The property portfolio, including the Group’s share of joint ventures and associates, is derived from the Balance Sheet as 
detailed below:
2015 2014 restated
Group
£m
Joint ventures 
and associates 
£m 
Total 
£m
Group
£m
Joint ventures 
and associates 
£m 
Total 
£m
Investment properties  1,081.0  416.8  1,497.8  903.3  148.0  1,051.3 
Less assets held under finance leases 
not subject to revaluation  (3.9) (1.2) (5.1) (3.9) (1.2) (5.1)
Add back lease incentives (recorded 
in receivables)  11.9  1.4  13.3  5.5  1.1  6.6 
Inventories  183.7  1.9  185.6  201.0  5.4  206.4 
Less non-property assets 
within inventory – – –  (0.7) –  (0.7)
Property portfolio as previously reported  1,272.7 418.9 1,691.6 1,105.2  153.3  1,258.5 
Lease accounting additional 
investment properties – – – 22.7  –  22.7 
IFRS 10 investment 
properties adjustments – – – (69.2) 52.0  (17.2)
Property portfolio as restated  1,272.7  418.9  1,691.6  1,058.7  205.3  1,264.0 
As at 30
th
 November 2015 the Group had assets of £633.2m (2014: £461.7m) included within the Group property portfolio 
(excluding joint ventures and associates) which were wholly owned, unencumbered and able to be pledged as security for Group 
debt facilities.
The Group’s property portfolio, including its share of joint ventures and associates, can be split by category as detailed below:
2015 
£m 
2014 restated 
£m
Industrial  275.6  248.1 
Retail  337.5  220.0 
Residential  106.3  33.0 
Offices  48.1  61.0 
Income producing  767.5  562.1 
Residential land – New Covent Garden Market  220.0  2.6 
Residential land – other  552.3  553.4 
Total residential land  772.3  556.0 
Commercial land  151.8  145.9 
Property portfolio  1,691.6  1,264.0 
d. Movement	in	net	debt
Movement in net debt is set out below:
2015 
£m 
2014 restated 
£m
Change in cash and cash equivalent 1.6 –
Borrowings drawn (195.0) (115.0)
Repayment of borrowings 83.8 112.5
Fair value movements on convertible bonds 4.1 – 
Increase in net borrowings (105.5) (2.5)
Fair value movements on convertible bonds (4.1) – 
Finance leases (32.5) (22.6)
Increase in net debt (142.1) (25.1)
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
122
Notes to the Group Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 e. Trading	cash	flow
Trading cash flows are derived from the Group Cash Flow Statement as set out below:
2015
Operating 
 activities 
 £m
Investing 
 activities 
 £m 
Financing 
 activities 
 £m
 Total 
 £m 
Net rent and other income  37.0  –  –   37.0 
Property disposals  180.5  84.4  –   264.9 
Property acquisitions  –   (57.2) –   (57.2)
Capital expenditure  (208.2) (104.1) –   (312.3)
Working capital and other movements  (5.5) –  –   (5.5)
Overheads and interest  (33.1) –  (18.0) (51.1)
Taxation  (9.4) –  –   (9.4)
Trading cash flow  (38.7) (76.9) (18.0) (133.6)
Net borrowings  –   –  107.1  107.1 
Finance leases – – 32.5 32.5
Net dividends  –   6.7  (11.1) (4.4)
Movement in cash and cash equivalents  (38.7) (70.2) 110.5  1.6 
2014 restated
Operating 
 activities 
 £m
Investing 
 activities 
 £m 
Financing 
 activities 
 £m
 Total 
 £m 
Net rent and other income  25.6  –  –  25.6 
Property disposals  245.4  31.4  –  276.8 
Property acquisitions  (5.6) (47.9) –  (53.5)
Capital expenditure  (181.0) (51.7) –  (232.7)
Working capital and other movements  2.6  –  –  2.6 
Overheads and interest  (25.9) –  (23.9) (49.8)
Taxation  (5.0) –  –  (5.0)
Trading cash flow  56.1  (68.2) (23.9) (36.0)
Net borrowings  –  –  6.4  6.4 
Finance leases –  – 18.7 18.7
Net dividends  –  20.0  (9.1) 10.9 
Movement in cash and cash equivalents  56.1  (48.2) (7.9) –
123
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 2. Non-statutory information (continued)
f. Net	assets	per	share
Net assets per share are calculated as set out below.
2015 
£m 
 2014 restated 
£m
Total equity  921.5  724.0 
Less: Non-controlling interests  (6.8) (5.9)
Equity attributable to owners of the Company  914.7  718.1 
Adjustments of inventories to fair value 11.9  11.5 
Diluted EPRA triple net assets  926.6  729.6 
Deferred tax on capital allowances and revaluations  50.0  19.2 
Mark-to-market of derivative financial instruments  10.9  7.5 
Diluted EPRA net assets  987.5  756.3 
Shares in issue
(1)
 (number)  221,186,714  220,916,561 
Equity attributable to owners of the Company, net assets per share (pence) 413.5p 325.1p
Percentage increase 27%
Diluted EPRA triple net assets per share (pence) 418.9p 330.3p
Percentage increase 27%
Diluted EPRA net assets per share (pence) 446.4p 342.3p
Percentage increase 30%
(1) Shares in issue exclude 690,274 shares held by The St. Modwen Properties PLC Employee Share Trust (2014: 460,427).
g. Net	borrowing	and	net	debt
2015 
£m 
2014 restated 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents  4.8  3.2 
Borrowings due within one year  –  – 
Borrowings due after more than one year  (451.8) (340.6)
Less: Fair value movements on convertible bonds  4.1  – 
Net borrowings  (442.9) (337.4)
Fair value movements on convertible bonds  (4.1) – 
Finance lease liabilities due within one year  (0.4)  (0.1)
Finance lease liabilities due after more than one year  (54.7) (22.5)
Net debt  (502.1) (360.0)
h. Gearing	and	loan-to-value
The Group’s capacity to borrow is primarily linked to the quantum of the property portfolio excluding assets held under 
finance leases. Accordingly both gearing and loan-to value are calculated using the comparable measure of net borrowings. 
This represents bank loans and outstanding bond liabilities at amortised cost.
The table overleaf shows the calculation of:
• gearing, being the ratio of net debt to total equity;
• adjusted gearing, being the ratio of net borrowings to total equity; and
• loan-to-value being the ratio of net borrowings to the property portfolio (representing amounts that could be used as security 
for that debt).
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
124
Notes to the Group Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 2015
 Group 
 £m
 Joint ventures 
 and associates 
 £m 
 Total 
 £m 
Property portfolio (note 2c)  1,272.7  418.9  1,691.6 
Less valued assets held under finance leases  (53.1) –  (53.1)
Net property portfolio  1,219.6  418.9  1,638.5 
Total equity  921.5  N/A  921.5 
Net debt 502.1  47.6  549.7 
Net borrowings (note 2g) 442.9  46.4  489.3 
Gearing 54% 60%
Adjusted gearing 48% 53%
Loan-to-value 36% 30%
2014 restated
 Group 
 £m
 Joint ventures 
 and associates 
 £m 
 Total 
 £m 
Property portfolio (note 2c) – as previously reported  1,105.2  153.3  1,258.5 
 IFRS 10 adjustments  (69.2) 52.0  (17.2)
 Lease accounting adjustments  22.7  –  22.7 
Property portfolio as restated  1,058.7  205.3  1,264.0 
Less valued assets held under finance leases  (20.0) –  (20.0)
Net property portfolio as restated  1,038.7  205.3  1,244.0 
Total equity as previously reported  736.5  –  736.5 
 IFRS 10 adjustments  (12.8) –  (12.8)
 Lease accounting adjustments  0.3  –  0.3 
Total equity as restated  724.0  –  724.0 
Net debt as previously reported
(1)
 334.1  45.3  379.4 
 IFRS 10 adjustments  3.3  (2.5) 0.8 
 Finance lease obligations (including accounting adjustments)  22.6  1.2  23.8 
Net debt as restated  360.0  44.0  404.0 
Net borrowings as previously reported  334.1  45.3  379.4 
 IFRS 10 adjustments  3.3  (2.5) 0.8 
Net borrowings as restated  337.4  42.8  380.2 
Gearing as previously reported 45% 52%
Gearing as restated 50% 56%
Adjusted gearing as previously reported 45% 52%
Adjusted gearing as restated 47% 53%
Loan-to-value as previously reported 30% 30%
Loan-to-value as restated 32% 31%
(1) Excludes £3.9m of finance leases that are included in £22.6m finance lease liabilities. 
Bank covenant compliance is based on the ratio of gearing, being net debt to equity of 54% (2014 restated: 50%) against a 
covenant of 175%.
125
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 3. Other Income Statement disclosures
a. Administrative	expenses
Administrative expenses have been arrived at after charging:
2015 
£m 
2014 restated 
£m
Depreciation 0.8 0.5
Operating lease costs 1.5 1.0
b. Auditor’s	remuneration
The analysis of auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
2015 2014 
Audit and 
audit-related 
services
£000
Other 
services
£000
Total
£000
Audit and 
audit-related 
services
£000
Other 
services
£000
Total
£000
Fees payable for the audit of the 
Company's Annual Financial Statements 125  –  125 123 – 123
The audit of subsidiary companies and 
joint ventures pursuant to legislation 162  –  162 157 – 157
Total audit fees 287  –  287 280 – 280
Audit-related assurance services 60  –  60 55 – 55
Other assurance services 3  –  3 20 – 20
Tax compliance services –  16  16 – 67 67
Tax advisory services –  20  20 – 80 80
Property consulting –  69  69 – 202 202
Other –  2  2 – – –
Total non-audit fees 63  107  170 75 349 424
Total fees 350 107 457 355 349 704
The Group continues to monitor the provision of audit and other services by the auditor and fees charged for other services in 
2015 were 31% (2014: 98%) of audit and audit-related fees. The Group’s policy permits the auditor to provide non-audit services 
where alternative providers do not exist or where it is cost effective or in the Group’s interest for the external auditor to provide 
such services.
The above amounts include all amounts charged in respect of joint venture undertakings. Further information is included in the 
Audit Committee Report.
c. Employees
The monthly average number of full-time employees (including executive directors) employed by the Group during the year was 
as follows:
2015 
Number 
2014 
Number
Property and administration 257 220
Leisure and other activities 52 67
Total employees 309 287
The total payroll costs of these employees were:
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m
Wages and salaries 18.6 13.9
Social security costs 2.4 2.7
Pension costs 0.8 0.8
Total payroll costs 21.8 17.4
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
126
Notes to the Group Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 d. Share-based	payments
The Group has a Save As You Earn share option scheme open to all employees. Employees must ordinarily remain in service for 
a period of three or five years from the date of grant before exercising their options. The option period ends six months following 
the end of the vesting period.
The Group also operates a discretionary Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS). Options are granted at a fixed exercise price 
equal to the market price at the date of grant. With the exception of awards made to the executive directors in conjunction with 
the PSP awards granted in 2012, there are no performance conditions attached to ESOS awards. Employees must ordinarily 
remain in service for a period of three years from the date of grant before exercising their ESOS awards. The option period ends 
on the 10
th
 anniversary of the date of grant.
Details of the Group’s Performance Share Plan (PSP) are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The following table illustrates the movements in share options during the year. As the PSP includes the grant of options at £nil 
exercise price the weighted average prices below are calculated including and excluding the options under this plan.
2015  
Weighted average price
2014  
Weighted average price
Number of 
options
All options 
£
Excluding PSP 
£
Number of 
options
All options 
£
Excluding PSP 
£
Outstanding at start of year 9,117,437 1.87 2.31 10,371,497 1.58  2.06 
Granted 1,288,365  3.46  4.67 1,386,436 2.75  3.64 
Forfeited (398,241) 3.23  3.23  (47,108) (2.26) (2.26)
Exercised (3,917,473) 1.57  2.03  (2,593,388) 1.16  1.92 
Outstanding at end of year 6,090,088 2.33  2.89 9,117,437 1.87  2.31 
Exercisable at year end 1,887,986 1.75 1.75 2,946,495 2.00  2.00 
Share options are priced using a Black-Scholes valuation model. The fair values calculated and the assumptions used are 
as follows:
Charge
to Income
Statement
£m
Risk-free
interest rate
%
Expected
volatility
%
Dividend
yield
%
Share 
price
£
(1)
30
th
 November 2015 2.0 0.4–1.1 37.6–56.9 1.1 1.23–3.99
30
th
 November 2014 2.4 0.4–1.1 37.6–56.9 1.1 1.23–3.99
(1) Based on the earlier of the 90 day average to 30
th
 November 2011 or, for options granted after this date, the closing share price on the date of grant.
The fair value of the share incentive reserve in respect of share options outstanding at the year end was £5.2m (2014: £4.8m) and 
included £1.8m (2014: £0.8m) in respect of options that had vested at the year end.
In arriving at fair value it has been assumed that, when vested, shares options are exercised in accordance with historical trends. 
Expected volatility was determined by reference to the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over a period consistent with 
the expected life of the options.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise was £4.63 (2014: £3.82). The executive share options outstanding at 
the year end had a range of exercise prices between £1.75 and £4.74 (2014: £1.75 and £3.75) with PSP options exercisable at 
between £nil and £4.71 (2014: £nil and £1.52). Outstanding options had a weighted average maximum remaining contractual life 
of nine years (2014: nine years).
127
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 4. Finance costs and finance income
2015 
£m 
2014 restated 
£m
Interest payable on borrowings 16.5  17.9 
Amortisation of loan arrangement fees 1.1  2.6 
Write off of convertible bond issue costs –  2.4 
Amortisation of discount on deferred payment arrangements 1.1  1.9 
Head rents treated as finance leases 0.6  0.2 
Movement in fair value of convertible bond 4.1 –
Movement in fair value of financial instruments 0.8  – 
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 1.0  1.2 
Total finance costs 25.2  26.2 
All finance costs, other than in respect of the convertible bond which is carried at fair value, derive from financial liabilities 
measured at amortised cost. Included within amortisation of loan arrangement fees is £nil (2014: £1.4m) in relation to the early 
termination of bank facilities.
2015 
£m 
2014 restated 
£m
Interest receivable  3.9  2.2 
Movement in fair value of convertible bond    – 0.9
Movement in fair value of derivative financial instruments 0.4  1.0 
Interest income on pension scheme assets 1.1 1.2 
Total finance income 5.4 5.3 
The finance income on interest rate derivatives derives from financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss.
5. Taxation
a. Tax	on	loss	on	ordinary	activities
2015 
£m 
2014 restated 
£m
Tax charge/(credit) in the Income Statement:
Corporation tax 
Current year tax 13.9 8.6 
Adjustments in respect of previous years (0.8) (1.3)
 13.1  7.3 
Deferred tax
Temporary differences 0.4 1.0 
Impact of current year revaluations and indexation 4.3 5.9 
Net use of tax losses – 1.3 
Change in rate for provision of deferred tax (0.1) – 
Adjustments in respect of previous years 0.2 (3.7)
4.8 4.5 
Total tax charge in the Income Statement 17.9 11.8
Tax relating to items in the Statement of Comprehensive Income:
Deferred tax
Actuarial losses on pension schemes –  – 
Tax credit in the Statement of Comprehensive Income –  – 
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
128
Notes to the Group Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 b. Reconciliation	of	effective	tax	rate
2015 
£m 
2014 restated 
£m
Profit before tax 235.2 131.8 
Less: joint ventures and associates (106.8) (27.1)
Pre-tax profit attributable to the Group 128.4  104.7 
Corporation tax at 20.3% (2014: 21.7%) 26.1  22.6 
Effect of non-deductible expenses 0.3  0.8 
Impact of current year revaluations and indexation (6.3) (5.8)
Difference between chargeable gains and accounting profit 0.2  (0.8)
Change in rate used for provision of deferred tax (0.1) – 
Losses – Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets (1.7) – 
Current year charge 18.5  16.8 
Adjustments in respect of previous years (0.6) (5.0)
Tax charge for the year 17.9  11.8 
Effective rate of tax 14.0% 11.3%
The post tax results of joint ventures and associates are stated after a tax charge of £23.2m (2014: £3.1m charge). The effective 
tax rate for the Group including joint ventures and associates is a charge of 15.9% (2014: 11.4%).
The Finance (No. 2) Act 2015 included provisions which reduced the main rate of corporation tax to 19% from 1
st
 April 2017 and 
18% from 1
st
 April 2020. Current tax has therefore been provided 20.33% and deferred tax at rates from 18% to 20%. 
c. Balance	Sheet
2015 2014 restated
Corporation
tax
£m
Deferred
tax
£m
Corporation
tax
£m
Deferred
tax
£m
Balance at start of the year 7.3  11.7  3.6  8.5 
Charge to the Income Statement 13.1 4.8 7.3  4.5 
Acquired with subsidiary – – –  0.5 
Net payment (9.4) – (5.0) – 
Other 0.1 (1.1) 1.4  (1.8)
Balance at end of the year 11.1 15.4 7.3  11.7 
An analysis of the deferred tax provided by the Group is given below:
2015 2014 restated
Asset
£m
Liability
£m
Net
£m
Asset
£m
Liability
£m
Net
£m
Property revaluations – 16.4 16.4 –  10.0  10.0 
Capital allowances – 3.9 3.9 –  3.9  3.9 
Appropriations to trading stock – 0.5 0.5 –  0.5  0.5 
Unutilised tax losses (1.7) – (1.7) –  –  – 
Other temporary differences (3.7) – (3.7)  (2.7) –  (2.7)
Total deferred tax (5.4)  20.8  15.4  (2.7) 14.4  11.7 
At the Balance Sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses in relation to 2015 and prior years of £2.9m (2014: £1.3m), of which 
£1.7m (2014: £nil) has been recognised as a deferred tax asset. A deferred tax asset of £1.2m (2014: £1.3m) has not been 
recognised in respect of current and prior year tax losses as it is not considered sufficiently certain that there will be taxable profits 
available in the short-term against which these can be offset. 
129
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 5. Taxation (continued)
d. Factors	that	may	affect	future	tax	charges
As a property group, tax and its treatment is often an integral part of transactions. The outcome of tax treatments, including tax 
planning, are recognised by the Group to the extent that the outcome is reasonably certain. Where tax treatments have been 
challenged by HMRC, or management believe that there is a risk of such challenge, provision is made for the best estimate of 
potential exposure based on the information available at the Balance Sheet date. 
The effective rate of tax for the year of 14% reflects the benefit of certain investment gains not being taxable because of 
indexation, recognition of tax losses and the property ownership structure within the Group. As a result of proposed changes in 
the Group’s property ownership structure the effective tax rate is expected to move towards, but remain below, the standard rate 
of tax as a result of indexation on property revaluations together with land remediation and other property reliefs.
6. Earnings per share
2015 
Number of 
shares 
2014 restated 
Number of 
shares 
Weighted number of shares in issue 221,076,984 220,617,339
Weighted number of diluted shares relating to the convertible bond 18,867,925 14,150,943
Weighted number of diluted shares relating to share options 6,383,088 4,602,679
246,327,997 239,370,961
2015
Earnings 
£m 
 2014 restated 
Earnings  
£m 
Earnings for the purposes of basic earnings per share being net profit attributable to owners 
of the Company 216.4 118.6
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Interest on convertible bond (net of tax) 2.3 1.7
Movement in fair value of the convertible bond 4.1 (0.9)
Earnings for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 222.8 119.4
2015 
pence 
2014 restated 
pence 
Basic earnings per share 97.9  53.8 
Diluted earnings per share 90.4 49.9
Shares held by the St. Modwen Properties PLC Employee Share Trust are excluded from the above calculation. 
In addition to the 1.1p increase resulting from prior year restatements for IFRS 10 and lease accounting, diluted EPS for the year 
ended 30
th
 November 2014 has been updated for the potentially dilutive impact of the Group’s convertible bond. This reduces 
diluted EPS for the year ended 30
th
 November 2014 by 2.8p to 49.9p.
As the Group is principally a development business EPRA earnings per share on a basic and diluted basis are not provided. 
These calculations exclude all revaluation gains, including value added by management actions, and development profits. 
These are the key activities of the Group and excluding such gains and profits would not provide a meaningful measure of the 
performance of the business. 
7. Dividends
Dividends paid during the year were in respect of a final dividend for 2014 and an interim dividend for 2015. The proposed final 
dividend is subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these Financial Statements.
2015 2014
p per share £m p per share £m
Paid
Final dividend in respect of previous year 3.14 6.9 2.67 5.9
Interim dividend in respect of current year 1.90 4.2 1.46 3.2
Total 5.04 11.1 4.13 9.1
Proposed
Current year final dividend 3.85 8.5 3.14 6.9
The St. Modwen Properties PLC Employee Share Trust waives its entitlement to dividends with the exception of 1/100p per share.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
130
Notes to the Group Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 8. Investment property
Freehold
investment
properties
£m
Restated
leasehold
investment
properties
£m
Total
£m
Fair value
At 30
th
 November 2013 (restated) 615.5 129.1 744.6 
Additions – new properties 28.3 – 28.3 
Other additions 61.5 0.8 62.3 
Net transfers to inventories (note 12) (6.8) – (6.8)
Disposals (31.6) (3.9) (35.5)
Gain on revaluation (restated) 57.0 6.9 63.9 
At 30
th
 November 2014 (restated) 723.9 132.9 856.8 
Additions – new properties 57.2 – 57.2 
Other additions 102.7 2.6 105.3 
Net transfers from inventories (note 12) 51.6 13.3 64.9 
Disposals (55.4) (21.7) (77.1)
Gain on revaluation 67.8 6.1 73.9 
At 30
th
 November 2015 947.8 133.2 1,081.0 
Investment properties were valued at 30
th
 November 2015 and 30
th
 November 2014 by DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Ltd (since 
the merger of the firms trading, and herein referred to, as Cushman & Wakefield), Chartered Surveyors, in accordance with 
the Appraisal and Valuation Manual of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, on the basis of market value. Cushman 
& Wakefield are professionally qualified independent external valuers and had appropriate recent experience in the relevant 
location and category of the properties being valued.
The historical cost of investment properties at 30
th
 November 2015 was £840.5m (2014: £723.9m).
As at 30
th
 November 2015, £498.2m (2014: £450.0m) of investment property was pledged as security for the Group’s loan facilities.
Included within investment properties are £57.0m (2014: £23.9m) of assets held under finance leases. 
IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ disclosures in respect of investment property are detailed below.
The following table provides an analysis of the categorisation of the Group’s assets and liabilities measured subsequent to initial 
recognition at fair value:
Investment property
2015
£m
2014 restated
£m
– Income producing properties  Level 3  656.6  450.1 
– Residential land  Level 3  339.8  296.5 
– Commercial land  Level 3  92.6  110.3 
Assets held under finance leases
(1)
  N/A  3.9  3.9 
Lease incentives (recorded in receivables)  N/A  (11.9) (4.0)
 1,081.0  856.8 
(1)  £3.9m of the Group’s assets held under finance leases are not subject to revaluation. These assets represent head leases on certain investment property and are carried at the value 
recognised at inception less repayments of principal. This does not include lease arrangements at Swansea University which are subject to revaluation.
Income producing properties have been valued using the investment method which involves applying a yield to rental income 
streams. Inputs include equivalent yields, current rent and estimated rental value. The resulting valuations are cross checked 
against the resulting initial yields and, for certain assets, the land value underpin if the assets were to be redeveloped. 
Equivalent yields and estimated rental value are considered to be unobservable inputs and details of the ranges used for each 
category of income producing properties is provided overleaf. 
All other factors being equal, a higher equivalent yield would lead to a decrease in the valuation of an asset, and an increase in the 
current or estimated future rental stream would have the effect of increasing the capital value, and vice versa. However, there are 
interrelationships between the unobservable inputs which are partially determined by market conditions, which would impact on 
these changes.
131
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 8. Investment property (continued)
Residential land is valued using the residual development method. To derive the value of land the valuers will estimate the gross 
development value of completed residential units on a site from which deductions will be made for build costs (including costs to 
remediate and service land), finance costs and an appropriate profit margin. 
Sales prices, build costs and profit margins are considered to be unobservable inputs and details of the ranges used are 
provided below.
All other factors being equal, a higher sales price would lead to an increase in the valuation of an asset, a higher profit margin 
would lead to a decrease in the valuation of an asset, and a decrease in the build costs would have the effect of increasing 
the capital value, and vice versa. However, there are interrelationships between the unobservable inputs which are partially 
determined by market conditions, which would impact on these changes.
Commercial land is valued on a land value per acre less costs to remediate and service the land. Land value per acre is considered 
to be an unobservable input and details of the ranges used are detailed below.
All other things being equal, a higher value per acre would lead to an increase in the valuation of an asset and vice versa.
Information about fair value measurements using unobservable inputs (Level 3)
 
Income producing properties 
Fair value at
30
th
 November 
2015
£m
ERV per square foot Equivalent yield
Min
£
Max
£
Min
%
Max
%
Industrial  202.5 0.67 10.50 6.4 12.0
Retail  310.0 5.00 52.00 5.6 12.0
Residential  106.3 12.60 37.50 4.1 6.7
Offices  37.8 7.50 28.00 7.3 14.4
Total income producing properties 656.6 
 
Income producing properties 
Fair value at
30
th
 November 
2014
£m
    ERV per square foot Equivalent yield
Min
£
Max
£
Min
%
Max
%
Industrial  178.3 0.50 10.50 7.2 11.4
Retail  201.0 5.00 52.00 7.0 14.5
Residential  22.7 32.00 36.00 4.5 6.8
Offices  48.1 6.00 28.00 7.5 14.3
Total income producing properties 450.1 
As the Group holds property both directly and through joint ventures and associates the Strategic Report discusses yields applied 
to investment property on a weighted average see-through basis. This provides a composite position with respect to the Group’s 
exposure to asset types by sector. The equivalent yield ranges provided above are consistent with those for assets held by the 
Group together with its joint ventures and associates.
The Group’s portfolio has a wide spread of yields as it includes assets that are at various stages of the property lifecycle. 
Income producing assets are generally acquired at high yields where the Group has the opportunity to add significant value. 
As assets are enhanced and development activity is undertaken, improved and new assets are created and valued at lower yields.
Fair value at  
30
th
 November 
2015 
£m 
Sales  
price per sq ft 
£
Land  
value per acre 
£000
Build  
costs per sq ft 
£
Profit  
margin %
Residential land 339.8 144–270 – 82–110 20.0
Commercial land 92.6 – 125-595 – –
Fair value at  
30
th
 November 
2014 
£m 
Sales  
price per sq ft 
£
Land  
value per acre 
£000
Build  
costs per sq ft 
£
Profit  
margin %
Residential land 296.5 145–260 – 75-110 20.0
Commercial land 110.3 – 125-625 – –
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
132
Notes to the Group Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 9. Operating property, plant and equipment
Operating
properties
£m
Operating
plant and
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 30
th
 November 2013 6.9 5.4 12.3 
Additions 0.1 0.9 1.0 
Disposals – (0.4) (0.4)
At 30
th
 November 2014 7.0 5.9 12.9 
Additions – 0.6 0.6 
Disposals (2.5) (0.5) (3.0)
At 30
th
 November 2015 4.5 6.0 10.5 
Depreciation
At 30
th
 November 2013 0.9 4.8 5.7 
Charge for the year 0.1 0.4 0.5 
Disposals – (0.3) (0.3)
At 30
th
 November 2014 1.0 4.9 5.9 
Charge for the year 0.1 0.7 0.8 
Disposals – (0.4) (0.4)
At 30
th
 November 2015 1.1 5.2 6.3 
Net book value
At 30
th
 November 2013 6.0 0.6 6.6 
At 30
th
 November 2014 6.0 1.0 7.0 
At 30
th
 November 2015 3.4 0.8 4.2 
Tenure of operating properties:
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m
Freehold 3.4 3.4 
Leasehold – 2.6 
3.4 6.0 
133
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 10. Joint ventures and associates 
The Group’s share of the results for the year of its joint ventures and associates is:
2015
Key Property
Investments
Ltd
 £m 
VSM Estates
Uxbridge 
(Group) 
Ltd
 £m 
VSM Estates
(Holdings)
Ltd
 £m 
VSM
(NCGM)
Ltd
 £m 
Other joint
ventures and
associates
 £m 
Total
 £m 
Income Statements
Revenue 16.8 – – 0.4  4.6  21.8 
Net rental income 5.9  (0.2) – –  0.2  5.9 
Gains/(losses) on disposal of 
investments/ investment properties 2.8 – (0.9) 0.4  0.3  2.6 
Investment property revaluation gains/
(losses) 6.7  (3.9) (1.3) 127.4  0.3  129.2 
Administrative expenses  (0.1) – (0.1) (0.1) (0.1)  (0.4)
Profit/(loss) before interest and tax 15.3  (4.1) (2.3) 127.7  0.7  137.3 
Finance cost (2.3) (3.3) (1.6) (1.5) (0.2) (8.9)
Finance income 0.5  0.4  0.7  –  –  1.6 
Profit/(loss) before tax 13.5  (7.0) (3.2) 126.2  0.5  130.0 
Taxation (2.3) 1.8  2.8  (25.5) –  (23.2)
Profit/(loss) for the year 11.2  (5.2) (0.4) 100.7  0.5  106.8 
2014 restated
Key Property
Investments
Ltd
 £m 
VSM Estates
Uxbridge 
(Group) 
Ltd
 £m 
VSM Estates
(Holdings)
Ltd
 £m 
VSM
(NCGM)
Ltd
 £m 
Other joint
ventures and
associates
 £m 
Total
 £m 
Income Statements
Revenue 9.4  –  –  –  1.1  10.5 
Net rental income 5.7  –  –  –  0.2  5.9 
Gains on disposal of investments/ 
investment properties 0.7  –  3.0  –  –  3.7 
Investment property revaluation gains 11.1  0.4  15.2  –  0.4  27.1 
Administrative expenses  (0.2) –  (0.2) –  (0.1) (0.5)
Profit before interest and tax 17.3  0.4  18.0  –  0.5  36.2 
Finance cost (3.1) (3.0) (1.2) –  (0.2) (7.5)
Finance income 0.7  0.8  –  –  –  1.5 
Profit/(loss) before tax 14.9  (1.8) 16.8  –  0.3  30.2 
Taxation (0.4) 0.6  (3.3) – – (3.1)
Profit/(loss) for the year 14.5  (1.2) 13.5  –  0.3  27.1 
Included in other joint ventures and associates above are results from associated companies of £0.3m (2014: £nil).
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
134
Notes to the Group Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 The Group’s share of the Balance Sheet of its joint ventures and associates is:
2015
Key Property
Investments
Ltd
 £m 
VSM Estates
Uxbridge 
(Group) 
Ltd
 £m 
VSM Estates
(Holdings)
Ltd
 £m 
VSM
(NCGM)
Ltd
 £m 
Other joint
ventures and
associates
 £m 
Total
 £m 
Balance Sheets
Non-current assets 104.8  52.0  41.6  220.0  3.0  421.4 
Current assets 1.9  4.7  28.5  –  6.3  41.4 
Current liabilities (6.7) (17.2) (25.4) (5.5) (3.4) (58.2)
Non-current liabilities (34.2) (24.1) (6.8) (113.8) 1.6  (177.3)
Net assets 65.8  15.4  37.9  100.7  7.5  227.3 
Equity at start of year 61.3  20.6  38.3  –  7.0  127.2 
Profit/(loss) for the year 11.2  (5.2) (0.4) 100.7  0.5  106.8 
Dividends paid (6.7) –  –  –  –  (6.7)
Equity at end of year 65.8  15.4  37.9  100.7  7.5  227.3
2014
Key Property
Investments
Ltd
 £m 
VSM Estates
Uxbridge 
(Group) 
Ltd
 £m 
VSM Estates
(Holdings)
Ltd
 £m 
VSM
(NCGM)
Ltd
 £m 
Other joint
ventures and
associates
 £m 
Total
 £m 
Balance Sheets
Non-current assets 95.6  55.4  51.9  –  6.5  209.4 
Current assets 6.3  5.8  21.1  2.6  3.4  39.2 
Current liabilities (7.2) (21.5) (15.6) (2.6) (1.5) (48.4)
Non-current liabilities (33.4) (19.1) (19.1) –  (1.4) (73.0)
Net assets 61.3  20.6  38.3  –  7.0  127.2 
Equity at start of year 66.8  21.8  24.8  –  6.7  120.1 
Profit/(loss) for the year 14.5  (1.2) 13.5  –  0.3  27.1 
Dividends paid (20.0) –  –  –  –  (20.0)
Equity at end of year 61.3  20.6  38.3  –  7.0  127.2 
Included in other joint ventures and associates above are net assets of £3.3m (2014: £2.9m) in relation to associated companies. 
These net assets comprise total assets of £3.9m (2014: £3.5m) and total liabilities of £0.6m (2014: £0.6m).
New Covent Garden Market (NCGM)
NCGM received unconditional status in the year and, as a result, the valuation increase of £127.4m has had a significant impact on 
the current year results.
NCGM was valued at 30
th
 November 2015 by Jones Lang LaSalle LLP, Chartered Surveyors; in accordance with the Appraisal 
and Valuation Manual of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, on the basis of market value. Jones Lang LaSalle LLP are 
professionally qualified independent external valuers and had appropriate recent experience in the relevant location and category 
of the properties being valued.
The liability of VSM (NCGM) Ltd to procure a new market facility for CGMA has been calculated by:
• the Board of VSM (NCGM) Ltd, including representatives of VINCI and St. Modwen, assessing the costs of procuring the market 
facility at current rates;
• applying a current estimate of inflation for the period of build; and
• discounting the forecast cash flows to today’s value using a discount rate of 5%.
135
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 10. Joint ventures and associates (continued)
The following information on unobservable inputs is detailed below for understanding and completeness.
Minimum
£
Maximum
£
Average per
 square foot 
£
Profit margin
on GDV %
Sales price 900  1,566  1,326 –
Build costs – – 433 –
Profit margin on GDV – – – 20.0
The material joint venture and associate companies comprise the following:
Name Status Interest Activity
Barton Business Park Ltd Joint venture 50% Property development
Key Property Investments Ltd Joint venture 50% Property investment and development
Meaford Energy Ltd Joint venture 50% Property development
Meaford Land Ltd Joint venture 50% Property development
Skypark Development Partnership LLP Joint venture 50% Property development
VSM (NCGM) Ltd Joint venture 50% Property development
VSM Estates (Holdings) Ltd Joint venture 50% Property development
VSM Estates Uxbridge (Group) Ltd Joint venture 50% Property investment and development
Wrexham Land Ltd Joint venture 50% Property development
Wrexham Power Ltd Joint venture 50% Property development
Coed Darcy Ltd Associate 49% Property investment and development
Baglan Bay Company Ltd Associate 25% Property management
A full list of joint venture and associate companies is included in note (F) to the Company Financial Statements.
In the Strategic Report a series of commercial contracts with Persimmon is referred to as the ‘Persimmon joint venture’. This is 
not a statutory entity and the results from these commercial contracts are not included in the figures disclosed in this note. 
Revenue and profit from the Persimmon joint venture are recognised in Group development profit on legal completion of housing 
unit sales to third party customers.
Many of the shareholder agreements for joint ventures and associates contain change of control provisions, as is common for 
such arrangements.
11. Trade and other receivables
2015 
£m 
2014 restated 
£m
Non-current
Other debtors 0.1 – 
Amounts due from joint ventures 6.0 6.0 
6.1 6.0 
Current
Trade receivables 5.6 4.7 
Prepayments and accrued income 8.6 5.5 
Other debtors 22.2 22.7 
Amounts recoverable on contracts 31.3 6.0 
Amounts due from joint ventures 37.0 25.0 
104.7 63.9
IFRS 7 and IFRS 13 disclosures in respect of financial assets included above are provided in note 16.
Range per square foot
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
136
Notes to the Group Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 12. Inventories
2015 
£m 
2014 restated 
£m
Properties held for sale 5.3  5.8 
Properties under construction 161.6 176.7 
Land under option 16.8 18.5 
 183.7  201.0 
The movement in inventories during the two years ended 30
th
 November 2015 is as follows:
£m
At 30
th
 November 2013 (restated) 199.7
Additions 173.1
Net transfers from investment property (note 8) 6.8 
Disposals (transferred to development cost of sales) (note 1) (178.6)
At 30
th
 November 2014 201.0
Additions 234.8
Net transfers to investment property (note 8) (64.9)
Disposals (transferred to development cost of sales) (note 1) (187.2)
At 30
th
 November 2015 183.7
The directors consider all inventories to be current in nature. The operational cycle is such that a proportion of inventories will not 
be realised within 12 months. It is not possible to determine with accuracy when specific inventory will be realised as this will be 
subject to a number of issues including the strength of the property market.
Included within disposals of inventories are net realisable value provisions made during the year of £1.4m (2014: £0.1m).
As at 30
th
 November 2015 £43.4m (2014: £16.8m) of inventory was pledged as security for the Group’s loan facilities.
13. Trade and other payables
2015 
£m 
2014 restated 
£m
Current
Trade payables 38.5  24.4 
Amounts due to joint ventures 15.4  29.0 
Other payables and accrued expenses 75.6 74.4 
Other payables on deferred terms 17.1  20.8 
146.6 148.6
Non-current
Other payables on deferred terms 3.1  3.5 
3.1 3.5
The payment terms of the other payables on deferred terms are subject to contractual commitments. In the normal course of 
events the payments will be made in line with either the disposal of investment properties held on the Balance Sheet, or the 
commencement of development. Net cash outflows on the settlement of the deferred consideration will therefore be limited.
IFRS 7 and IFRS 13 disclosures in respect of financial liabilities included above are provided in note 16.
137
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 14. Borrowings and finance lease obligations
2015 
£m 
2014 restated 
£m
Current
Bank overdrafts –  – 
Bank loans –  – 
Finance lease liabilities due in less than one year 0.4 0.1
 0.4  0.1 
Non-current
Amounts repayable between one and two years –  50.0 
Amounts repayable between two and five years 344.3  253.1 
Amounts repayable after more than five years 107.5  37.5 
Non-current borrowings 451.8  340.6 
Finance leases liabilities due after more than one year 54.7  22.5 
Non-current borrowings and finance lease obligations 506.5  363.1 
Where borrowings are secured, the individual bank facility has a fixed charge over a discrete portfolio of certain of the Group’s 
property assets.
Borrowings 
Maturity profile of committed borrowing facilities
The Group’s debt is provided by floating rate bilateral revolving credit facilities (providing the flexibility to draw and repay loans 
as required) together with an £80m retail bond and £100m convertible bond. The maturity profile of the Group’s committed 
borrowing facilities is set out below:
2015 2014
Drawn
£m
Undrawn
£m
Total
£m
Drawn
£m
Undrawn
£m
Total
£m
Secured floating rate borrowings:
Less than one year
(1)
– – –  –  –  – 
One to two years – – –  50.0  25.0  75.0 
Two to three years 89.0 10.0 99.0  –  –  – 
Three to four years 71.2 53.8 125.0  64.0  35.0  99.0 
Four to five years 70.0 30.0 100.0  9.1  115.9  125.0 
More than five years 37.5 12.5 50.0  37.5  12.5  50.0 
267.7 106.3 374.0 160.6 188.4 349.0
Unsecured fixed rate borrowings:
Three to four years 184.1 – 184.1 – – – 
Four to five years – – –  180.0  –  180.0 
451.8 106.3 558.1 340.6 188.4 529.0
(1) In addition to the principal amounts included above, £1.8m (2014: £1.4m) of interest payable was committed at the year end. These amounts all fall due within three months of the year end. 
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
138
Notes to the Group Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 Interest rate profile
The interest rate profile of the Group’s borrowings after taking into account the effects of hedging is:
2015 2014
£m Applicable interest rate £m Applicable interest rate
Floating rate bank debt 137.7 Margin + 3 month LIBOR 30.6 Margin + 3 month LIBOR
Fixed rate bank debt 130.0
Margin + 2.76% weighted 
average swap rate 130.0
Margin + 2.93% weighted 
average swap rate
Retail Bond – Maturity 2019 80.0 6.25% fixed rate 80.0 6.25% fixed rate
Convertible Bond – Maturity 2019 104.1
2.875% fixed rate – swapped 
to 1.43% + 6 month LIBOR 
until 6
th
 March 2017 100.0 
2.875% fixed rate – swapped 
to 1.43% + 6 month LIBOR 
until 6
th
 March 2017
At 30
th
 November 451.8 340.6
The average margin on the Group’s bank debt is 1.9% (2014: 1.9%).
Derivative financial instruments
The Group’s derivative financial instruments, which are classified as fair value through profit or loss, consist of:
a) Sterling denominated interest swaps from floating rate to fixed rate applicable as at 30
th
 November 2015
These swaps hedge the Group’s floating rate bank debt as at 30
th
 November 2015. The fixed rates for these swaps range from 
2.01% to 5.16% (2014: 2.01% to 5.16%) and details of their maturity profile are given below. Certain of the interest rate swaps are 
extendable at the bank’s option; the tables below therefore show the dates of normal termination and extended termination. 
The weighted average maturity of the interest rate swaps below to the earliest termination date is 2.0 years (2014: 2.5 years).
2015 2014
Earliest termination Latest termination Earliest termination Latest termination
£m %
(1)
£m %
(1)
£m %
(1)
£m %
(1)
Less than one year 50.0 3.06 40.0 2.54 20.0 3.81 10.0 4.48
One to two years 20.0 2.01 20.0 2.01 40.0 2.54 40.0 2.54
Two to three years –  – 10.0 5.16 20.0 2.01 20.0 2.01
Three to four years 50.0 3.00 50.0 3.00 – – 10.0 5.16
Four to five years 10.0 1.60 10.0 1.60 50.0 3.00 50.0 3.00
130.0 2.76 130.0 2.76 130.0 2.93 130.0 2.93
(1) Weighted average interest rate.
b) Forward starting sterling denominated interest swaps from floating rate to fixed rate 
These swaps provide continuity of hedging beyond the term of the interest rate swaps applicable as at 30
th
 November 2015 and 
increase interest rate certainty through to bank facility renewal dates. The fixed rates for these swaps range from 2.72% to 2.97% 
(2014: 2.72% to 2.97%) and details of their maturity profile are given below. These hedges when taken together with existing 
hedges with an earliest termination date beyond 30
th
 November 2017 comprise £120m of hedging at a weighted average interest 
rate of 2.83% extending to a weighted average life of 3.6 years (2014: £110m at 2.95% for 4.7 years).
2015 2014
£m %
(1)
£m %
(1)
Period from 2016 – 2021 20.0 2.90 20.0  2.90 
Period from 2017 – 2019 40.0 2.87 40.0 2.87
60.0 2.88 60.0 2.88
(1) Weighted average interest rate.
139
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 14. Borrowings and finance lease obligations (continued)
c) Convertible bond (the Convertible Bonds)
On 6
th
 March 2014 St. Modwen Properties Securities (Jersey) Ltd (the Issuer) issued £100.0m 2.875% Guaranteed Convertible 
Bonds due 2019 at par. The Company has unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed the due and punctual performance by 
the Issuer of all its obligations (including payments) in respect of the Convertible Bonds and the obligations of the Company, as 
guarantor, constitute direct, unsubordinated and unsecured obligations of the Company. 
Subject to certain conditions, the Convertible Bonds are convertible into preference shares of the Issuer which are automatically 
transferred to the Company in exchange for ordinary shares in the Company or (at the Company’s election) any combination of 
ordinary shares and cash. The Convertible Bonds can be converted at any time from 16
th
 April 2014 up to the seventh dealing day 
before the maturity date. 
The initial exchange price was £5.29 per ordinary share, a conversion rate of approximately 18,889 ordinary shares for every 
£100,000 nominal of the Convertible Bonds. Under the terms of the Convertible Bonds, the exchange price is adjusted on 
the happening of certain events including the payment of dividends by the Company in excess of a yield of 1.00% of the 
average share price in the 90 days preceding the dividend ex date. No changes to the exchange price have been made up to 
30
th
 November 2015. 
The Convertible Bonds may be redeemed at par at the Company’s option subject to the Company’s ordinary share price having 
traded at 30% above the conversion price for a specified period, or at any time once 85% of the Convertible Bonds have been 
traded or cancelled. If not previously converted, redeemed or purchased and cancelled, the Convertible Bonds will be redeemed 
at par on 6
th
 March 2019.
A total of £100.0m nominal of the Convertible Bonds were issued and remain outstanding at 30
th
 November 2015. 
The Convertible Bonds are designated as at fair value through profit or loss and so are presented on the Balance Sheet at 
fair value with all gains and losses taken to the Income Statement through the movement in fair value of derivative financial 
instruments line. At 30
th
 November 2015 the fair value of the Convertible Bonds was £104.1m with the change in fair value 
charged to the Income Statement. The Convertible Bonds are listed on the Official List of the Channel Islands Security Exchange. 
Following the issue of the Convertible Bonds the Group was in an over-hedged position with an excess of debt at fixed rate. 
In order to reduce the level of fixed rate borrowings an interest rate derivative was entered into to swap the interest rate in the 
Convertible Bonds from a fixed rate of 2.875% to a floating rate of 6 month LIBOR plus 1.43% through to its third anniversary in 
March 2017.
The change in fair value of all of the above instruments is charged/credited to the Income Statement as disclosed in note 4.
Obligations under finance leases
Finance lease liabilities payable in respect of certain leasehold investment properties are as follows:
2015 2014
Minimum 
lease 
payments
 £m 
 Interest 
 £m 
 Principal 
 £m 
Minimum 
lease 
payments
 £m 
 Interest 
 £m 
 Principal 
 £m 
Less than one year 2.7  2.3  0.4  1.1  1.0  0.1 
Between one and five years 13.6 11.4 2.2  5.5  4.7  0.8 
More than five years 164.2  111.7  52.5  101.3  79.6  21.7 
 180.5  125.4  55.1 107.9 85.3  22.6 
Finance leases are for periods of up to 999 years from inception and a discount rate of 6.0% (2014: 6.0%) has been used to derive 
the fair value of the principal amount outstanding. All lease obligations are denominated in sterling.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
140
Notes to the Group Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 15. Operating leases
Operating lease commitments where the Group is the lessee
The Group leases certain of its premises, motor vehicles and office equipment under operating leases. Future aggregate minimum 
lease rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m
In one year or less 0.9 0.8
Between one and five years 2.4 3.2
In five years or more 0.2 0.2
 3.5  4.2 
Operating leases where the Group is the lessor
The Group leases out its investment properties under operating leases. The future aggregate minimum rentals receivable under 
non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m
In one year or less 55.7 31.5
Between one and five years 156.1 85.3
In five years or more 431.4 172.3
643.2 289.1
Contingent rents, calculated as a percentage of turnover for a limited number of tenants, of £0.7m (2014: £0.8m) were recognised 
during the year.
16. Financial instruments
Categories and classes of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets
2015 
£m 
2014 restated 
£m
Loans and receivables: 
 Cash and cash equivalents
(1)
 4.8  3.2 
 Trade and other receivables
(1)
55.1 48.9 
Derivative financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss
(2)
0.8 1.9
60.7 54.0
Financial liabilities
2015 
£m 
2014 restated 
£m
Derivative financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss
(2)
  8.0  8.7 
Amortised cost: 
 Bank loans and overdrafts
(1)
  267.7  160.6 
 Retail bond
(1)
  80.0  80.0 
 Convertible bond
(1)
  104.1  100.0 
 Trade and other payables
(1)
 86.5 88.4
 Other payables on deferred terms
(1)
 20.2 24.3
 Finance lease liabilities (head rents)
(1)
  55.1  22.7 
621.6 484.7
(1) The directors consider that the carrying amount recorded in the Financial Statements approximates their fair value.
(2) Derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value. The fair value is calculated using quoted market prices relevant for the term and instrument.
Trade and other receivables above comprise other debtors, trade receivables and amounts due from joint ventures as disclosed 
in note 11, for current and non-current amounts, after deduction of £15.8m (2014: £9.5m) of non-financial assets.
Trade and other payables above comprise trade payables, amounts due to joint ventures and other payables and accrued 
expenses and as disclosed in note 13, for current and non-current amounts, after deduction of £43.0m (2014: £39.4m) of 
non-financial liabilities.
141
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 16. Financial instruments (continued)
Derivative financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss
2015
£000
2014 restated
£000
Assets Level 2 0.8  1.9 
Liabilities Level 2 (8.0) (8.7)
(7.2) (6.8)
Derivative financial instruments are externally valued based on the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted 
based on the applicable yield curves derived from market expectations for future interest rates at the Balance Sheet date. 
Where applicable, the value of early termination options in favour of the issuing party are included in the external valuations using 
an option pricing model which also factors in projected interest rate volatility.
Capital risk
The Group manages its capital to ensure that the entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while 
maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the 
Company consists of debt (as disclosed in note 14), cash and cash equivalents and equity, comprising issued capital, reserves 
and retained earnings as disclosed in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity.
Market risk
Market risk is the potential adverse change in Group income or the Group net worth arising from movements in interest rates 
or other market prices. Interest rate risk is the Group’s principal market risk and is considered below.
Interest rate risk management: The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as it borrows funds at variable interest rates. The Group 
uses a combination of variable rate borrowings and interest rate swaps to manage the risk.
Interest rate sensitivity: The following table details the Group’s sensitivity, after tax, to a 1% change in interest rates based on year 
end levels of debt. 
1% increase in interest rates
2015
£m
2014
£m
Interest on borrowings  (2.1) (1.2)
Effect of interest rate swaps  1.5  1.0 
 (0.6) (0.2)
1% decrease in interest rates
2015
£m
2014
£m
Interest on borrowings  2.1  1.2 
Effect of interest rate swaps  (1.5) (1.0)
 0.6  0.2 
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss where counterparties are not able to meet their obligations as they fall due.
The credit risk on the Group’s liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks 
with acceptable (generally A and above) credit ratings. Bank deposits are only placed with banks in accordance with Group policy 
that specifies minimum credit rating and maximum exposure. Credit risk on derivatives is closely monitored.
Trade and other receivables consist of amounts due from a large number of parties spread across geographical areas. The Group 
does not have any significant concentrations of credit risk as the tenant base is large and diverse with the largest individual tenant 
accounting for £2.5m (2014: £1.6m) of gross rental income.
The carrying amount of financial assets, as detailed above, represents the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk at the 
reporting date.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
142
Notes to the Group Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 Included within trade and other receivables is £0.4m (2014: £0.6m) which is provided against as it represents estimated 
irrecoverable amounts. This allowance has been determined by a review of all significant balances that are past due considering 
the reason for non-payment and the creditworthiness of the counterparty. A reconciliation of the changes in this account during 
the year is provided below.
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts
2015
£m
2014
£m
At start of year  0.6  0.5 
Impairment losses recognised 0.4 0.6 
Amounts written off as uncollectable (0.4) (0.3)
Impairment losses reversed (0.2) (0.2)
At end of year  0.4  0.6 
Trade and other receivables include £0.8m (2014: £1.4m) which are past due as at 30
th
 November 2015 for which no provision has 
been made because the amounts are considered recoverable. The following table provides an ageing analysis of these balances.
Number of days past due but not impaired
2015
£m
2014
£m
1–30 days 0.3 0.4 
31–60 days 0.1 0.2 
60 days + 0.4 0.8 
0.8  1.4 
Liquidity	risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does not have sufficient financial resources available to meet its obligations as they fall 
due. The Group manages liquidity risk by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows, matching the maturity profiles 
of financial assets and liabilities and through the use of fixed rate bilateral facilities, overdrafts and cash with a range of maturity 
dates to ensure continuity of funding.
The maturity profile for the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities, on an undiscounted basis is as follows:
2015
Less than 
one month
£m
1–3 months
£m
3 months 
to 1 year
£m
1–5 years
£m
More than 
five years
£m
 Total 
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts and bonds 1.2  2.7  11.6  452.5  37.5  505.5 
Trade and other payables  57.3  5.8 23.3 – – 86.4
Finance leases – minimum lease 
payments (note 14) – – 2.7 13.6 164.2 180.5
Other payables on deferred terms  –  – 17.1 3.1 – 20.2
 58.5  8.5 54.7 469.2 201.7 792.6
2014 restated
Less than 
one month
£m
1–3 months
£m
3 months 
to 1 year
£m
1–5 years
£m
More than 
five years
£m
 
 Total 
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts and bonds 0.5  3.4  10.3 354.9 37.5 406.6
Trade and other payables  51.8  10.1  26.6  – – 88.5
Finance leases – minimum lease 
payments (note 14) – – 1.1 5.5 101.3 107.9
Other payables on deferred terms  –  –  20.8  5.6  –  26.4 
 52.3 13.5 58.8 366.0 138.8 629.4
The Group’s approach to cash flow, financing and bank covenants is discussed further in the Financial Review section of the 
Strategic Report.
143
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 17. Share capital
Equity share capital
 Ordinary 
10p shares 
 Number  £m 
At start of year  221,376,988  22.1 
Issue of share capital  500,000  0.1 
At end of year  221,876,988  22.2 
On 23
rd
 September 2015 the Group issued 500,000 ordinary shares of 10p each at par. The shares were allotted and issued to 
The St. Modwen Properties PLC Employee Share Trust to satisfy the exercise of awards made under the Company’s share-based 
incentive arrangements.
See note 3d for details of outstanding options to acquire ordinary shares.
18. Pensions
The Group operates a UK based pension scheme, the St. Modwen Pension Scheme, with both defined benefit and defined 
contribution sections. The defined benefit section is closed to new members and, from 1
st
 September 2009, future accrual. 
The Income Statement includes:
• a charge of £0.2m (2014: £0.2m) for the defined benefit section; and
• a charge of £0.7m (2014: £0.6m) for the defined contribution section.
The St. Modwen Pension Scheme is governed by the trustee company, St. Modwen Pensions Ltd. It is regulated by the UK 
regulatory regime, overseen by the Pensions Regulator.
The last formal actuarial valuation of the scheme was at 5
th
 April 2014, when the market value of the net assets of the scheme 
was £38m, a funding level of 97% based on the Trustees’ proposed assumptions for technical provisions. The main actuarial 
assumptions were:
Investment rate of return: pre-retirement 5.6% pa
post-retirement 3.8% pa
Increase in pensions 2.7% pa
Funding policy
As the scheme is almost fully funded, the current schedule of contributions requires the Group to fund the Scheme to such 
an extent as to cover administrative expenses only. The expected contribution for year ended 30
th
 November 2016 is expected 
to be £0.2m, consistent with the current year (£0.2m). From 1
st
 January 2015 the administrative expenses were met by 
St. Modwen Properties PLC.
The actuarial valuation of the defined benefit section, a final salary scheme, was updated to 30
th
 November 2015 on an IAS 19 
basis by a qualified independent actuary. The valuation was performed using the ‘Projected Unit Credit Method’ under IAS 19. 
The major assumptions used by the actuary were:
2015 2014 2013
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.1% 2.1% 2.6%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 
 Pre 6
th
 April 1997 benefits 3.0% 3.0% 3.0%
 Post 5
th
 April 1997 benefits 3.1% 3.1% 3.4%
Discount rate 3.5% 3.6% 4.5%
Inflation assumption 2.1% 2.1% 2.6%
Following the closure of the defined benefit section to future accrual, the assumption regarding the rate of increase in salaries is 
no longer applicable as retirement benefits will be based on salaries at 31
st
 August 2009. Benefits earned up to the point of the 
scheme closure will be protected and will be increased in line with inflation, subject to a maximum of 5% per annum. From 2010 
the basis of the inflation assumption has been amended, in line with market practice, from the Retail Price Index to the Consumer 
Price Index.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
144
Notes to the Group Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 The mortality rates adopted are from the VITA Tables with CMI_2013 ‘core’ projections and a long-term improvement of 1% pa 
with peaked short-term improvements and improvements remaining level at the oldest ages. The resultant assumptions are, 
for example:
• Average future life expectancy (in years) for a pensioner aged 65 at 30
th
 November 2015: 23.1 (male), 23.9 (female).
• Average future life expectancy (in years) at age 65 for a non-pensioner aged 40 at 30
th
 November 2015: 24.0 (male), 26.2 (female).
The fair values of assets in the defined benefit section of the scheme were:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Equities 
UK equity 4.2 5.2
Overseas equity 2.4 2.5
Debt securities
UK corporate bonds 7.0 6.8
Overseas corporate bonds 1.2 1.0
UK Government bonds 0.4 0.8
UK index-linked gilts 8.3 7.8
Property 5.3 5.6
Commodities – 0.1
Infrastructure 0.4 –
Cash 0.6 0.5
29.8 30.3
Actuarial value of liabilities (27.5) (28.6)
Unrecognised surplus (2.3) (1.7)
Surplus in the scheme  –  – 
Related deferred tax liability –  – 
Fair value of pension asset net of deferred tax –  – 
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses (before unrecognised surplus of £2.3m) recorded in the Group Statement of 
Comprehensive Income is a loss of £0.1m (2014: gain of £1.0m).
Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Current service cost and total operating charge (0.2) (0.2) (0.2)
Analysis of net interest
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Interest income on scheme assets 1.1  1.2  1.2 
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (1.0) (1.2) (1.1)
Total net interest 0.1  –  0.1 
The actual return on pension scheme assets was a gain of £1.3m (2014: £3.4m). 
Analysis of the amount recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive income
2015
£m
2014
£m
The returns on scheme assets (excluding amounts included in net interest) 0.2  2.2 
Experience gains and losses arising on fair value of scheme liabilities  0.5  0.9 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions – 0.5 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions (0.2) (2.4)
Change in unrecognised surplus (0.6) (1.2)
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit asset (0.1) – 
145
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 18. Pensions (continued)
Analysis of the movement in the present value of the scheme liabilities
2015
£m
2014
£m
Beginning of year 28.6  28.5 
Movement in year:
 Current service cost  –  0.2 
 Interest cost 1.0  1.2 
 Employee contributions –  – 
 Experience gains and losses arising on fair value of scheme liabilities  (0.5) (0.9)
 Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions –  (0.5)
 Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 0.2  2.4 
 Benefits paid (1.8) (2.3)
End of year 27.5  28.6 
Analysis of the movement in the fair value of the scheme assets
2015
£m
2014
£m
Beginning of year 30.3  29.0 
Movement in year:
 Interest income 1.1  1.2 
 Contributions by employer –  0.2 
 Employee contributions –  – 
 Return on assets excluding amounts included in net interest 0.2  2.2 
 Benefits paid (1.8) (2.3)
End of year 29.8  30.3 
Surplus in scheme at the year end  2.3  1.7 
Unrecognised surplus (2.3) (1.7)
Net surplus – – 
History of experience gains and losses
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Difference between expected and actual return 
on scheme assets:
 Amount 0.2 2.2 0.8  1.1  (0.4)
 Percentage of scheme assets 0.7% 7.3% 2.8% 3.9% (1.5%)
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
 Amount 0.5 0.9 (0.2) (0.5) (1.8)
 Percentage of fair value of scheme liabilities (1.8%) (3.1%) 0.7% 1.9% 7.3%
Information about the defined benefit obligation
Liability split Duration (years)
2015
% 
2014
% 
2015 
years
2014 
years
Active members –  –  –  – 
Deferred members 34.0 35.5 20.0 20.0
Pensioners 66.0 64.5 12.0 12.0
Total 100.0 100.0 14.8 14.8
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
146
Notes to the Group Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 Sensitivity analysis
Change in assumptions compared with 30
th
 November 2015 actuarial assumptions:
• A 0.5% decrease in the discount rate would increase the actuarial value of liabilities by £2.1m to £29.6m.
• A 1 year increase in life expectancy would increase the actuarial value of liabilities by £0.8m to £28.3m.
• A 0.5% increase in the inflation rate would increase the actuarial value of liabilities by £1.3m to £28.8m.
• A 0.5% increase in the rate of increase in deferred pensions would increase the actuarial value of liabilities by £0.3m to £27.8m.
• A 0.5% increase in the rate of increase in pensions in payments would increase the actuarial value of liabilities by £1.0m to £28.5m.
Defined benefit scheme – risk factors
The Group is exposed to a number of risks related to its defined benefit scheme, the most significant of which are detailed below.
Asset volatility
Pension scheme liabilities are calculated using discount rates set with reference to bond yields. If the assets within the scheme 
deliver a return which is lower than the discount rate this will create or increase a deficit within the scheme. This risk is reduced 
by holding a significant proportion of the scheme assets in matching assets (bonds or similar). As the scheme matures, it is 
anticipated that this proportion will increase to better match the assets and liabilities of the scheme.
Changes in bond yields
A decrease in bond yields will typically increase liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an appreciation in the value of 
scheme assets held in bonds.
Inflation risk
As the pension obligations are linked to inflation, higher inflation expectations will lead to higher liabilities. The asset portfolio 
includes a significant proportion of inflation linked bonds to reduce this risk.
Member longevity
The pension obligations provide benefits for the life of the members, therefore increases in life expectancy will result in an 
increase in liabilities (and vice-versa).
19. Acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking
In 2010, the Group entered into an option to acquire the entire issued share capital of Branston Properties Ltd (Branston), of 
which Simon Clarke was a shareholder, at market value. The price paid for the option was £0.1m with exercise contingent on the 
achievement of certain planning milestones in relation to land held by Branston.
Following achievement of these planning milestones the option was exercised by the Group on 22
nd
 May 2014 and 87.5% of the 
issued share capital of Branston was acquired. A conditional agreement to acquire the remaining 12.5 % of the issued share 
capital, which was held by Simon Clarke, was also entered into on 22
nd
 May 2014. Total consideration payable for the entire issued 
share capital of Branston was:
• £0.8m on completion;
• £0.1m payable on shareholder approval;
• £0.1m 12 months after completion which was paid on 22
nd
 May 2015; and
Contingent consideration payable based on the level of future development gains achieved in respect of the land and property 
held by Branston. Based on the provisional fair values detailed below, no contingent consideration has been recognised.
The consideration payable to Mr. Clarke under the conditional agreement equated to 12.5% of the amounts above. As the 
consideration payable to Mr. Clarke was in excess of £100,000, the conditional agreement constituted a substantial property 
transaction with a director of the company under sections 190 and 191 of the Companies Act 2006. As a result, the agreement 
was conditional, among other things, on approval of shareholders of St. Modwen Properties PLC; this approval was given at the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting held on 27
th
 March 2015.
As required by IFRS 3 (2008) Business Combinations, this acquisition resulted in the assets and liabilities of Branston 
being remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date and the resulting negative goodwill arising of £2.1m credited to the 
Income Statement.
147
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 19. Acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking (continued)
The recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are set out in the table below:
 Book value 
 £m 
 Fair value 
adjustments 
 £m 
 Total 
 £m 
Net assets acquired: 
– Investment property  5.9  2.6  8.5 
– Trade and other payables  (4.9) –  (4.9)
– Deferred tax  –  (0.5) (0.5)
Total identifiable net assets  1.0  2.1  3.1 
Negative goodwill  (2.1)
Total consideration  1.0 
 £m 
Satisfied by: 
– Cash payable on acquisition  0.8 
– Deferred proceeds paid on shareholder approval  0.1 
– Deferred proceeds paid on 22
nd
 May 2015  0.1 
Total consideration  1.0 
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year there would have been no incremental change to the 
Group’s revenue or profit before tax.
On 3
rd
 March 2015 the Group acquired the remaining share capital in Killingholme Land Ltd and Killingholme Energy Ltd for 
nil consideration.
20. Capital commitments
At 30
th
 November 2015 the Group had contracted capital expenditure of £12.2m (2014 restated: £8.1m). In addition the Group’s 
share of the contracted capital expenditure of its joint venture undertakings was £1.4m (2014 restated: £2.3m). All capital 
commitments relate to investment properties.
21. Contingent liabilities
The Group has a joint and several unlimited liability with VINCI PLC and the Ministry of Defence under guarantees in respect of 
the financial performance of VSM Estates (Holdings) Ltd (VSM). This is a guarantee in the ordinary course of business and would 
require the guarantors to step into VSM’s place in the event of a default on Project MoDEL. Completion of the project is not 
considered onerous as the forecast revenues exceed the anticipated costs and it is not expected that there would be any net 
outflow in this regard.
The Group, together with VINCI PLC, has provided a joint and several parent company guarantee in respect of the £26m bank 
facility provided to VSM Estates (Uxbridge) Ltd, a subsidiary of VSM Estates Uxbridge (Group) Ltd.
The Group, together with VINCI PLC, has provided a joint and several guarantee in respect of the obligations of VSM (NCGM) Ltd 
relating to the redevelopment of New Covent Garden Market, London. This is a guarantee in the ordinary course of business and 
would require the guarantors to comply with the terms of the development agreement and to indemnify Covent Garden Market 
Authority against any breach of those terms.
The Group, together with Salhia Real Estate K.S.C., has provided a parent company guarantee in respect of the £80m bank facility 
provided to Key Property Investments Ltd. The guarantee provided by the Group is capped at 50 per cent of the total commitment 
under the agreement from time to time, limiting the Group guarantee to £40m as at 30
th
 November 2015.
St. Modwen Properties PLC has guaranteed the liabilities of the following subsidiaries in order that they qualify for the exemption 
from audit under section 479A of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of the year ended 30
th
 November 2015.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
148
Notes to the Group Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 Name of subsidiary Company registration number
Blackpole Trading Estate (1978) Ltd 00581658
Boughton Holdings 04112012
Broomford Vange Ltd 05697168
Chertsey Road Property Ltd 06899060
Festival Waters Ltd 04354481
Holaw (462) Ltd 03666441
Shaw Park Developments Ltd 04625000
St. Modwen Developments (Chorley) Ltd 05727011
St. Modwen Developments (Connah's Quay) Ltd 05726352
St. Modwen Developments (Daresbury) Ltd 06163550
St. Modwen Developments (Eccles) Ltd 05867740
St. Modwen Developments (Hillington) Ltd 04150262
St. Modwen Developments (Holderness) Ltd 05726995
St. Modwen Developments (Hull) Ltd 05593517
St. Modwen Developments (Longbridge) Ltd 02885028
St. Modwen Developments (Meon Vale) Ltd 05294589
St. Modwen Developments (Queens Market) Ltd 05289380
St. Modwen Developments (Quinton) Ltd 01479159
St. Modwen Developments (Telford) Ltd 05411357
St. Modwen Developments (Weston) Ltd 05411348
St. Modwen Developments (Wythenshawe) Ltd 05594279
St. Modwen Hungerford Ltd 06160323
St. Modwen Investments Ltd 00528657
St Modwen Securities Ltd 00460301
22. Related party transactions
All related party transactions involving directors, and those involving a change in the level of the Group’s interest in non-
wholly owned subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are specifically reviewed and approved by the Board. Monitoring and 
management of transactions between the Group and its non-wholly owned subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is 
delegated to the executive directors. All related party transactions are clearly justified and beneficial to the Group, are undertaken 
on an arm’s length basis on fully commercial terms and in the normal course of business. Related party transactions are detailed 
as follows:
Joint ventures and associates
Key Property Investments Ltd (KPI)
During the year the Group provided management and construction services to KPI for which it received fees totalling £0.4m 
(2014: £0.4m). The balance due to the Group at year end was £0.8m (2014: £2.5m). No interest is charged on this balance.
VSM Estates Uxbridge (Group) Ltd (VSM Uxbridge)
VSM Uxbridge is funded by loan notes and short-term funding provided by the Group and VINCI PLC together with bank 
debt. The balance due to the Group at the year end was £22.3m (2014: £21.8m), of which £6.0m (2014: £6.0m) is loan notes. 
All amounts are interest bearing and interest charged in the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 was £2.6m (2014: £2.2m).
VSM Estates (Holdings) Ltd (VSM Holdings)
VSM Holdings is funded by loan notes and short term funding provided by the Group and VINCI PLC. The balance due from the 
Group at the year-end was £0.5m (2014: £3.4m). All amounts due to the Group are interest bearing and interest charged in the 
year ended 30
th
 November 2015 was £1.1m (2014: £0.7m).
Barton Business Park Ltd (Barton)
The balance due to Barton at the year end was £3.8m (2014: £3.8m). No interest is charged on this balance.
149
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 22. Related party transactions (continued)
Skypark Development Partnership LLP (Skypark)
During the year the Group provided funding of £0.6m to Skypark (2014: £nil). The balance due to the Group from Skypark at the 
year end was £1.7m (2014: £1.1m), of which £1.4m (2014: £1.1m) relates to loan notes issued to the Group. Interest of £0.1m 
(2014: £0.1m) was charged in the year.
Wrexham Power Ltd (Wrexham Power)
During the year the Group provided funding to Wrexham Power of £0.2m (2014: £0.7m). The balance due to the Group at the 
year end was £1.1m (2014: £0.9m). No interest is charged on this balance.
Wrexham Land Ltd (Wrexham Land)
During the year the Group provided funding to Wrexham Land of £nil (2014: £nil). The balance due to the Group at the year end 
was £0.1m (2014: £0.1m). No interest is charged on this balance.
VSM (NCGM) Ltd (VSM (NCGM))
During the year the Group provided funding to VSM (NCGM) of £1.7m (2014: £1.5m). The balance due to the Group at the year 
end was £4.6m (2014: £2.9m). No interest is charged on this balance.
Pension
St. Modwen Pension Scheme
The Group occupies offices owned by the pension scheme with an annual rental payable of £0.1m (2014: £0.1m). The balance due 
to the Group at year end was £nil (2014: £nil).
Non-wholly owned subsidiaries
The Company provides administrative and management services and provides a central purchase ledger system to subsidiary 
companies. In addition, the Company also operates a central treasury function which lends to and borrows from subsidiary 
undertakings as appropriate. Management fees and interest charged/(credited) during the year and net balances due (to)/from 
subsidiaries in which the Company has a less than 90% interest were as follows:
Management fees Interest Balance
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Norton & Proffitt Developments Ltd –  –  –  –  0.3  0.3 
Stoke-on-Trent Regeneration 
(Investments) Ltd –  –  –  –  (0.6) (0.5)
Stoke-on-Trent Regeneration Ltd –  –  (0.2) (0.1) (21.7) (10.1)
VSM Estates (Ashchurch) Ltd –  –  –  –  0.2  – 
Widnes Regeneration Ltd –  –  –  –  2.0  2.0 
 –  –  (0.2) (0.1) (19.8) (8.3)
All amounts due to the Group are unsecured and will be settled in cash. All amounts above are stated before provisions for 
doubtful debts of £nil (2014: £nil). No guarantees have been given or received from related parties.
Transactions in which directors have an interest
Branston Properties Ltd (Branston)
In 2010 the Group entered into an option to acquire the entire issued share capital of Branston, of which Simon Clarke was a 
shareholder, at market value. The price paid for the option was £0.1m and exercise of this was contingent on certain planning 
milestones being achieved. Following achievement of the requisite planning milestones the option was exercised by the Group on 
22
nd
 May 2014 and 87.5% of the issued share capital of Branston was acquired as discussed further in note 19.
Key management personnel
The directors are considered to be the Group’s key management personnel and their remuneration is disclosed in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
150
Notes to the Group Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 Notes
2015
£m
2014
£m
Fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets (E) 0.9  1.0 
Investments held as fixed assets (F) 1,037.2  796.8 
 1,038.1  797.8 
Current assets
Debtors (including amounts falling due after more than one year of £212.6m 
(2014: £212.6m) (G) 637.0  563.3 
Cash at bank and in hand 3.7  3.2 
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (H) (356.9) (328.5)
Net current assets 283.8  238.0 
Total assets less current liabilities 1,321.9  1,035.8 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year (H) (354.3) (286.6)
Net assets 967.6 749.2 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital (K) 22.2  22.1 
Share premium account (L) 102.8  102.8 
Revaluation reserve (L) 767.3  526.9 
Profit and loss account (L) 24.9  48.2 
Share incentive reserve (L) 5.2  4.8 
Own shares (L) (1.0) (1.8)
Other reserves (L) 46.2  46.2 
Equity shareholders' funds 967.6  749.2 
These Financial Statements were approved by the Board and authorised for issue on 1
st
 February 2016.
Bill Oliver Rob Hudson
Chief Executive Group Finance Director
Company Number: 349201
151
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45
Company Balance Sheet
as at 30
th
 November 2015 (A). Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The Company Financial Statements and notes have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK GAAP on a going concern 
basis, as discussed in the Strategic Report.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below and have been applied consistently in the current and preceding year. 
Following the publication of FRS100 – Application of Financial Reporting Requirements by the Financial Reporting Council, the 
Company is required to change its accounting framework for its entity financial statements, which is currently UK GAAP, for its 
financial year commencing 1
st
 December 2015. The Company intends to adopt FRS101 – Reduced Disclosure Framework for 
its Parent Company Financial Statements. No disclosures in the current UK GAAP Financial Statements would be omitted on 
adoption of FRS101. 
Compliance with SSAP19 ‘Accounting for Investment Properties’ requires departure from the Companies Act 2006 relating to 
depreciation and an explanation of the departure is given below.
Accounting convention
The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for the revaluation of certain 
properties, derivative financial instruments and the defined benefit section of the Company’s pension scheme.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised to the extent that the Company obtains the right to consideration in exchange for its performance. 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, excluding discounts and VAT.
Rental income
Rental income arising from investment properties is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Interest receivable
Interest receivable is recognised on an accruals basis.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets, other than investment properties, are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated 
impairment losses. Such cost includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is provided on all plant, machinery and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual 
value, based on prices prevailing at the Balance Sheet date, of each asset evenly over its expected useful life as follows:
• plant, machinery and equipment – over two to five years;
• depreciation is not provided on investment properties which are subject to annual revaluations.
Long leasehold investment properties
In accordance with SSAP19, investment properties are revalued annually and the aggregate surplus or temporary deficit 
is transferred to the revaluation reserve. Permanent diminutions are recognised through the Profit and Loss Account. 
No depreciation is provided in respect of investment properties.
The Companies Act 2006 requires all properties to be depreciated. However, this requirement conflicts with the generally 
accepted accounting principle set out in SSAP19. The directors consider that, because these properties are not held for 
consumption but for their investment potential, to depreciate them would not give a true and fair view and that it is necessary to 
adopt SSAP19 in order to give a true and fair view. If this departure from the Act had not been made, the profit for the financial 
year would have been reduced by depreciation. However, the amount of depreciation cannot reasonably be quantified because 
depreciation is only one of many factors reflected in the annual valuation and the amount which might otherwise have been 
shown cannot be separately identified or quantified.
Investment in subsidiary, joint venture and associated companies
The investments in subsidiary, joint venture and associated companies are included in the Company’s Balance Sheet at the 
Company’s share of net asset value. The valuation recognises the cost of acquisition and changes in the book values of the 
underlying net assets. The surplus or deficit arising on revaluation is reflected in the Company’s reserves.
Current taxation
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to, the taxation authorities, 
based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable result for the year. The taxable result differs from the result as reported in the 
Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further 
excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
152
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the Balance Sheet date 
where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay less or to receive more tax, with the 
following exceptions:
• provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation (and similar fair value adjustments) of fixed assets and gains on 
disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets only to the extent that, at the Balance Sheet date, 
there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned. However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all 
available evidence at the Balance Sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement 
assets and charged to tax only where the replacement assets are sold; and 
• deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be 
suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted. 
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing 
differences reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
Interest
Interest paid is charged to the Profit and Loss Account on an accruals basis.
Finance costs of debt are allocated over the term of the debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Share-based payments
The Company accounts for share-based payments as equity settled. The Company’s equity settled share based payments are 
measured at fair value at the date of the grant using an appropriate option pricing model. The fair value at the date of grant (or 
the date of reclassification from cash settled to equity settled) is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period on the 
Company’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Pensions
The Company operates a pension scheme with both defined benefit and defined contribution sections. The defined benefit 
section is closed to new members and, from 1
st
 September 2009, to future accrual.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit section is determined using the projected unit credit method, which 
attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine current service cost) and to the current and prior periods (to 
determine the present value of the defined benefit obligation) and is based on actuarial advice. Past service costs are recognised 
in the Profit and Loss Account immediately if the benefits have vested.
The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents the change in present value of scheme obligations. The expected 
return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long-term market returns on scheme 
assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the year. 
The difference between the expected return on plan assets and the interest cost is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account as 
other finance income or expense.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses in the year in which they 
occur. The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the Balance Sheet comprises the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation, less any past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to 
be settled directly.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account in the period in which they 
become payable.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate 
fluctuations. Such instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a contract is entered into and are 
subsequently remeasured at fair value. The Company has determined that the derivative financial instruments in use do not 
qualify for hedge accounting and, consequently, any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial 
instruments are taken to the Profit and Loss Account.
Full details of the Company’s derivative financial instruments are given in note 16 to the Group Financial Statements.
Own shares
Shares in St. Modwen Properties PLC held by the Company are classified in as a deduction from equity shareholder’s funds and 
are recognised at cost.
153
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 (A). Accounting policies (continued)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, 
loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance 
income and expense.
Convertible bonds
Convertible bonds are assessed on issue as to whether they should be classified as a financial liability, as equity or as a compound 
financial instrument with both debt and equity components. This assessment is based on the terms of the bond and in 
accordance with FRS25 – Financial Instruments: Presentation. The convertible bonds have been designated at fair value through 
profit or loss.
Operating leases
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Cash Flow Statement
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption permitted by FRS1 not to present a Cash Flow Statement.
(B). Result for the financial year
The Company has taken advantage of section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and has not included its own Profit and Loss 
Account in these Financial Statements. The Company’s loss for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 was £2.7m (2014 profit: 
£13.9m).
(C). Other Income Statement disclosures 
(i) Administrative	expenses	
Administrative expenses have been arrived at after charging: 
2015
£m
2014
restated 
£m 
Depreciation 0.6 0.2
Operating lease costs 1.5 1.0
(ii) Audit	fees
2015 2014
Audit and 
audit-related 
services
£000
Other 
services
£000
Total
£000
Audit and 
audit-related 
services
£000
Other 
services
£000
Total
£000
Fees paid to Deloitte LLP in respect of:
Fees payable for the audit of the 
Company's Annual Financial Statements 125 – 125 123 – 123
Total audit fees 125 – 125 123 – 123
Audit related assurance services 55 –  55 55 – 55
Other assurance services 3 –  3  20  –  20 
Tax compliance services – 16 16  – 30 30
Tax advisory services – 20 20  – 55 55
Other – 2 2 – – –
Total non-audit fees 58 38 96 75 85 160
Total fees 183 38 221 198 85 283
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
154
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 (iii) Employees
The monthly average number of full-time employees (including executive directors) employed by the Company during the year 
was as follows:
2015
Number
2014
Number
Property and administration 257 220
Leisure and other activities 31 40
Total employees 288 260
2015
£m
2014
£m
Wages and salaries 17.3 12.7
Social security costs 2.3 2.6
Pension costs 0.8 0.7
Total payroll costs 20.4 16.0
(D). Dividends
Dividends paid during the year were a final dividend for 2014 and an interim dividend for 2015. The proposed final dividend is 
subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these Financial Statements.
2015 2014
p per share £m p per share £m 
Paid
Final dividend in respect of previous year 3.14  6.9  2.67  5.9 
Interim dividend in respect of current year 1.90  4.2  1.46  3.2 
Total 5.04  11.1  4.13  9.1 
Proposed
Current year final dividend 3.85  8.5  3.14  6.9 
The St. Modwen Properties PLC Employee Share Trust waives its entitlement to dividends with the exception of 1/100p per share.
(E). Tangible fixed assets
Long
leasehold
investment
properties
£m
Plant,
machinery
and
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost or valuation
At 30
th
 November 2014 0.3  3.3  3.6 
Additions –  0.6  0.6 
Disposals –  (0.1) (0.1)
At 30
th
 November 2015 0.3 3.8 4.1
Depreciation
At 30
th
 November 2014 –  2.6  2.6 
Charge for the year –  0.6  0.6 
At 30
th
 November 2015 –  3.2  3.2 
Net book value
At 30
th
 November 2014 0.3 0.7 1.0
At 30
th
 November 2015 0.3 0.6 0.9
Investment properties were valued at 30
th
 November 2015 and 30
th
 November 2014 by DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Ltd (since 
the merger of the firms trading, and herein referred to, as Cushman & Wakefield), Chartered Surveyors, in accordance with 
the Appraisal and Valuation Manual of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, on the basis of market value. Cushman 
& Wakefield are professionally qualified independent external valuers and had appropriate recent experience in the relevant 
location and category of the properties being valued.
Long leasehold investment properties are currently let under operating leases for the purpose of generating rental income.
155
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 (F). Investments held as fixed assets
Investment
in subsidiary
companies
£m
Investment
in joint
ventures
£m
Total
£m
Valuation
At 30
th
 November 2014 699.9 96.9 796.8 
Revaluation of investments 77.1 163.3 240.4 
At 30
th
 November 2015 777.0 260.2 1,037.2
Cost
At 30
th
 November 2014 278.4  26.5  304.9 
At 30
th
 November 2015 278.4 26.5 304.9
Subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates as at 30
th
 November 2015:
Company name
Country of 
incorporation
Company 
registration 
number
Ultimate % 
holding
Principal 
activities
Baglan Bay Company Ltd England and Wales 06383208 25.0% Property development
Barton Business Park Ltd England and Wales 03807742 50.0% Property investment
Barton Business Park Property Management Ltd England and Wales 05289394 50.0% Dormant
Bay Campus Developments LLP England and Wales OC389022 50.0% Dormant
Blackpole Trading Estate (1978) Ltd England and Wales 00581658 100.0% Property investment
Blue Ice (Widnes) Ltd England and Wales 06160293 100.0% Dormant
Boltro Properties Ltd England and Wales 02616865 100.0% Property investment
Boughton Enterprises Ltd England and Wales 05068420 100.0% Dormant
Boughton Holdings England and Wales 04112012 100.0% Property investment – 
ceased trading
Branston Properties Ltd England and Wales 02893827 100.0% Property development
Broomford Vange Ltd England and Wales 05697168 100.0% Property investment 
Castle Hill Dudley Ltd England and Wales 05411315 81.0% Property development 
Chaucer Estates Ltd England and Wales 00456386 100.0% Property investment/
development
Chertsey Road Property Ltd England and Wales 06899060 100.0% Property investment – 
ceased trading
Coed Darcy Estates Management Ltd England and Wales 07848407 100.0% Property management
Coed Darcy Ltd England and Wales 00577934 49.0% Property development
Coed Darcy Management Ltd England and Wales 06477385 100.0% Dormant
Festival Waters Ltd England and Wales 04354481 100.0% Property investment
Glan Llyn Management Ltd England and Wales 07848409 100.0% Property management
Great Yarmouth Regeneration Ltd England and Wales 05594264 100.0% Dormant
Heenan Group Pensions Ltd England and Wales 00548316 100.0% Dormant
Holaw (462) Ltd England and Wales 03666441 100.0% Property investment
Key Property (Developments) Ltd England and Wales 04780513 50.0% Property development
Key Property Investments (Number Eight) Ltd England and Wales 04502433 50.0% Property investment/
development
Key Property Investments (Number Eleven) Ltd England and Wales 05226386 50.0% Property investment
Key Property Investments (Number Four) Ltd England and Wales 04305282 50.0% Property investment/
development
Key Property Investments (Number Nine) Ltd England and Wales 04471664 50.0% Property investment/
development
Key Property Investments (Number One) Ltd England and Wales 03450063 50.0% Property investment/
development
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
156
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 Company name
Country of 
incorporation
Company 
registration 
number
Ultimate % 
holding
Principal 
activities
Key Property Investments (Number Seven) Ltd England and Wales 04460875 50.0% Holding company
Key Property Investments (Number Six) Ltd England and Wales 04331826 50.0% Holding company
Key Property Investments (Number Ten) Ltd England and Wales 04471654 50.0% Dormant
Key Property Investments (Number Three) Ltd England and Wales 04305272 50.0% Property investment/
development
Key Property Investments (Number Twelve) Ltd England and Wales 05732834 50.0% Dormant
Key Property Investments (Number Two) Ltd England and Wales 04177539 50.0% Property investment/
development
Key Property Investments Ltd England and Wales 03372175 50.0% Holding company
Killingholme Energy Ltd England and Wales 08320277 100.0% Property development
Killingholme Land Ltd England and Wales 08320297 100.0% Property development
Knights Park (Management) Ltd England and Wales 02487814 16.7% Dormant
KPI Corporate Services Ltd England and Wales 09040522 50.0% Property management
KPI I S.à.r.l. Luxembourg B154101 50.0% Property investment
KPI II S.à.r.l. Luxembourg B154102 50.0% Property investment
KPI S.à.r.l. Luxembourg B153301 50.0% Property investment
Lapwing Centre (Management) Ltd England and Wales 02487912 12.5% Dormant
Lawnmark Ltd England and Wales 04089229 100.0% Dormant
Leisure Living Ltd England and Wales 02106984 100.0% Property development
Longbridge Innovation Centre Ltd England and Wales 06163526 100.0% Dormant
Meaford Energy Ltd England and Wales 08575649 50.0% Property development
Meaford Land Ltd England and Wales 08575760 50.0% Property development
Newcastle Regeneration Partnership Ltd England and Wales 02741086 100.0% Dormant
Norton & Proffitt Developments Ltd England and Wales 03717397 75.0% Property investment/
development
Peacehaven Valley Owners Ltd England and Wales 02648782 4.2% Dormant
Petre Court Management (Number 1) Ltd England and Wales 06160268 100.0% Dormant
Radclyffe Estates Ltd England and Wales 05816682 100.0% Dormant
Redman Heenan Properties Ltd England and Wales 00073265 100.0% Property investment/
development
Sandpiper Quay (Management Company No.1) 
Ltd
England and Wales 02485619 13.3% Dormant
Sandpiper Quay (Management Company No.2) 
Ltd
England and Wales 02485456 100.0% Dormant
Saxon Business Centre (Management) Ltd England and Wales 02470756 40.0% Dormant
Shaw Park Developments Ltd England and Wales 04625000 100.0% Property development
Skypark Development Partnership LLP England and Wales OC343583 50.0% Property development
SMP 14H S.à.r.l. Luxembourg B187462 100.0% Property investment
Snipe Centre (Management) Ltd England and Wales 02485535 33.3% Dormant
Sowcrest Ltd England and Wales 02948648 100.0% Property investment
St Modwen Developments (Meon Vale) Ltd England and Wales 05294589 100.0% Property investment – 
ceased trading
St Modwen Securities Ltd England and Wales 00460301 100.0% Property development
St. Modwen (SAC1) Ltd England and Wales 08296927 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen (SAC2) Ltd England and Wales 08296934 100.0% Property investment
St. Modwen (Shelf 1) Ltd England and Wales 02741186 100.0% Dormant
157
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 (F). Investments held as fixed assets (continued)
Company name
Country of 
incorporation
Company 
registration 
number
Ultimate % 
holding
Principal 
activities
St. Modwen (Shelf 64) Ltd England and Wales 06160316 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen Corporate Services Ltd England and Wales 06163437 100.0% Property management
St. Modwen Development (Coed Darcy) Ltd England and Wales 06163563 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen Developments (Bedford) Ltd England and Wales 05411282 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen Developments (Belle Vale) Ltd England and Wales 04145782 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen Developments (Blackburn) Ltd England and Wales 05732825 100.0% Property investment
St. Modwen Developments (Bognor Regis) Ltd England and Wales 06160250 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen Developments (Brighton West Pier) Ltd England and Wales 04069008 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen Developments (Chorley) Ltd England and Wales 05727011 100.0% Property investment
St. Modwen Developments (Colne) Ltd England and Wales 05726325 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen Developments (Connah's Quay) Ltd England and Wales 05726352 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen Developments (Cranfield) Ltd England and Wales 06163509 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen Developments (Daresbury) Ltd England and Wales 06163550 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen Developments (Eccles) Ltd England and Wales 05867740 100.0% Property investment
St. Modwen Developments (Edmonton) Ltd England and Wales 02405853 100.0% Property investment/
development
St. Modwen Developments (Facility Services) Ltd England and Wales 08996358 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen Developments (Hatfield) Ltd England and Wales 04354480 100.0% Property investment/
development
St. Modwen Developments (Hillington) Ltd England and Wales 04150262 100.0% Property investment/
development
St. Modwen Developments (Holderness) Ltd England and Wales 05726995 100.0% Property development
St. Modwen Developments (Hull) Ltd England and Wales 05593517 100.0% Property development
St. Modwen Developments (Kirkby 2) Ltd England and Wales 09746395 100.0% Property development
St. Modwen Developments (Longbridge) Ltd England and Wales 02885028 100.0% Property investment/
development
St. Modwen Developments (Queens Market) Ltd England and Wales 05289380 100.0% Property development
St. Modwen Developments (Quinton) Ltd England and Wales 01479159 100.0% Property development
St. Modwen Developments (Silverstone) Ltd England and Wales 05594232 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen Developments (Skelmersdale) Ltd England and Wales 06163591 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen Developments (St Helens) Ltd England and Wales 05726666 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen Developments (Telford) Ltd England and Wales 05411357 100.0% Property investment/
development
St. Modwen Developments (Walthamstow) Ltd England and Wales 06163459 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen Developments (Weston) Ltd England and Wales 05411348 100.0% Property development
St. Modwen Developments (Wythenshawe 2) Ltd England and Wales 05851760 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen Developments (Wythenshawe) Ltd England and Wales 05594279 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen Developments Ltd England and Wales 00892832 100.0% Property investment/
development
St. Modwen Holdings Ltd England and Wales 01991339 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen Homes Ltd England and Wales 09095920 100.0% Property development
St. Modwen Hungerford Ltd England and Wales 06160323 100.0% Property development
St. Modwen Investments Ltd England and Wales 00528657 100.0% Property investment
St. Modwen Neath Canal Ltd England and Wales 06160309 100.0% Holding company
St. Modwen Pensions Ltd England and Wales 00878604 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen Properties 11 S.à.r.l. Luxembourg B199875 100.0% Property investment
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
158
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 Company name
Country of 
incorporation
Company 
registration 
number
Ultimate % 
holding
Principal 
activities
St. Modwen Properties I S.à.r.l. Luxembourg B154036 100.0% Property investment
St. Modwen Properties II S.à.r.l. Luxembourg B154040 100.0% Property investment
St. Modwen Properties III S.à.r.l. Luxembourg B154089 100.0% Property investment
St. Modwen Properties IV S.à.r.l. Luxembourg B154061 100.0% Property investment
St. Modwen Properties IX S.à.r.l. Luxembourg B154099 100.0% Property investment
St. Modwen Properties S.à.r.l. Luxembourg B153339 100.0% Property investment
St. Modwen Properties Securities (Jersey) Ltd Jersey 114977 100.0% Financing company
St. Modwen Properties V S.à.r.l. Luxembourg B154141 100.0% Property investment
St. Modwen Properties VI S.à.r.l. Luxembourg B154133 100.0% Property investment
St. Modwen Properties VII S.à.r.l. Luxembourg B154093 100.0% Property investment
St. Modwen Properties VIII S.à.r.l. Luxembourg B154097 100.0% Property investment
St. Modwen Properties X S.à.r.l. Luxembourg B154153 100.0% Property investment
St. Modwen Residential Living Ltd England and Wales 09266033 100.0% Property management
St. Modwen Services Ltd England and Wales 02885024 100.0% Dormant
St. Modwen Ventures Ltd England and Wales 01486151 100.0% Property investment/
development
Statedale Ltd England and Wales 03656832 100.0% Holding company
Stoke on Trent Regeneration (Investments) Ltd England and Wales 04289476 50.0% Property investment
Stoke on Trent Regeneration Ltd England and Wales 02265579 50.0% Property investment/
development
Swan Business Park (Management) Ltd England and Wales 02424524 25.0% Dormant
The Company of Proprietors of the Neath 
Canal Navigation
England and Wales ZC000173 68.4% Property investment
Trentham Gardens Ltd England and Wales 00533242 100.0% Dormant
Trentham Leisure Ltd England and Wales 03246990 100.0% Property investment
Tukdev 11 Ltd England and Wales 02885000 100.0% Dormant
Uttoxeter Estates Ltd England and Wales 02725709 81.0% Property investment
VSM (Mill Hill 1) Ltd England and Wales 05851870 50.0% Property development
VSM (Mill Hill 2) Ltd England and Wales 05851871 50.0% Property development
VSM (Mill Hill 3) Ltd England and Wales 05851774 50.0% Property development
VSM (Mill Hill 4) Ltd England and Wales 05867674 50.0% Property development
VSM (Mill Hill 5) Ltd England and Wales 05867677 50.0% Property development
VSM (Mill Hill 6) Ltd England and Wales 05867678 50.0% Property development
VSM (NCGM) Ltd England and Wales 08333203 50.0% Property development
VSM (Uxbridge 1) Ltd England and Wales 05851806 50.0% Property investment
VSM (Uxbridge 2) Ltd England and Wales 05851814 50.0% Property investment
VSM (Uxbridge 3) Ltd England and Wales 05851817 50.0% Property investment
VSM (Uxbridge 4) Ltd England and Wales 05851821 50.0% Property investment
VSM (Uxbridge 5) Ltd England and Wales 05851830 50.0% Property investment
VSM (Uxbridge 6) Ltd England and Wales 05851841 50.0% Property investment
VSM (Uxbridge 7) Ltd England and Wales 05851862 50.0% Property investment
VSM (Uxbridge 8) Ltd England and Wales 05851866 50.0% Property investment
VSM (West Ruislip 3) Ltd England and Wales 05867747 50.0% Property investment – 
ceased trading
VSM (West Ruislip 4) Ltd England and Wales 05867730 50.0% Dormant
159
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 Company name
Country of 
incorporation
Company 
registration 
number
Ultimate % 
holding
Principal 
activities
VSM (West Ruislip 1) Ltd England and Wales 05732822 50.0% Dormant
VSM (West Ruislip 2) Ltd England and Wales 05732818 50.0% Dormant
VSM (Woolwich 1) Ltd England and Wales 05867687 50.0% Property investment – 
ceased trading
VSM (Woolwich 2) Ltd England and Wales 05867692 50.0% Dormant
VSM Estates (Ashchurch) Ltd England and Wales 09494284 50.0% Property investment/
development
VSM Estates (Holdings) Ltd England and Wales 05867718 50.0% Property development
VSM Estates (Uxbridge Holdings) Ltd England and Wales 08030263 50.0% Dormant
VSM Estates (Uxbridge) Ltd England and Wales 08000629 50.0% Property investment/
development
VSM Estates Ltd England and Wales 05732806 50.0% Property development
VSM Estates Uxbridge (Group) Ltd England and Wales 08083799 50.0% Property development
Walton Securities Ltd England and Wales 02314059 100.0% Dormant
Widnes Regeneration Ltd England and Wales 03643210 81.0% Property development
Woking Developments Ltd England and Wales 05411325 100.0% Dormant
Woodingdean Estate Management Company Ltd England and Wales 09293061 100.0% Property management
Wrexham Land Ltd England and Wales 06748467 50.0% Property development
Wrexham Power Ltd England and Wales 06762265 50.0% Property development
Many of the shareholder agreements for joint ventures and associates contain change of control provisions, as is common for 
such arrangements.
(F). Investments held as fixed assets (continued)
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
160
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 (G). Debtors
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts falling due after more than one year: 
Amounts falling due from subsidiaries  206.6  206.6 
Amounts due from joint venture and associated companies  6.0  6.0 
212.6 212.6
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts falling due within one year: 
Trade debtors  0.3  0.1 
Amounts due from subsidiaries  362.6 304.2
Amounts due from joint venture and associated companies  34.3 22.8
Other debtors  0.7 1.9
Prepayments and accrued income  4.1 6.0
Derivative financial instruments  0.8 1.0
Corporation tax  18.9  12.5 
Deferred tax asset (see note (J))  2.7 2.2
424.4 350.7
(H). Creditors
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts falling due within one year: 
Bank overdrafts  – 3.7
Trade creditors  –  0.9 
Amounts due to subsidiaries  311.8 292.0
Amounts due to joint venture and associated companies  15.5 4.7
Other tax and social security  1.6  0.8 
Other creditors  1.2 1.5
Accruals and deferred income  9.8 11.9
Derivative financial instruments  17.0 13.0
356.9 328.5
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts falling due after more than one year: 
Bank loans 182.5 106.6 
Other loans 171.8 180.0 
354.3 286.6
All bank borrowings are secured by a fixed charge over the property assets of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Other loans comprise an unsecured 6.25% fixed rate retail bond maturing in November 2019 and a 2.875% convertible bond 
maturing March 2019.
161
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 (I). Borrowings 
The maturity profile of the bank borrowings is as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Less than one year – –
One to two years – – 
Two to five years 316.8 249.1
More than five years 37.5 37.5 
Total 354.3 286.6
(J). Deferred taxation 
The amounts of deferred taxation provided and unprovided in the Financial Statements are :
Provided Unprovided
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Other timing differences 2.7 2.2 139.1 93.5
The unprovided deferred taxation represents the amounts that would be payable should the Company sell all of its investments in 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies.
Reconciliation of movement on deferred tax asset included in debtors
£m
Balance as at 30
th
 November 2014  2.2
Profit and loss account 0.5
Balance as at 30
th
 November 2015  2.7
Reconciliation of deferred tax liability included in pension scheme asset
£m
Balance as at 30
th
 November 2014  – 
Profit and Loss Account –
Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses  – 
Balance as at 30
th
 November 2015  – 
(K). Share capital
Equity share capital
 Ordinary 10p 
shares 
 Number £m
At start of year  221,376,988  22.1 
Issue of share capital 500,000 0.1 
At end of year  221,876,988  22.2 
On 23
rd
 September 2015 the Company issued 500,000 ordinary shares of 10p each at par. The shares were allotted and issued to 
The St. Modwen Properties PLC Employee Share Trust to satisfy the exercise of awards made under the Company’s share-based 
incentive arrangements. 
See note 3d of the Group Financial Statements for details of outstanding options to acquire ordinary shares.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
162
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued)
for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015 (L). Reserves
 Share 
premium 
 account 
 £m 
 Revaluation 
 reserve 
 £m 
 Profit 
 and loss 
 account 
 £m 
 Share 
incentive 
reserve 
 £m 
 Own 
shares 
 £m 
 Other 
 reserves 
 £m 
At 30
th
 November 2014  102.8  526.9  48.2  4.8  (1.8) 46.2 
Surplus on revaluation of investments  – 240.4 –  –  –  – 
Retained (loss) for the year (note B)  –  –  (2.7) –  –  – 
Equity issue  –  –  –  –  (0.1) – 
Share-based payment charge  –  –  (8.6) 0.4  –  – 
Net share disposals  –  –  (0.9) –  0.9  – 
Dividends paid (note D)  –  –  (11.1) –  –  – 
Actuarial loss on pension scheme 
(note M)  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Movement on deferred tax relating to 
pension asset (note J)  –  –  –  –  –  – 
At 30
th
 November 2015 102.8 767.3 24.9 5.2  (1.0) 46.2
Own shares represents the cost of 690,274 (2014: 460,427) shares held by The St. Modwen Properties PLC Employee Share Trust. 
The open market value of the shares held at 30
th
 November 2015 was £2,985,435 (2014: £1,763,435). In addition the Employee 
Benefit Trust has £0.1m (2014: £0.1m) of cash and an intercompany receivable of £13.8m due to the Company (2014: £2.8m due 
to the Company), that can only be used for the benefit of employees.
(M). Pensions 
The Company’s pension schemes are the principal pension schemes of the Group and details are set out in note 18 of the Group 
Financial Statements. The directors are satisfied that this note, which contains the required IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ disclosures 
for the Group, also covers the requirements of FRS17 ‘Retirement Benefits’ for the Company.
(N). Operating lease commitments
Operating lease commitments where the Company is the lessee
Annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2015 2014
Land and 
buildings
 £m
Other
 £m
Land and 
buildings
 £m
Other
 £m
Operating leases which expire:
In one year or less – – –  – 
Between one and five years 0.5  0.7  0.5  0.7 
In more than five years 0.1  0.6  0.1  0.6 
 0.6  1.3  0.6  1.3 
(O). Contingent liabilities 
Details of contingent liabilities together with guarantees made in respect of certain subsidiaries in order that they qualify for the 
exemption from audit under section 479A of the Companies Act 2006 are provided in note 21 to the Group Financial Statements. 
Further the Company guarantees the performance of its subsidiaries in the course of their usual commercial activities.
(P). Related party transactions
Details of related party transactions are provided in note 22 to the Group Financial Statements.
163
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45 2011
£m
2012
£m
2013 restated
 £m
2014 restated
 £m
2015
 £m
Rental income
(1) 
 35.5  36.2  36.3  37.1  38.7 
Property profits
(1) (2)
  23.8  29.0  37.7  51.3 67.4
Revaluation surplus/(deficit)
(1) (3)
  33.9  28.0  39.1  93.5  201.7 
Profit before all tax
(4)
  51.7  52.8  77.2  135.4 258.4
Earnings per share (pence)  21.7  21.3  30.9  53.8  97.9 
Dividends paid per share (pence)  3.10  3.41  3.75  4.13  5.04 
Dividend cover (times)  7.0  6.2  8.2  13.0  19.4 
Shareholders' equity net assets per share (pence)  231.8  250.8  278.8  325.1  413.5 
Increase on prior year 9% 8% 11% 17% 27%
Net assets employed 
Investment properties  848.7  770.4 744.6 856.8  1,081.0 
Investments  50.3  75.2 120.1 127.2  227.3 
Inventories  191.1  175.2 199.7 201.0  183.7 
Other net liabilities  (267.0) (141.1) (112.9) (101.0) (68.4)
Net debt  (347.1) (366.0) (334.9) (360.0) (502.1)
Minority interests  (11.6) (11.1) (4.5) (5.9) (6.8)
Equity attributable to owners of the Company  464.4  502.6  612.1  718.1  914.7 
Financed by 
Share capital  20.0  20.0  22.0  22.1  22.2 
Reserves  444.9  483.1  590.4  697.8  893.5 
Own shares  (0.5) (0.5) (0.3) (1.8) (1.0)
 464.4  502.6  612.1  718.1  914.7 
(1) Including share of joint ventures.
(2) Stated before net realisable value provisions. 
(3) Including net realisable value provisions and, where applicable, negative goodwill arising on acquisitions as a result of fair value adjustments to property assets. 
(4) Stated before joint venture tax.
The figures above are all presented under IFRSs.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements
164
Five Year Record 165
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45
Glossary of terms
Active management – the component of property revaluations delivered as a direct result of management actions and initiatives, 
for example obtaining planning consent, achieving remediation milestones and improving lease terms.
Adjusted gearing – the level of the Group’s net borrowings (at amortised cost and excluding finance leases) expressed as a 
percentage of net assets.
Average lease length – the weighted average lease term to the first tenant break. 
EPRA – the European Public Real Estate Association, a body that has put forward recommendations for best practice in financial 
reporting by real estate companies.
EPRA net asset value (EPRA NAV) – the Balance Sheet net assets, adjusted to include the fair value of inventories and exclude 
deferred tax on capital allowances and revaluations, and mark-to-market of derivative financial instruments.
EPRA net asset value per share – EPRA net asset value divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the period end 
(excluding shares held by The St. Modwen Properties PLC Employee Share Trust).
Equivalent yield – a weighted average of the initial yield and reversionary yield and represents the return a property will produce 
based on the timing of the income received.
Estimated rental value (ERV) – the Group’s external valuers’ opinion as to the open market rent which, on the date of valuation, 
could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of the property.
Gearing – the level of the Group’s net debt expressed as a percentage of net assets.
Gross development value (GDV) – the sale value of property after construction.
IFRIC – International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
IFRSs – International Financial Reporting Standards.
Initial yield – the annualised net rent of a property expressed as a percentage of the property’s valuation.
Interest – net finance costs (excluding the mark-to-market of derivative financial instruments and other non-cash items) for the 
Group (including its share of joint ventures and associates).
Interest cover – the ratio of operating income less overheads to interest for the Group (including its share of joint ventures 
and associates).
Land bank – 100% of the land and property owned and controlled by the Group together with joint ventures and associates 
(including land under option and development agreements).
LIBOR – the London interbank offered rate is the interest rate which banks charge when lending to other banks. 
Loan-to-value (LTV) – the level of the Group’s net borrowings expressed as a percentage of the Group’s property portfolio 
excluding assets held under finance leases (representing amounts that could be used as security of that debt and excluding 
assets held under finance leases).
Market value – an opinion of the best price at which the sale of an interest in the property would complete unconditionally for 
cash consideration on the date of valuation, as determined by the Group’s external valuers. In accordance with usual practice, 
the Group’s external valuers report valuations net, after the deduction of the prospective purchaser’s costs, including stamp duty, 
agent and legal fees.
Net asset value (NAV) per share – equity attributable to owners of the Company divided by the number of ordinary shares in 
issue at the period end (excluding shares held by The St. Modwen Properties PLC Employee Share Trust). 
Net borrowings – total borrowings (at amortised cost and excluding finance leases) less cash and cash equivalents and fair value 
movements on the Group’s convertible bond.
Net debt – total borrowings and finance leases including fair value movements in the Group’s convertible bond less cash and 
cash equivalents. 
Net initial yield – a calculation by the Group’s external valuers as the yield that would be received by a purchaser, based on 
the estimated net rental income expressed as a percentage of the acquisition cost, being the market value plus assumed actual 
purchasers’ costs at the reporting date. The calculation is in line with EPRA guidance.
Net rental income – the rental income receivable in the period less non-recoverable property costs for the Group (including its 
share of joint ventures and associates).  St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Additional Information
166
Glossary of terms (continued)
Occupancy rates/levels – the ERV attributable to vacant units as a proportion of total ERV (including the Group’s share of joint 
ventures and associates).
Operating costs/business running costs – administrative expenses plus net finance costs (excluding the mark-to-market of 
derivative financial instruments and other non-cash items) for the Group (including its share of joint ventures and associates). 
Operating income – the total of net rental income, other income and property profits for the Group (including its share of joint 
venture and associates).
Other income – other rental type income generated from the operating assets of the Group (including its share of joint ventures 
and associates).
Persimmon joint venture – a series of commercial contracts with Persimmon to develop residential units on agreed sites within 
St. Modwen’s land bank.
Pre-sold properties under construction – those properties we are constructing that have been specified by and designed 
for, or adapted by, a specific client under a specific construction contract. On such projects, profit is recognised using the stage 
completion method.
Profit before all tax – profit before tax stated before the deduction of tax payable by joint ventures and associates.
Project MoDEL – Project MoDEL originally saw six former London-based RAF sites freed up for disposal and development as 
the MoD relocated to an integrated site at RAF Northolt. VINCI St. Modwen (VSM) was appointed by the MoD in 2006 to secure 
planning consent to redevelop the six sites of which VSM disposed of four, retaining RAF Mill Hill and RAF Uxbridge. The latter was 
removed from the MoD arrangement and transferred to a separate joint venture with VINCI in 2012.
Property portfolio – investment properties and inventories of the Group (including its share of joint ventures and associates) 
comprising income producing properties together with residential and commercial land. 
Property profits – development profit (before the deduction of net realisable value provisions) plus gains on disposals of 
investments/investment properties for the Group (including its share of joint ventures and associates). 
Rent roll – the gross rent plus rent reviews that have been agreed as at the reporting date.
Reversionary yield – the anticipated yield to which the initial yield will rise or fall once the rent reaches the ERV. 
RICS – Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Section 106 agreement – planning obligations attached to a development, often improvements to local infrastructure and 
facilities, to ensure that wherever possible a development makes a positive contribution to the local area and community.
See-through loan-to-value (LTV) – the level of the Group’s net borrowings expressed as a percentage of the Group’s 
property portfolio.
SIC – Standards and Interpretations Committee. 
Trading profit – operating income less operating costs. 
TSR – total shareholder return, representing the growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that 
dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of stock.
Weighted average term of borrowings – each tranche of the Group’s borrowings is multiplied by the remaining period to its 
maturity and the result is divided by total Group borrowings at the period end.
Weighted average interest rate – the Group’s annualised loan interest and derivative costs at the period end, divided by total 
Group borrowings at the period end. 167
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45
Notice is hereby given that the seventy fifth Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) of St. Modwen Properties PLC (the Company) 
will be held in the Evolution Suite, Innovation Centre, 1 Devon 
Way, Longbridge Technology Park, Birmingham B31 2TS on 
Wednesday, 23
rd
 March 2016 at 12.00 noon to consider and, 
if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions.
 
Resolutions 1 
to 15 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and 
resolutions 16 to 19 will be proposed as special resolutions.
Ordinary business
1.  That the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the 
financial year ended 30
th
 November 2015 be received.
2.  That the Directors’ Remuneration Report, excluding the 
part containing the directors’ remuneration policy, set 
out on pages 70 to 93 of the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements for the financial year ended 30
th
 November 
2015 be approved.
3.  That a final dividend for the financial year ended 30
th
 
November 2015 of 3.85p per ordinary share payable 
on 1
st
 April 2016 to those shareholders on the register 
of members at the close of business on 4
th
 March 2016 
be declared.
4. That Rob Hudson be elected as a director.
5. That Ian Bull be re-elected as a director.
6. That Steve Burke be re-elected as a director.
7. That Kay Chaldecott be re-elected as a director.
8. That Simon Clarke be re-elected as a director.
9. That Lesley James be re-elected as a director.
10. That Richard Mully be re-elected as a director.
11. That Bill Oliver be re-elected as a director.
12. That Bill Shannon be re-elected as a director.
13.  That Deloitte LLP be re-appointed as auditor of the 
Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next 
general meeting at which accounts are laid.
14.  That the Audit Committee be authorised to determine 
the remuneration of the Company’s auditor on behalf of 
the Board.
Special business
15.  That, in substitution for all existing authorities and without 
prejudice to previous allotments or offers or agreement 
to allot made pursuant to such authorities, the directors 
be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance 
with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 (the 2006 Act) 
to exercise all the powers of the Company to:
 (a)  allot shares in the Company or grant rights to 
subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in 
the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£7,395,899; and 
 (b)  allot equity securities (within the meaning of section 
560 of the 2006 Act) up to a further aggregate nominal 
amount of £7,359,899 in connection with an offer by 
way of a rights issue to:
  (i)  ordinary shareholders in proportion (as nearly as 
may be practicable) to their existing holdings; and
  (ii)  holders of other equity securities, as required by the 
rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as 
the directors otherwise consider necessary,
   subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as 
the directors may deem necessary or expedient to 
deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or 
legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the 
requirements of any regulatory body or any stock 
exchange in, any country or territory,
  such authorities to expire at the conclusion of the AGM of 
the Company to be held after the date of the passing of this 
resolution or 22
nd
 June 2017, whichever is the earlier, but, 
in each case, so that the Company may make offers and 
enter into agreements before the expiry of such authority 
which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights 
to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares to be 
granted after such expiry and the directors may allot shares 
or grant such rights under any such offer or agreement as if 
the authority had not expired.
Special resolution
16.  That, in substitution for all existing powers and subject to 
the passing of resolution 15, the directors be generally 
empowered pursuant to section 570 of the Companies 
Act 2006 (the 2006 Act) to allot equity securities (within the 
meaning of section 560 of the 2006 Act) for cash pursuant 
to the authority conferred by resolution 15 and/or where 
the allotment constitutes an allotment of equity securities 
by virtue of section 560(3) of the 2006 Act, in each case free 
of the restriction in section 561 of the 2006 Act, provided 
that such power to be limited to:
 (a)  the allotment of equity securities pursuant to the 
authority granted by paragraph (a) of resolution 15 and/
or an allotment which constitutes an allotment of equity 
securities by virtue of section 560(3) of the 2006 Act 
(in each case otherwise than in the circumstances set 
out in paragraph (b) of this resolution) up to a nominal 
amount of £2,218,769; and
 (b)  the allotment of equity securities in connection with an 
offer of equity securities (but in the case of an allotment 
pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph (b) 
of resolution 15, such power shall be limited to the 
allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer 
by way of a rights issue only):
  (i)  to ordinary shareholders in proportion (as nearly as 
may be practicable) to their existing holdings; and
  (ii)  to holders of other equity securities, as required 
by the rights of those securities or, subject to such 
rights, as the directors otherwise consider necessary,
   subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as 
the directors may deem necessary or expedient to 
deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or 
legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the 
requirements of any regulatory body or any stock 
exchange in, any country or territory,
 
Notice of Annual General Meeting St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Additional Information
168
Notice of Annual General Meeting (continued)
Special business (continued)
 such power to expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the 
Company to be held after the date of the passing of this 
resolution or 22
nd
 June 2017, whichever is the earlier, but so 
that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements 
before the power expires which would or might require equity 
securities to be allotted after such power expires and the 
directors may allot equity securities under any such offer or 
agreement as if the power had not expired.
Special resolution
17.  That the Company be generally and unconditionally 
authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the 
Companies Act 2006
 
(the 2006 Act) to make market 
purchases (as defined in section 693 of the 2006 Act) of 
ordinary shares of 10p each in its capital (Ordinary Shares) 
on such terms and in such manner as the directors may 
from time to time determine provided that:
 (a)  the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares 
hereby authorised to be purchased is 22,187,698;
 (b)  the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary 
Share is 10p (exclusive of expenses);
 (c)  the maximum price which may be paid for an 
Ordinary Share is the highest of (in each case exclusive 
of expenses):
  (i)  an amount equal to 105% of the average market 
value of an Ordinary Share for the five business 
days immediately preceding the day on which the 
Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased; and
  (ii)  the higher of the price of the last independent trade 
and the highest current independent bid for any 
number of Ordinary Shares on the London Stock 
Exchange; and
 (d)  this authority shall, unless previously renewed, expire 
at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be 
held after the date of the passing of this resolution 
or 22
nd
 June 2017, whichever is the earlier, except in 
relation to the purchase of any Ordinary Shares the 
contract for which was concluded before the date of 
expiry of the authority and which would or might be 
completed wholly or partly after that date.
Special resolution
18.  That a general meeting other than an AGM may be called 
on not less than 14 clear days’ notice.
Special resolution
19.  That the new Articles of Association of the Company 
produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for 
the purpose of identification be adopted as the Articles of 
Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the 
exclusion of, its existing Articles of Association.
Recommendation
The Board confirms that, in its opinion, all of the resolutions 
are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders 
as a whole.
 
The directors unanimously recommend 
that shareholders vote in favour of each of the above 
resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their own 
beneficial shareholdings.
By order of the Board
Tanya Stote
Company Secretary
18
th
 February 2016
St. Modwen Properties PLC
Registered number: 349201
Registered Office: Park Point, 17 High Street, Longbridge, 
Birmingham B31 2UQ  169
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45
Explanatory notes to proposed resolutions
Ordinary resolutions
For a resolution proposed as an ordinary resolution to be 
passed, more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of 
the resolution.
Resolution 1 – Annual Report and Financial Statements
Resolution 1 is an ordinary resolution to receive the Annual 
Report and Financial Statements for the financial year ended 
30
th
 November 2015.
 
Copies will be available at the AGM.
Resolution 2 – Directors’ Remuneration Report
Resolution 2 is an ordinary resolution to approve the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, other than the part containing the 
directors’ remuneration policy. Resolution 2 is an advisory 
resolution and does not affect the future remuneration 
paid to any director.
 
A resolution to approve the directors’ 
remuneration policy (set out in full in the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements for the year ended 30
th
 November 2013 
which is available at www.stmodwen.co.uk) was approved by 
shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Resolution 3 – Declaration of final dividend
Resolution 3 is an ordinary resolution by which shareholders 
are asked to declare a final dividend.
 
The directors recommend 
a final dividend for the financial year ended 30
th
 November 
2015 of 3.85p per ordinary share.
 
If approved, this will be paid 
on 1
st
 April 2016 to shareholders on the register of members at 
the close of business on 4
th
 March 2016.
Resolutions 4 to 12 – Election and re-election of directors
Resolutions 4 to 12 are ordinary resolutions which deal with 
the election and re-election of the directors.
Following his appointment to the Board on 28
th
 September 
2015 and in accordance with the Company’s Articles of 
Association, Rob Hudson will retire and offer himself for 
election at the 2016 AGM.
 
All other directors will retire and offer 
themselves for re-election in accordance with the 2014 UK 
Corporate Governance Code.
Biographical details of all directors are set out on pages 48 
and 49.
The performance of the Board as a whole, as well as the 
contribution made by individual directors, has been reviewed 
during the course of the year. After considering this evaluation, 
the Chairman has confirmed that the performance of every 
executive and non-executive director continues to be effective, 
that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their 
respective roles, and that their respective skills complement 
one another to enhance the overall operation of the Board.
Resolutions 13 and 14 – Auditor appointment and 
remuneration
At last year’s AGM shareholders re-appointed Deloitte LLP 
as auditor of the Company to hold office until the conclusion 
of the 2016 AGM.
 
Deloitte has expressed a willingness to 
continue in office and the Audit Committee has reviewed the 
effectiveness of the audit process and recommends their 
re-appointment. Therefore resolutions 13 and 14 are ordinary 
resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor until the 
conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are 
laid before the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee 
to determine their remuneration on behalf of the Board.
Resolution 15 – Authority to allot shares
The authority conferred on the directors at last year’s AGM to 
allot shares in the Company expires at the conclusion of the 
2016 AGM. Resolution 15 is an ordinary resolution to renew 
this authority.
The Investment Association (IA) guidelines on directors’ 
authority to allot shares state that IA members will permit, 
and treat as routine, resolutions seeking authority to allot new 
shares representing up to one-third of a company’s issued 
share capital. In addition, they will treat as routine a request for 
authority to allot shares representing an additional one-third of 
a company’s issued share capital provided that it is only used to 
allot shares pursuant to a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
Paragraph (a) of resolution 15 will, if resolution 15 is passed, 
authorise the directors to allot shares up to a maximum 
aggregate nominal amount of £7,395,899, which represents 
one-third of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital as at 
9
th
 February 2016 (being the latest practicable date prior to the 
publication of the notice of AGM).
 
Paragraph (b) of resolution 
15 proposes that, in accordance with IA guidance, an additional 
authority be conferred on the directors to allot shares in 
connection with a rights issue up to a further maximum 
aggregate nominal amount of £7,395,899.
The authorities sought in paragraphs (a) and (b) of resolution 
15 are in substitution for all existing authorities granted in the 
Company’s Articles of Association or otherwise, and are without 
prejudice to previous allotments or agreements or offers to 
allot made under such existing authorities.
 
The authorities will 
each expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of 
the Company and 22
nd
 June 2017.
The directors have no present intention of exercising these 
authorities other than to fulfil the Company’s obligations 
under its share incentive schemes approved previously by 
shareholders, but believe that it is in the best interests of 
the Company to have the authorities available to respond to 
market developments and to enable allotments to take place 
without the need for a general meeting should they determine 
that it is appropriate to do so.
Special resolutions
For a resolution proposed as a special resolution to be passed, 
at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of 
the resolution. St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Additional Information
170
Notice of Annual General Meeting (continued)
Explanatory notes to proposed resolutions 
(continued)
Resolution 16 – Authority to disapply pre-emption rights
If the directors wish to allot new shares and other equity 
securities company law requires that these shares are offered 
first to shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
Resolution 16 is a special resolution which seeks to renew the 
authority conferred on the directors at last year’s AGM to issue 
equity securities of the Company for cash without application 
of the pre-emption rights as provided by section 561 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Paragraph (a) of resolution 16 will, if resolution 16 is passed, 
authorise the directors to allot new shares pursuant to the 
authority given in paragraph (a) of resolution 15 for cash up to 
a maximum aggregate nominal value of £2,218,769,
 
equivalent 
to 10% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital as at 
9
th
 February 2016 (being the latest practicable date prior to 
the publication of the notice of AGM) without the shares first 
being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their 
existing holdings.
In addition, in light of the IA guidance described in the 
explanation of resolution 15 above, paragraph (b) of resolution 
16 will, if resolution 16 is passed, authorise the directors to 
allot new shares pursuant to the authority given by paragraph 
(b) of resolution 15 for cash in connection with a rights issue 
without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders 
in proportion to their existing holdings.
This authority is in line with institutional shareholder guidance, 
and in particular with the Pre-Emption Group’s Statement of 
Principles (the Pre-Emption Principles) revised in March 2015 
to allow the authority for an issue of shares for cash otherwise 
than in connection with a pre-emptive offer to be increased 
from 5% to 10% of a company’s issued ordinary share capital, 
provided that the company confirms that it intends to use the 
additional 5% authority only in connection with an acquisition 
or specified capital investment (within the meaning of the 
Pre-Emption Principles).
 
The directors therefore confirm, in 
accordance with the Pre-Emption Principles:
(a) that to the extent the authority in paragraph (a) of 
resolution 16 is used for an issue of ordinary shares with a 
nominal value in excess of £1,109,384, representing 5% of the 
Company’s issued ordinary share capital as at 9
th
 February 
2016 (being the latest practicable date prior to the publication 
of the notice of AGM), they intend that this authority will only 
be used in connection with an acquisition or specified capital 
investment which is announced contemporaneously with the 
issue, or which has taken place in the preceding six-month 
period and is disclosed in the announcement of the issue; and
(b) that, excluding any shares issued in connection with an 
acquisition or specified capital investment as described above, 
they intend not to issue more than 7.5% of the Company’s 
issued ordinary share capital for cash other than to existing 
shareholders in any rolling three-year period without prior 
consultation with shareholders.
The authorities sought in paragraphs (a) and (b) of resolution 
16 are in substitution for all existing authorities granted in the 
Company’s Articles of Association or otherwise, and are without 
prejudice to previous allotments or agreements or offers to 
allot made under such existing authorities.
 
The authorities will 
each expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of 
the Company and 22
nd
 June 2017.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this 
authority other than to fulfil the Company’s obligations 
under its share incentive schemes approved previously by 
shareholders, but consider it prudent to obtain the flexibility 
that this authority provides.
Resolution 17 – Authority to purchase shares
Resolution 17 is a special resolution to renew the authority 
granted to the directors at last year’s AGM to make market 
purchases of its own ordinary shares through the market as 
permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and within institutional 
shareholder guidelines.
 
No shares were purchased during the 
year and the Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
If passed, the resolution gives authority for the Company 
to purchase up to 22,187,698 of its ordinary shares, which 
represents 10% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital 
as at 9
th
 February 2016 (being the latest practicable date 
prior to the publication of the notice of AGM).
 
The resolution 
specifies the minimum and maximum prices which may be 
paid for any ordinary shares purchased under this authority.
 
The authority will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the 
next AGM of the Company and 22
nd
 June 2017.
The directors have no present intention for the Company to 
exercise the authority granted by this resolution to purchase its 
own shares.
 
They would do so only after taking account of the 
overall financial position of the Company and in circumstances 
where to do so would be regarded by the Board as being in 
the best interests of shareholders generally and result in an 
increase in earnings per ordinary share. The Company may 
either cancel any shares it purchases under this authority or 
transfer them into treasury (and subsequently sell or transfer 
them out of treasury or cancel them).
As at 9
th
 February 2016 (being the latest practicable date 
prior to the publication of the notice of AGM), the Company 
had options outstanding over 6,047,076 ordinary shares, 
representing 2.73% of the issued share capital on that date. 
If the Company was to purchase the maximum number of 
shares permitted pursuant to this resolution, the options 
outstanding at 9
th
 February 2016 would represent 3.41% of 
the issued share capital. 171
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45
Resolution 18 – Notice period of general meetings
Resolution 18 is a special resolution to renew an authority 
granted at last year’s AGM to allow the Company to hold 
general meetings (other than AGMs) on not less than 14 clear 
days’ notice.
Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by The Companies 
(Shareholders’ Rights) Regulations 2009 increased the notice 
period required for general meetings of the Company to 
21 clear days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice 
period, which cannot be less than 14 clear days. This approval 
will be effective until the Company’s next AGM when it is 
intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of 
routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is 
merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to 
the advantage of shareholders as a whole. AGMs will continue 
to be held on at least 21 clear days’ notice.
Resolution 19 – Adoption of new Articles of Association
The Company regularly reviews the suitability of its Articles 
of Association following developments in applicable law and 
regulation and UK market practice.
 
It is proposed that the 
Company adopts new Articles of Association (the New Articles) 
principally in order to reflect developments in current practice, 
and to provide clarification and additional flexibility in relation to 
certain matters.
 
The existing Articles of Association were most 
recently updated and adopted by the Company on 26
th
 March 
2010.
 
A summary of the principal changes being proposed in 
the New Articles are summarised in the Appendix to this notice 
of AGM. Other changes, which are deemed to be of a minor, 
non-substantive, technical or clarificatory nature (including, 
where relevant, to certain defined terms), have not been noted 
in the Appendix.
 
A copy of the Company’s existing Articles of 
Association, a copy of the New Articles and a copy marked up 
to show the proposed changes will be available for inspection 
at the registered office of the Company and at the offices of 
Mayer Brown International LLP, 201 Bishopsgate, London 
EC2M 3AF during normal business hours from the date of this 
notice of AGM until the close of the AGM, and at the place of 
the AGM from 15 minutes before the start of the meeting until 
the end of the meeting. 
Shareholder notes
1. Entitlement to attend and vote
To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM (and for the 
purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast), 
shareholders must be entered on the Company’s register of 
members at 6.00pm on Monday, 21
st
 March 2016 (or, in the 
event of any adjournment, at 6.00pm on the date which is two 
days before the date of the adjourned meeting). Changes to 
the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be 
disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend 
and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares 
registered in their name at that time.
 
It is proposed that all 
votes on the resolutions at  the AGM will be taken by way of 
a poll.
2. Appointment of proxies - general
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the meeting 
convened by the notice of AGM is entitled to appoint a 
proxy to exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend 
and to speak and vote on his or her behalf at the meeting.
 
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to 
the meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise 
the rights attached to a different share or shares held by 
that shareholder. A proxy need not be a shareholder of the 
Company but must attend the meeting in person.
For the appointment to be effective, a proxy form (or electronic 
appointment of proxy, see note 4 below) must be received 
by the Company’s registrar not less than 48 hours before the 
time of the meeting, i.e. not later than 12.00 noon on Monday, 
21
st 
March 2016.
 
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent 
a shareholder from subsequently attending the meeting and 
voting in person if he or she is entitled to do so and so wishes.
3. Appointment of proxies – proxy form
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment 
and give proxy instructions has been sent to shareholders.
 
If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you should 
have one, or if you require additional forms to appoint more 
than one proxy, please contact the Company’s registrars, 
Equiniti, on 0371 384 2198 (overseas callers should dial 
+44 (0)121 415 7047. Lines are open from 8.30am to 
5.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding UK bank holidays).
 
Alternatively photocopy the proxy form which has been sent to 
you.
 
All forms must be signed and should be returned together 
in the same envelope.
The notes to the proxy form explain how to direct your proxy 
to vote on each resolution or withhold their vote. Please note 
that the vote withheld option on the proxy form is provided 
to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution; it is 
not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation 
of votes for or against the resolution. If you sign the proxy 
form and return it without any specific directions your proxy 
will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion. If you 
wish to appoint a proxy other than the Chairman of the 
meeting, please insert the name of your chosen proxy holder 
in the space provided on the proxy form. If the proxy is being 
appointed in relation to less than your full voting entitlement, 
please enter in the box next to the proxy holder’s name the 
number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to 
act as your proxy. If left blank your proxy will be deemed to 
be authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement (or if 
the proxy form has been issued in respect of a designated 
account for a shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that 
designated account).
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior joint holder 
who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, in respect 
of the holding will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of 
the other joint holders. For this purpose seniority is determined 
by the order in which the names appear in the Company’s 
register of members in respect of the joint holding. In the 
case of a corporate shareholder, the proxy form must be 
executed under its common seal or signed on its behalf by a 
duly authorised officer or attorney. In the case of an individual, 
the proxy form must be signed by the appointing shareholder. 
Any alterations made to the proxy form should be initialled. St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Additional Information
172
Notice of Annual General Meeting (continued)
Shareholder notes (continued)
4. Appointment of proxies electronically
Shareholders who would prefer to register the appointment 
of their proxy electronically via the internet can do so through 
Equiniti’s website at www.sharevote.co.uk using their personal 
Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number (which 
are printed on the proxy form).
 
Alternatively, shareholders 
who have already registered with Equiniti’s online portfolio 
service, Shareview, can appoint their proxy electronically by 
logging on to their portfolio at www.shareview.co.uk. Full details 
and instructions on these electronic proxy facilities are given 
on the respective websites. A proxy appointment made 
electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than 
those provided or if received after 12.00 noon on Monday, 
21
st
 March 2016.
5. Appointment of proxies through CREST
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies for 
the AGM, and any adjournment(s) thereof, through the CREST 
electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the 
procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST Personal 
Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those 
CREST members who have appointed a voting service 
provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting 
service provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate 
action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using 
the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message 
(a CREST Proxy Instruction) must be properly authenticated 
in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Ltd’s (EUI) 
specifications and must contain the information required for 
such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual (available 
at www.euroclear.com). The message, regardless of whether it 
relates to the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the 
instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order 
to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by Equiniti (ID 
RA19) by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments 
specified above. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be 
taken to be the time (as determined by the time stamp applied 
to the message by the CREST Applications Host) from which 
Equiniti is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in 
the manner prescribed by CREST. After this time any change 
of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be 
communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors 
or voting service providers should note that EUI does not 
make available special procedures in CREST for any particular 
messages. Normal system timings and limitations will therefore 
apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. 
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to 
take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST Personal Member 
or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service 
provider(s), to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service 
provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure 
that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system 
by any particular time. In this connection, CREST members 
and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service 
providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the 
CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST 
system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction 
in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the 
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
6. Changing and revoking proxy instructions
To change your proxy instruction simply submit a new proxy 
appointment using the methods set out above. The deadline 
for receipt of proxy appointments (see note 2 above) also 
applies in relation to amended instructions. Where two or more 
valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of 
the same share and for the same meeting, those received last 
by Equiniti will take precedence.
In order to revoke a proxy instruction, a shareholder will need 
to inform the Company by sending a signed hard copy notice 
clearly stating his/her intention to revoke a proxy appointment 
to Equiniti Ltd, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 
6DA. In the case of a corporate shareholder, the revocation 
notice must be executed under its common seal or signed on 
its behalf by a duly authorised officer or attorney. Any power 
of attorney or any other authority under which the revocation 
notice is signed (or a duly certified copy of such power 
of attorney) must be included with the revocation notice. 
The revocation must be received no later than 12.00 noon on 
Monday, 21
st
 March 2016. If a shareholder attempts to revoke 
his or her proxy appointment but the revocation is received 
after the time specified the original proxy appointment will 
remain valid. Termination of proxy appointments made 
through CREST must be made in accordance with the 
procedures described in the CREST Manual.
7. Corporate representatives
A corporate shareholder can appoint one or more corporate 
representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers 
as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation 
to the same shares. Representatives of shareholders that are 
corporations will have to produce evidence of their proper 
appointment when attending the AGM. Please contact Equiniti 
for further guidance.
8. Nominated persons
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is not a 
shareholder but is a person nominated by a shareholder under 
section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information 
rights (a Nominated Person) may, under an agreement with 
the shareholder who nominated him/her, have a right to be 
appointed, or have someone else appointed, as a proxy for the 
AGM. If a Nominated Person has no such right or does not wish 
to exercise it, he/she may, under any such agreement, have a 
right to give voting instructions to the shareholder.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the 
appointment of proxies set out in notes 2 to 7 above does not 
apply to Nominated Persons. The rights described in those 
notes can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company. 
If you are a Nominated Person it is important to remember 
that your main contact in terms of your investment remains 
the registered shareholder or the custodian or broker who 
administers the investment on your behalf. 173
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45
9. Shareholder participation
Any shareholder attending the AGM has the right to ask 
questions relating to the business of the meeting and the 
Company has an obligation to answer such questions unless 
(i) to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the 
meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, (ii) 
the answer has already been given on a website in the form of 
an answer to a question, or (iii) it is undesirable in the interests 
of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the 
question be answered.
10. Availability of information on website
A copy of this notice of AGM, and other information required by 
section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found on the 
Company’s website at www.stmodwen.co.uk.
11. Website publication of audit concerns
Shareholders satisfying the threshold requirements in section 
527 of the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to 
publish a statement on its website setting out any matter that 
such shareholder proposes to raise at the meeting relating to 
(a) the audit of the Company’s accounts (including the auditor’s 
report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before 
the AGM or (b) any circumstances connected with an auditor 
of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last AGM. 
The Company cannot require the shareholders requesting the 
publication to pay its expenses in complying with the request. 
Any statement placed on the website must also be sent to 
the Company’s auditor no later than the time the statement 
is made available on the website. The business which may 
be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the 
Company has been required to publish on its website under 
section 527 of the Companies Act 2006. 
12. Total voting rights
As at 9
th
 February 2016 (being the latest practicable date prior 
to the publication of the notice of AGM), the Company’s issued 
share capital consisted of 221,876,988 shares carrying one vote 
each.
 
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company as at 
9
th
 February 2016 was 221,876,988.
13. Documents available for inspection
The following documents are available for inspection at the 
registered office of the Company during normal business hours 
and will be at the place of the AGM from 15 minutes before the 
start of the meeting until the end of the meeting:
(i)  copies of the directors’ service contracts with the Company;
(ii)  copies of the non-executive directors’ letters 
of appointment; 
(iii)  a copy of the Company’s existing Articles of Association, 
a copy of the New Articles and a copy of the existing Articles 
of Association marked up to show the proposed changes; 
and
(iv)  a copy of the Company’s indemnity for directors. 
14. Communication with the Company
You may not use any electronic address provided in this notice 
of AGM or any related documents (including the proxy form) 
to communicate with the Company for any purposes other 
than those expressly stated. St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Additional Information
174
This appendix sets out a summary of the principal changes 
proposed to be made to the Company’s existing Articles 
of Association.
1. Share warrants
The Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015 
prohibits the creation of new bearer shares and requires 
existing bearer shares to be converted into registered 
shares.
 
In light of this, the provisions in the existing Articles of 
Association relating to share warrants have been removed 
from the New Articles. 
2. Retirement and re-election of directors 
The New Articles have been amended to reflect the Company’s 
established practice, in line with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and current best practice, that all directors be subject to 
annual re-election by shareholders.
 
The New Articles provide 
that at each AGM every director retires from office and each 
director wishing to remain in office is required to stand for 
election or re-election as appropriate. 
3. Directors below minimum through vacancies
The New Articles include language to deal with a situation 
where the number of directors required under the Articles 
of Association falls below the minimum.
 
Currently the Board’s 
powers in this regard are limited.
 
The amended wording in the 
New Articles would allow the Board to remain fully functional in 
this situation until additional directors have been appointed. 
4. Directors’ fees 
The cap on the fees payable to directors for their services in the 
office of director has been increased in the New Articles from 
£600,000 per annum to £800,000 per annum.
 
This increase 
would provide the Company with sufficient headroom and 
flexibility in order to increase the number of directors and 
maintain its directors’ fees in line with the market.
 
Whilst the 
Company does not anticipate any significant increase to 
directors’ fees or any significant increases to the size of the 
Board, the directors believe that it is prudent to maintain 
flexibility in this regard.
 
Any increase to fees will be in line 
with the directors’ remuneration policy, last approved by 
shareholders in 2014.
5. Company name 
The New Articles give the directors the power to resolve to 
change the Company’s name, as permitted by the Companies 
Act 2006. 
6. Dividend payment procedure 
The New Articles have been amended following guidance 
published by the ICSA Registrars’ Group in March 2014 to 
provide the Company with additional flexibility to prescribe the 
manner in which dividends are paid.
 
Currently the Company 
pays dividends by electronic payment, cheque or similar 
financial instrument.
 
The use of cheques and similar financial 
instruments has reduced in recent years and there has been a 
significant focus on the development of new payment methods, 
which are intended to improve the security of payments to 
shareholders and to reduce costs.
 
Although the existing Articles 
of Association permit the payment of dividends by electronic 
means, the New Articles allow the directors to determine 
how dividends are paid to shareholders, which method shall 
be the default method for paying dividends and whether 
shareholders may (or may not) make an election for payments 
to be made other than in the default manner.
 
It is not the 
Board’s intention to change the current methods of payment at 
this time.
 
However, it is important that the Company is able to 
cater for new developments and changes in practice, including 
considering the efficiency and costs saving that would flow 
from a change to electronic only payment.
 
The New Articles 
further specify when a dividend or other sum will be treated as 
unclaimed for the purposes of the Articles of Association. 
7. Scrip dividends 
The existing Articles of Association already enable the directors 
to offer shareholders a scrip dividend scheme if authorised by 
an ordinary resolution of the shareholders.
 
In line with recent 
institutional investor guidance, the provision stating that a 
resolution to authorise a scrip dividend for a period of five 
years has been removed.
8. Indemnity and insurance
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, provisions for the 
indemnification of a director of an associated company against 
liabilities incurred in connection with that associated company’s 
activities as trustee of an occupational pension scheme of the 
Company have been included in the New Articles. 
9. Generally
Generally, the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer 
language into the New Articles wherever appropriate. 
Notice of Annual General Meeting 
Appendix 175
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45
Financial calendar
Ordinary shares quoted ex-dividend 3
rd
 March 2016
2014/15 final dividend record date 4
th
 March 2016
AGM   23
rd
 March 2016
2014/15 final dividend payment date 1
st
 April 2016
Announcement of 2016 half year results 5
th
 July 2016
Announcement of 2016 final results February 2017
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held on Wednesday, 23
rd
 March 2016 in the 
Evolution Suite, Innovation Centre, 1 Devon Way, Longbridge 
Technology Park, Birmingham B31 2TS, commencing at 12.00 
noon.
 
The notice of meeting, together with an explanation of 
the resolutions to be considered at the meeting, is set out on 
pages 167 to 174.
Website
Information about St. Modwen, including this and prior years’ 
Annual Reports, half year reports, results announcements and 
presentations, together with the latest share price information, 
is available on our website at www.stmodwen.co.uk/ 
investor-relations.
Shareholding enquiries and information
All general enquiries concerning holdings of shares in 
St. Modwen should be addressed to our registrar:
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
Telephone: 0371 384 2198* (+44 (0)121 415 7047 if calling 
from outside the UK)
A range of shareholder information is available online at 
Equiniti’s website www.shareview.co.uk.
 
Here you can also view 
information about your shareholding and obtain forms that 
you may need to manage your shareholding, such as a change 
of address form or a stock transfer form.
Dividend mandate
If you are a shareholder who has a UK bank or building society 
account, you can arrange to have dividends paid direct via 
a bank or building society mandate.
 
There is no fee for this 
service and a tax voucher confirming details of the dividend 
payment will be sent to your registered address.
 
Please contact 
Equiniti on 0371 384 2198* or go to www.shareview.co.uk for 
further information.
Overseas dividend payment service
If you are resident outside the UK, Equiniti (by arrangement 
with Citibank Europe PLC) can provide dividend payments 
that are automatically converted into your local currency 
and paid direct to your bank account.
 
For more information 
on this overseas payment service please contact Equiniti on 
+44 (0)121 415 7047 or download an application form at 
www.shareview.co.uk.
Share dealing service
If you are UK resident, you can buy and sell shares in 
St. Modwen through Shareview Dealing, a telephone and 
internet based service provided by Equiniti Financial Services 
Ltd.
 
For further details please visit www.shareview.co.uk/dealing 
or call Equiniti on 03456 037037.
 
Equiniti Financial Services Ltd 
is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
 
Other brokers and banks or building societies also offer share 
dealing facilities.
Electronic communications
As an alternative to receiving documents in hard copy, 
shareholders can elect to be notified by email as soon 
as documents such as our Annual Report are published.
 
This notification includes details of where you can view or 
download the documents on our website.
 
Shareholders who 
wish to register for email notification can do so via Equiniti’s 
website at www.shareview.co.uk.
Shareholder security
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of unsolicited mail 
or telephone calls offering free investment advice, offers 
to buy shares at a discount or sell shares at a premium, or 
offers of free company reports.
 
Such contact is typically from 
overseas based ‘brokers’ who target UK shareholders through 
operations commonly known as ‘boiler rooms’. These ‘brokers’ 
can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and often 
have websites to support their activities.
To avoid share fraud:
• Keep in mind that firms authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with 
an offer to buy or sell shares. 
• Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person 
and firm contacting you and then end the call. 
• Check the Financial Services Register at www.fca.org.uk to see 
if the person and firm contacting you is authorised by the FCA. 
• Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, 
copying its website or giving you false contact details. 
• Use the firm’s contact details listed on the Register if you want 
to call it back. 
• Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have 
contact details on the Register or you are told they are out 
of date. 
• Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at 
www.fca.org.uk/consumers/scams.
• Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised 
firm you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service or the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. 
• Think about getting independent financial and professional 
advice before you hand over any money. 
• Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is! 
If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using 
the share fraud reporting form at www.fca.org.uk/scams, where 
you can find out more about investment scams.
 
You can also 
call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
If you have already paid money to share you should contact 
Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
Information for shareholders
*  Lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding UK bank holidays. St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Additional Information
176
Shareholder analysis
Holdings of ordinary shares as at 30
th
 November 2015:
Shareholders Shares
Number % Number %
By shareholder
Individuals 3,020 77.22 11,066,255 4.99
Directors and connected persons 39 1.00 28,646,452 12.91
Insurance companies, nominees and pension funds 789 20.17 181,798,329 81.94
Other limited companies and corporate bodies 63 1.61 365,952 0.16
3,911 100.00 221,876,988 100.00
By shareholding
Up to 500 1,027 26.26 251,400 0.11
501 to 1,000 657 16.80 508,579 0.23
1,001 to 5,000 1,327 33.93 3,120,496 1.41
5,001 to 10,000 332 8.49 2,431,890 1.10
10,001 to 50,000 294 7.52 6,284,582 2.83
50,001 to 100,000 74 1.89 5,342,913 2.41
100,001 to 500,000 114 2.91 27,953,106 12.60
500,001 to 1,000,000 34 0.87 25,009,105 11.27
1,000,001 and above 52 1.33 150,974,917 68.04
3,911 100.00 221,876,988 100.00
Information for shareholders (continued)
Disclaimer
This Annual Report and Financial Statements has been prepared for the members of St. Modwen Properties PLC and should not be relied upon by any other party 
or for any other purpose. The Company, its directors and employees, agents and advisors do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this 
document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The Annual Report and Financial Statements contains certain forward looking statements which, by their nature, involve risk and uncertainty because they relate 
to future events and circumstances. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from any outcomes or results expressed or implied by such forward looking 
statements. Any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company are made in good faith based on the information available at the time the 
statement is made; no representation or warranty is given in relation to them, including as to their completeness or accuracy or the basis on which they were prepared. 
The Company does not undertake to update forward looking statements to reflect any changes in its expectations with regard thereto or any changes in events, 
conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based. Nothing in this Annual Report and Financial Statements should be construed as a profit forecast. Contacts
St. Modwen Properties Plc
Company No. 349201
Head Office 
Park Point 
17 High Street 
Longbridge 
Birmingham 
B31 2UQ 
0121 222 9400
London and South East
180 Great Portland Street 
London 
W1W 5QZ 
020 7788 3700
Midlands
Park Point 
17 High Street 
Longbridge 
Birmingham 
B31 2UQ 
0121 647 1000
Northern Home Counties
IMEX 
575-599 Maxted Road 
Hemel Hempstead 
Hertfordshire 
HP2 7DX 
01727 732690 
North West
Chepstow House 
Trident Business Park 
Daten Avenue 
Risley 
Warrington 
WA3 6BX 
01925 825950
South West and South Wales
Green Court  
King’s Weston Lane 
Avonmouth 
Bristol 
BS11 8AZ 
0117 316 7780
St. Modwen Homes
Park Point 
17 High Street 
Longbridge 
Birmingham 
B31 2UQ 
0121 647 1000
The Trentham Estate
Stone Road 
Trentham 
Stoke-on-Trent 
ST4 8JG 
01782 645222
Yorkshire and North East
Ground Floor, Unit 2 
Landmark Court 
Elland Road 
Leeds 
LS11 8JT 
0113 272 7070
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.ry.com
Imagery used throughout the report has been taken by:
Metro Photographic
Commercial Property Photography
Matthew Nichol Photography
Roger Smith Aerial Photography
The Nine Elms Vauxhall Partnership
Josh Kearns Photography
Radley Yeldar
The paper used in this report is elemental chlorine free and is FSC
®
 accredited.  
It is printed to ISO 14001 environmental procedures, using vegetable based inks.
The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC
®
) is an international network which 
promotes responsible management of the world’s forests. Forest certification 
is combined with a system of product labelling that allows consumers to readily 
identify timber based products from certified sources. St. Modwen Properties PLC  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
WE SEE REGENERATION
