 Our work protects  
your world
 
Synergy Health plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report 
1  Financial highlights
2  Our services
4  Chairman’s statement 
6  Our business model
7  Our strategy
8 Chief Executive’s strategic review
10 Key performance indicators 
12 Applied Sterilisation Technologies
14 Healthcare Services
16 Healthcare Solutions
18 Financial review
22 Principal risks and uncertainties
27 Corporate social responsibility
Governance 
29 Chairman’s introduction 
to governance 
30 Board of Directors 
31  Senior Executive Board
32 Corporate Governance Report
39 Audit Committee Report
42 Nomination Committee Report
43 Remuneration Committee Report
52 Annual Report on Remuneration
60 Directors’ report
Financial statements
63 Independent auditor’s report 
66 Consolidated income statement
67  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
68 Consolidated statement of 
financial position
69 Consolidated cash flow statement 
70 Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity
71 Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
102 Company balance sheet
103 Notes to the Company financial 
statements
111 Financial Calendar
112 Advisors
Who we are 
Synergy Health delivers a range  
of specialist outsourced services 
to healthcare providers and  
other customers concerned  
with health management. 
What we do
Our services support our customers 
to improve the quality and efficiency 
of their activities, whilst reducing 
risks to their patients and clients. 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
408.8
380.5
361.2
312.0
287.3
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
75.50
70.59
65.58
60.32
53.54
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
64.6
61.3
56.2
49.0
43.0
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
0
22.77
20.70
18.00
15.84
Financial highlights
Revenue 
£408.8m
+7 .5%
Adjusted
1
 basic earnings per share
75.50p
+7 .0%
Adjusted
1
 operating profit
£64.6m
+5.3%
Dividend
Nil
1
  Before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and non-recurring items, as described in the 
Financial review. 
2
  As a result of the proposed combination with STERIS Corporation, the Board chose not to pay an interim 
dividend, and is not proposing to pay a final dividend. The Board will review this recommendation in the 
event the combination does not proceed.
How we create value
Expand 
Our strategy is to continue to expand 
our revenue and further internationalise 
the Group, through organic growth 
and through bolt-on acquisitions to 
improve the scale of our operations 
in a specific market or expand 
the depth of our services.
Focus
Our strategy is to focus solely  
on niche services that have  
high barriers to entry, significant 
value-added content, and a 
global potential. 
Cost leadership
Our strategy is to exercise Group-wide 
cost leadership, in order to best focus 
our resources on delivering our 
customers’ needs.
Differentiate
Our strategy is to differentiate our 
services through our people, via our 
shared values of achievement, integrity, 
accountability and innovation, and 
through our investments in technology.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 
1  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our services
Synergy’s three business service lines provide 
us with a mix of established and growth markets. 
In our established markets we continue to invest 
and improve our service offer to our customers. 
In our growth markets we are expanding our 
significant presence, building a strong reputation 
with local hospitals and healthcare organisations as 
a trusted provider of sterilisation and other services.
Americas
1,150
employees
Applied Sterilisation Technologies & 
Laboratory Services ('AST')
Healthcare Services (‘HS’) Healthcare Solutions (‘HCS’)
Service line
Synergy provides the full range of sterilisation 
technologies, including gamma irradiation, electron and 
ion beam treatments, and ethylene oxide sterilisation. 
Our customers are drawn from the medical device, 
pharmaceutical and industrial sectors.
Our laboratory businesses focuses on occupational 
health, and food and pharmaceutical testing, and on 
microbiological testing in support of our sterilisation 
service customers.
Synergy Health is the world’s second largest provider 
of outsourced applied sterilisation services. 
Our healthcare services business provides a high-
quality outsourced sterilisation service for the reuseable 
medical and surgical equipment used in operating 
theatres worldwide. 
Our services also extend across other hospital 
departments, primary care facilities, and orthopaedic 
loan set suppliers.
Synergy Health operates the world’s largest outsourced 
HS business.
 
The Healthcare Solutions segment provides a range of 
linen management solutions primarily to hospitals and 
other organisations in the healthcare and personal 
care sectors. 
The business operates in the UK and the Netherlands. 
In each market, Synergy is the second largest supplier 
of outsourced linen management services to the 
healthcare sector. 
 
 Read more page 12 Read more page 14 Read more page 16
Contribution to Group revenue
33.6% 43.0% 23.4%
Service line revenue
£137.5m 
 
£175.8m 
 
£95.5m 
 
2  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 UK & Ireland
2,440
employees
Europe & Middle East
1,705
employees
Asia & Africa
375
employees
Applied Sterilisation Technologies & 
Laboratory Services ('AST')
Healthcare Services (‘HS’) Healthcare Solutions (‘HCS’)
Service line
Synergy provides the full range of sterilisation 
technologies, including gamma irradiation, electron and 
ion beam treatments, and ethylene oxide sterilisation. 
Our customers are drawn from the medical device, 
pharmaceutical and industrial sectors.
Our laboratory businesses focuses on occupational 
health, and food and pharmaceutical testing, and on 
microbiological testing in support of our sterilisation 
service customers.
Synergy Health is the world’s second largest provider 
of outsourced applied sterilisation services. 
Our healthcare services business provides a high-
quality outsourced sterilisation service for the reuseable 
medical and surgical equipment used in operating 
theatres worldwide. 
Our services also extend across other hospital 
departments, primary care facilities, and orthopaedic 
loan set suppliers.
Synergy Health operates the world’s largest outsourced 
HS business.
 
The Healthcare Solutions segment provides a range of 
linen management solutions primarily to hospitals and 
other organisations in the healthcare and personal 
care sectors. 
The business operates in the UK and the Netherlands. 
In each market, Synergy is the second largest supplier 
of outsourced linen management services to the 
healthcare sector. 
 
 Read more page 12 Read more page 14 Read more page 16
Contribution to Group revenue
33.6% 43.0% 23.4%
Service line revenue
£137.5m 
 
£175.8m 
 
£95.5m 
 
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 
3  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chairman’s statement
Sir Duncan Nichol
Chairman
2 June 2015
Dear Shareholder,
The past twelve months have seen 
continued success in implementing our 
strategy, with good underlying revenue and 
trading profit growth despite adverse currency 
translations. Whilst there has been some 
distraction as a result of the proposed 
combination with Steris, we have continued 
to expand our services to new and existing 
customers across our markets maintaining our 
operational excellence, and forging ahead with 
our long-term investment opportunities. We 
have seen particularly strong growth from our 
global Applied Sterilisation Technology & 
Laboratory Services (‘AST’) business and we 
have laid the groundwork for similar growth 
from our Healthcare Services (‘HS’) business. 
Financial Results
Synergy has delivered solid full year 
growth in 2015, with reported revenue 
of £408.8 million (2014: £380.5 million), 
representing an increase of 7 .5%. Underlying 
revenue growth, after removing the impact of 
currency movements, was 10.8%. Adjusted 
operating profit was £64.6 million (2014: 
£61.3 million), representing an increase of 
5.3%. Underlying operating profit growth 
was 9.4%. Adjusted operating margin 
decreased to 15.8% (2014: 16.1%).
Recommended combination with 
STERIS
On 13 October 2014 STERIS Corporation 
(‘STERIS’) announced a recommended 
combination of Synergy and STERIS. 
The combination of Synergy with STERIS 
has considerable strategic merit for both 
organisations, creating a leading outsourced 
sterilisation network to further improve the 
service we provide to our customers. This 
could potentially accelerate the growth of both 
companies, leveraging STERIS’s capabilities 
and infrastructure to make Synergy’s products 
and services more successful, and Synergy’s 
customer base and markets to cross-sell 
existing and new STERIS products.
As announced on the 29 May 2015, Synergy 
and STERIS intend to contest the US Federal 
Trade Commission’s decision to block the 
proposed transaction. Both companies believe 
that the combination is procompetitive and in 
the best interest of all constituents of the two 
companies, including customers.
Shareholder return
Driven by the growth in revenue and operating 
profit, adjusted basic earnings per share 
(‘EPS’) before intangibles, amortisation, 
non-recurring items and acquisition-related
costs were 75.50p (2014: 70.59p), an 
increase of 7 .0%. After taking account 
of amortisation, non-recurring items and 
acquisition-related costs, basic earnings 
per share were 56.90p (2014: 57 .81p), 
a decrease of 1.6%.
As a result of the proposed combination 
with STERIS, the Board chose not to pay 
an interim dividend to shareholders (2014: 
8.57p), and is not proposing to pay a final 
dividend to shareholders (2014 total dividend: 
22.77p). The Board will continue to keep its 
dividend policy under review. Synergy and 
STERIS have agreed that Synergy would 
be allowed to declare a special dividend 
of 15.80 pence per share. The timing of 
payment of such a dividend would be 
determined by the Board at a future date.  
Business development
During the year we worked to mobilise the 
two largest contracts Synergy has ever won. 
On 27 July 2014 we successfully began a 
multi-year contract with Sterilmed (part of 
Johnson & Johnson), reprocessing single 
use medical devices, and I am pleased to 
say that we have exceeded the customer’s 
expectations. Throughout the year we also 
worked on the North Shore HS project, but 
asa result of property-related planning delays, 
full service commencement has been delayed 
to the first quarter of 2016. Our work with 
major partners, such as Sterilmed and North 
Shore, is resonating with key decision makers 
in large health organisations in the US and 
worldwide, and I am pleased to report that 
we have recently won two further large US 
HS contracts worth £17 million.
As a result of the negotiations with STERIS, 
the Group has had to redirect internal 
resources away from other acquisition activity 
and some potential transactions have been 
delayed or postponed. However, organic 
growth has been improving, supported by 
our new gamma facility in Marcoule, France, 
doubling capacity in Saxonburg, US, adding 
a new facility in San Francisco and investing 
in plant and process improvements 
throughout our global network.
Further details of these investments are 
disclosed in the Operating Review, and 
in the financial statements. Acquisitions 
remain a key part of our strategy, and with 
our strong financial position we will continue 
to consider targeted bolt-on acquisitions and 
to evaluate strategic acquisitions to increase 
shareholder value.
Our core values of 
achievement, integrity, 
accountability and 
innovation, are central to 
the relationships we have 
with all our stakeholders
4  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Board 
In September 2014 the Board was further 
strengthened with the appointment of Bruce 
Edwards. Bruce was formerly the global 
Chief Executive Officer for DHL’s Supply 
Chain division, and a member of the Board 
of Management. Bruce is a non-executive 
director of Ashtead plc and Greif Inc., a NYSE-
listed packaging and container manufacturer. 
Bruce has joined the Audit, Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees. 
The Board places great emphasis on 
governance and is mindful of its responsibility 
to promote the long-term interests of the 
company for all our stakeholders. This 
is described in detail in the corporate 
Governance section of our Annual Report.
Corporate responsibility 
We give high priority to compliance and 
ethics, as well as health, safety and the 
environment. Our core values of achievement, 
integrity, accountability and innovation are 
central to the relationships we have with all 
our stakeholders, and underpin how we treat 
our customers, our suppliers, our staff and 
the wider communities in which we operate. 
Details of the Group’s approach to corporate 
and social responsibility are disclosed in the 
Strategic review.
Our people 
Investing in the skills and engagement of all 
our employees is a critical part of sustaining 
the long-term vitality of the Group. 
The Board continues to be delighted with 
the efforts and commitment of staff across 
the Group. I would once again like to thank 
all our staff for their dedication. Synergy’s 
well-earned reputation for operational 
excellence, and its ability to deliver on its 
commitments to customers, is testament 
to the effectiveness of those efforts and the 
shared values to which we all subscribe. 
Outlook 
Synergy remains well placed to maximise 
its core competitive strengths, strong 
operational capabilities and internationally 
respected brand. The business has a number 
of opportunities for earnings-enhancing 
investment, and the Board is confident that 
these will deliver strong growth in shareholder 
value over the coming years.
Since the initial listing of Synergy in the 
summer of 2001 the business has produced 
compound revenue growth in excess of 20% 
per annum and adjusted EPS growth of 15% 
per annum. The strategies that we have set 
out for the continued development of our AST 
and HS businesses in a global market create 
the opportunity for Synergy to grow further 
and to extend a track record of which we 
are very proud.
The proposed combination with STERIS 
would create an even stronger combined 
group that would help to support the 
implementation of our strategy as well 
as create new opportunities. We enter 
a new chapter in Synergy’s evolution, 
where our access to the US sales teams 
and infrastructure of STERIS would help to 
accelerate the HS outsourcing market, and 
the combined comprehensive, global AST 
network would be of significant value to 
our shared customer base.
The new financial year has started well. 
Looking further out the Board is confident 
that our expertise, our investments in new 
capacity, and our close collaboration with 
our customers will all deliver sustained 
growth over the medium and long term.
Synergy’s well-earned reputation 
for operational excellence, 
and its ability to deliver on its 
commitments to customers, is 
testament to the effectiveness 
of our staff and the shared values 
to which we all subscribe.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 
5  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our business model
Synergy delivers a range of specialist 
outsourced services to healthcare providers 
and other customers concerned with health 
management. In performing these services, 
Synergy supports its customers to improve the 
quality and efficiency of their activities, whilst 
reducing risks to their patients and clients. 
In addition to core healthcare services, 
there is a wide demand for our services in 
other markets. Within our applied sterilisation 
technologies business we provide services to 
a diverse range of customers including food 
packaging, pharmaceutical manufacturing 
and veterinary medicine, to name but a 
few examples.
Synergy operates a service line structure 
focused on three key global services – 
Applied Sterilisation Technologies, Healthcare 
Services, and Healthcare Solutions. Whilst the 
management of each business is encouraged 
to adopt an entrepreneurial style, they operate 
within a well-developed and consistently 
applied framework of operational and 
financial control.
Creating long-term value
How the business works
Applied Sterilisation Technologies
Applied sterilisation technologies (‘AST’) 
encompasses a range of sterilisation 
techniques, including gamma irradiation, 
electron and ion beam irradiation, 
and ethylene oxide sterilisation. 
Its customers are mainly drawn from the 
medical, pharmaceutical and biologicals 
markets, including a large number of 
multinational medical device manufacturers. 
In addition, our facilities typically provide 
sterilisation consultancy, laboratory services 
and logistics support services to support the 
customer relationship. 
Healthcare Services
Healthcare services (‘HS’) provides a 
sterilisation service for reusable medical 
and surgical equipment used in hospital 
operating rooms. 
This service also extends across other 
hospital departments, primary care facilities, 
dentistry practices and orthopaedic loan 
set suppliers. Our customers frequently 
demand additional services, such as the 
provision of medical consumables, and the 
optimisation of their instrument inventories. 
Healthcare Solutions
Healthcare solutions (‘HCS’) provides 
linen management services to hospitals 
and other customers, in the UK and 
the Netherlands. 
Linen management is an essential service 
that is typically outsourced by healthcare 
providers on long-term contracts. 
Synergy has a strong track record 
developing services that offer superior 
quality whilst providing best value for 
money rather than the lowest price.
  
How we build long-term value
We operate the world’s second largest 
outsourced sterilisation business, and 
the largest outside the US. 
We provide services which are mission-
critical for our customers, but at a level 
of efficiency which they cannot attain 
in-house. Our facilities are capital intensive 
and static; our success in delivering 
sustained economic value depends upon 
delivering exceptional customer satisfaction 
in long-term customer relationships in order 
to match capacity to long-term demand.
We operate the world’s largest outsourced 
HS business. 
Synergy provides an essential service 
at an efficiency and cost which in-house 
competitors cannot match, whilst 
increasing operating room utilisation rates 
and reducing the incidence of hospital-
acquired infections. Our ability to deliver 
this is built upon well-honed operating 
procedures, long-term customer contracts, 
a proprietary instrument management 
application (‘SynergyTrak™’), and our 
global scale, which enables us to invest 
in further technological innovation.
We operate the second largest outsourced 
healthcare linen management businesses 
in the UK and Netherlands markets.
The range of services delivered by our 
healthcare solutions businesses drives 
value for our customers through efficient 
operations, excellent service, a focus 
on innovation, and a strategy of cost-
leadership which enables us to target 
our resources to our customers’ needs. 
£137.5m
+19.4%
Revenue
£175.8m
+12.2%
Revenue
£95.5m
-1.5%
Revenue
Our locations
Synergy operates 42 AST facilities in 
16 countries: in the US, Costa Rica, 
Ireland, the UK, France, the Netherlands, 
Switzerland, Germany, Italy, the Czech 
Republic, Slovakia, Egypt, South Africa, 
Malaysia, Thailand, and China. 
Synergy operates 65 HS facilities 
in 8 countries: in the US, the UK, the 
Netherlands, Switzerland, Germany, Italy, 
the UAE and China. 
Synergy operates 26 HCS facilities in the 
UK and the Netherlands. 
Synergy’s growth over the last 20 years, 
both organic and by acquisition, has built 
the world’s largest supplier of outsourced 
hospital sterilisation services, and the world’s 
second largest supplier of applied sterilisation 
technologies. The Group’s size, structure and 
accumulated expertise provide it with a strong 
platform to deliver sustained technological 
development, customer focus, and robust 
quality management systems. These 
strengths are critical to creating and 
enhancing sustainable value.
6  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our strategy
Creating shareholder value
To achieve sustainable growth in shareholder value we have a strategy to develop niche, high value-added 
outsourcing services with global potential, to health-related markets.
We deliver our services more efficiently than our competitors 
by employing a cost leadership strategy taking advantage of our 
global scale and the deployment of technology. We also strive to 
competitively differentiate ourselves through our people by the 
way we deliver our services, reflected in our core values of 
achievement, integrity, accountability and innovation.
Our businesses have significant barriers to entry, which make it 
very difficult for customers or potential competitors to achieve the 
low costs and efficiencies that we have in our areas of expertise: 
decontamination, sterilisation, and infection control services.
First, there is the financial barrier. We have invested more than 
£300 million in building and developing decontamination and 
sterilisation plants. This includes the network of backup facilities 
that are essential in the mission-critical environment in which we 
work. This investment is extremely expensive and time-consuming 
to replicate. 
Second, there is the associated technical expertise. In AST, 
for example, there is a requirement to obtain licences to handle 
the radioactive cobalt used in gamma technology sterilisation. 
In addition there is the expertise associated with building and 
operating sterilisation plants, which is hard to replicate. In HS, 
the key issues are the knowledge, data and expertise required to 
manage a very complex logistical environment, and be able to take 
an in-house department and transform the quality standards to 
near perfection very quickly. Our HS facilities must comply with 
stringent regulatory standards which can only be achieved using 
complex systems and quality procedures which Synergy has 
developed during the past 15 years. 
Third, almost 50% of the Group’s revenue is derived from long 
duration contracts (between three and 40 years), which provides 
a significant barrier to entry for competitors in decontamination. 
In sterilisation, the approval of the US Food and Drug Administration 
is required for entrance into this field, which provides a significant 
further barrier to entry.
Strategy
Expand the business 
internationally
Our strategy is to continue to expand 
our revenue and further internationalise 
the Group, through organic growth 
and through bolt-on acquisitions to 
improve the scale of our operations in 
a specific market or expand the depth 
of our services.
Focus on high  
value-added services
Our strategy is to focus solely on niche 
services that have high barriers to entry, 
significant value-added content, and a 
global potential. 
Cost leadership
Our strategy is to exercise Group-
wide cost leadership, in order to best 
focus our resources on delivering our 
customers’ needs.
Differentiation  
from our competitors
Our strategy is to differentiate our 
services through our people, via our 
shared values of achievement, integrity, 
accountability and innovation. 
Our values underpin who we are as a business 
Achievement
We believe our success comes from 
our focus on exceeding expectations 
and our commitment to go the extra  
mile, however small the difference 
might seem.
Integrity
We believe that the way we work is as 
important as what we do. We care deeply 
about the quality of our work and inspire 
trust by delivering on our promises. 
Accountability
We take personal responsibility for our 
actions and are equipped to take the right 
course of action.
Innovation
We achieve the best possible results 
by working with customers to develop 
new ways of solving problems and 
reducing risk.
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
 Read more page 10
Principal risks and uncertainties
 Read more page 22
Corporate governance
 Read more page 32
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 
7  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Executive’s strategic review
Introduction
Synergy is a global leader in outsourced 
sterilisation services for medical device 
manufacturers, hospitals and other industries. 
Worldwide, we operate a complete range of 
sterilisation technologies including gamma, 
ethylene oxide (‘EtO’), electron beam, ion 
beam, steam and plasma. Across the 
healthcare industry, Synergy also provides 
other niche outsourced services such as 
laboratory services (pathology, toxicology, 
microbiology and food and allergen testing) 
and healthcare linen services. All of our core 
businesses have the benefit of significant 
barriers to entry, stable long-term contracts 
and good cash generation. 
Financial performance
It is my pleasure to report another strong 
period of growth in line with our objectives. 
Reported revenue (after currency effects) 
was  up 7 .5% to £408.8 million (2014: 
£380.5 million), with revenue at constant 
currency up 10.8% over the same period 
last year. 
Our business development activities during the 
year have resulted in long-term contracts worth 
£13.6 million per annum. Of this, we have won 
contracts worth £4.9 million per annum in the 
US, and £8.7 million per annum in the UK and 
Europe. Across the Group our forward order 
book has been maintained at £1.6 billion, with 
contract wins and renewals in HS partially 
offset by price erosion on linen management 
contracts in our HCS business.
Strategic Performance
Our objective is to grow revenue and 
earnings by approximately 15% per annum 
through a combination of organic and 
acquisitive growth. We aim to achieve this 
objective, despite historically low levels of 
inflation in most of our global markets, through 
the application of our proven expertise in 
delivering value to our customers. The total 
addressable market for our services is 
significant; the global AST market is estimated 
to be worth £1.5 billion per annum, and the 
US and UK Healthcare Services (‘HS’) markets 
are estimated to be worth £1.8 billion and 
£0.3 billion per annum respectively. 
Progress towards our objective in our AST 
and HS businesses has been in line with 
expectations. AST is generating strong results 
globally via enhanced organic growth rates 
and network and technology expansions to 
meet the needs of our key global customer 
partnerships. HS continues to build towards 
more significant growth as we convey our 
refined value proposition to existing and 
potential customers and expand our bid 
book further.
To address our growth targets we 
communicated a four-step plan to build 
on our US-UK operating axis. Our key 
objectives and strategies are to:
a) Grow AST by 10-12% per annum by 
continuing to internationalise the network 
through organic growth and acquisitions, 
whilst differentiating our services through 
technology and our people. 
In the 2014/2015 financial year, our AST 
business grew by 19.4% year on year, on 
a constant currency basis. 
We continue to invest in organic growth 
opportunities to secure additional capacity to 
meet our customers’ needs, across a range 
of technologies. Our growth projects include 
a new gamma sterilisation pallet plant in the 
UK and additional processing capacity in 
the Netherlands, additional EtO chambers 
in Ireland and the Czech Republic, and 
enhanced electron beams in Italy and  
the US. 
Synergy has the most comprehensive 
network of AST facilities outside of the US 
and these investments further strengthen 
the service we can offer to our key global 
medical device customers.
b) Grow HS by 10-20% per annum by focusing 
our outsourcing growth in the US and UK, 
whilst offering easily scalable HS technologies 
to a broader market. 
In the 2014/2015 financial year, our HS 
business grew by 12.2% year on year, 
on a constant currency basis. 
Synergy is the largest provider of HS 
outsourcing globally, and has the scale to 
differentiate itself from in-house solutions 
and commercial competitors by continuing 
to invest in new technology. We continue to 
develop our surgical instrument management 
software, SynergyTrak™, supported by 
advances in radio-frequency identification 
(‘RFID’) technologies, which together increase 
operating room utilisation, reduce patient risk, 
and enable our customers to optimise 
their instrument inventories.
In July 2014 we began a multi-year contract 
with Sterilmed (part of Johnson & Johnson), 
reprocessing single use medical devices. The 
contract was implemented well, albeit two 
months later than originally envisaged, and our 
expertise in this market has been well received 
by the customer. Our North Shore project will 
commence full service delivery in the first 
quarter of 2016. 
Our business development teams are fully 
focused on using the efficiencies, cost-savings 
and risk reductions realised in our work with 
Sterilmed and North Shore, to further penetrate 
Our objective is to grow 
revenue and earnings 
by approximately 15% 
per annum through a 
combination of organic 
and acquisitive growth.
Dr Richard M Steeves
Chief Executive
2 June 2015
8  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 the US HS market. During the year we won 
£7 .4 million of new customer business, and 
since the year end we have won two further 
HSS contracts worth £17 million. The bid 
book across both the UK and US businesses 
remains well in excess of £225 million. 
c) Expand our HCS business into service 
adjacencies to broaden their growth 
prospects and reduce our dependency 
on pure linen management. 
Whilst the UK service has done well, 
increasing revenue and winning contracts 
worth over £5.1 million, the Dutch service 
saw a further contraction in their market as 
the Dutch health service restructures long-term 
care. The current strategy for this service is 
very much based on cost leadership, so that 
at any given price, we intend to make a higher 
margin than our competitors. Our focus in the 
new financial year is to restore revenue growth.
d) Expand Synergy’s services into a third 
market with strong adjacencies to both the 
AST and HS businesses. 
One of our key objectives is to deepen the 
relationships that we have with our customers 
by broadening our range of available services. 
Our expansion into the reprocessing of 
reusable devices for Sterilmed serves as one 
example of this. Similarly, we have a range 
of laboratory services that could be globally 
scaled to provide a wider range of services 
to our AST customers. Whilst this objective 
remains valid, our focus during the year has 
been on the STERIS combination and certain 
restrictions during this period have prevented 
us from moving this objective forward.
Recommended combination with 
STERIS
On 13 October 2014 STERIS announced a 
recommended combination of Synergy and 
STERIS. Whilst the combination of Synergy 
with STERIS has considerable strategic merit 
for both organisations, the preparatory work for 
the Federal Trade Commission has absorbed 
a considerable amount of management time 
during the year. We have worked hard 
to minimise the impact of these corporate 
activities on the Group but inevitably they 
have absorbed management time.
Leadership
At the start of this year, the Board decided to 
restructure the Group, replacing our regional 
structure with a service line structure, and 
introducing a Chief Operating Officer (‘COO’) 
role to oversee day-to-day operations, leaving 
the CEO to focus on strategy and long term 
planning. This structure has enabled us to 
implement our strategy effectively and to 
deliver global organic growth whilst maintaining 
our strong reputation for operational excellence 
and delivering a service that generates 
outstanding value for our customers.
Financial strength
Synergy is a robust business with an 
internationally diversified business providing 
value-added services underpinned by long-
term contracts. Cash generation remains 
strong, with adjusted EBITDA increasing 
by £5.3 million to £108.6 million (2014: 
£103.3 million), before non-recurring 
items. Net debt increased to £161.1 million, 
marginally increasing gearing to 1.6 times 
EBITDA (2014: 1.53 times), well below our 
internal ceiling of net debt versus EBITDA 
of 2.5 times.
Synergy team
I would like to take this opportunity to 
recognise the great work that has been 
done by the Synergy team this year as we 
continue to build a world leader in sterilisation 
and infection control services. We have a 
strong set of core values (achievement, 
integrity, accountability and innovation), which 
not only sustain a great and growing business, 
but also have a significant impact on improving 
patient safety and reducing risks for our 
healthcare customers around the world.
Synergy is a global leader in 
outsourced sterilisation services 
for medical device manufacturers, 
hospitals and other industries.
Outlook
The strategies that we have set out for the 
continued development of our AST and HS 
businesses in a global market create an 
opportunity for Synergy to grow further, and 
to extend a track record of which we are very 
proud. The proposed combination with STERIS 
will create an even stronger combined group 
that will help to support the implementation of 
our strategy as well as create new opportunities. 
We have made good progress this year on our 
objectives. In the near term we will continue to 
focus on investing to deliver our strategy. I am 
personally very excited about the opportunities 
at hand, and look forward to seeing the 
continued growth of this business.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 
9  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Key performance indicators (‘KPIs’)
The indicators below have been identified by the Board 
as giving the best overall indication of the Group’s long-
term success in improving total shareholder return.
Revenue growth 
+7 .5%
Adjusted operating profit
1
 growth
+5.3%
Adjusted operating margin
1
+15.8%
Operating cash flow
1
+1.6%
Cash conversion
+92%
2014: +5.3% 2013: +15.8% 2014: +9.1% 2013: +14.8% 2014: +16.1% 2013: +15.6% 2014: +2.9% 2013: +12.0% 2014: +95% 2013: +96%
Description
Growth in total reported revenue compared 
with the previous year. 
Description
Growth in adjusted operating profit
1 
compared 
with the previous year. 
Description
Adjusted operating profit
1
 divided by total 
reported revenue.
Description
Growth in cash generated from operations 
compared with the previous year. 
Description
Adjusted operating cash flow, divided by 
adjusted operating profit before interest, tax, 
and non-cash items. 
An indicator of the rate at which the Group’s 
business activity is expanding.
Indicators which show whether existing profit margins are being maintained, or whether new 
acquisitions or incremental revenues are diluting established profit margins.
An indicator of whether profitable growth 
is being converted into cash.
An indicator of how changes in working 
capital have impacted operating cash flows. 
Comment
Synergy delivered improved revenue growth 
in 2015, with reported revenue of £408.8 
million (2014: £380.5 million). Underlying 
revenue growth after removing the impact of 
currency movements was 10.8%.
Comment
Adjusted operating profit was £64.6 million 
(2014: £61.3 million), an increase of 5.3%. 
Underlying operating profit growth after 
removing the impact of currency movements 
was 9.1%.
Comment
Adjusted operating margin fell to 15.8% 
(2014: 16.1%). There have been dilutive 
effects on margin due to increased 
investment in R&D. 
Comment
Cash generated from operations increased by 
1.6%, with a small increase in working capital 
due to new contract start-ups.
Comment
Cash conversion remains broadly 
consistent with previous years, showing 
firm management of cash invested in 
working capital across the business.
Adjusted profit before tax
1
 growth
+6.0%
Adjusted earnings per share
1,
 
(‘EPS’) growth
+7 .0%
Dividend per share growth
+N/a
Return on capital employed (‘ROCE’)
+12.4%
Net debt to EBITDA ration
+1.60 times
2014: +10.6% 2013: +16.0% 2014: +7.6% 2013: +10.7% 2014: +10.0% 2013: +15.0% 2014: +12.0% 2013: +11.6% 2014: +1.53 times 2013: +1.76 times
Description
Growth in adjusted profit before tax
1 
compared with the previous year. 
Description
Growth in adjusted basic earnings per share
1
 
compared with the previous year. 
Description
Growth in dividend per share compared with 
the previous year.
Description
Adjusted annualised operating profit divided 
by average capital employed.
Description
The ratio of adjusted operating profit to 
financing costs associated with borrowings. 
An indicator of whether profitable growth 
is diluted by financing costs.
A key measure of shareholder return. A key measure of shareholder return. An indicator of the pre-tax rate of return 
earned by capital invested in the Group.
An indicator of the Group’s ability to meet 
its interest payments.
Comment
Growth in adjusted profit before tax 
is broadly in line with adjusted operating 
profit growth.
Comment
EPS growth is in line with the growth 
in adjusted profit before tax. 
Comment
As a result of the proposed combination 
with STERIS, the Board chose not to pay 
an interim dividend, and is not proposing to 
pay a final dividend. The Board will continue 
to keep its dividend policy under review. 
Comment
Return on capital employed continues to rise 
due to improved capital efficiency, marginally 
offset by a small decline in return on sales.
Comment
Synergy continues to generate significant 
cover to meet its interest payments.
1
  Adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating margin, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share exclude amortisation of acquired intangibles,  
non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs, as shown in the Group’s consolidated income statement and the accompanying notes. Operating cash  
flow is before non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs. Underlying revenue/profit growth excludes the impact of currency movements. Organic  
revenue/profit growth excludes the impact of acquisitions in either the current or previous year.
10  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Revenue growth 
+7 .5%
Adjusted operating profit
1
 growth
+5.3%
Adjusted operating margin
1
+15.8%
Operating cash flow
1
+1.6%
Cash conversion
+92%
2014: +5.3% 2013: +15.8% 2014: +9.1% 2013: +14.8% 2014: +16.1% 2013: +15.6% 2014: +2.9% 2013: +12.0% 2014: +95% 2013: +96%
Description
Growth in total reported revenue compared 
with the previous year. 
Description
Growth in adjusted operating profit
1 
compared 
with the previous year. 
Description
Adjusted operating profit
1
 divided by total 
reported revenue.
Description
Growth in cash generated from operations 
compared with the previous year. 
Description
Adjusted operating cash flow, divided by 
adjusted operating profit before interest, tax, 
and non-cash items. 
An indicator of the rate at which the Group’s 
business activity is expanding.
Indicators which show whether existing profit margins are being maintained, or whether new 
acquisitions or incremental revenues are diluting established profit margins.
An indicator of whether profitable growth 
is being converted into cash.
An indicator of how changes in working 
capital have impacted operating cash flows. 
Comment
Synergy delivered improved revenue growth 
in 2015, with reported revenue of £408.8 
million (2014: £380.5 million). Underlying 
revenue growth after removing the impact of 
currency movements was 10.8%.
Comment
Adjusted operating profit was £64.6 million 
(2014: £61.3 million), an increase of 5.3%. 
Underlying operating profit growth after 
removing the impact of currency movements 
was 9.1%.
Comment
Adjusted operating margin fell to 15.8% 
(2014: 16.1%). There have been dilutive 
effects on margin due to increased 
investment in R&D. 
Comment
Cash generated from operations increased by 
1.6%, with a small increase in working capital 
due to new contract start-ups.
Comment
Cash conversion remains broadly 
consistent with previous years, showing 
firm management of cash invested in 
working capital across the business.
Adjusted profit before tax
1
 growth
+6.0%
Adjusted earnings per share
1,
 
(‘EPS’) growth
+7 .0%
Dividend per share growth
+N/a
Return on capital employed (‘ROCE’)
+12.4%
Net debt to EBITDA ration
+1.60 times
2014: +10.6% 2013: +16.0% 2014: +7.6% 2013: +10.7% 2014: +10.0% 2013: +15.0% 2014: +12.0% 2013: +11.6% 2014: +1.53 times 2013: +1.76 times
Description
Growth in adjusted profit before tax
1 
compared with the previous year. 
Description
Growth in adjusted basic earnings per share
1
 
compared with the previous year. 
Description
Growth in dividend per share compared with 
the previous year.
Description
Adjusted annualised operating profit divided 
by average capital employed.
Description
The ratio of adjusted operating profit to 
financing costs associated with borrowings. 
An indicator of whether profitable growth 
is diluted by financing costs.
A key measure of shareholder return. A key measure of shareholder return. An indicator of the pre-tax rate of return 
earned by capital invested in the Group.
An indicator of the Group’s ability to meet 
its interest payments.
Comment
Growth in adjusted profit before tax 
is broadly in line with adjusted operating 
profit growth.
Comment
EPS growth is in line with the growth 
in adjusted profit before tax. 
Comment
As a result of the proposed combination 
with STERIS, the Board chose not to pay 
an interim dividend, and is not proposing to 
pay a final dividend. The Board will continue 
to keep its dividend policy under review. 
Comment
Return on capital employed continues to rise 
due to improved capital efficiency, marginally 
offset by a small decline in return on sales.
Comment
Synergy continues to generate significant 
cover to meet its interest payments.
1
  Adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating margin, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share exclude amortisation of acquired intangibles,  
non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs, as shown in the Group’s consolidated income statement and the accompanying notes. Operating cash  
flow is before non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs. Underlying revenue/profit growth excludes the impact of currency movements. Organic  
revenue/profit growth excludes the impact of acquisitions in either the current or previous year.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 
11  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Applied Sterilisation Technologies & Laboratory Services 
(‘AST’)
Over the past twelve months the 
AST business has focused on 
investing to secure future growth, 
in parallel with initiatives to 
improve operational efficiency 
and productivity. 
12  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2015 2014 2013
137.5
120.4
112.3
2015 2014 2013
47.3
41.0
39.1
Reported revenue for the period was up 
14.2% to £137 .5 million (2014: £120.4 
million) and up 19.4% on a constant currency 
basis. Underlying organic revenue for the 
period was up 10.5%. Volume growth has 
been a key driver of stronger operating 
margins of 34.4%, filling new capacity added 
in the year and recovering volumes in Costa 
Rica. The margin improvements led to a 
15.2% increase in adjusted operating profit 
to £47 .3 million (2014: £41.0 million).
Over the past twelve months the AST 
business has focused on investing to secure 
future growth, in parallel with initiatives to 
improve operational efficiency and productivity. 
Our new gamma facility in Marcoule, France 
is filling capacity as planned. We have invested 
in greater volumes of cobalt isotopes in our 
plants in Ireland, France, and the Netherlands 
to enhance productive capacity, allowing our 
gamma irradiation sites to process customer 
product at a faster speed. Our ethylene oxide 
(‘EtO’) plants in Thorne, UK, and Venlo, the 
Netherlands, have delivered strong revenue 
growth year on year, and we expect to be able 
to build on this in the next twelve months with 
new EtO capacity in the Czech Republic. 
Construction of a new pallet gamma irradiator 
in Bradford, UK, is well advanced and is 
scheduled to complete in the first quarter 
of 2016. 
In the Americas, we have seen significant 
organic growth of close to 16%. We are 
doubling capacity at our Saxonburg facility, 
adding a new facility in San Francisco and 
investing in plant and process innovation 
along with new productivity initiatives to 
increase the throughput of our existing 
electron beams. 
Our gamma irradiation businesses 
in Thailand and Malaysia and our EtO 
business in China, have all experienced 
strong growth. This growth is mainly derived 
from existing business; this has in places 
been complemented by volumes won from 
customers relocating their manufacturing 
from Europe. 
In Rawang, Malaysia, our plant has fully 
recovered from the incident which interrupted 
processing during April 2014. All damaged 
equipment has been replaced under the 
Group’s insurance arrangements, and all local 
permits and licences renewed. Customer 
processing recommenced on 4 May 2015. 
Following the acquisition of Nordion, a 
supplier of cobalt isotopes, by Sterigenics Inc, 
we have worked to diversify our cobalt supply 
and have already received a number of 
deliveries of cobalt from alternative suppliers.
AST’s strategy continues to focus 
resources on selected key global customer 
partnerships. We work with these customers 
to deliver a superior, value-added service that 
is differentiated from our competitors, and as 
a result these customers have contributed 
a disproportionate share of our 19.4% 
revenue growth. 
With continual month-on-month revenue 
growth, we have confidence that we can 
maintain our organic growth revenue targets 
of 10-12% per annum. Our AST global bid 
book now sits at £33 million per annum, 
reflecting the investments we have made in 
our business development team, and giving 
us confidence in the strong future growth we 
expect from our AST business.
Locations
42 sites 
in 16 
countries
Employees
1,370
Revenue 
£137 .5m
+14.2% (19.4% underlying)
Operating profit 
£47 .3m
+15.2% (20.9% underlying)
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 
13  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Healthcare Services (‘HS’)
The efficiencies, cost-savings 
and risk reduction offered to our 
customers through our work with 
major partners such as Sterilmed 
and North Shore, continue 
to generate interest in the 
US healthcare market.
14  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2015 2014 2013
175.8
158.7
142.9
2015 2014 2013
18.4
16.8
14.9
Reported revenue grew by 10.8% to 
£175.8 million (2014: £158.7 million) and 
was up 12.2% at constant currency. Growth 
has been driven by the start of new contracts, 
partially offset by a re-weighting of the US 
HS business as it moves away from the low 
margin reusable surgical solutions business, 
into the higher margin instrument business. 
Operating profit grew by 9.4% to £18.4 million 
(2014: £16.8 million), with underlying growth 
of 10.0%. During the year we won £7 .4 million 
of new customer business and a further 
£17 million has been won since the year end.
One of our objectives for the HS business 
is to develop scalable technologies for the 
HS market. In the second half of FY15, 
we launched a new initiative in the UK 
to reduce operating costs with the use 
of our latest SynergyTrak™ software 
and RFID technology. The initial reception 
has been positive, generating new leads 
and opportunities worth more than 
£1.5 million per annum at this early stage. 
Now that the result of the UK general election 
has removed uncertainty, we expect to see 
an increase in outsourcing. In the US we 
have won a number of new Accuset 
(instrument rental and sterilisation) contracts, 
with particular customer enthusiasm about 
the potential to access RFID technologies 
in processing surgical instruments and trays. 
In our UK-based healthcare products 
business, revenue and operating profits 
are both ahead of target. International sales 
are growing well, particularly in the Middle 
East. We are capitalising on the coalescing 
of our products business with the rest of our 
HS business, starting with the integration 
of RFID into our surgical products. The use 
of RFID tracking devices on consumables 
in the operating room will contribute 
to improved patient safety.
On 27 July 2014 we began a multi-year 
contract with Sterilmed (part of Johnson 
& Johnson), reprocessing single use medical 
devices. Synergy is responsible for receiving, 
production and distribution of products. 
The contract has been implemented well, 
and Synergy’s processing expertise in this 
market segment has been well received.
Our North Shore project was delayed slightly 
as a result of the protracted planning process 
in New York. We now expect to commence 
full service delivery in the first quarter of 2016.
The efficiencies, cost-savings and risk 
reduction offered to our customers 
through our work with major partners such 
as Sterilmed and North Shore, continue 
to generate interest in the US healthcare 
market. Our business development team 
is managing a large number of outsourcing 
proposals which we are confident will convert 
to full outsourcing contracts in due course. 
At the end of the year our HS bid book 
was valued at £225 million. Evidence 
for the growth potential in this market is 
shown by the signing of two major US CSSD 
outsourcing contracts subsequent to the 
year end, worth a combined £17 million 
in revenue. 
Capitalising on our strong bid book and 
maintaining our focus on operational excellence 
will both be key to delivering our objective of 
growing Healthcare Services by 10-20% per 
annum, and to continuing to develop scalable 
HS solutions for a broader market.
Locations
65 sites 
in 8 
countries
Employees
2,290
Revenue 
£175.8m
+10.8% (12.2% underlying)
Operating profit 
£18.4m
+9.4% (10.0% underlying)
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 
15  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Healthcare Solutions (‘HCS’)
Synergy has a strong track record 
developing services that offer 
superior quality whilst providing 
best value for money rather than 
the lowest price.
16  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2015 2014 2013
95.5
101.4
106.0
2015 2014 2013
6.6
9.4
8.3
Reported revenue for our Healthcare 
Solutions linen business was £95.5 million 
(2014: £101.4 million), a decrease of just 
1.5% at constant currency, reflecting 
increasing stability in the Netherlands 
business and a strong performance from 
the UK business. Adjusted operating profit 
was £6.6 million (2014: £9.4 million), with the 
lower margins attributed to the Dutch market. 
Linen rental is an essential service that is 
typically outsourced by healthcare providers 
on long-term contracts. Synergy has a strong 
track record developing services that offer 
superior quality whilst providing best value for 
money rather than the lowest price. In recent 
years healthcare providers have come under 
enormous financial pressure however, and 
this has required Synergy to innovate with 
new products and processes. Cost leadership 
is the dominant strategy, and generally has 
been well executed, creating a sustainable 
competitive advantage. 
The two geographic markets have historically 
operated separately but under Synergy’s new 
management structure, there has been an 
opportunity to share best practice and extract 
further cost synergies in purchasing. These 
savings will be wide ranging and when 
combined with sharing best practice, will 
provide more support for the maintenance 
of margins.
The UK linen business operates from 
large-scale facilities in Derby, Sheffield and 
Dunstable, and primarily focuses on acute 
hospital linen services. The business had a 
good year, with strong growth and sustained 
margins, and several new NHS contracts won. 
The market does have available opportunities 
for first-time outsourcing, with around a dozen 
NHS linen facilities still in operation. Given the 
typical small scale of these facilities, we would 
expect to see a greater scrutiny of these 
services during 2016 and a move towards 
outsourcing in time. 
Our Netherlands linen business operates 
from eight medium sized facilities that are 
increasingly focusing on acute hospital 
services, together with fifteen smaller 
processing facilities for patient clothing. 
The business is adapting to changes caused 
by the Dutch health service’s restructuring 
of national long-term care arrangements and 
the competitive price war that started three 
years ago. 
Over the last three years we have slipped 
from a market leadership position to the 
second largest supplier in the Netherlands. 
To address this strategic challenge, we have 
refreshed the leadership and focused heavily 
on productivity, with the delivery of ‘lean’ 
processes across the business to improve 
efficiency both in production and in back-
office functions. In certain key facilities we 
have also been upgrading our automation to 
industry leading standards. 
It is our ambition to regain our leadership 
position in the Dutch market, using the 
innovation and knowhow from the combined 
linen business and indeed from the wider 
Group, supporting our objective to deliver 
an improvement in margin. 
Locations
26 sites 
in 2 
countries
Employees
1,920
Revenue 
£95.5m
-5.8% (-1.5% underlying)
Operating profit 
£6.6m
-29.8% (-28.3% underlying)
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 
17  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial review
Gavin Hill
Group Finance Director
2 June 2015
The business performed well in 2015, 
although currency effects negatively 
impacted our reported results. Reported 
revenue grew 7 .5% to £408.8 million (2014: 
£380.5 million), and adjusted operating profit 
increased by 5.3% to £64.6 million (2014: 
£61.3 million). Excluding currency effects, 
underlying revenue growth was 10.8%, with 
organic growth of 6.6%. Adjusted operating 
profit, at constant currency, grew by 9.4%, 
£2.5 million higher than reported. Adjusted 
operating margin reduced by 30 basis points 
to 15.8% with increased investment in R&D. 
Adjusted basic earnings per share grew by 
7 .0% to 75.50p.
Cash generated from operations (before 
non-recurring items and acquisition-related 
costs) increased by 1.6% to £99.6 million, 
with an increase in working capital to support 
the start-up of new contracts and particularly 
Sterilmed. This reflected a conversion of 
adjusted EBITDA into operating cash flow 
of 92%. The acquisition of Bioster S.p.A. 
contributed to the increase in net debt to 
£161.1 million from £147 .6 million at the 
year end, representing a net debt to EBITDA 
ratio (for banking covenant purposes) of 
1.60 times, comfortably within our banking 
covenant of 3.25 times. 
Transaction costs relating to the STERIS 
acquisition up to 29 March 2015 contributed 
to non-recurring and acquisition-related costs 
of £5.8 million.
Adjusted operating returns on average capital 
employed, on an annualised basis, increased 
to 12.4% (2014: 12.0%). 
Adjusted operating profit is stated before 
amortisation of acquired intangibles, non-
recurring items and acquisition-related costs.
1. Income statement
Synergy’s income statement is summarised below: 
Table 1: Income statement
Year ended 
29 March 
2015 
£m
Year ended 
30 March 
2014 
£m Change 
Revenue 408.8 380.5 +7.5%
Gross Profit 175.1 155.7 +12.4%
Administrative expenses (110.5) (94.4)
Adjusted operating profit 64.6 61.3 +5.3%
Net finance costs (6.6) (6.6)
Adjusted profit before tax 58.0 54.7 +6.0%
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (8.6) (8.5)
Non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs (5.8) (3.3)
Profit before tax 43.6 42.9 +1.6%
Tax (9.9) (8.6)
Profit for the period 33.7 34.3 (1.7%)
Effective tax rate
1
23.0% 23.6%
Adjusted earnings per share – basic 75.50p 70.59p +7.0%
Earnings per share – basic 56.90p 57.81p (1.6%)
Adjusted earnings per share – diluted 74.80p 69.66p +7.4%
Earnings per share – diluted 56.37p 57.05p (1.2%)
Dividend per share – 22.77p
1  
The effective tax rate is calculated excluding amortisation on acquired intangibles, non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs.
18  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 1.1 Revenue
Reported revenue of £408.8 million 
(2014: £380.5 million) grew by 7 .5%, 
representing an underlying growth rate, 
excluding currency effects, of 10.8% over 
the previous year. The movement in average 
currency exchange rates over the last year 
(notably a strengthening of Sterling against 
the Euro) has depressed reported revenue 
by £12.8 million. Underlying revenue, which 
excludes currency effects, grew by 19.4% in 
AST (10.5% organic) and 12.2% in HS (8.7% 
organic), with a decline of 1.5% in HCS.
1.2 Gross profit
Gross profit increased by 12.4% to 
£175.1 million (2014: £155.7 million), 
representing a gross profit margin of 
42.8%, an increase of 190 basis points 
over the previous year.
1.3 Adjusted operating profit
Adjusted operating profit increased by 
5.3% to £64.6 million (2014: £61.3 million), 
representing an adjusted operating profit 
margin of 15.8%, a reduction of 30 basis 
points against last year. Currency effects 
have reduced reported adjusted operating 
profit by £2.5 million. 
1.4 Non-recurring items
Net non-recurring items and acquisition-related 
costs during the period were £5.8 million, of 
which £4.5 million were acquisition-related 
costs, primarily with respect to the STERIS 
acquisition. Other costs relate to operational 
and restructuring costs, partially offset by some 
one-off credits relating to property disposals 
and a cessation gain on a component of the 
Group’s retirement benefit obligations.
Synergy has contracted with advisors to 
obtain financial advice in connection with 
the proposed combination with STERIS. 
Transaction fees up to a maximum of 
£7 .6 million could be payable, contingent 
upon certain performance milestones. At the 
balance sheet date, these criteria have yet to 
be met. In preparing these accounts, the 
Directors have given due consideration to 
the likelihood of these performance criteria 
being met.
1.5 Net finance costs
The Group’s net finance costs totalled £6.6 
million (2014: £6.6 million), remaining broadly 
flat over the period.
1.6 Adjusted profit before tax
Adjusted profit before tax was £58.0 million 
(2014: £54.7 million), an increase of 6.0%. 
The adjusted profit before tax margin fell to 
14.2% (2014: 14.4%). 
1.7 Amortisation of acquired intangibles
Amortisation of acquired intangibles relates 
to intangible assets identified on acquisitions, 
being the value of customer relationships 
and brands. 
1.8 Tax
The tax charge (excluding tax on non-
recurring items and on the amortisation of 
acquired intangibles) of £13.3 million (2014: 
£12.9 million) represents an effective tax rate 
of 23.0% (2014: 23.6%). The decrease in the 
effective tax rate over the comparative period 
primarily reflects the reduction in the UK 
corporation tax rate. 
1.9 Earnings per share (EPS)
Adjusted basic EPS and adjusted diluted EPS, 
after adjusting for amortisation of intangibles 
and non-recurring items, increased by 7 .0% 
and 7 .4% respectively. After amortisation of 
acquired intangibles, non-recurring items and 
acquisition related costs, basic and diluted EPS 
decreased by 1.6% and 1.2% respectively. 
Undiluted weighted average shares have 
increased from 58.7 million to 59.0 million.
2. Dividend
As a result of the proposed combination 
with STERIS, the Board chose not to pay 
an interim dividend to shareholders (2014: 
8.57p), and is not proposing to pay a final 
dividend to shareholders (2014 total dividend: 
22.77p). The Board will continue to keep its 
dividend policy under review.
3. Cash flow
The Group cash flow is summarised below.
Table 2: Cash flow
Year ended 
29 March 
2015 
£m
Year ended 
30 March 
2014 
£m
Adjusted operating profit 64.6 61.3
Non-cash items 44.0 42.0
Adjusted EBITDA 108.6 103.3
Working capital movement (9.0) (5.3)
Operating cash flow before non-recurring and acquisition-related costs 99.6 98.0
Non-recurring and acquisition-related cash flow movement (3.3) (3.0)
Operating cash flow after non-recurring and acquisition-related costs 96.3 95.0
Interest (5.4) (5.2)
Tax (10.4) (10.2)
Net maintenance expenditure on tangible and intangible assets (22.8) (24.3)
Free cash flow 57.7 55.3
Net investment expenditure on tangible and intangible assets (38.9) (16.0)
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (13.7) (1.6)
Payment of pre-acquisition liabilities (6.7) –
Purchase of treasury shares – (3.0)
Proceeds from the issue of shares 1.0 1.9
Dividends to non-controlling interest (0.1) –
Dividends paid (8.4) (12.8)
Financing 14.2 (14.7)
Exchange differences (0.4) (2.0)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 4.7 7.1
Note: Adjusted EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, intangible amortisation and other non-cash items.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 
19  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial review continued
3.1 Cash generated from operations
Cash generated from operations (before 
non-recurring items and acquisition-related 
costs) in the year increased by 1.6% to 
£99.6 million (2014: £98.0 million), reflecting 
a conversion of EBITDA into operating cash 
flow of 92% (2014: 95%). Free cash flow 
increased by 4.3% to £57 .7 million (2014: 
£55.3 million).
3.2 Interest
Net interest paid was £5.4 million (2014: 
£5.2 million). The difference from last year 
is primarily due to timing differences on 
interest payments.
3.3 Tax
Tax paid was £10.4 million (2014: £10.2 
million), reflecting a slight reduction in the 
effective tax rate on a higher tax base.
3.4 Net expenditure on tangible and 
intangible assets
The Group has increased its investment 
in new capacity during the course of the 
year, as well as continuing to upgrade and 
maintain its existing infrastructure. Total net 
capital additions of £61.7 million (2014: 
£40.3 million) were made during the year. 
We analyse capital expenditure between 
‘maintenance’ and ‘investment’ expenditure. 
Maintenance capital expenditure is the capital 
required to sustain the revenue-generating 
capacity of the Group. Investment capital 
expenditure enhances the capacity or 
efficiency of the Group’s capital base.
The items of necessary ongoing capital 
expenditure are cobalt-60, the radiation 
source for AST gamma sterilisation plants, 
textiles for the linen business, and reusable 
surgical products. Total maintenance capital 
expenditure was £22.8 million (2014: £24.3 
million), of which £8.2 million was spent on 
cobalt, £11.0 million on textiles and £3.6 
million on reusable surgical products.
Total investment capital expenditure was 
£38.9 million (2014: £16.0 million). Total 
expenditure in AST was £17 .6 million, including 
£7 .0 million on the freehold purchase of our 
Costa Rica e-beam facility, £2.7 million on the 
rebuild of the damaged Rawang facility in 
Malaysia, £0.9 million on a second e-beam in 
Saxonburg, US and £0.6 million on a new 
EtO chamber in the Czech Republic. We also 
commenced work on our new pallet irradiator 
in Bradford, UK, a warehouse expansion in 
Radeberg, Germany and a combined heat 
and power unit in Tullamore, Ireland. Capital 
invested in three new HS facilities in China 
and costs associated with our new North Shore 
contract in the US contributed to total HS 
expenditure of £7 .0 million. Investment in a 
new line in our Dunstable linen facility, along 
with refresh of plant and machinery, resulted in 
total expenditure in the HCS linen business of 
£5.1 million. The remaining balance of £9.2 
million was spent on cobalt to increase our 
average cobalt base, supporting new work 
in Marcoule, France and Thailand; linen 
investment to support new contracts; and 
investment in a new IT data centre. 
Total intangible additions were £1.7 million, 
relating primarily to investment on our 
SynergyTrak™ development.
3.5 Financing
The movement in financing reflects a 
withdrawal of debt on our multi-currency 
revolving credit facilities, to fund the 
Bioster acquisition.
4. Acquisitions
On 15 May 2014, the Group acquired the 
entire issued share capital of Bioster S.p.A. 
and associated companies (Bioster), a 
company operating ethylene oxide and electron 
beam sterilisation facilities in Italy, Slovakia and 
the Czech Republic for a consideration of 
£10.6 million (net of cash required). On 3 
November 2014, the Group acquired 70% of 
the issued share capital of IDtek Track-and-
Trace SA (‘IDtek’), a company incorporated in 
Switzerland for a consideration of £2.7 million.
5. Net debt and funding
5.1 Net debt
Net debt increased in the period from 
£147 .6 million to £161.1 million. The increase 
in net debt is primarily a result of the financing 
for acquisitions of £18.8 million (including 
acquired debt) and investment in tangible 
and intangible assets of £38.9 million, 
partially offset by the Group’s free cash 
generation in the period of £57 .7 million:
Table 3: Movement in net debt
£m
Net debt as at 30 March 2014 147.6
Free cash flow (57.7)
Investment capital expenditure 38.9
Proceeds from share issue (1.0)
Acquisitions, including 
acquired debt 18.8
Pre-acquisition liabilities 6.7
Dividends paid 8.4
Other items (0.6)
Net debt as at 29 March 2015 161.1
5.2 Funding
The Group has in place a five-year unsecured 
multi-currency revolving facilities agreement 
(‘the Agreement‘), which was signed on 
26 July 2011. The Agreement has been 
entered into with a group of 7 banks and 
comprises a Sterling denominated multi-
currency facility of £105 million and a Euro 
denominated multi-currency facility of €130 
million. On 1 June 2012 the Group signed a 
two-year Euro denominated multi-currency 
facility of €18 million with the same covenants 
as in the July 2011 Agreement. This facility 
expired on 31 May 2014.
On 13 September 2012, the Group issued 
a bilateral private placement note of €20.6 
million. At that time the Group also put in 
place an uncommitted shelf facility with the 
same lender, allowing it to draw up to $48.5 
million over a 2.5-year period. The financial 
covenants are broadly similar to those in the 
Agreement. The remaining shelf facility was 
utilised during September 2013 when two 
further notes were issued, one for £10.0 
million, and a second note for €25.1 million.
The Group remains comfortably within the 
financial covenants set out in the Agreement.
The debt is split between Sterling, Euros and 
US Dollars with the currency mix and level 
of fixed interest debt within each currency 
as follows:
Table 4: Composition of gross debt as 
at 29 March 2015
Level
 of debt 
£m
Level 
of fixed
interest debt 
%
Sterling 36.0 43%
Euros 74.6 47%
US Dollars 87.4 27%
Total 198.0 37%
The Euro denominated debt, which is 
predominantly held in the UK, is held to 
hedge the Group’s Euro denominated net 
assets (excluding goodwill and intangibles) 
of €176.5 million. The US Dollar denominated 
debt is held as a hedge of the Group’s US 
Dollar denominated net assets (excluding 
goodwill and intangibles) of $189.6 million. 
As at 29 March 2015, 37% of the total debt 
was held at fixed rates of interest.
20  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Group has increased its 
investment in new capacity 
during the course of the 
year, as well as continuing 
to upgrade and maintain 
its existing infrastructure.
6. Pensions
The Group operates three final salary 
schemes in the UK, one in the Netherlands, 
two in Germany, and one in Switzerland. 
The Group also operates several defined 
contribution schemes.
In the UK the Group is required to maintain 
a final salary pension scheme for employees 
who have transferred from the NHS, which 
has to be acceptable to the Government 
Actuary’s Department. With the exception of 
NHS transferees, the Group’s defined benefit 
schemes are closed to new entrants and 
future accruals; active members have been 
transferred to deferred status and invited to join 
the Group’s UK defined contribution scheme.
At 29 March 2015, the net liability arising 
from our defined benefit scheme obligations 
was £20.3 million (2014: £16.9 million) on a 
pension scheme asset base of £70.5 million. 
An increase in the deficit from the previous 
year end is primarily due to a fall in the 
discount rate that is only partially mitigated by 
a reduction in the inflation rate. The net effect 
is an increase in liabilities that is not offset by 
a corresponding rise in the asset base.
Table 5: Defined benefit pension schemes
Year ended 
29 March 
2015 
£m
Year ended
 30 March 
2014 
£m
Synergy Healthcare plc Retirement Benefits Scheme 3.9 2.5
Shiloh Group Pension Scheme 4.5 2.6
Vernon Carus Limited Pension and Assurance Scheme 9.2 8.5
Isotron B.V. Pension and Assurance Scheme 0.7 1.8
Synergy Health Daniken, Switzerland 1.3 0.8
Synergy Health Radeberg and Alleshausen, Germany 0.7 0.7
Balance sheet liabilities 20.3 16.9
Gavin Hill
Group Finance Director
2 June 2015
 
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 
21  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risk Assessment
Identify
Assess
Mitigating actions
Review
Risk Committees
Audit Committee/Senior Executive Board
PLC Board
Review
Principal risks and uncertainties
The risk management strategy 
is aligned with the corporate 
strategy and supports each 
service line and region to identify 
and manage its own risks.
Given the scale and growth of our business, 
the Board of Directors recognises that the 
scope and potential impact of our key 
business and strategic risks are subject to 
constant change. As a result the Board has 
implemented the necessary framework to 
ensure that it has sufficient oversight of the 
Group’s key and emerging risks. The Board 
also has the opportunity to regularly review 
the adequacy and effectiveness of our 
mitigating controls and strategies.
During the year the Board has also considered 
the nature and level of risk that it is prepared 
to accept in order to deliver our business 
strategies and has reviewed our internal 
risk appetite.
Risk management at 
Synergy Health plc
Health, safety and risk management are 
recognised as being core elements of Synergy 
Health’s operations. Existing and future 
customers expect us to achieve and deliver 
safety excellence. Our safety performance 
and culture, therefore, ensures our success.
Risk management supports the Group’s vision 
to build a lasting reputation and our core 
values by:
 + Building and protecting the Group’s 
reputation by championing a responsible 
approach to business;
 + Achieving brand and business resilience 
supported by effective risk management;
 + Developing the culture and capability 
across the Group to manage changing 
risks and opportunities; and
 + Ensuring the safety and wellbeing of 
employees and others who could be 
affected by our business activities.
The Board has the ultimate ownership of risk 
management with responsibilities cascaded 
into the organisation through the regional and 
functional leadership teams. 
The risk management strategy is aligned 
with the corporate strategy and supports 
each service line and region to identify and 
manage its own risks. This is accomplished 
by embedding risk management into the 
culture of the Group and translating risk 
management into operational ownership, 
defining clear responsibilities and measuring 
risk management performance.
Risk management reports regularly to the plc 
Board, Senior Executive Board (‘SEB’) and 
Audit Committee. 
Principal risks and uncertainties
Our risk management strategy seeks to 
address the risks and opportunities associated 
with the Group’s strategic plan. As part of 
the continuous review and enhancement 
of the Group’s risk management systems, a 
framework setting out how the Group identifies, 
responds and reports on risk performance has 
been implemented. This strategy translates 
the ownership of risks, and performance 
measurement, into clear operational objectives.
Following the development and 
implementation of the major risk review the 
regional and functional risk groups and 
registers were established. Each service line, 
region and Group function is responsible for 
owning and managing risks within their area 
of responsibility. With the risk management 
framework in place the focus is now turning 
to continuous review and updating of principal 
risks, mapping of regional and functional risks 
by principal risk category, and identifying 
where and why risk scores have changed 
over time.
The regional and functional risk registers are 
monitored and reviewed by the SEB to ensure 
effective ongoing identification, assessment, 
mitigation and reporting of risks to the Group.
The principal risks to achieving our strategic 
aims are set out below.
22  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Key risk and uncertainty Mitigation
Expanding the business internationally
Business 
retention and 
expansion
Uncertainty surrounding the resilience of 
the global economy continues to present 
challenging trading conditions. Cost cutting in 
healthcare sectors and the ongoing economic 
constraints continue to provide uncertainties 
but also opportunities for the Group.
Despite the ongoing challenges we are committed to investing in 
our mature and emerging markets to maintain and increase market 
share to ensure market leadership.
Where there are opportunities to expand and innovate we will do 
so based on a full understanding of the risks and opportunities.
Cost leadership, service levels and quality continue to be key 
differentiators in the healthcare market and the Group continues 
to attract and retain business.
Acquisition risks
As the Group has continued to grow 
through acquisition, the risk of inheriting 
legacy liabilities and debts remains a key 
uncertainty. Existing exposure includes 
workers’ compensation liabilities attached 
to the former SRI business and legacy 
employee compensation claims for noise 
induced hearing loss.
Similarly the possibility of being subject 
to acquisition is also more foreseeable and 
reinforces the need for good governance and 
effective risk management to control claims 
and other liabilities.
The risks associated with potential acquisitions are mitigated 
through extensive due diligence checks to ensure that opportunities 
for strategic growth are balanced against financial risks. The Group 
is proactively managing existing workers’ compensation claims.
Integration planning following acquisition has been reviewed and 
enhanced in order to identify and address safety issues.
We work closely with incumbent and previous insurers to ensure 
that claims and other liabilities are fully disclosed, managed 
and reviewed.
Compliance
The Group operates across a number of 
territories with different laws and codes. In 
addition regulation, particularly relating to the 
environment, safety and corporate governance, 
is subject to change with increasingly higher 
levels of compliance required. 
Keeping pace with, and understanding, 
the changing requirements of local 
legislation across the regions is essential 
to achieving compliance.
Mitigation depends on ensuring that the regions have 
ownership of local compliance supported by risk management 
oversight to ensure that legislative changes are highlighted 
and effectively implemented. 
The creation of the regional Risk Manager roles has further 
enhanced our ability to monitor and effectively respond to 
changing compliance requirements.
The Group’s aim is to ensure that our policies and standard 
operating procedures set best practice thereby ensuring 
compliance with legislation.
Focusing on high value-added services
IT infrastructure
Information technology is an integral part of 
Synergy’s business and operational systems.
The failure of key IT systems would have 
significant impacts on business performance. 
The increasing threat of cyber-attack and the 
vulnerabilities of the Cloud in this respect are 
included in the Group’s major risk review.
Mitigation has been achieved through the strengthening of IT 
resource and the implementation of projects to address risks 
associated with legacy systems. 
The key aim of these projects has been to ensure that critical 
systems are fully supported, are sustainable and provide scalability 
as the business continues to grow. The projects also offer added 
value through improving consistency and cost leadership.
IT systems and procedures are in place to support business 
continuity through the secure backing up of data and ensuring 
information security.
Quality standards 
compliance
The Group provides services to highly 
regulated markets which operate to a 
range of internationally recognised quality 
standards. Our business also relies on 
maintaining the highest level of quality 
assurance to protect patient safety. 
Failing to meet quality standards would 
have a significant impact on our business 
and reputation.
Mitigation of these risks is dependent on having clearly established 
quality control processes in place together with ongoing review and 
procedures for implementing corrective actions where issues or 
improvements are identified. 
The Group has a well-developed quality assurance structure. The 
Group adopts an approach of continuous improvement of its quality 
assurance procedures.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 
23  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Key risk and uncertainty Mitigation
Deriving competitive differentiation through our people
Loss of 
knowledge and 
expertise
The Group has built its reputation on 
providing expertise across a range of 
specialist outsourced services. The Group 
differentiates itself by offering exceptional 
support to its customers and this demands 
that the Group attracts and retains the 
highest-calibre people across its businesses. 
Although employee turnover is very low the 
impact of losing knowledge and experience 
from the Group is still considered sufficient 
for this to remain a key risk.
Mitigating this risk through providing an attractive and stimulating 
working environment with opportunities for individuals to develop 
ensures that the Group is well placed to continue to grow 
successfully in both existing and new markets. 
The Group has well-established graduate, leadership and personal 
development programmes and has implemented a global employee 
performance review system.
Loss of key 
person
The Group Chief Executive Officer and other 
key individuals are integral to the business. 
The loss of any of these key people could 
impact on shareholder value and the future 
success of the business.
Whilst it is difficult to fully mitigate the consequences of losing 
leaders and others who might be viewed by stakeholders as being 
essential to the business, the Group aims to reduce the potential 
impact through succession planning and maintaining a strong 
senior management team.
Cost leadership
Financial control 
and reporting
The global nature of the Group and its 
markets necessitates robust financial control 
and reporting. Regional tax regimes and 
currency markets present additional 
complexities. Accurate financial reporting 
and analysis is essential in ensuring that 
financial performance and long-term 
shareholder value remains on track.
Mitigation is primarily based on ensuring that the Group invests in 
and retains employees with comprehensive financial and regional 
experience. The Group’s recruitment and leadership programmes 
are an important element of recruiting and developing the right 
talent. Local professional advisors who have worked with the Group 
over a number of years provide additional assurance that regional 
requirements are fully complied with.
The implementation of the global financial reporting tool 
is complete, providing enhanced financial reporting and 
cost leadership.
The financial performance of regional business units against the 
Group’s strategic objectives is subject to regular peer review 
through the regional management structure.
Internal 
investment
Major projects and other internal investments 
are equally critical to meeting the Group’s 
strategic objectives, and failure to achieve 
planned returns on investment or to deliver 
projects on time or agreed scope can have 
financial, operational, commercial and 
reputational impacts.
Projects and internal investments are based on a robust business 
case. These must clearly identify the associated risks and are 
subject to critical review and approval. The Group applies its 
established risk review processes to all major projects to ensure 
that risks are identified, evaluated and reviewed through the life 
of the project.
Commodities
The cost of energy and global demand for 
raw materials can be subject to sudden 
change and are influenced by geopolitical 
unrest and natural catastrophes. The 
economic climate also continues to be 
challenging in respect of prices and margins 
across all service lines and associated 
logistics services.
Mitigation includes energy management programmes and strategic 
commodity procurement in order to ensure continuity of essential 
supplies and effective cost management. Process innovation and 
quality are essential to the Group continuing to differentiate itself 
against its competitors.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
24  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Key risk and uncertainty Mitigation
Operational risks
Business 
continuity
The loss of operational capacity due to 
the unexpected loss of one or more facilities 
is potentially significant. Consequently 
stakeholders’ expectations regarding 
business continuity planning are increasingly 
critical elements of their assurance and 
contractual requirements.
Mitigation is achieved through the continuing development, review 
and testing of business continuity planning. In addition to meeting 
required safe working, fire safety and maintenance requirements, 
all facilities have localised emergency response plans in place 
which aim to minimise any disruption caused by incidents or 
plant failures. 
The Risk Management team also works in close partnership with 
insurers and other partners to continually review and enhance 
business continuity and disaster recovery plans.
The loss of the Rawang facility in Malaysia in April 2014 confirmed 
that business continuity arrangements were generally effective 
but learning outcomes from the incident are being reviewed and 
actions identified to further enhance business continuity planning.
Fire safety
The principal property risk is fire within a 
linen facility. Owing to the abundance of fuel 
sources a laundry fire can quickly escalate to 
a major conflagration, leading to total loss of 
the property and equipment.
Fire safety in the AST business could also 
cause significant financial loss and business 
continuity impacts.
Mitigation relies on high standards of housekeeping and 
fire protection. 
The Group has comprehensive fire safety procedures and works 
closely with the fire authorities and insurers to identify and control 
fire hazards.
The risk management team have been working with the UK’s Fire 
Protection Association (‘FPA’) to review fire protection in irradiation 
bunkers and the recommendations made by the FPA are being 
reviewed prior to implementation.
Health and safety
Failure to maintain a safe environment which 
is attributable to a failure of our health and 
safety management systems could result in a 
major incident or fatality. This would impact 
on colleagues and other stakeholders as well 
as our reputation.
Robust health and safety systems are a priority. The Board 
is committed to creating and maintaining a safe environment 
and regularly reviews and challenges health and safety 
performance, standards and targets across our business.
Compliance with health and safety standards is monitored 
across the Group through an assurance process of self-
assessments and risk management audits, with issues 
reported to the SEB where necessary.
Environmental or 
ethical failure
The impact from a major environmental or 
ethical failure, corporate fraud or material 
non-compliance with legislative or regulatory 
requirements would be damaging to Synergy 
Health’s reputation and brand. 
Our business is committed to carrying on our business ethically 
and in line with good business practices.
Our commitment to sustainability remains a key value and where 
possible we integrate sustainable policies into our business models 
and our property, logistics and distribution strategies.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 
25  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Health and safety
The Synergy Health plc Board and SEB are fully 
committed to providing a safe workplace and 
managing risk; the safety of our colleagues, 
customers and other people who may be 
affected by our activities remains a key priority. 
Although the Group has had extensive 
safety procedures in place for many years 
we constantly strive to improve and adopt 
an approach of continuous review and 
enhancement. This has led to a number of 
initiatives, including the implementation of 
a web-based risk management information 
system, online incident reporting, the ongoing 
development of global safety standards and 
the introduction of the risk management 
assurance programme. 
Our Group-wide safety campaign ‘Focus 
on Safety’, developed and implemented to 
support the launch of the new safety systems 
and reflect the Group’s commitment to safety, 
remains in place and is the core message of 
monthly safety awareness posters and other 
communication initiatives. Making Focus on 
Safety our priority helps to achieve our aim 
of promoting safe working and preventing 
workplace injuries and incidents.
Incidents and claims
In spite of health and safety management 
procedures and safe working systems being in 
place, a small number of incidents and claims 
are inevitable. Minor incidents, including slips, 
trips and falls, cuts and lacerations, are the 
leading cause of injuries to employees and the 
Risk Management team is continuing to work 
on further reducing the risk of injuries and 
ill health.
Claims management has been a particular 
focus area with the team working closely with 
insurers to further enhance investigation, 
defensibility and management of claims in 
order to reduce costs and claims experience. 
We are now seeing the benefits of this 
approach with significant reductions being 
achieved in the costs of claims, medical 
treatment and prescriptions in both the US 
and Europe.
Risk financing
The Group ensures that all relevant 
insurance cover is maintained and has 
completed our objective to carry out a full 
strategic review of risk financing within three 
years of implementing the global programme. 
With effect from April 2014 all of the Group’s 
operations are covered by the global 
insurance programme with appropriate 
local policies in place where required.
Code of Ethics 
The Group is committed to carrying on our 
business ethically and in line with good 
business practices. The Group maintains a 
strict Code of Ethics and subsidiary anti-
corruption, gifts and corporate hospitality 
policies which are fully available to all 
employees. The Group has continued to 
deliver Bribery Act training across the 
business using a range of taught and 
e-learning training materials. Whistleblower 
reporting arrangements are also maintained.
Risk management strategy 2015/2016
The risk management strategy aims to 
provide a continuously improving, increasingly 
proactive and embedded risk management 
capability across the organisation. This is 
based on devolving ownership of risks to 
the relevant operational and functional 
teams, developing globally consistent safety 
standards, systems and assurance processes.
The benefits and importance of robust and 
proactive risk management are clear, with risk 
management enabling the Group to achieve 
our strategic objectives and protect and 
enhance our assets, including our reputation. 
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
26  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate social responsibility
At Synergy Health, we recognise the 
importance of corporate social responsibility 
(‘CSR’), and understand that we have a wider 
obligation to run our business in a responsible 
and sustainable way for all our stakeholders. 
We are committed to upholding the highest 
professional and ethical standards and we 
encourage and support all our people in 
having a positive impact in everything they 
do, whether it is in the workplace or the local 
community. We recognise the importance of 
managing day-to-day activities in a 
responsible way, being accountable for the 
impact of all operational activities on the 
environment and on those around us, and 
creating a working environment in which 
our colleagues can flourish. Our regional 
teams incorporate CSR within their roles 
and responsibilities.
We categorise our CSR efforts into the 
following three areas:
 + Caring for our people
 + Caring for tomorrow
 + Caring for our stakeholders
Caring for our people
Employee training and development
Our success is based on being able to attract, 
develop and retain talent at every level of the 
organisation. We have a proven track record 
of developing careers and helping employees 
fulfil their potential. This provides an exciting 
environment for ambitious people and is 
central to attracting talented individuals. 
Our approach is focused on developing and 
enhancing the leadership and management 
capability of the entire organisation.
Synergy continues to invest in its 
Graduate Programme, established in 2008. 
Our graduates perform a variety of roles on 
the two-year programme, and report into a 
senior manager to ensure that they receive 
the necessary development needs. A number 
of employees initially recruited on the 
programme are performing in senior 
and middle management positions.
Employee engagement
Regular two-way communication with 
our employees is vital in ensuring that 
we all share in the common goals and 
values, foster innovation, and deliver 
service excellence. 
We have a number of systems in place 
that enable us to understand the opinions 
of our employees. Our annual employee 
engagement survey is a useful tool for 
feedback, and we also hold employee 
forums and works councils within the Group. 
We continue to utilise an internal social 
media platform to communicate 
achievements, our daily challenges, insights 
into the different business units, and access 
to thought leadership across the business. 
Diversity
Our policy is to recruit the best available 
people who are aligned with and embody 
our core values of achievement, integrity, 
accountability and innovation. These values 
apply throughout the Group regardless of 
seniority of position. Synergy is committed to 
equality, judging applications for employment 
neither by race, nationality, gender, age, 
disability, sexual orientation nor political bias. 
We passionately believe that our future 
success is dependent on attracting and 
retaining people from a cross-section of our 
communities, and in doing so we will create 
competitive advantage for Synergy. Our recent 
growth in Asia and the Americas has helped 
diversify our senior leadership community.
We promote a supportive and inclusive 
culture for all our employees and third 
party business partners. However, we also 
recognise that there is a need to create the 
right environment to support our diversity 
strategy. The senior leadership team continues 
to look at developing our business to improve 
its attractiveness to new recruits, as well as to 
provide support networks for minority groups to 
positively support their personal development.
Our values
Achievement – We believe our success comes 
from our focus on exceeding expectations and 
our commitment to go that extra mile, however 
small the difference may seem.
Integrity – We believe that the way we work is 
as important as what we do. We care deeply 
about the quality of our work and inspire trust 
by delivering on promises. 
Accountability – We take personal 
responsibility for our actions and are equipped 
to take the right course of action.
Innovation – We achieve the best possible 
results by working with customers to 
develop new ways of solving problems 
and reducing risk.
Ethics
Our ethics policy can be found online at 
www.synergyhealthplc.com/investor-relations/
code-of-ethics
Caring for tomorrow
Synergy is committed to taking reasonable 
actions to minimise the risk of adverse 
impact on the environment from our business. 
As a consequence of the services we supply 
to the healthcare market, the demand for 
energy in our business is high, however, we 
continue to reduce carbon emissions and our 
environmental impact per unit by striving for 
greater energy efficiency. 
Energy and carbon reduction
Synergy’s utility consumption has 
decreased by 0.5% in the past year, due 
to our continuing focus on energy efficiency. 
There has been a reduction in electricity 
consumption of 1.08% and a reduction in 
gas consumption of 0.34%. There has been 
a slight increase in the use of oil but this 
forms only 0.55% of total energy consumed 
by the Group.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 
27  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Employee, senior management and Director numbers by gender as at 29 March 2015: 
Male Female
Directors 6 1
Senior Managers 61 14
All employees 2,850 2,820 
Board: Directors of the plc including Executive and Non-Executive
Senior Managers: Members of the Senior Leadership Community (excluding Board)
Employees: All Synergy employees Total MWh (in thousands) 2015 2014 
Gas 188,100 177,200 
Electricity 78,500 69,300 
Oil  1,300 1,400
Total 267,900 247,900
 this expertise can be called upon to help find 
solutions for customers in relation to the 
processing of their products. 
During the year we have introduced two major 
computer software systems in our AST and 
HS business units, which will improve the 
quality of our systems and enhance our 
service offer. 
Financial responsibility
We expect our shareholders to receive fair 
reward for our business performance. We 
are cost aware and carefully manage our 
own and our customers’ costs. We manage 
financial risk systematically and communicate 
our financial performance in a clear, concise 
manner. Securing fair reward for our 
shareholders allows us to invest in the future 
of the Group, reward our investors, and satisfy 
our suppliers and lenders appropriately. 
As a public company we proactively 
communicate our financial performance and 
future expectations in a clear and concise 
manner. Managing this flow of information 
helps ensure that we are valued fairly in the 
market. We understand the importance of 
maintaining relationships with the financial 
community, including investors, analysts and 
the financial media, that are built on trust. We 
seek investor feedback throughout the year, 
both informally through our investor relations 
team, as well as through investor roadshows 
and one-to-one sessions with our Group Chief 
Executive and Group Finance Director. 
Our next Annual General Meeting, to 
be held on 23 July 2015, will provide 
an opportunity for shareholders to raise 
questions to the Board. We will continue to 
communicate regular formal updates during 
the course of the year, including final and 
interim results, interim management 
statements, and trading updates.
Data on the Group’s carbon emissions is 
shown on page 60 of the Directors’ report.
Transport pollution 
Our delivery network is very important to the 
service we offer our customers, especially in 
our businesses which directly serve hospital 
customers. However, each of our facilities has 
an objective to provide our logistics services 
as efficiently as possible, reducing the impact 
of vehicle pollution. To achieve this, we 
continued our programme to electronically 
monitor driver fuel efficiency, and we have 
broadened our focus on route management, 
improving efficiencies.
Caring for our stakeholders
Our business depends on healthy 
relationships with customers, business 
partners and suppliers. We build and 
nurture strong relationships that are 
mutually beneficial, making sure that we 
deeply understand the people we deal with 
so that we can anticipate their needs and 
always aim to exceed their expectations. 
Our relationships with our customers 
grow through delivering service excellence, 
open and honest communication, and 
building trust. Our success in this area is 
demonstrated by the long-term relationships 
we have fostered with customers around 
the world.
Quality management 
Synergy Health is heavily regulated by 
international healthcare standards and 
our facilities are certified to the applicable 
standards by internationally recognised Notified 
Bodies across all regions. Regulatory bodies 
such as the US FDA and MHRA also routinely 
inspect us, and all our facilities across all 
regions have implemented effective quality 
management systems, which are maintained 
by full-time quality professionals. We take pride 
in the level of compliance we achieve and this 
is valued by both our hospital customers and 
the many multinational healthcare medical 
device manufacturers that use our services.
We have a pool of technical expertise within 
our management team, and we harness this 
expertise using technical working groups so 
that we can continue to develop and improve 
our Quality Management System. In addition,
Corporate social responsibility continued
Our 2015 strategic report, from page 1 to 
page 28, has been reviewed and approved 
by the Board of Directors on 2 June 2015. 
Dr Richard M Steeves
Chief Executive
2 June 2015
28  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 How we govern the Company
Our governance structure comprises the functions shown below, supported by the Group’s standard policies and controls which are 
described on the following pages in more detail.
The Board of Directors (membership as at 2 June 2015) 
Meetings held during the year: 1 1 
Sir Duncan Nichol 
Non-Executive Chairman
Dr Richard Steeves 
Group Chief Executive Officer
Gavin Hill 
Group Finance Director
Dr Adrian Coward
Group Chief Operating Officer 
Jeff Harris
Senior Independent Director 
Constance Baroudel
Non-Executive Director
Bruce Edwards
Non-Executive Director
 Read more page 32
Audit Committee 
(membership as at 2 June 2015)
Nomination Committee (membership 
as at 2 June 2015)
Remuneration Committee 
(membership as at 2 June 2015)
Meetings held during the year: 4 Meetings held during the year: 1 Meetings held during the year: 5
Jeff Harris
Committee 
Chairman 
Constance 
Baroudel
Bruce Edwards
 Read more page 39
Sir Duncan 
Nichol 
Committee 
Chairman
Jeff Harris
Constance 
Baroudel
Bruce Edwards
 Read more page 42
Constance 
Baroudel
Committee 
Chairman
Sir Duncan 
Nichol  
Jeff Harris
Bruce Edwards
 Read more page 43
Senior Executive Board (membership as at 2 June 2015) 
Meetings held during the year: 6
The SEB is the key management committee and comprises:
Dr Richard Steeves
Group Chief Executive Officer
Gavin Hill
Group Finance Director
Dr Adrian Coward
Group Chief Operating Officer
Jon Turner
Group Company Secretary
Andrew McLean
CEO, AST 
Niclas Olsson
CEO, HS
Ray Reilly
Group HR Director
 Read more page 38
Sir Duncan Nichol
Chairman
2 June 2015
Chairman’s introduction to governance
Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance report for the 
financial year ended 29 March 2015. The Board, as always, is committed to maintaining 
the highest standards of corporate governance. 
This report sets out the framework of governance and the approach the Board of Synergy 
Health plc has taken during 2015 to maintain the standards of good corporate governance 
for which it is accountable to the Group’s shareholders and other key stakeholders. 
Our corporate governance framework enables effective and efficient decision making and 
ensures that there is the right balance of skills and experience to assess and manage the 
risks in the international markets in which the Group operates. 
We have strengthened the Board with the appointment of Bruce Edwards, who joined the 
Board on 1 September 2014. Should the transaction with STERIS not complete, we will seek to 
make a further Non-Executive Director appointment, to expand the current skills of the Board. 
This Corporate Governance report is structured in order to demonstrate to shareholders that 
the Board has complied during 2015 in all respects with each section of the 2012 UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’). 
Remuneration is dealt with in the separate Directors’ Remuneration Report.
29  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements  SEB SEB SEB RC
RC RC* RC
NC*
AC* AC AC NC NC NC
Board of Directors
Sir Duncan Nichol
Chairman
Sir Duncan became a non-executive 
Director in November 2002. He 
was chief executive of the NHS 
Management Executive between 1989 
and 1994, a non-executive director of 
BUPA between 1994 and 2002 and 
of the Christie NHS Foundation Trust 
between 2008 and 2012. Sir Duncan 
is currently chairman of the Countess 
of Chester NHS Trust and a non-
executive director of Deltex Medical 
Group plc and UKAS. He is also 
Chairman of Skills for Justice. He 
is Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration Committee. Sir Duncan 
was appointed as Chairman of the 
Board in June 2012.
Jeff Harris
Senior Independent Director
Jeff was appointed to the Board as 
Senior Independent Director in 
September 2013, and is Chair of the 
Audit Committee. Jeff read Zoology 
at Southampton University and is a 
chartered accountant. In 1985 he 
joined UniChem, a co-operative UK 
pharmaceutical wholesaler, as chief 
accountant and worked his way up 
within the organisation to the roles of 
chief executive and then chairman of 
Alliance UniChem plc. Jeff has served 
on a number of boards as a non-
executive director, senior independent 
director and chairman, including 
Filtrona plc (now Essentra plc), 
Cookson plc, WH Smith plc, Bunzl plc 
and Associated British Foods plc. He 
has also served as the chairman of 
trustees for various charities.
Dr Richard Steeves
Group Chief Executive Officer
Richard founded the business in 1991 
and was appointed Chief Executive 
Officer in 1992. Previously he was 
corporate development manager for 
Braithwaite plc, a plant hire company, 
and associate consultant with strategic 
consultants, LEK Consulting. Richard 
has a PhD in biochemistry from St 
John’s College, Cambridge and a BSc 
(1st Class Hons) in Human Physiology 
from the University of British Columbia 
in Vancouver, Canada. Richard is 
non-executive chairman of Toumaz 
plc, a UK semiconductor company 
focusing on digital radio, connected 
audio and wireless healthcare.
Constance Baroudel
Non-Executive Director
Constance was appointed to the Board 
as a non-executive Director in 
September 2010 and is Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee and a 
member of the Audit and Nomination 
committees. She is currently the group 
director of strategy and operational 
performance at First Group plc. Prior 
to First Group she was managing 
director of the Solution business at De 
La Rue plc, and a senior consultant for 
Strategic Decisions Group. Constance 
attended l’Institut d’Etudes Politiques 
de Paris where she majored in 
Corporate Finance and International 
Relations. Constance also has an 
MSc in International Accounting 
and Finance from the London 
School of Economics.
Gavin Hill
Group Finance Director
Gavin joined Synergy Health as Group 
Finance Director in April 2010. Gavin 
became responsible for the HCS 
service line on 1 April 2014. He was 
previously director, Corporate Finance 
for Serco Group plc following a 
number of divisional finance director 
and commercial roles. Prior to Serco, 
Gavin worked for Syngenta AG and 
AstraZeneca plc in both Finance and 
Corporate Treasury. Gavin is a qualified 
chartered accountant and associate 
member of the Association of 
Corporate Treasurers. Gavin is also 
a Trustee of the Group’s three UK 
defined benefit pension schemes.
Bruce Edwards
Non-Executive Director
Bruce was appointed to the Board in 
September 2014. Bruce was formerly 
the global chief executive officer for 
DHL ’s Supply Chain division, and a 
member of the board of management. 
Bruce is also a non-executive director 
of Ashtead plc and Greif Inc., a 
NYSE-listed packaging and container 
manufacturer. Bruce is a member of 
the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees.
Dr Adrian Coward
Group Chief Operating Officer
Adrian was appointed Group Chief 
Operating Officer in March 2014. 
Adrian joined the Group in 2004 as 
Director of IT, and subsequently held 
the role of UK HS Managing Director, 
and then UK and Ireland CEO. Adrian 
previously worked for a scientific and 
IT consultancy company providing 
solutions to engineering and R&D 
companies. Adrian has a BSc 
in Mathematics and a PhD in 
Applied Mathematics. 
30  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 SEB SEB SEB
NC
  
  
  
Chairman 1
Executive 3
Non-executive 3
Male 6
Female 1
Senior Executive Board
Ray Reilly
Group HR Director
Ray joined Synergy Health in July 
2012 as part the SRI Surgical Express 
Inc. acquisition in the Americas. In 
May 2014 Ray was promoted to the 
position of Executive Vice President, 
Global Human Resources. He was 
previously employed in regional 
human resource roles with Sodexo 
as well as healthcare operations 
management roles with both Sodexo 
and Marriott Management Services. 
Ray holds a Bachelor of Science 
degree in Hotel, Restaurant and 
Institutional Management from 
Indiana University of Pennsylvania 
and a Master of Science in Human 
Resources and Industrial Relations 
from Saint Francis University.
Niclas Olsson
CEO, Asia & Africa 
Niclas was appointed as CEO of HSS 
on 1 April 2014. He joined Synergy as 
CEO of the Asia & Africa region in June 
2012. Niclas worked for the Getinge 
Group for 10 years in a variety of 
management positions, culminating in 
five years as president of Getinge 
China. Prior to joining Getinge, he was 
marketing director for Sanmina-SCI, a 
world leading outsourcing company, 
and business area manager Industrial 
Automation for Mannesman Rexroth in 
Sweden. Niclas has a Mechanical 
Engineering degree and is a graduate 
of the University of Lund.
Andrew McLean
President, AST Americas
Andrew was appointed as CEO of 
AST on 1 April 2014. He joined 
Synergy in a dual role of Vice 
President, AST Business 
Development and President, AST 
Americas in June 2013. Previously, 
Andrew held roles at Becton 
Dickinson and Pfizer, spanning 
multiple global geographies 
and business leadership roles. 
Andrew holds a Bachelor’s 
degree in Economics, a Master 
of Management, and an MBA 
from Macquarie University in 
Sydney, Australia.
Jonathan Turner
Group Company Secretary
Jon was appointed Group Company 
Secretary in July 2014. He joined 
Synergy in November 2010 as Head 
of Tax & Treasury, a role he still holds. 
Jon previously worked for Ernst & 
Young LLP as a senior manager in its 
International Tax Services group. Jon 
has a BA in Physics from Merton 
College, Oxford, is a Fellow of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
England and Wales and an Associate 
Member of the Association of 
Corporate Treasurers. Jon is also 
trustee of, and secretary to, the 
Group’s three UK defined benefit 
pension schemes.
Board key
RC
 
Remuneration Committee
AC
 
Audit Committee
NC
 
Nomination Committee
 
*
 
Committee Chairman
SEB Senior Executive Board
Board composition Board gender ratios
31  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements  Corporate Governance Report
The role of the Board
The Board is the principal decision making 
forum for the Group providing entrepreneurial 
leadership, both directly and through its 
committees, as well as delegating authority 
for the day-to-day management of the Group 
to the SEB.
The Board is responsible for organising and 
directing the affairs of the Group in a manner 
most likely to achieve success for the benefit 
of its shareholders. The Board is accountable 
to the shareholders for:
 + Setting the Group’s strategic objectives;
 + The creation and delivery of strong 
sustainable financial and operational 
performance;
 + Ensuring that, in carrying out its duties, the 
Group’s legal and regulatory obligations are 
being met; and
 + Ensuring that the Group operates within 
appropriately established risk parameters.
The Group’s UK-regulated entities are 
accountable to the Financial Conduct 
Authority (‘FCA’).
UK Corporate Governance 
Code compliance
The Board is committed to the highest 
standards of corporate governance set out in 
the Code and is accountable to the Company’s 
shareholders for good governance. This report 
describes how the Board has applied the main 
principles of good governance set out in the 
Code during the year under review.
Compliance statement
The Directors are of the opinion that the 
Company has been in compliance with the 
principles of the Code up to the date of this 
report except where any non-compliance is 
disclosed and explained.
The Company’s auditor, KPMG LLP , is 
required to review whether the above 
statement reflects the Company’s compliance 
with the provisions of the Code, specified for 
their review by the Listing Rules of the UK 
Listing Authority, and to report if it does not 
reflect compliance. No such report has been 
made by KPMG LLP .
The following statements set out the principles 
and methods to which they adhere.
The statement of Directors’ responsibilities in 
respect of the Annual Report and the financial 
statements is set out in the Directors’ report 
on page 62.
The Board
As at 29 March 2015, the Board of 
Directors was made up of seven members, 
comprising a Non-Executive Chairman (who 
was independent on his appointment), three 
further Non-Executive Directors and three 
Executive Directors, following the promotion 
of Dr Adrian Coward to the Board with effect 
from 31 March 2014.
Schedule of matters reserved  
for the Board
The Board has a formal schedule of matters 
reserved to it for decision, which it reviews 
and agrees annually, but also delegates 
specific responsibilities to a senior committee, 
the SEB, and certain Board committees. 
Specific responsibilities reserved for the 
Board include:
 + Setting and amending the Group’s overall 
business strategy, strategic business plan 
and the annual operating budget;
 + Approval of the Annual Report and 
financial statements, interim dividends 
and recommendation of the final dividend;
 + Approval of any changes to the Company’s 
capital structure, including the raising of 
additional capital and the purchase of the 
Company’s shares;
 + Approval of any significant changes 
in accounting policies or practices;
 + Approval of contracts with annual revenue 
in excess of £5 million;
 + Approval of any investment or disposal 
of the share capital of another company 
greater than 5% of the Company’s 
market value;
 + Approval of the acquisition of assets with 
a consideration in excess of £10 million, 
and any disposal of assets greater than 
£2.5 million;
 + Approval of any capital expenditure 
in excess of £10 million;
 + Major changes in the rules of the Company 
pension schemes, or changes of trustees 
or fund management arrangements;
 + Approval of changes to the employee share 
and other incentive schemes and the 
allocation of executive share options;
 + All Stock Exchange related issues, 
including approval of communications 
to the Stock Exchange;
 + Establishing Board membership and 
powers, including the appointment and 
removal of Board members and the Group 
Company Secretary;
 + Establishing terms of reference and 
membership of the Board committees;
 + Approval of all related party transactions;
 + Setting the remuneration of the auditors 
and making recommendations for the 
appointment or removal of auditors;
 + Approving any major changes in policy 
with respect to risks covered by insurance;
 + Approving all treasury matters, including 
the setting of policies to enter into 
contracts that are not in the ordinary 
course of business and authorising bank 
facilities (including bank borrowing, other 
loans and internal rate swaps), and 
approval of all foreign currency 
transactions in excess of £5 million;
 + Overseeing the Group’s main controls and 
their effectiveness;
 + Other matters, including health and safety 
and risk management;
 + The review of the Group’s overall corporate 
governance arrangements; and
 + The annual review of its own performance 
and that of its Committees.
Board activity during 2015
At each scheduled meeting the Board 
received updates from the Executive Directors 
on the operational and financial performance 
of the Group. 
Board meetings are structured around the 
following areas:
 + Operational and functional updates;
 + Financial updates;
 + Strategy and risk;
 + Progress against strategy (including 
potential acquisitions);
 + Human Resources;
 + Other reporting and items for approval; and
 + Feedback from the committees.
The Board composition ensures that the 
above areas are carefully considered and 
that best and independent judgement is 
applied to them.
As occurred in 2015, for 2016, items that are 
required to be considered on an annual basis 
will be included on an annual schedule of 
rolling agenda items to ensure that they are 
not overlooked and are considered at the 
appropriate point in the financial and 
regulatory cycle.
32  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategy
The Board sets aside at least two 
consecutive days each year to conduct a 
review of its strategy with the SEB and other 
senior executives in attendance for certain 
sessions as appropriate.
Strategic items are also discussed at each 
Board meeting. Risk and risk management 
is considered side by side with strategy and 
is included in our operational reporting.
Meetings and attendance
Directors are expected to attend all meetings 
of the Board and the committees on which 
they serve and to devote sufficient time to 
the Group to perform their duties. Where 
Directors are unable to attend meetings they 
receive papers for that meeting, giving them 
the opportunity to raise any issues with the 
Chairman in advance of the meeting. The 
number of scheduled Board and committee 
meetings of which they are a member 
attended by each Director during 2015 
is provided in the table below.
Directors receive papers several days in 
advance of Board meetings by means of an 
electronic Board Pad facility, which provides 
greater flexibility for the Directors to access 
papers and also have access to the advice 
and services of the Company’s advisors.
All Board and committee meetings during 
the year were held in an open atmosphere 
conducive to constructive challenge and 
debate. Additional meetings are called 
when required and there is contact between 
meetings, where necessary, to progress the 
Group’s business.
The Company Secretary
Tim Mason retired as Group Company 
Secretary on 23 July 2014. The Board takes 
this opportunity to thank Tim for his input 
over the five years he spent with the 
Company and wish him a long, happy 
and healthy retirement.
Jonathan Turner, previously Head of Tax & 
Treasury, was appointed as Group Company 
Secretary and Head of Tax & Treasury with 
effect from 23 July 2014. 
All the Directors have access to the advice 
and services of the Group Company 
Secretary and Head of Tax & Treasury. He 
has responsibility for ensuring that Board 
procedures are followed and for advising the 
Board, through the Chairman, on governance 
matters. The Group Company Secretary and 
Head of Tax & Treasury provides updates to 
the Board on regulatory and corporate 
governance issues, new legislation, and 
Directors’ duties and obligations. The 
appointment and removal of the Group 
Company Secretary is one of the matters 
reserved for the Board.
The Board has established a procedure 
for Directors, if deemed necessary, to take 
independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense in the furtherance of 
their duties. This is in addition to the access 
that every Director has to the Group Company 
Secretary. In the year under review, as 
well as advice from the external auditors, 
KPMG LLP , and Investec Bank plc advice 
was also taken from Deloitte LLP by the 
Remuneration Committee.
Board meeting attendance 
Board 
Audit
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Total number of meetings 11 4 5 1
Sir Duncan Nichol 11 of 11 – 5 of 5 1 of 1
Dr Richard Steeves 11 of 11 – – –
Gavin Hill 11 of 11 – – –
Dr Adrian Coward 10 of 11 – – –
Jeff Harris 11 of 11 4 of 4 5 of 5 1 of 1
Constance Baroudel 11 of 11 4 of 4 5 of 5 1 of 1
Bruce Edwards
1
9 of 9 4 of 4 4 of 4 0 of 0
1
 Bruce Edwards was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2014.
33  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements  Corporate Governance Report continued
Board effectiveness
As stated in the 2014 Annual Report, 
the Company intended to carry out an 
independent external evaluation of the 
Board’s performance and all of its committees 
in 2015, in order to comply with the Code.
The Board appointed Lintstock Ltd 
(‘Lintstock’), an independent external 
consultant which has conducted external 
evaluations for a number of FTSE 250 
companies, to undertake a board evaluation 
exercise. Lintstock has had no connection 
with the Company previously.
The first stage of the review was undertaken, 
with Lintstock engaging with the Chairman, 
Group Company Secretary and Head of Tax & 
Treasury and Group Chief Executive in order 
to set the context of the evaluation and to 
tailor the questionnaires used to the specific 
circumstances of the Company.
It was intended that all respondents would 
then be requested to complete an online 
questionnaire addressing Board, committee, 
chairman and individual performance. The 
anonymity of all respondents would be ensured 
throughout the process in order to promote the 
open and frank exchange of views.
Lintstock was to subsequently produce a 
report addressing the areas covered in 
the questionnaire. It was also envisaged that 
Lintstock would conduct a follow-up appraisal 
next year involving an interview component, 
to follow up on any issues raised in this 
year’s process. The review content for each 
subsequent evaluation is designed to build 
upon learning gained in the previous year, 
to ensure that the recommendations agreed 
in the review are implemented and that 
year-on-year progress will be measured.
Unfortunately, owing to the time commitment 
required of the Directors in pursuing the 
potential combination with STERIS, the decision 
was taken to defer the review. Should the 
transaction fail to complete for any reason, the 
review will be restarted as soon as is practicable.
Roles of the Chairman and 
Group Chief Executive Officer
The roles of Chairman and Group Chief 
Executive Officer are separate and clearly 
defined with the division of responsibilities 
set out in writing and approved by the Board. 
The Chairman’s principal responsibilities are 
to chair the Board and shareholder meetings 
and to ensure the effective running of the 
Board. The Group Chief Executive Officer’s 
principal responsibility is leading the SEB 
in the day-to-day running of the Group’s 
business. The Chairman and the Group 
Chief Executive Officer meet regularly 
between meetings.
Meetings between the Non-Executive 
Directors, both with and without the presence 
of the Group Chief Executive Officer, take 
place regularly. The Board has arranged 
to hold Board meetings at Group business 
locations to help all Board members gain 
a deeper understanding of the business. 
This also provides senior managers from 
across the Group with the opportunity to 
present to the Board as well as to meet the 
Directors on more informal occasions. The 
Non-Executive Directors are also invited to 
attend the Group’s Leadership Conference, 
which is normally held annually.
Board balance
The Board continues to give careful 
consideration to its structure and the balance 
of the Board. The Board remains satisfied  
that it has the appropriate balance of skills, 
experience, independence and knowledge 
of the Group to enable it and its committees 
to discharge their duties and responsibilities 
effectively, as required by the Code. The 
table below details the length of service 
of the Chairman and each of the Non-
Executive Directors. 
If the transaction with STERIS fails to 
complete, the Board will, in the near 
future, be making a further Non-Executive 
Directorship appointment to expand the 
current skills and experience of the Board. 
The Company has engaged a firm of 
external search consultants to assist with the 
appointment, albeit the assignment has been 
put on hold. The recruitment process is being 
led by Sir Duncan Nichol as Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee, supported by the 
Committee and the Group Company Secretary.
Biographical details of the Directors 
currently in office are shown on page 30. 
The Company’s policy relating to the terms 
of appointment and the remuneration of both 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors is set 
out in the Remuneration Report on page 51.
The Directors’ biographies demonstrate 
the broad range of skills and experience 
on the Board.
The procedure for appointing Directors 
is detailed in the Nomination Committee 
section below.
Current length of service 
Director Date of appointment Length of service
Sir Duncan Nichol 01.11.2002 12 years 7 months
Constance Baroudel 01.09.2010 4 years 9 months
Jeff Harris 01.09.2013 1 year 9 months
Bruce Edwards 01.09.2014 9 months
34  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 In accordance with the Code, all Directors 
submit themselves for annual re-election 
by shareholders. New Directors may be 
appointed by the Board, but are subject 
to election by shareholders at the first 
opportunity following their appointment.
Independent Non-Executive Directors 
are currently appointed for fixed periods 
of three years, subject to annual re-election 
by shareholders. The initial three-year 
period may be extended for two further 
three-year periods, subject to re-election by 
shareholders. Their letters of appointment 
may be inspected at the Company’s 
registered office or can be obtained on 
request from the Company Secretary.
The Chairman performs a number of other 
non-executive roles outside the Group and 
details of these are included in the Chairman’s 
biography. The Board continues to be 
satisfied that these other commitments are 
not such as to interfere with the performance 
of his duties for the Group and will not impact 
on his ability to allocate sufficient time 
to discharge effectively his responsibilities 
to the Group.
Jeff Harris is the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director. He is available 
to shareholders if they have concerns that 
contact through the normal channels of 
Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer, or 
Group Finance Director has failed to resolve 
or for which such contact is inappropriate. 
He is also responsible for leading the Board’s 
discussion on the Chairman’s performance 
and the appointment of a new Chairman, 
as and when appropriate.
Independence of Non-
Executive Directors
The Company requires Non-Executive 
Directors to be independent of management 
so that they are able to exercise independent 
oversight and effectively challenge 
management. The Company continually 
assesses the independence of each of the 
Non-Executive Directors. The Company has 
determined that all of the Non-Executive 
Directors are independent in accordance with 
the Code requirements. None of the Non-
Executive Directors or their immediate families 
have ever had a material relationship with the 
Group. None of them receive additional 
remuneration apart from their Director’s Fee, 
nor do they participate in the Group’s share 
plans or pension schemes. None of them serve 
as directors of any companies or affiliates 
in which any other Director is a director.
More importantly, each of the Non-
Executive Directors is prepared to question 
and challenge management, to request more 
information and to pursue difficult questions. 
They insist on robust responses, both within 
the Boardroom and sometimes between 
Board meetings. The Group Chief Executive 
Officer is open to challenge from the 
Non-Executive Directors and uses this 
positively to provide more detail and to 
reflect further on issues.
Professional development
On appointment, Directors take part in 
a comprehensive induction programme 
whereby they receive financial and operational 
information about the Group, as well as 
information about their responsibilities 
and duties and an introduction to the 
Group’s governance, regulatory and 
control environment.
This induction is supplemented by visits 
to the Group’s head office in Swindon and 
the European head office in Derby, overseas 
offices, and meetings with members of 
the senior management team and their 
departments. Development and training of 
Directors is an ongoing process. Throughout 
their period in office the Directors are 
regularly updated on the Group’s business, 
legal matters concerning their role and duties, 
the competitive environments in which the 
Group operates, and any other significant 
changes affecting the Group and the industry 
of which it is a part. Where appropriate, the 
Board receives presentations from senior 
managers within the Group.
Employee engagement
The Group recognises the impact that 
positive employee engagement has on 
developing a culture of excellence, 
maintaining organisational stability and 
fostering an environment in which people 
feel valued and included. 
The Group is an equal opportunities 
employer. Equal opportunities are offered 
to all regardless of race, colour, nationality, 
ethnic origin, sex (including gender 
reassignment), marital or civil partnership 
status, disability, religion or belief, sexual 
orientation, age or trade union membership. 
The Group gives full and fair consideration 
to applications for employment from people 
with disabilities. The policy is to offer equal 
opportunity to all disabled candidates and 
employees who have a disability or become 
disabled in any way during the course of 
their employment. A full assessment of the 
individual’s needs is undertaken and 
reasonable adjustments are made to the 
work environment or practices in order 
to assist those with disabilities. 
All candidates and employees are treated 
equally in respect of recruitment, promotion, 
training, pay, and other employment policies 
and conditions. All decisions are based on 
relative merits and abilities. 
The Group continues to employ multiple 
channels of communication and is 
committed to improving these channels so 
that all employees have access to information 
as well as having an opportunity to express 
their views and ideas on matters affecting 
their employment and the Group. 
Channels include: 
 + Employee forums and, where appropriate, 
works councils;
 + the Group’s intranet site;
 + an Ethics hotline;
 + Regular leadership briefings – 
followed by communication cascades/
team briefings;
 + Employee satisfaction surveys;
 + Health and safety surveys;
 + Regular business updates via circulars; 
and communication via ‘Yammer’, 
a professional social networking tool.
Employment policies are updated in a timely 
way to reflect legislative changes, and training 
to communicate or embed change is 
developed and rolled out as appropriate.
Training is provided as required to ensure that 
we have a skilled workforce; this requires a 
balance of training for the work our employees 
do now, and developing and preparing people 
for the future.
35  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements  Corporate Governance Report continued
For several years the Company has operated 
a Savings Related Share Option Scheme for 
UK-based employees, which gives employees 
an opportunity to enter into a savings contract 
for a fixed period, with an opportunity to 
acquire shares in the Company at the end 
of that period.
Women on Boards
The Board has discussed the guidance 
issued by Lord Davies of Abersoch in his 
report ‘Women on Boards’ and the Code. 
Following the decision of Liz Hewitt not to 
seek relection at the Annual General meeting 
(‘AGM’), 14.3% of the Board’s membership 
is female. The Board hopes the Group 
will be in a position to increase the level 
of representation when renewing Board 
membership over the coming years. However, 
this will always be subject to the overriding 
need to ensure that appointments are made 
on merit and having regard to an appropriate 
balance of skills, experience, independence 
and knowledge required on the Board. 
The Davies Report also examines the 
gender diversity at management levels 
below the board and has asked that 
chairmen, in consultation with their CEOs, 
identify two female candidates from their 
senior management team and give them 
the opportunity to serve as non-executive 
directors on other company boards. The 
Group has a number of initiatives to improve 
diversity at a senior management level but 
recognises that these will take time to be 
reflected in the number of women in the 
senior management team. To accelerate the 
number of women in senior management 
positions, the Group has set up ‘Synergy 
For Women’.
Synergy for Women has a vision to:
 + Secure increased representation of women 
in senior leadership roles in the Group,
and a mission to:
 + Promote a working environment which 
encourages women to aspire to senior 
positions within the Group.
The initiative started in the former UK & 
Ireland region a number of years ago, 
with representatives from all divisions and 
functions. The initiative was extended to 
operate globally and an international steering 
group has been set up to encourage similar 
women’s groups in Europe & Middle East, 
the Americas and Asia & Africa. The initiative 
is being sponsored internally by Dr Adrian 
Coward, Group Chief Operating Officer and 
Dr Richard Steeves, Group Chief Executive 
Officer. As a result of the initiative, female 
employees can expect to see, amongst other 
things, growing opportunities for networking, 
career support and confidential counselling.
Female employees make up approximately 
49.7% of all employees within the Group.
The Board will continue to review its approach 
on gender diversity, particularly in the context 
of any developing guidance in this area.
Relations with shareholders
The Group Chief Executive Officer, Group 
Finance Director and Group Company 
Secretary are responsible for ensuring 
effective communication with shareholders. 
The Company places considerable 
importance on communication with the 
shareholders (including its employee 
shareholders) and all other stakeholders.
Apart from the AGM, the Company 
communicates with its shareholders by way of 
the Annual Report and financial statements, 
which are available to all shareholders either 
in paper form or electronically and can be 
accessed via the Company’s website. The 
Group’s annual and interim results, as well 
as all announcements issued by the London 
Stock Exchange, are published on the 
Company’s website.
The Company also communicates with 
its institutional shareholders through a 
combination of analysts’ briefings throughout 
the year but particularly at the interim and 
year end results stage.
The Chairman, as required, will hold meetings 
during the year with major shareholders and 
other stakeholders, and will discuss with the 
Board any matters raised with him.
External analysts’ reports are circulated to 
all Directors and Investec, the Company’s 
brokers, produce a monthly investor relations 
report, which is circulated to the Board. The 
report contains details of any significant 
changes to the shareholders’ register.
It is proposed that the next AGM be held at the 
offices of Investec Bank plc, 2 Gresham Street, 
London EC2V 7QP on Wednesday 23 July 
2015 at 10.30a.m., notice of which will be sent 
to shareholders with the Annual Report.
Business at the Company’s 2015 AGM 
will cover the Annual Report and financial 
statements, the Remuneration Report, a 
proposal for a new Long-Term Incentive Plan 
(‘LTIP’), election and re-election of Directors, 
appointment and remuneration of auditors, 
political donations and political expenditure, 
authority to allot shares, disapplication of 
pre-emption rights, purchase by the Company 
of its own shares, and the notice period for 
general meetings. 
Results of 2014 AGM 
The table below details the voting results of the previous AGM:
Total votes 
for % 
Total votes
against %
1 Company’s Annual Report and Accounts 100.0 0.0
2 Directors’ Remuneration Report 98.9 1.1
3 Directors’ Remuneration Policy 97.7 2.3
4 Final dividend 100.0 0.0
5 Re-elect Sir Duncan Nichol 94.3 5.7
6 Re-elect Dr Richard Steeves 99.9 0.1
7 Re-elect Gavin Hill 99.8 0.2
8 Re-elect Constance Baroudel 99.7 0.3
9 Re-elect Jeff Harris 99.7 0.3
10 Re-elect Dr Adrian Coward 99.8 0.2
1 1 Appointment of auditors 91.9 8.1
12 Auditors’ remuneration 97.5 2.5
13 Allow political donations 99.0 1.0
14 Allot equity securities 99.5 0.5
15 Disapplication of pre-emption rights 100.0 0.0
16 Make market purchases 100.0 0.0
17 14 days’ notice of general meetings 92.5 7.5
36  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Full details and an explanation of these 
resolutions are set out in the Notice of 
Meeting. The proxy votes for and against each 
resolution, as well as abstentions, are counted 
before the AGM and the results will be made 
available at the meeting after shareholders 
have voted on each resolution on a show 
of hands.
All shareholders are invited to the AGM. 
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees attend the 
AGM along with the other Directors and are 
available to answer shareholders’ questions 
on the activities of the committees they chair. 
Shareholders also have an opportunity to 
meet with Directors after the formal business 
of the meeting has been concluded. Details 
of proxy voting by shareholders are made 
available on request and are placed on the 
Company’s website following the meeting.
Conflicts of interest
There are procedures in place to deal with 
Directors’ conflicts of interest arising under 
the Companies Act 2006 and such 
procedures have operated effectively 
during the year.
Internal control
The Directors acknowledge that they have 
overall responsibility for the Group systems 
of internal control and for reviewing the 
effectiveness of those controls. 
The Board has taken into account the relevant 
provisions of the Code, the Turnbull Report and 
the Listing Rules and an ongoing process has 
been established for identifying, managing and 
evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
The systems are designed to manage rather 
than eliminate risk of failure to achieve the 
Group’s objectives. The systems provide 
reasonable, not absolute, assurances against 
material misstatement or loss. Such systems 
are reviewed by the Board to deal with 
changing circumstances.
The Group has a Group finance function that 
reports to the Group Finance Director and is 
independent of the business units to ensure 
objectivity and control when preparing Group 
financial information.
The Group finance function undertakes 
financial reviews of the regional finance 
functions on an ad hoc basis and provides 
technical and commercial support 
when required.
Assessment of business risk
Existing and emerging business risks have 
been identified, assessed and evaluated 
during the year as part of the Group’s 
management processes. The formal risk 
management framework led by the Group 
Risk Management Director ensures that risks 
are effectively and consistently managed and 
reported on. The corporate risk management 
system is covered in the report of principal 
risks and uncertainties on page 22. The 
Board regularly reviews strategic risks.
Control environment
The Group’s operating procedures include 
a comprehensive system for reporting 
financial and non-financial information  
to the Board including:
 + The definition of authorisation limits, both 
financial and otherwise. Detailed appraisal 
documents are produced for any major 
capital projects;
 + A review of annual budgets and forecasts 
against budgets that are produced at least 
twice a year;
 + A review of monthly management 
accounts at Group and operational level, 
including financial performance, together 
with balance sheet and cash flow analysis, 
which are reported against budget, 
forecasts and prior year with major 
variances explained; and
 + A risk management report for each Board 
meeting, focusing on any new risks arising 
and management of existing risks.
On an annual basis the Group finance 
function undertakes a review of financial 
controls as part of its year end process, 
which is considered by the Board. The annual 
review gives a comprehensive update on the 
previous year’s report and outlines actions 
taken to redress any weaknesses in each 
regional business and across Group functions. 
The review also highlights areas where 
improved controls have been implemented 
and key actions to be addressed in the 
coming financial year, which are monitored 
by both the Board and the Audit Committee. 
Control procedures
Detailed operational procedures that embody 
key controls have been developed for each 
of the Group’s businesses. The implications 
of change in law and regulations are taken 
into account in those procedures.
Monitoring process
There are clear procedures for monitoring 
the system of key controls. The significant 
components are:
 + Cyclical and random reviews of operational 
and financial controls by the Group Risk 
Management Director, the Group Quality 
Director, the Group IT Director, senior 
finance managers and the Group Finance 
team; and
 + Review by the Audit Committee of the 
process for identifying and assessing risks 
and of the effectiveness of controls via the 
work of external audit and direct access to 
Group and operational management.
In the year to 29 March 2015, the Company 
has also implemented a new robust Health, 
Safety and Risk Management Assurance 
process. Over 80% of the Group’s sites were 
reviewed during the first year of implementation, 
and significant improvements have already 
been identified. 
The Board confirms that it has considered the 
effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal 
controls described above for the financial year 
and up to the date of this report.
37  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements  Board committees
The Board has delegated authority to a 
number of permanent committees to deal 
with matters in accordance with written 
terms of reference, as well as the SEB.
Senior Executive Board
The SEB is the key management committee 
and comprises the Group Chief Executive 
Officer, Group Finance Director, Group Chief 
Operating Officer, Group Company Secretary 
and Head of Tax & Treasury, Group HR 
Director, and the CEOs of each of the AST 
and HS Businesses.
The SEB meets regularly and is primarily 
responsible for:
 + The management of all the 
Group’s businesses;
 + Delivering the strategy and the agreed 
business plans and budgets which 
have been approved by the Board;
 + Implementing Group policy;
 + Making key commercial decisions within 
the framework of the agreed business plan 
and strategy;
 + Monitoring all risks (operational, financial 
and reputational);
 + Reviewing and maintaining the 
effectiveness of the Group’s system 
of internal control on a day-to-day 
basis; and
 + Managing the business in a manner 
appropriate for a FTSE 250 company.
Principal committees
The principal committees of the Board – 
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination – 
all comply fully with the requirements of 
the Code. All committees are chaired by 
an independent Non-Executive Director, 
except the Nomination Committee, which 
comprises Non-Executive Directors and 
is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, 
whom the Company deems independent. 
Appointments to the committees are made 
on the recommendation of the Nomination 
Committee and are for a period of up to three 
years, which may be extended for two further 
three-year periods, provided the Director 
remains independent. The committees are 
constituted with written terms of reference 
that are reviewed annually to ensure that 
they remain appropriate and reflect any 
changes in good practice and governance. 
These terms of reference are available on 
request from the Group Company Secretary 
and Head of Tax & Treasury and can also be 
found on the Company’s website. Directors 
are fully informed of all Committee matters 
by the committee Chairmen reporting on 
the proceedings of their committee at the 
subsequent Board meeting. Copies of 
committee minutes are also distributed to 
the Board. Committees are authorised to 
obtain outside legal or other independent 
professional advice if they consider 
it necessary. The Chairman of each 
committee attends the AGM to respond 
to any shareholder questions that might 
be raised on the committee’s activities. 
The Group Company Secretary and Head 
of Tax & Treasury acts as Secretary to all 
of the committees.
Sir Duncan Nichol
Chairman 
2 June 2015
Corporate Governance Report continued
38  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Board 
Senior
Executive
Board
Nomination
Committee 
Audit
Committee 
Remuneration
Committee  Audit Committee Report
Audit Committee members
Jeff Harris (Chairman)
Constance Baroudel
Bruce Edwards (appointed September 2014)
Responsibilities
The Audit Committee’s terms of reference 
include all matters indicated by Disclosure 
and Transparency Rule 7 .1 and the Code. 
The terms of reference are considered 
annually by the Audit Committee and are then 
referred to the Board for approval. The full 
terms of reference were updated during 2014 
in line with the revised recommendations of 
the September 2012 Code and can be found 
on the Company’s website or can be obtained 
from the Company Secretary.
The primary responsibilities of the Audit 
Committee are to: 
 + Monitor the integrity of the financial 
statements of the Group and any formal 
announcements relating to the Group’s 
financial performance and review 
significant financial reporting judgements 
contained therein;
 + Have oversight of risk management, 
including the review of the Group’s 
financial, operational and compliance 
internal controls, Bribery Act 2010 
compliance, and whistleblowing and 
fraud prevention procedures;
 + Make recommendations to the Board, for a 
resolution to be put to the shareholders for 
their approval at the general meeting, on the 
appointment of the external auditors and the 
approval of the remuneration and terms of 
engagement of the external auditor;
 + Review and monitor the external auditor’s 
independence and objectivity and the 
effectiveness of the audit process, taking into 
consideration the periodic rotation of audit 
personnel and relevant UK professional and 
regulatory requirements; and 
 + Develop and implement a policy on the 
engagement of the external auditor to supply 
non-audit services, taking into account 
relevant guidance regarding the provision of 
non-audit services by the external audit firm.
Key issues and activities
The Committee reviews the financial reporting 
of the Company and the effectiveness of the 
Group’s internal control process. Combined 
with the Committee’s review of the internal 
and external audit functions, and review of 
specific issues with management as required, 
it is able to obtain sufficient information to 
discharge its responsibilities. 
Significant audit issues
The Committee is mindful of the areas 
of significant risk disclosed in the Auditor’s 
Report on page 63. The Committee has 
carried out its own review of these risks, 
agrees with their classification as ‘key’, and 
is satisfied that they have been effectively 
managed during the period.
Our view of them is set out below:
 + Carrying value of Dutch linen business 
assets, and Chinese sterilisation business 
assets: The Dutch linen business has been 
experiencing tough trading conditions and is 
undergoing an improvement programme 
which is showing some signs of success. If 
this programme is not successful we may 
reconsider the asset carrying value. The 
Chinese sterilisation business is a fledgling 
business. If this business does not develop 
as expected then the asset carrying value 
may be revisited. During the year, the Audit 
Committee reviewed management’s 
approach to carrying out impairment 
reviews, and the adequacy of the financial 
controls in place over this area. In addition, 
the Committee reviewed the conclusions 
drawn from management’s impairment 
reviews, and satisfied themselves that these 
were valid. The Board’s judgement is that 
this year these assets are not in need of 
impairment, as operational activities 
are ongoing which support the asset 
carrying values.
Audit Committee report  
Dear Shareholder, 
On behalf of the Board I am delighted to present the Audit Committee 
report for the year. I was appointed to the role of chairman in June last 
year. I have found the Committee to be well set up to undertake the 
key responsibilities described in the report below and have been 
pleased by the focus on governance and control that I have seen. 
The Committee’s undertaking to ensure appropriate oversight 
over the financial reporting, internal control processes and risk 
management is well supported by the reporting and insight provided 
by management, internal audit and the external auditors. Additional 
information and reporting has been provided on request and there 
has been open dialogue throughout the year.
The Committee discusses a broad range of topics and raises challenges 
and questions to support understanding and ensure that all appropriate 
considerations have been made. The most significant matters discussed 
over the course of the year are described in the report below.
On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank all stakeholders for 
their input to the important work undertaken during the year.
Jeff Harris
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
2 June 2015
39  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   + Non- recurring items in the income 
statement: Consistent with previous 
years, the Group has recorded non-
recurring items in the context of corporate 
acquisitions, and restructuring activities. 
This year non-recurring items include 
significant costs associated with the 
proposed acquisition of the Group by 
STERIS.,Where these costs are contingent 
upon reaching specific milestones, 
consideration has been given to their 
recognition in the current year. During 
the year, the Audit Committee reviewed 
management’s approach to accounting 
for non-recurring items, and the 
adequacy of the relevant financial 
controls. The Board is satisfied with the 
judgements exercised in determining the 
recognition and classification of such 
costs as non-recurring.
 + Acquisition accounting: The Group 
has acquired two businesses during 
the period. The most significant acqisition, 
in terms of both scale and complexity, was 
that of Bioster S.p.A. in May 2014. During 
the year, the Audit Committee reviewed 
management’s approach to accounting 
for acquisitions, and the adequacy of 
the relevant financial controls. The 
Board is satisfied with the judgements 
exercised in determining the acquisition 
accounting adopted.
Governance
The Audit Committee is appointed by the 
Board from the Non-Executive Directors of the 
Group. The Committee comprises members 
with a broad range of business and financial 
experience to effectively fulfil its programme 
of work. The Board considers that Jeff Harris 
is suitably qualified to chair the Committee 
in accordance with the requirements of the 
Code and that each of the members be 
independent in accordance with the definition 
set out in the Code. The expertise and the 
experience of each of the members of the 
Committee are summarised on page 30.
The Committee met regularly during the year. 
The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance 
Director, members of the Group finance 
function and representatives from the external 
auditors attend Committee meetings by 
invitation in order to provide appropriate advice. 
The Group Finance Director works closely with 
the Chairman of the Audit Committee to ensure 
open communication between them. When 
the auditors attend meetings, the Chairman of 
the Committee meets with the audit partner 
beforehand without the involvement of the 
Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee is allowed to obtain, at 
the Company’s expense, outside legal or other 
professional advice on any matter within its 
terms of reference. No external independent
advice has been considered necessary 
or sought in the year to 29 March 2015 
outside of the normal discussions with 
the external auditors. 
During the year the Committee held four 
meetings. The Committee looked at specific 
topics as detailed in the table above.
Auditor independence
KPMG LLP (previously, KPMG Audit PLC) 
were appointed as auditors to the Company 
in 2006, and are re-appointed annually 
by shareholders. An annual review of the 
independence of KPMG LLP is undertaken 
each year, and includes a review of the 
policy of hiring of ex-audit staff. At the 
year-end the auditors formally confirmed 
theirindependence and that their objectivity 
has been maintained. The Committee 
has concluded that the requirement for 
independence continues to be met. 
The auditors are required to rotate the audit 
partner responsible for the Group audit every 
five years. The incumbent audit partner was 
appointed in 2011. The Committee has noted 
the revisions to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code introduced by the Financial Reporting 
Council (FRC) in September 2012, in particular 
the recommendation to put the Group’s external 
audit out to tender at least every 10 years. 
The Committee noted the proposed transitional 
arrangements with respect to audit tendering to 
Financial statements and reports 
(about 45% of the Committee’s time)
 + reviewed the 29 March 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, the 
28 September 2014 half year report and the Interim Management 
Statements issued in July 2014 and January 2015. As part of these 
reviews the Committee received a report from the external auditors 
on their audit of the Annual Report and Accounts; 
 + reviewed both internal and external reports on the effectiveness 
of the Group’s internal controls;
 + reviewed regulatory developments in the fields of IFRS and 
corporate reporting;
 + considered the Group’s acquisition valuation methodology; and
 + considered the Group’s impairment review methodology.
Internal Audit 
(about 10% of the Committee’s time)
 + initiated a cost effectiveness review of the Group’s contracted-out 
Internal Audit function, evaluated its scope of work, and its efficiency;
 + reviewed the IT security and the internal control environment of the 
Group’s new Enterprise Resource Planning ‘ERP’ system; 
 + reviewed and considered management responses to audit reports 
issued during the year; and
 + reviewed the resourcing of Internal Audit.
External auditors and non-audit work 
(about 15% of the Committee’s time)
 + evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external auditors; 
 + reviewed, considered and agreed the scope and methodology of 
the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditors, including 
setting the policy for the ratio of audit to non-audit work; and
agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to the external 
auditors for their audit of the 29 March 2015 financial statements. 
Risk management 
(about 20% of the Committee’s time)
 + considered the output from the Group-wide risk review process to 
identify, evaluate and mitigate risks, the Group’s changing risk profile 
and future risk reports; 
 + reviewed the Group major risk register;
 + monitored the deployment of the ‘Focus on Safety’ campaign, the 
Safeguard application, and the risk management learning 
management system;
 + reviewed the level of management attention and local resource 
focused on risk management across the Group; and,
 + reviewed the Group’s whistleblowing policy, which allows the Audit 
Committee to receive complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal 
controls, auditing issues and related matters, in confidence.
Other areas of interest 
(about 10% of the Committee’s time)
 + considered the Audit Committee’s terms of reference, which were 
then approved by the Board;
 + held private meetings with the external auditor;
 + reviewed and updated the Company’s ethics and 
whistleblowing policies;
 + monitored progress on the roll-out of the Group’s new ERP system;
 + evaluated post-investment appraisals of recent acquisitions; and 
 + contributed to the management’s review of the Group’s cyber-
security risks and controls, and completed and submitted the UK 
Government’s cyber-security review.
Audit Committee Report continued
40  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 fit the five-yearly cycle of partner rotation. The 
Audit Committee agreed that a full tender was 
not required for the 2015 audit. Consequently 
the Committee will consider its external 
tendering arrangements in anticipation of the 
next audit partner rotation, which is expected 
to take place in 2016. 
The Committee reviewed its policy on the 
supply of non-audit services by the external 
auditors to ensure their continued objectivity 
and independence and set a ratio of 70:30% 
for audit and non-audit work. The Committee 
set a monetary limit for the Group to operate 
within, and later approved the exceeding of 
this limit and the 70:30% ratio for a specific 
transaction. The Committee is satisfied that 
the provision by KPMG LLP of non-audit 
services does not impair their independence 
or objectivity. The Committee has approved 
the range of services that may be provided 
by KPMG LLP . These include transaction 
due diligence and accountancy assistance 
for specific projects. Subject to approved 
authorisation limits, the services require 
prior authority from either the Group Finance 
Director, the Chairman of the Audit Committee 
or the full Audit Committee.
Auditor evaluation
During the year, the Committee reviewed 
KPMG LLP’s fees, effectiveness and whether 
the agreed audit plan had been fulfilled and 
the reasons for any variation from the plan. 
The Committee also considered the audit 
plan’s robustness, proposed audit materiality, 
the degree to which KPMG LLP was able to 
assess key accounting and audit judgements, 
the recommendations of the external auditors 
in connection with internal controls, and the 
content of the management letter. 
Details of the current criteria for judging the 
effectiveness of the external auditors are set 
out below:
 + Deliver a smooth-running, thorough and 
efficiently executed audit; 
 + Provide accurate, up-to-date knowledge 
of technical issues on a timely basis; and
 + Deliver a focused and consistent audit 
approach globally that reflects local risks 
and materiality.
The Committee will continue to focus on the 
effectiveness, objectivity and independence 
of the Auditor in its reviews. 
Auditor fees 
Before agreeing the audit fee proposed by 
the external auditors, which is reviewed by 
management, the Committee considered cost 
comparisons to ensure that it was fair and 
appropriate. The audit fees payable to KPMG 
LLP during 2015 were £477 ,000 (2014: 
£466,000) and non-audit service fees were 
£453,000 (2014: £992,000). The principal 
non-audit service was for transaction-related 
advisory fees. A summary of fees paid to the 
external auditors is set out in note 4 to the 
Accounts on page 78. In accordance with 
International Standards on Auditing (UK & 
Ireland) 260 and Ethical Standard 1 issued 
by the Accounting Practices Board, and 
as a matter of best practice, the external 
auditors have confirmed their independence 
as auditors of the Company, in a letter 
addressed to the Directors.
Accordingly, the Committee unanimously 
recommended to the Board that a resolution 
for the reappointment of KPMG LLP as the 
Company’s independent auditors be proposed 
to shareholders at the AGM in July 2015 and 
the Board has accepted and endorsed 
this recommendation.
Jeff Harris
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
2 June 2015
41  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements  Nomination Committee Report
Nomination Committee 
Dear Shareholder, 
On behalf of the Board I am delighted to present the Nomination 
Committee report for the year. 
The Committee discusses a broad range of topics to ensure 
that all appropriate considerations have been made. The most 
significant matters discussed over the course of the year are 
described in the report below.
On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank all stakeholders 
for their input to the important work undertaken during the year.
Sir Duncan Nichol
Chairman of the Nomination Committee 
2 June 2015
Nomination Committee members
Sir Duncan Nichol (Chairman)
Jeff Harris 
Constance Baroudel
Bruce Edwards (appointed September 2014)
Committee activity
Bruce Edwards was appointed to the 
Committee on 1 September 2014. Only 
members of the Committee are entitled to be 
present at meetings but others may be invited 
by the Committee to attend if appropriate.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for 
considering all potential appointments to the 
Board and for making suitable proposals to 
the Board in relation to potential appointments. 
It meets as and when Board appointments 
or other senior positions within the Group 
are made.
The Board has agreed formal, rigorous and 
transparent procedures to be followed by the 
Committee in making its recommendations  
and appointments to the Board. The 
Committee has access to such information 
and advice both within the Group and 
externally, at the cost of the Company, as it 
considers necessary. This may include the 
appointment of external executive search 
consultants where considered appropriate. 
The Committee met formally once during 
the year and agreed to recruit a new Non-
Executive Director who could also chair the 
Audit Committee. The Company engaged 
a firm of external search consultants to 
handle the search and recruitment process. 
The Committee had a number of ad-hoc 
discussions with the search firm to progress 
the recruitment.
The process was delayed due to the proposed 
Combination with STERIS. If the transaction 
does not complete for some reason, the 
Nomination Committee will be fully involved 
with both the recruitment and assessment of 
potential candidates. A shortlist of candidates 
will be put through a rigorous assessment 
process and final candidates will be interviewed 
by the whole Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee reviews the senior 
leadership needs of the Group to enable it to 
compete effectively in the market place. The 
Nomination Committee also advises the 
Board on succession planning for executive 
Board appointments although the Board is 
itself responsible for succession generally.
The Board’s diversity and equal opportunities 
policies are set out in the Employee engagement 
and Women on Boards sections of the 
Corporate Governance report on pages 35 
and 36 respectively.
42  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Committee Report
As highlighted in my letter last year, the 
Group’s current Long Term Incentive Plan 
(‘LTIP’) will expire in June 2015. Whilst the 
Committee had intended to review the LTIP 
and overall Executive Directors’ remuneration 
package during the year to 29 March 2015, 
the review was deferred due to the proposed 
combination with STERIS. 
Given the delay in completing the transaction 
with STERIS, the Committee intends to table a 
proposal at the AGM for a new LTIP scheme. 
This will ensure that the Committee is able to 
make LTIP awards to continue to incentivise 
and retain key employees (including the 
Executive Directors).
This report is, as last year, presented in 
two sections: the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy Report and the Annual Report on 
Remuneration. The Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy Report sets out the forward-looking 
remuneration policy as agreed by shareholders 
at the AGM held on 23 July 2014. 
The Annual Report on Remuneration provides 
details of the amounts earned in respect of 
the year ended 29 March 2015 and how 
the Directors’ Remuneration Policy will be 
operated for the year commenced 30 March 
2015, and will be subject to an advisory vote 
at the AGM.
The Committee believes that a significant 
proportion of senior executives’ remuneration 
should be in the form of performance-related 
incentives so that overall reward is closely 
Remuneration Committee 
Dear Shareholder, 
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our Remuneration 
report for 2015, which sets out the remuneration policy for 
the Executive Directors of the Group and the amounts earned 
in respect of the year ended 29 March 2015.
The Remuneration Committee was pleased that shareholders 
approved our Directors’ remuneration at the AGM which took place 
on 23 July 2014. 
 
Constance Baroudel
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
2 June 2015
aligned to the creation of long-term shareholder 
value. This year’s remuneration again reflects 
the delivery of strong performance in 
challenging economic circumstances. 
Incentive out-turns 
The Group’s performance during the year 
is reported in detail throughout the Annual 
Report and, in the view of the Committee, 
justifies the payments to Executive Directors 
under the annual bonus plan as set out on 
page 55.
Executive Directors are encouraged to invest 
an amount up to the value of their annual 
bonus in shares in the Group in return for an 
opportunity to earn a matching share award 
under the Co-invest element of the LTIP . The 
matching share award granted in 2012 will vest 
on a one-to-one basis in July 2015 (based on 
achievement of compound annual growth in 
adjusted EPS of 11.35% over the three-year 
performance period to 29 March 2015).
The long term incentive options granted in 
2011 vested at 43.2% in June 2014 (based 
on achievement of compound annual growth 
in adjusted EPS of 12.1% to 30 March 2014 
and second quartile Total Shareholder Return 
(‘TSR’) performance over the three-year 
period to 27 June 2014). Long term incentive 
options granted in 2012 are expected to 
vest at 65.9% in July 2015 (based on 
achievement of compound annual growth in 
adjusted EPS of 11.35% to 29 March 2015 
and an expected top quartile TSR 
performance to 2 July 2015).
2015 decisions
For the financial year that commenced 
30 March 2015 the base salaries for the 
Executive Directors have been increased 
to £489,600 for Dr Richard Steeves 
and £295,800 for Gavin Hill and 
Dr Adrian Coward. 
We have continued to monitor our executive 
remuneration policy to take account of evolving 
market practice whilst also seeking to ensure 
that a fair and stable framework is maintained 
and avoiding making unnecessary and 
frequent changes to the structure of pay. 
Accordingly, the existing remuneration policy 
and fundamental structure of the package 
remains largely unchanged and the overall 
quantum of the incentives has not changed. 
We believe this ensures a continued alignment 
to business strategy and encourages the 
creation of shareholder value.
Governance
We remain committed to a responsible 
approach in respect of executive pay. The 
Committee will continue to engage actively 
with and seek to incorporate the views of its 
shareholders in any major changes to the 
Executive Directors’ remuneration policy.
Constance Baroudel
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
2 June 2015
 
43  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements  Policy report
This part of the report sets out the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, 
which was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 23 July 2014 
and has , subject to shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM, shall 
take binding effect from the date of that meeting. The Policy has been 
determined by the Committee. Information on how the Committee 
intends to implement the policy for the current financial year is set 
out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 52 to 59.
Key elements of pay
An overview of the main elements of the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration is set out below:
Remuneration Committee Report continued
Remuneration Committee members
Constance Baroudel (Chairman)
Sir Duncan Nichol
Jeff Harris 
Bruce Edwards (appointed September 2014)
Introduction
The Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with 
the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) Regulations 2013 and meets the relevant requirements 
of the FCA Listing Rules.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Base salary Core element of fixed remuneration reflecting the individual’s 
role and experience.
Salary levels are set to both support retention and reward 
performance at a competitive level.
Base salaries are normally reviewed once a year.
Salaries are determined by the Committee with reference to a number  
of factors including, but not limited to:
 + The size and scope of the role;
 + The experience and performance of the individual;
 + Performance of the Group; 
 + Average change in broader workforce salary; and
 + Group profitability and prevailing market conditions.
No maximum salary opportunity has been set out in this Policy to avoid 
setting expectations for Executive Directors and employees. The base 
salaries effective as at 29 March 2015 are shown on page 54.
Salary increases are reviewed in the context of the wider workforce increases 
and the Committee considers any increase out of line with this carefully.  
Higher increases may be awarded in circumstances such as:
 + Increase in scope and responsibility;
 + Promotional increase to Executive Director; and 
 + A salary falling below market positioning.
None, although performance of the individual is one of the considerations  
in setting salary levels.
Benefits Fixed element of remuneration providing market 
competitive benefits.
Executive Directors receive benefits in line with market practice and principally 
include private healthcare, life assurance and a car allowance.
Other benefits may be provided based on individual circumstances, such as 
relocation allowances.
Benefits do not form part of pensionable earnings.
Whilst the Committee has not set an absolute maximum on the levels of  
benefit Executive Directors receive, the value of benefits is set at a level which 
the Committee considers appropriate and provides a sufficient level of benefit 
based on individual circumstances. 
Not applicable.
All-employee 
UK share 
schemes
To encourage all employees to make a long-term investment  
in the Company’s shares in a tax efficient way.
Executive Directors are entitled to participate in a tax qualifying all-employee 
Savings Related Share Option Scheme (‘Sharesave’) under which they make 
monthly savings over a period of three or five years linked to the grant of an option 
over the Company’s shares with an option price which can be at a discount of up 
to 20% of the market value of shares on grant.
Participation limits are those set by the UK tax authorities from time to time. No performance conditions are attached to awards in line with HMRC practice.
Retirement 
benefits
Help recruit and retain employees.
Ensure adequate income in retirement.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the defined contribution pension 
plan or can opt to take a cash supplement.
Contribution rates are up to 15% of base salary. Not applicable.
Annual bonus 
scheme
Incentivise performance on an annual basis against the 
achievement of key financial business targets and delivery  
of personal objectives relevant to the Group’s strategy.
Bonuses are awarded annually. Bonus level is determined by the Committee after 
the year end based on performance against targets.
The Committee has the discretion to amend the bonus pay-out should any 
formulaic outputs not produce a fair result for either the Executive Director  
or the Company, taking into account overall business performance.
Executive Directors have the opportunity to invest an amount up to the value 
of their annual bonus in shares in the Company in return for an opportunity  
to earn a matching share award under the Co-invest element of the LTIP 
as described below.
Maximum bonus opportunity is 100% of base salary. Stretching targets are set each year reflecting business priorities, which underpin 
the Group’s strategy and align with financial key performance indicators.
Targets, whilst stretching, do not encourage inappropriate business risks  
to be taken.
At least 60% of total bonus opportunity is based on financial performance  
(set by the Committee) and the remainder is based on non-financial strategic 
measures and/or individual performance (reviewed and approved by the 
Committee at the start of the financial year and clearly aligned to the strategic 
objectives of the Group).
Vesting will apply on a scale between 0% and 100% based on the Committee’s 
assessment of the extent to which a performance metric has been met.
44  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Base salary Core element of fixed remuneration reflecting the individual’s 
role and experience.
Salary levels are set to both support retention and reward 
performance at a competitive level.
Base salaries are normally reviewed once a year.
Salaries are determined by the Committee with reference to a number  
of factors including, but not limited to:
 + The size and scope of the role;
 + The experience and performance of the individual;
 + Performance of the Group; 
 + Average change in broader workforce salary; and
 + Group profitability and prevailing market conditions.
No maximum salary opportunity has been set out in this Policy to avoid 
setting expectations for Executive Directors and employees. The base 
salaries effective as at 29 March 2015 are shown on page 54.
Salary increases are reviewed in the context of the wider workforce increases 
and the Committee considers any increase out of line with this carefully.  
Higher increases may be awarded in circumstances such as:
 + Increase in scope and responsibility;
 + Promotional increase to Executive Director; and 
 + A salary falling below market positioning.
None, although performance of the individual is one of the considerations  
in setting salary levels.
Benefits Fixed element of remuneration providing market 
competitive benefits.
Executive Directors receive benefits in line with market practice and principally 
include private healthcare, life assurance and a car allowance.
Other benefits may be provided based on individual circumstances, such as 
relocation allowances.
Benefits do not form part of pensionable earnings.
Whilst the Committee has not set an absolute maximum on the levels of  
benefit Executive Directors receive, the value of benefits is set at a level which 
the Committee considers appropriate and provides a sufficient level of benefit 
based on individual circumstances. 
Not applicable.
All-employee 
UK share 
schemes
To encourage all employees to make a long-term investment  
in the Company’s shares in a tax efficient way.
Executive Directors are entitled to participate in a tax qualifying all-employee 
Savings Related Share Option Scheme (‘Sharesave’) under which they make 
monthly savings over a period of three or five years linked to the grant of an option 
over the Company’s shares with an option price which can be at a discount of up 
to 20% of the market value of shares on grant.
Participation limits are those set by the UK tax authorities from time to time. No performance conditions are attached to awards in line with HMRC practice.
Retirement 
benefits
Help recruit and retain employees.
Ensure adequate income in retirement.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the defined contribution pension 
plan or can opt to take a cash supplement.
Contribution rates are up to 15% of base salary. Not applicable.
Annual bonus 
scheme
Incentivise performance on an annual basis against the 
achievement of key financial business targets and delivery  
of personal objectives relevant to the Group’s strategy.
Bonuses are awarded annually. Bonus level is determined by the Committee after 
the year end based on performance against targets.
The Committee has the discretion to amend the bonus pay-out should any 
formulaic outputs not produce a fair result for either the Executive Director  
or the Company, taking into account overall business performance.
Executive Directors have the opportunity to invest an amount up to the value 
of their annual bonus in shares in the Company in return for an opportunity  
to earn a matching share award under the Co-invest element of the LTIP 
as described below.
Maximum bonus opportunity is 100% of base salary. Stretching targets are set each year reflecting business priorities, which underpin 
the Group’s strategy and align with financial key performance indicators.
Targets, whilst stretching, do not encourage inappropriate business risks  
to be taken.
At least 60% of total bonus opportunity is based on financial performance  
(set by the Committee) and the remainder is based on non-financial strategic 
measures and/or individual performance (reviewed and approved by the 
Committee at the start of the financial year and clearly aligned to the strategic 
objectives of the Group).
Vesting will apply on a scale between 0% and 100% based on the Committee’s 
assessment of the extent to which a performance metric has been met.
45  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements  Remuneration Committee Report continued
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures
LTIP Incentivise executive performance over the longer term.
Supports retention and promotes share ownership.
Supports creation of shareholder value.
Awards under the LTIP comprise two elements:
 + LTIP Option: annual awards of nominal cost options with vesting 
dependent on the achievement of performance over a three-year period.
 + LTIP Co-invest: Executive Directors are encouraged to invest their annual 
bonus in shares in the Company in return for an opportunity to earn  
a matching share award granted in the form of a nominal cost option.  
The vesting of the matching shares is dependent on the achievement  
of performance over a three-year measurement period and the retention  
of the investment shares throughout this measurement period.
The Committee will regularly review the performance conditions and targets for 
awards to ensure that they are aligned with the Group’s business strategy and 
remain challenging. Any LTIP Options and LTIP Co-invest awards granted since 
2014 have been and will be subject to a malus provision such that, at the 
discretion of the Committee, unvested awards may be reduced or cancelled in 
certain circumstances such as misstatement of results, material failure of risk 
management by a Group company, or information coming to light which, 
had it been known at the relevant time, would have affected a vesting decision 
or caused reputational damage to the Company.
The maximum opportunities for the LTIP Option and LTIP Co-invest are set out 
separately below.
In addition to the performance conditions detailed below, the vesting of any  
LTIP award is also subject to an additional test based on the Committee’s 
assessment of and satisfaction that vesting is justified by the underlying  
financial performance of the Group over the measurement period.
LTIP Option awards are typically up to 150% of base salary. 50% of the LTIP Option is based on the achievement of stretching annual  
growth in EPS targets. 25% of this element vests for threshold performance, 
50% for target performance and 100% for maximum performance.  
Vesting is on a straight-line basis between these points. 
50% of the LTIP Option is based on relative TSR of the Company. 25% of  
this element vests for minimum performance and 100% for maximum with 
straight-line vesting between these points.
Under the LTIP Co-invest element, an amount up to 100% of the bonus  
earned may be invested in shares in the Company and matched, up to  
a two-for-one basis.
Vesting of the LTIP Co-invest is based on the achievement of stretching 
annual growth in EPS. For maximum EPS growth or above, two shares vest  
for every share invested. For EPS growth between minimum and maximum 
performance, one share vests for every share invested.
Explanation of chosen performance measures and how targets are set
Performance measures have been selected that reflect the key performance indicators for the Company and are aligned to the Company’s 
strategy. Stretching performance targets are set each year for the annual incentive and long term incentive awards. In setting these stretching 
performance targets the Committee will take into account a number of different reference points which may include the Company’s business 
plans and strategy. 
The annual bonus is assessed against both financial and individual strategic targets as determined by the Committee. This incentivises 
Executive Directors to focus on delivering the key financial goals of the Group as well as specific strategic objectives for each Director which 
are aligned to the delivery of the overall business strategy.
Long term incentive performance conditions are chosen by the Committee to provide a robust and transparent basis on which to measure the 
Group’s performance over a longer term timeframe. The Committee considers that EPS is closely aligned to the Company’s key performance 
metrics and, in conjunction with the annual bonus performance metrics, provides a balanced measurement of performance that encourages 
sustainable growth. TSR aligns management’s objectives to those of shareholders and rewards for the delivery of year-on-year growth and 
delivery of value to shareholders. For the relative TSR performance condition there will be no vesting for performance below median compared 
with the comparator group. In addition, no part of the long term incentive will vest unless the Committee is satisfied that vesting is justified by 
the underlying financial performance of the Group over the measurement period.
The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to adjust the performance targets and measures where it considers it appropriate to do so –  
for example, to reflect changes in the structure of the business and to assess performance on a fair and consistent basis from year to year. 
Awards may be adjusted in the event of a variation of capital in accordance with the scheme rules.
46  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures
LTIP Incentivise executive performance over the longer term.
Supports retention and promotes share ownership.
Supports creation of shareholder value.
Awards under the LTIP comprise two elements:
 + LTIP Option: annual awards of nominal cost options with vesting 
dependent on the achievement of performance over a three-year period.
 + LTIP Co-invest: Executive Directors are encouraged to invest their annual 
bonus in shares in the Company in return for an opportunity to earn  
a matching share award granted in the form of a nominal cost option.  
The vesting of the matching shares is dependent on the achievement  
of performance over a three-year measurement period and the retention  
of the investment shares throughout this measurement period.
The Committee will regularly review the performance conditions and targets for 
awards to ensure that they are aligned with the Group’s business strategy and 
remain challenging. Any LTIP Options and LTIP Co-invest awards granted since 
2014 have been and will be subject to a malus provision such that, at the 
discretion of the Committee, unvested awards may be reduced or cancelled in 
certain circumstances such as misstatement of results, material failure of risk 
management by a Group company, or information coming to light which, 
had it been known at the relevant time, would have affected a vesting decision 
or caused reputational damage to the Company.
The maximum opportunities for the LTIP Option and LTIP Co-invest are set out 
separately below.
In addition to the performance conditions detailed below, the vesting of any  
LTIP award is also subject to an additional test based on the Committee’s 
assessment of and satisfaction that vesting is justified by the underlying  
financial performance of the Group over the measurement period.
LTIP Option awards are typically up to 150% of base salary. 50% of the LTIP Option is based on the achievement of stretching annual  
growth in EPS targets. 25% of this element vests for threshold performance, 
50% for target performance and 100% for maximum performance.  
Vesting is on a straight-line basis between these points. 
50% of the LTIP Option is based on relative TSR of the Company. 25% of  
this element vests for minimum performance and 100% for maximum with 
straight-line vesting between these points.
Under the LTIP Co-invest element, an amount up to 100% of the bonus  
earned may be invested in shares in the Company and matched, up to  
a two-for-one basis.
Vesting of the LTIP Co-invest is based on the achievement of stretching 
annual growth in EPS. For maximum EPS growth or above, two shares vest  
for every share invested. For EPS growth between minimum and maximum 
performance, one share vests for every share invested.
Non-Executive Directors
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity
Non-Executive Director fees Sole element of Non-Executive Director 
remuneration set at a level sufficient  
to attract individuals with sufficient 
knowledge and experience. 
Fees are reviewed periodically.
The Committee determines the fees  
of the Chairman of the Board and  
the remuneration of each of the  
other Non-Executive Directors is 
established by the whole Board.
Fees may be paid solely or partly  
in shares. 
The Non-Executive Directors do 
not participate in any of share 
incentive plans nor do they 
receive any pension contributions.
Non-Executive Directors may be  
eligible to benefits such as the use  
of secretarial support, travel costs  
or other benefits as appropriate.
Based on the level of fees paid to 
Non-Executive Directors serving on 
boards of similarly-sized UK listed 
companies, and the time commitment 
and contribution expected for the role.
Fees are subject to an overall cap as  
set out in the Articles of Association 
(currently £375,000).
Actual fee levels are disclosed in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration on 
page 54.
47  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements  Remuneration Committee Report continued
Remuneration policy for new hires
When hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically seek to use the policy detailed in the Policy table above to determine the 
Executive Director’s ongoing remuneration package.
However, subject to the principles and limits set out below, to facilitate the hiring of candidates of the appropriate calibre required to implement 
the Group’s strategy, the Committee retains the discretion to make remuneration decisions which are outside the Policy. In determining 
appropriate remuneration, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors (including quantum, the nature of remuneration and 
the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from) to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both the Group and its shareholders. 
This may, for example, include (but is not limited to) the following circumstances:
 + An interim appointment being made to fill an Executive Director role on a short-term basis;
 + Exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or a Non-Executive Director takes on an executive function on a short-term basis;
 + An Executive Director is recruited at a time in the year when it would be inappropriate to provide a bonus or long term incentive award for 
that year as there would not be sufficient time to assess performance. The quantum in respect of the months employed during the year 
may be transferred to the subsequent year so that reward is provided on a fair and appropriate basis; or
 + The Executive Director received benefits at his previous employer which the Remuneration Committee considers it appropriate to offer.
Appropriate costs and support will be covered if the recruitment requires the relocation of the individual. 
The Committee will ensure that awards within the maximum variable remuneration limit set out below are linked to the achievement of 
appropriate and challenging performance measures. The Committee does not intend to use this discretion to make a non-performance-related 
incentive payment (for example a ‘golden hello’). The Committee may also alter the performance measures, performance period and vesting 
period of the annual bonus or long term incentive, subject to the rules of the scheme, if the Remuneration Committee determines that the 
circumstances of the recruitment merit such alteration. The rationale for any such variation will be clearly explained.
The Committee may make an award or payment to ‘buy-out’ incentive remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer. 
In doing so the Committee will take account of relevant factors regarding the forfeited arrangements which may include the form of any forfeited 
awards (e.g. cash or shares), any performance conditions attached to these awards (and the likelihood of meeting those conditions) and the 
time over which they would have vested. It will generally seek to structure buy-out awards and payments on a comparable basis to 
remuneration arrangements forfeited. The Committee would seek to incorporate buy-out awards to be in line with the Company’s remuneration 
framework as far as is practical. These awards or payments are excluded from the maximum level of variable pay referred to below; however, 
the Committee’s intention is that the value awarded or paid would be no higher than the expected value of the forfeited arrangements. 
All recruitment awards, buy-out awards and payments will normally be liable to forfeiture or ‘clawback’ on early departure (i.e. within one year).
The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to new Executive Directors, excluding buy-out arrangements, would normally be in 
line with the maximum level of variable pay that may be awarded under the annual bonus plan and LTIP , but in any event the Committee would 
not make an award of annual variable pay above 450% of salary. The Committee will ensure that such awards will be forfeited if performance 
or continued employment conditions are not met.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under the Company’s existing share plans. If necessary, and 
subject to the limits referred to above, in order to facilitate the awards mentioned above, the Committee may rely on exemption 9.4.2. of the 
Listing Rules which allows for the grant of awards to facilitate, in exceptional circumstances, the recruitment of a Director.
Where a position is filled internally, any ongoing remuneration obligations or outstanding variable pay elements shall be allowed to continue 
according to the original terms.
Fees payable to a newly-appointed Chairman or Non-Executive Director will be in line with the fee policy in place at the time of appointment.
Pay policy for other employees
The remuneration policy applied to the most senior executives in the Group is similar to the policy for the Executive Directors in that a significant 
element of remuneration is dependent on Group and individual performance. The key principles of the remuneration philosophy are applied 
consistently across the Group below this level, taking account of seniority and local market practice. In addition, an all-employee share scheme 
is offered to UK employees encouraging share ownership throughout the Group. 
48  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 0
500
100%
£577k
Minimum In line with 
expectations
Maximum
nLong term 
   incentive
nAnnual 
   bonus
nFixed 
   remuneration
46%
20%
34%
21%
18%
61%
£2,780k
£1,250k
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,500
3,000
Dr Richard Steeves
0
500
100%
£337k
Minimum In line with 
expectations
Maximum
nLong term 
   incentive
nAnnual 
   bonus
nFixed 
   remuneration
48%
21%
31%
22%
20%
58%
£1,521k
£707k
1,000
1,500
2,000
Gavin Hill and Dr Adrian Coward
Three scenarios have been illustrated for each Executive Director:
Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP
Minimum performance No bonus No LTIP vesting
Performance in line  
with expectations
Fixed elements of remuneration  
– base salary, benefits and  
pension only.
Base salary is the latest known  
salary (i.e. the salary effective from  
30 March 2015) and the value for 
benefits has been calculated as per the 
single figure table on page 53.
Pension is up to 15% of the latest  
known salary.
For illustrative purposes, assumed  
50% of salary awarded.
25% of maximum LTIP Option  
award vesting (i.e. 37 .5% of salary  
for achieving target performance  
based on a maximum potential  
of 150% of salary). 
1:1 match for the LTIP Co-invest  
based on investment of the entire  
bonus earned for performance in  
line with expectations (i.e. 50%  
of salary).
Maximum performance For illustrative purposes, assumed  
100% of salary awarded. 
100% of maximum award vesting  
(i.e. 150% of salary for achieving 
maximum performance). 
2:1 match for the LTIP Co-invest, based 
on investment of the maximum bonus 
potential (i.e. 200% of salary).
Service contracts 
The contract details for the current Executive Directors are as follows:
Effective date Expiry Notice period by Group Notice period by Executive Director
Dr Richard Steeves 02.06.2014 One year rolling 12 months 12 months
Gavin Hill 09.06.2014 One year rolling 12 months 12 months
Dr Adrian Coward 31.03.2014 One year rolling 12 months 12 months
The Committee believes that this arrangement provides a measure of stability in that it provides an opportunity for the recruitment of 
replacement executives and an orderly handover of duties.
49  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements  Remuneration Committee Report continued
The policy below is applied in the event of termination of an Executive Director’s service contract:
Policy
General principles The service contracts of all the Executive Directors contain a provision, exercisable at the option of the Group, to pay an 
amount on early termination of employment. The Committee’s policy is that payments to Executive Directors on termination 
should reflect the circumstances that prevail at that time, also taking account of, if applicable and appropriate, the Director’s 
duty to mitigate.
Other than the maximum limits set out below, no predetermined compensation is payable. 
Payment in lieu of notice Payments in lieu of notice are equivalent to one year’s base salary and pension contributions. Consideration will also be 
given to the inclusion of benefits. 
The Group will use the payment in lieu of notice provisions when the speed, certainty and protection of restrictive covenants 
afforded by such clauses are thought to be in the best interests of the Group and the circumstances surrounding the 
departure of the relevant Director justify their use.
Annual bonus The Committee has the discretion to determine appropriate bonus amounts taking into consideration the circumstances  
in which the Executive Director leaves. Typically ‘good leavers ’ bonus amounts will be determined by reference to the 
applicable performance targets, pro-rated for time in service to termination and paid at the usual time. The Committee may 
decide to pay a good leaver’s bonus earlier than the usual time in appropriate circumstances. Typically for ‘good leavers ’, 
bonus amounts (as estimated by the Committee) will be pro-rated for time in service to termination and will be, subject to 
performance, paid at the usual time. 
‘Good leavers ’ typically include leavers due to death, illness, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement with the consent 
of the Company or any other reason as determined by the Remuneration Committee. 
LTIP The extent to which any award under the LTIP will vest would be determined based on the leaver provisions contained 
within the LTIP rules. 
If the participant leaves before the end of the measurement period applying to an award’s performance condition other  
than as a result of his death, that award will lapse 30 days after cessation unless the Committee determines otherwise.  
If the Committee determines otherwise, the award shall be exercisable in such period as the Committee determines and to 
the extent the Committee shall determine, taking into account such factors as it considers relevant, including the increase  
in the value of a share over the measurement period, the underlying financial performance of the Company and the length  
of time for which the participant was an employee. If the participant leaves due to death, the Committee shall determine  
the extent to which the award may be exercised. If the participant ceases employment for any reason after the end of the 
measurement period relating to an award, the participant may exercise that award to the extent vested in the period of  
six months after the date of cessation.
Change of control Awards under the LTIP will vest to the extent determined by the Committee in the event of a change of control of the Company. 
The Committee will determine the level of vesting taking account of performance conditions and, unless the Committee 
determines otherwise, pro-rating for time, where applicable. Alternatively, participants may be allowed or required to exchange 
their awards for awards over shares in the acquiring company. Awards under the Sharesave scheme will vest on a change 
of control.
Mitigation The Executive Directors’ service contracts do not provide for any reduction in payments for mitigation or for early payment. 
Other payments In appropriate circumstances, payments may also be made in respect of accrued holiday, outplacement and legal fees. 
Awards under the Sharesave scheme will vest if a participant ceases employment due to death, injury, disability, redundancy, 
retirement or the transfer of his employer out of the Group. 
Where a buy-out award is made under the listing rules then the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of the award.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing 
legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation) or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in 
connection with the termination of a Director’s office or employment. In doing so, the Committee will recognise and balance the interests 
of shareholders and the departing Executive Director, as well as the interests of the remaining Directors. 
Where the Committee retains discretion it will be used to provide flexibility in certain situations, taking into account the particular circumstances  
of the Executive Director’s departure and performance.
50  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Non-Executive Directors – terms of appointment
All Non-Executive Directors are engaged on letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities and confirm their remuneration.  
The appointment details for the current Non-Executive Directors are as follows:
Date of current letter  
of appointment Expiry of current term Notice period by Group
Notice period by  
Non-Executive Director
Sir Duncan Nichol 23.07.2012 30.09.2015 3 months 3 months
Jeff Harris 01.09.2013 31.08.2016 3 months 3 months
Constance Baroudel 01.09.2010 31.08.2016 3 months 3 months
Bruce Edwards 01.09.2014 31.08.2017 3 months 3 months
The Group may terminate each of these appointments at any time without the payment of compensation other than the notice payment.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company 
Salary, benefits and performance-related reward provided to employees is taken into account when setting Policy for Executive Directors’ 
remuneration (although employees are not formally consulted in relation to the setting of the Policy). This includes consideration of:
 + Salary increases for the general employee population;
 + Company-wide benefit (including pension) offerings;
 + Overall spend and participation levels in the annual bonus and LTIP; and
 + The Remuneration Committee taking into account relevant ad hoc information.
Existing contractual arrangements
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line 
with the Policy set out below where the terms of the payment were agreed: 
(i)  Before the Policy came into effect (including the vesting and exercise of long term incentive awards in line with the LTIP rules under which 
these awards were made); or 
(ii)  At a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Group and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in 
consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company. 
For these purposes ‘payments’ include the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, 
the terms of the payment are ‘agreed’ at the time the award is granted.
The Committee may make minor changes to this Policy, which do not have a material advantage to Directors, to aid in its operation or 
implementation without seeking shareholder approval but taking into account the interests of shareholders.
Statement of consideration of shareholders’ views
The Group is committed to ongoing dialogue and seeks shareholders’ views ahead of making significant changes to its remuneration policies.
51  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements  Annual Report on Remuneration
Governance
When appropriate, the Committee invites the views of the Executive Directors and the Group Company Secretary. 
The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee can be found on the Company’s website at www.synergyhealthplc.com.
For the year ended 29 March 2015 the activities of the Committee included:
 + Setting Executive Directors’ bonus objectives for 2015;
 + Review of Executive Directors’ salaries and salary increases for 2015;
 + Review of overall Group pay proposals for 2015;
 + Review and sign-off of the vesting calculation for the 2011 LTIP grant;
 + Review and agreement of LTIP scheme rule amendments;
 + Assessment and agreement of 2014 bonus payments for Executive Directors and senior executives;
 + Agreement of participants to be eligible for the 2014 LTIP grant; and
 + Review of remuneration implications of the proposed combination with STERIS.
All members of the Committee are Non-Executive Directors of the Company, are regarded as independent and do not participate in any form  
of performance-related-pay or pension arrangements. 
No Director or executive plays a part in any discussion about his own remuneration. 
Advisors: Deloitte LLP
Deloitte LLP is retained to provide independent advice to the Committee as required. Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants 
Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. Deloitte LLP 
was appointed by the Company Secretary on behalf of the Committee. Deloitte’s fees for providing remuneration advice to the Committee 
amounted to £21,850 for the year ended 29 March 2015 and have been charged on a time and materials basis. The Committee assesses from 
time to time whether this appointment remains appropriate or should be put out to tender and took into account the Remuneration Consultants 
Group Code of Conduct when reviewing the ongoing appointment of Deloitte. The Committee is satisfied that Deloitte’s appointment continues 
to be independent and appropriate. Deloitte was appointed by the Committee and has provided share scheme advice to management 
and corporation tax advice to the Company. 
Summary of remuneration policy
The main objectives of the Group’s remuneration policy are:
Key principles Remuneration policy
Paying competitively In setting executive salaries, the Committee takes into account a number of factors, including market conditions, salaries  
in comparable companies in similar industries and affordability, in order to attract and retain competent executives. 
The Committee also considers general pay and employment conditions of all employees within the Group and is sensitive 
to them, to prevailing market conditions and to governance trends when assessing the level of salaries and the remuneration 
packages of Executive Directors.
Pay for performance A substantial proportion of Executive Director remuneration is variable, linked to the Group’s performance, in particular to 
the delivery of sustained profitable growth as well as individual performance.
The Committee does not consider that the targets that are included in the remuneration package are incompatible with 
the Executive Director’s responsibility for environmental, social and governance matters. Whilst the Committee’s terms of 
reference do not require specific targets on these matters, the Committee is obliged to ensure that, when setting remuneration 
policy, appropriate incentives are provided to encourage enhanced performance in a fair and reasonable manner.
Alignment with interests  
of shareholders
A substantial proportion of the package is delivered in shares in the Company to ensure that the interests of executives are 
aligned with those of shareholders. The Co-invest element to the annual bonus also encourages prolonged share ownership.
52  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors’ remuneration (audited)
The remuneration of the Directors for the period to 29 March 2015 was as follows:
Salary/fees
£’000
Benefits
 £’000
Bonus 
£’000
Long term
incentive
 £’000
Pension
 £’000
Total
remuneration
£’000
Dr Richard Steeves 480 14 394 1,020 72 1,980
Gavin Hill 290 17 261 167 29 764
Dr Adrian Coward 290 14 239 92 29 664
Sir Duncan Nichol 90 – – – – 90
Jeff Harris 50 – – – – 50
Constance Baroudel 50 – – – – 50
Bruce Edwards 26 - - - - 26
Liz Hewitt 15 – – – – 15
Bruce Edwards joined the Board on 1 September 2014.
Liz Hewitt did not stand for re-election at the AGM on 23 July 2014.
The remuneration of Directors, who served throughout the period except where indicated, for the period to 30 March 2014 is as follows:
Salary/fees
£’000
Benefits
£’000
Bonus
 £’000
 Long term
incentive
£’000
 Pension
£’000
Total
remuneration
£’000
Dr Richard Steeves
1
466 53 398 1,066 70 2,053
Gavin Hill 280 18 239 243 28 808
Sir Duncan Nichol 80 – – – – 80
Jeff Harris 29 - - - - 29
Constance Baroudel 45 – – – – 45
Liz Hewitt 45 – – – – 45
The amounts shown in the table above have been aggregated and converted into Sterling at an exchange rate of $1.6131:£1.00.
Jeff Harruis joined the Board on 1 September 2013. 
The figures in the single figure table above are derived from the following:
Salary and fees The amount of salary and fees received in the period, further details provided below.
Benefits The taxable value of benefits received in the period, further details provided below. 
Bonus Bonus is the cash value of the bonus earned in respect of the year. A description of the performance targets against 
which the bonus pay-out was determined is provided on page 55.
Long term incentives The value of performance-related incentives vesting in respect of the financial year.
For the year ended 30 March 2014 comparative figures:
 + The Company’s three-year EPS growth to 30 March 2014 was 12.08% and therefore 35.4% of the EPS element 
of the LTIP Option vested and one share for every share invested under the LTIP Co-invest vested; and
 + For the three-year period to 27 June 2014 the Company was positioned second quartile compared with the 
FTSE 250 and 51.0% of the LTIP element vested.
For the year ended 29 March 2015:
 + The Company’s three-year EPS growth to 29 March 2015 was 11.35% and therefore 31.8% of the EPS element 
of the LTIP Option vested and one share for every share invested under the LTIP Co-invest vested; and
 + For the three-year period to 2 July 2015 the Company is expected to be positioned in the top quartile compared 
with the FTSE 250 and 100% of the TSR element is expected to vest (based on TSR performance to 29 March 2015).
 + The estimated face value of the vested shares is based on the three month average share price to 29 March 2015.
Pension The pension figure represents the cash value of pension contributions received by the Executive Directors. This includes 
the Company’s contribution to the defined contribution pension scheme and any salary supplement in lieu of a Company 
pension contribution.
53  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements  Annual Report on Remuneration continued
Individual elements of remuneration
Base salary
The following table shows the base salaries of the Executive Directors at 31 March 2014 and 3 March 2015:
Base salary as at 
30 March 2015
£’000
Base salary as at 
31 March 2014
£’000 Salary increase
Dr Richard Steeves £490 £480 2.0%
Gavin Hill £296 £290 2.0%
Dr Adrian Coward £296 £290 2.0%
Non-Executive Director fees
The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment and fees for Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole in light 
of market best practice and with reference to the time commitment and responsibilities associated with the role. The Non-Executive Directors 
do not participate in any decision in relation to the determination of their fees.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors have been reviewed with effect from 30 March 2015 and it has been decided to pay a flat fee to cover 
their basic duties and an additional fee to cover any additional committee chairmanships and/or to act as Senior Independent Director.
The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for performance-related bonuses or the grant of awards under the Company’s LTIP . No pension 
contributions are made on their behalf. 
Non-Executive Director fees 
As at
30 March 2015
£’000
As at
31 March 2014
£’000
Basic fee 45 45
Committee chairmanship 5 5
Senior Independent Directorship 5 5
Fees to be paid to the Chairman effective 30 March 2015 are £90,000, no increase from the fee in the year ended 29 March 2015. He does not 
receive any additional fees for Committee memberships.
Benefits-in-kind (audited)
As noted in the table on page 44, Executive Directors are entitled to participate in other regular employee benefit plans and other benefits 
may be provided based on individual circumstances. Benefits provided to Directors were car/car allowance, fuel, private medical insurance, 
life assurance and Group income protection.
54  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual bonus plan pay-outs (audited)
The Directors consider that the EPS, adjusted operating profit and free cash flow targets are matters which are commercially sensitive and 
should therefore remain confidential to the Group. They provide our competitors with insight into our business plans and expectations. 
However, the following table sets out the financial, corporate and personal performance conditions for the annual bonus, the maximum 
amount that each Executive Director could achieve and the level of annual bonus obtained:
Performance conditions Weightings Targets set Level of achievement Resulting level of award
Financial 
performance
EPS 20% of salary + A budget at constant 
currency
100% 20% of salary
Adjusted operating profit 20% of salary + A budget at constant 
currency
100% 20% of salary
Free cash flow 20% of salary + A budget of free cash 
flow after maintenance 
capital expenditure, 
interest and tax
100% 20% of salary
Corporate  
and personal 
performance
Corporate and  
personal objectives
For Dr Richard Steeves: For Dr Richard Steeves: Dr Richard Steeves:
20% of salary + Quantified addition 
to the order book
10% 2.0% of salary
10% of salary + EPS accretive 
acquisition (satisfying 
quantified hurdle rates)
100% 10.0% of salary
10% of salary + Completed assessment 
of top 75 leaders and 
created a strategy for 
development and 
succession
100% 10.0% of salary
For Gavin Hill: For Gavin Hill: Gavin Hill:
20% of salary + Achieve revenue and 
return on sales metrics 
for HCS business
100% 20.0% of salary
10% of salary + Optimise finance 
process and obtain 
efficiency through 
utilisation of 
ERP system
0% 0% of salary
10% of salary + Generate quantified 
savings through 
creation of Group 
procurement function
100% 10.0% of salary
For Dr Adrian Coward + For Dr Adrian Coward Dr Adrian Coward
10% of salary + AST organic revenue 
growth at constant 
currency
100% 10.0% of salary
10% of salary + HS organic growth at 
constant currency
0% 0% of salary
10% of salary + New organic business 
growth (achieving 
financial hurdles)
25% 2.5% of salary
10% of salary + EPS accretive 
acquisition (satisfying 
quantified hurdle rates)
100% 10.0% of salary
Total Dr Richard Steeves: 82.0%
Gavin Hill: 90.0%
Dr Adrian Coward 82.5%
Summary of 2015/16 bonus operation 
The Remuneration Committee is not making any changes to the annual bonus policy and structure for 2015/16. The bonus design for 2015/16 
will mirror that of the 2014/15 scheme and the maximum annual bonus opportunity remains at 100% of base salary. The Remuneration 
Committee considers that the actual annual bonus targets are commercially sensitive and should therefore remain confidential to the Company. 
55  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements  Annual Report on Remuneration continued
They provide our competitors with insight into our business plans, expectations and our strategic actions. However, the Remuneration 
Committee will continue to disclose how the bonus pay-out delivered relates to performance against the targets on a retrospective basis.
Value earned from long term incentive awards during the year (audited)
For LTIP Option awards due to vest on 2 July 2015 in respect of the year ended 29 March 2015, this was based on the following:
Performance conditions Weightings Targets set Level of achievement Resulting level of award
Adjusted EPS 50% of maximum Average annual compound EPS growth 11.35% 31.8%
20% growth 100% vesting
15% growth 50% vesting
10% growth 25% vesting
<10% growth 0% vesting
Straight-line vesting between these points
Total Shareholder Return 50% of maximum Position in the TSR table: Top quartile 100.0%
Upper quartile 100% vesting
Median 25% vesting
Below median 0% vesting
Straight-line vesting 
between these points
65.9%
 + Adjusted EPS – adjusted for amortisation of intangibles, non-recurring items, share option charges and any other items deemed reasonable 
by the Committee. Growth in adjusted EPS is measured for the three years to 29 March 2015.
 + Total Shareholder Return – TSR is compared with the constituents of the FTSE 250 index (excluding investment trusts). TSR is measured 
over the three-year period to 2 July 2015 and an estimated vesting based on performance to 29 March 2015 has been used to estimate 
the vesting amount in the table above.
In July 2012 Dr Richard Steeves invested in 48,658 shares that were allocated to the LTIP Co-invest. As a result he was granted an LTIP Co-invest 
award over 97 ,316 shares. In July 2012 Gavin Hill invested 6,100 shares that were allocated to the LTIP Co-invest. As a result he was granted a 
LTIP Co-invest award over 12,200 shares. In July 2012, Dr Adrian Coward invested in 12,910 shares that were allocated to the LTIP Co-Invest. 
As a result he was granted an LTIP Co-Invest award over 25,820 shares. The table below summarises the vesting in respect of this award:
Performance conditions Targets set Level of achievement Resulting level of award
Adjusted EPS Average annual compound EPS growth:
Two shares for each one purchased: 
Over 15% each year
One share for each one purchased: 
Between 10% and 15%
11.35% One share for each share purchased
 + Adjusted EPS – adjusted for amortisation of intangibles, non-recurring items, share option charges and any other items deemed reasonable 
by the Committee. Growth in adjusted EPS is measured for the three years to 29 March 2015.
Long term incentive awards granted during the year (audited)
LTIP Option
For the year ended 29 March 2015, the table below outlines awards granted under the LTIP Option:
Grant date Director Basis of award
Face value of award (based 
on a share price of £13.507)
Vesting at threshold 
performance Measurement period
20 June 2014 Dr Richard Steeves 150% of salary £720,018 25% of maximum Three-year period from date of grant
20 June 2014 Gavin Hill 100% of salary £289,995 25% of maximum Three-year period from date of grant
20 June 2014 Dr Adrian Coward 100% of salary £289,995 25% of maximum Three-year period from date of grant
56  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The performance conditions attaching to these awards are the same as those details above on pages 46 to 47 .
LTIP Co-invest
For the year ended 29 March 2015, the table below outlines awards made under the LTIP Co-invest:
Grant date Director Basis of award*
Face value of award (based 
on a share price of £13.79)*
Vesting at threshold 
performance
Measurement 
period
11 July 2014 Gavin Hill Based on the amount 
of bonus voluntarily 
invested in shares 
(6,404 shares)
£88,311 1:1 vesting Three-year period from date of grant
11 July 2014 Dr Adrian Coward Based on the amount 
of bonus voluntarily 
invested in shares 
(6,705 shares)
£92,462 1:1 vesting Three-year period from date of grant
15 July 2014 Dr Richard Steeves Based on the amount 
of bonus voluntarily 
invested in shares 
(29,274 shares)
£403,688 1:1 vesting Three-year period from date of grant
*  The LTIP Co-invest award provides a maximum award of 2x the number of shares invested by an Executive Director (subject to EPS performance during the 
measurement period). Gavin Hill invested 6,404 shares. Dr Adrian Coward invested 6,705 shares. Dr Richard Steeves invested 29,274 shares.
The performance conditions attaching to these awards are the same as those details above on pages 46 to 47 . 
Long term incentive awards for the year ending 3 April 2016
The performance conditions for any awards which may be granted in the year ending 3 April 2016 will continue to be as set above  
for awards made in the year ended 29 March 2015. For the avoidance of doubt, no changes are being proposed to the normal maximum  
incentive opportunity.
Total pension entitlements
Dr Richard Steeves is entitled to 15% of base salary. Gavin Hill is entitled to 10% of base salary. Dr Adrian Coward is entitled to 10%  
of base salary.
Relative importance of spend on pay (audited)
The following table shows the relative importance of spend on pay against other cash outflows for the years ending 29 March 2015 and 
30 March 2014:
2015 2014 % change
Distribution to shareholders 14.20p
1
22.77p (37.4)
Employee remuneration £152.7m £142.4m 7.2
1
 No interim dividend for the year to 29 March 2015 was paid because of the proposed combination with STERIS..
57  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements  Payments to past Directors
There were no payments made to past Directors during the year ended 29 March 2015.
Payments for loss of office
No payments for loss of office were made during the year ended 29 March 2015. 
External appointments
During the year Dr Richard Steeves was a non-executive director of Toumaz plc, for which he earned fees of £70,000.  
Group performance
The graph below shows the Group’s performance for the five-year period to 29 March 2015 measured by TSR, compared with the 
performance of the FTSE 250 index (excluding investment trusts) also measured by TSR, which is defined as share price growth plus 
reinvested dividends. The FTSE 250 index has been chosen because it provides a basis for comparison against companies in a relevant 
broad-based equity index in which the Group is a constituent member. 
50
100
Apr 10 Oct 10 Apr 11 Oct 11 Apr 12 Oct 12 Apr 13 Oct 13 Apr 14 April 15 Oct 14
 Synergy Health PLC Source: Datastream FTSE 250 Ex Investment Trust
250
200
150
400
350
300
500
450
Table of historical Group Chief Executive Officer data
Year CEO
CEO single figure of total
remuneration
Annual variable element award rates
against maximum opportunity
Long term incentive vesting rates
against maximum opportunity
2015 Dr Richard Steeves 1,980,359 82.0% 43.2%
2014 Dr Richard Steeves 2,012,096 76.5% 67.6%
2013 Dr Richard Steeves 1,915,541 66.9% 86.2%
2012 Dr Richard Steeves 1,545,863 95.0% 93.8%
2011 Dr Richard Steeves 1,375,688 100.0% 41.3%
Percentage change in Group Chief Executive Officer remuneration
The table below sets out in relation to salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus the percentage increase in pay for Dr Richard Steeves 
compared with the Group’s UK workforce:
% increase CEO
Wider 
workforce
Salary 3.0% 2.0%
Taxable benefits 73.6% 0%
Annual bonus (1.0)% 2.0% 
The Group’s UK workforce has been used as comparator group in recognition of the Company’s UK listing and to discount any variation in 
economic and currency fluctuations that may be present across the Group’s worldwide operations.
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
58  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Statement of Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
There are no formal shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors. However, the Executive Directors are encouraged to invest and hold shares 
in the Company. Dr Richard Steeves has an interest in excess of 3% of the issued share capital and Gavin Hill has an interest in shares with 
a value equivalent to more than 100% of base salary (as at 29 March 2015).
Name Type of share Owned outright
Unvested subject
to performance
condition
Unvested not
subject to
performance
condition
Vested but 
not exercised
Total
interests
Exercised 
during year
Dr Richard Steeves Shares 1,907,031 – – – 1,907,031 –
LTIP – 193,504 – – 193,504 30,364
LTIP Co-Invest – 155,864 – – 155,864 44,210
Sharesave – – 2,950 – 2,950 –
Gavin Hill Shares 39,884 – – – 39,884 –
LTIP – 77,630 – – 77,630 12,415
LTIP Co-Invest – 63,768 – – 63,768 –
Sharesave – – 2,313 – 2,313 –
Dr Adrian Coward Shares 38,003 – – – 38,003 –
LTIP – 71,612 – 17,603 89215 –
LTIP Co-Invest – 59,584 – 10,116 69,702 –
ESO Scheme – – – 5,028 5,028 –
Sharesave – – – 1,298 1,298 –
Sir Duncan Nichol – – – – – –
Jeff Harris – – – – – –
Constance Baroudel Shares 735 – – – 735 –
Bruce Edwards Shares – – – – – –
Statement of Directors’ shareholding 
The present Directors of the Group are shown on page 30. In accordance with the recommendations set out in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, all the elected Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the AGM. Details of the Directors’ service contracts are shown on page 49.
The interests of the Directors and each of their connected persons in the shares of the Group as at 29 March 2015 and 30 March 2014 were  
as follows:
29 March 2015
ordinary shares
of 0.625p each
30 March 2014
ordinary shares 
of 0.625p each
Dr Richard Steeves 1,907,031 1,832,472
Gavin Hil 39,884 33,480
Dr Adrian Coward 38,003 31,298
Sir Duncan Nichol – –
Jeff Harris – –
Constance Baroudel 735 735
Bruce Edwards – –
Liz Hewitt – 2,000
There was no change in the shareholding of any Director between the end of the financial period and the date of this report.
Shareholder voting on the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 March 2014
Shareholder voting at the AGM held on 23 July 2014 was as follows:
Voted cast For Against Abstentions
Policy 51,035,900 48,513,710 1,141,695 1,380,495
95% 2% 3%
Remuneration Report 51,035,900 44,206,724 508,118 6,321,059
87% 1% 12%
Constance Baroudel
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
2 June 2015
59  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements  Directors’ report
The Directors submit their Annual Report 
and the audited consolidated accounts of 
the Company and its subsidiaries for the 
year ended 29 March 2015.
Statutory disclosures
Group results and dividends
There was a profit for the period after 
taxation amounting to £33,678,000 (2014: 
£34,265,000). As a result of the proposed 
combination with STERIS, the Board chose 
not to pay an interim dividend (2014: 
£5,042,213), and is not proposing to pay a 
final dividend. The Board will review this 
recommendation in the event the combination 
does not proceed. A review of the Group’s 
performance for the period ended 29 March 
2015 is contained in the Strategic report.
Bribery
The Company has further reviewed and 
updated its policies in light of the enactment 
of the Bribery Act 2010. The Company 
remains committed to the highest standards 
of business conduct and insists all its 
employees act accordingly.
The Audit Committee has reviewed and 
updated the Company’s ethics and 
whistleblowing policies and the policies are 
available on the Company’s website. 
Pensions
The Group operates a defined contribution 
Group Personal Pension Plan (‘GPP’), which 
permanent employees are invited to join. The 
provision of the GPP is via Aviva. 
All those employees who transfer from 
the public sector under the Transfer of 
Undertakings (Protection of Employment) 
Regulations 2006 are eligible to join the 
Synergy Health plc Retirement Benefit 
Scheme, a defined benefit pension 
arrangement which is otherwise closed to 
new entrants. Tim Mason, the former Group 
Company Secretary, is the Chairman of the 
Trustees. There are three other Company 
Nominated Trustees, and one Member 
Nominated Trustee. There is a vacancy for 
one Member Nominated Trustee. Details of 
all Group pension schemes are contained 
in note 26 to the Accounts on page 98. 
The Company became subject to the 
Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes 
(Automatic Enrolment) Regulations 2010 for 
employees in the UK on 1 September 2013. 
The GPP is compliant and is used for the 
purposes of these Regulations and was 
registered accordingly. 
Permanent employees outside the UK are 
usually offered membership of local pension 
arrangements where they exist.
Directors’ indemnity
In accordance with the Company’s Articles 
of Association, Directors have been granted a 
continuing indemnity issued by the Company 
to the extent permitted by law in respect of 
liabilities incurred as a result of their office. The 
indemnity would not provide any coverage to 
the extent that the Director is proved to have 
acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance
During the period the Company maintained 
insurance cover for Directors’ and Officers’ 
liability as permitted under the Companies 
Act 2006.
Directors and Directors’ interests
The present Directors of the Company are 
shown on page 30 of this report. No other 
Director served during the period. The 
Directors’ interests in the share capital of 
the Company are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration report on page 59.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The statement on corporate social 
responsibility on page 27 contains disclosures 
concerning environmental matters, employee 
involvement and social and community issues.
Contractual relationships or other 
arrangements
The Company has no contractual 
relationships or other arrangements with 
contractors, customers or suppliers that are 
critical to the business.
The Company has a number of significant 
agreements. The only agreements considered 
to be essential to the Group as a whole 
concern its bank facilities, which include 
change of control provisions. In the event of a 
change in ownership of the Company, these 
provisions could result in renegotiation or 
withdrawal of the relevant facilities.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors
All Group companies are responsible for 
establishing terms and conditions with their 
suppliers and it is Group policy that payments 
are made within such agreed terms and 
conditions. Trade creditors at the period end 
amount to 48 days (2014: 44 days) of average 
supplies for the period.
Political and charitable donations
During the period the Group made charitable 
donations totalling £29,000 (2014: £88,000). 
No political donations were made during the 
period (2014: nil).
Treasury and risk management
The Group’s treasury and financial risk 
management objectives, and details 
in respect of the Group’s exposure to 
these risks, are detailed in note 18 
to the financial statements.
Greenhouse gas emissions
The table below details our global greenhouse 
gas (‘GHG’) emissions data for 2015:
Emissions Tonnes of CO
2
e
Combustion of fuel and operation 
of facilities (GHG Protocol 
Scope 1) 56,961
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 
purchased for own use (GHG 
Protocol Scope 2) 41,301
Total 98,262
Intensity metric: tonnes CO2e / 
thousand GBP revenue (£) 0.258
1
  Assessment results exclude transmission and 
distribution losses.
We have reported on all of the emission 
sources required under the Companies Act 
2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) 
Regulations 2013. These sources fall within 
our consolidated financial statements. With 
the exception of Scope 1 fugitive emissions 
(which form a very small part of our footprint) 
we do not have responsibility for any emission 
sources that are not included in our 
consolidated statement.
The method we have used to calculate 
GHG emissions is the GHG Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard (revised edition), together with 
the latest emission factors from recognised 
public sources including, but not limited to, 
Defra, the International Energy Agency, the 
US Energy Information Administration, the 
US Environmental Protection Agency and the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
In some cases emissions associated with 
our activities have been extrapolated or 
estimated to ensure as complete a picture 
as possible. The largest area of uncertainty 
relates to sites where we operate within 
client hospital premises and do not have 
direct visibility of utility consumption data. 
We are working with sustainability reporting 
experts Ecometrica to further improve 
our carbon footprint data quality and 
reporting processes.
Going concern
The Company’s business activities, 
together with the factors likely to affect its 
future development, performance and 
position are set out on pages 1 to 28. The 
financial position of the Company, its cash 
flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities 
are described in the financial review on pages 
18 to 21. In addition, notes 17 to 18 to the 
financial statements include the Company’s 
objectives, policies and processes for 
managing its capital; its financial risk 
management objectives; details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its 
exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
60  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Company has considerable financial 
resources together with long-term contracts 
with a number of customers and suppliers 
across different geographic areas and market 
places. As a consequence, the Directors 
believe that the Company is well placed to 
manage its business risks successfully despite 
the current uncertain economic outlook. The 
Directors have a reasonable expectation that 
the Company has adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis of accounting 
in preparing the annual financial statements.
This statement in respect of the business 
as a going concern has been prepared in 
accordance with ‘Going Concern and Liquidity 
Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 
2009’, published by the Financial Reporting 
Council in October 2009.
Group companies
A full list of the Group’s subsidiaries is detailed 
on page 106.
Risk management
Details of the Company’s principal risks and 
uncertainties are set out on pages 22 to 26.
Substantial shareholders
At the date of this report the Company had 
been notified of the following holdings of 
voting rights attaching to the Company’s 
ordinary shares of 0.625p each in accordance 
with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: 
Share capital
As at 29 March 2015 the Company’s 
authorised share capital consisted of one class 
of 106,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.625p 
each of which there were 59,109,789 ordinary 
shares in issue. No shares are currently held 
in treasury. 
The rights and obligations attached to the 
Company’s ordinary shares, and restrictions 
on the transfer of shares in the Company, 
are set out in the Company’s Articles of 
Association, copies of which can be obtained 
from Companies House in the UK or the 
Group Company Secretary. Shareholders are 
entitled to receive dividends, when declared, 
to receive the Company’s reports and financial 
statements, to attend and speak at general 
meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies, 
and to exercise voting rights. 
No person holds securities in the Company 
carrying special rights with regard to control 
of the Company. The Company is not aware 
of any agreements between the holders of 
securities that may result in restrictions on 
the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Articles of Association
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in 
the Articles of Association of the Company 
(‘the Articles’), the Articles may be amended 
by a special resolution of the Company’s 
shareholders.
Additional information for shareholders
On a poll, every member present in person or 
by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one 
vote for every ordinary share held. The notice 
of the general meeting specifies deadlines for 
exercising voting rights either by proxy notice 
or present in person or by proxy in relation to 
resolutions to be passed at general meeting. 
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers 
for, against or withheld in relation to each 
resolution are announced at the AGM and 
published on the Company’s website after 
the meeting. There are no restrictions on the 
transfer of ordinary shares in the Company 
other than: 
 + Certain restrictions may from time to time 
be imposed by laws and regulations (for 
example, insider trading laws); and
 + Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the 
FCA whereby certain employees of 
the Company require the approval 
of the Company to deal in the 
Company’s securities.
There are no agreements between the 
Company and its Directors or employees 
providing for compensation for loss of office 
or employment (whether through resignation, 
purported redundancy or otherwise) that 
occurs because of a takeover bid.
Power to issue shares
At the last AGM, held on 23 July 2014, 
authority was given to the Directors to allot 
unissued relevant securities in the Company 
up to a maximum of £122,703.49 equivalent 
to one third of the issued share capital as at 4 
June 2014. This authority expires on the date 
of the AGM to be held on 23 July 2015 and 
the Directors will seek to renew this authority 
for the following year. 
A further special resolution passed at that 
meeting granted authority to the Directors to 
allot equity securities in the Company (up to a 
maximum of 5% of the issued share capital of 
the Company) for cash, without regard to the 
pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 
2006. This authority also expires on the date 
of the AGM to be held on 23 July 2015 and 
the Directors will seek to renew this authority 
for the following year.
Name Shareholding %
AXA Framlington 6,551,208 11.08%
Morgan Stanley 4,144,456 7.01%
UBS 3,674,842 6.22%
M&G 2,471,401 4.18%
Kabouter 2,179,398 3.69%
Dr Richard Steeves 1,907 ,031 3.23%
BlackRock 1,843,311 3.12%
Legal & General 1,791,735 3.03%
61  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements  Appointment of Directors
The Articles give the Directors power 
to appoint and replace Directors. Under 
the terms of reference of the Nomination 
Committee, any appointment must be 
recommended by the Nomination Committee 
for approval by the Board of Directors.
The Articles also require Directors to retire 
and submit themselves for election at the 
first AGM following appointment, and all 
Directors who held office at the time of the 
two preceding AGMs to submit themselves 
for re-election.
However, in accordance with the 
requirement under the Code for annual 
election of Directors, all Directors will submit 
themselves for re-election at the Group’s 
AGM on 23 July 2015.
Powers of Directors
The Directors are responsible for managing 
the business of the Company and may 
exercise all powers of the Company subject 
to the provisions of relevant statutes, to any 
directions given by special resolution and to 
the Company’s Memorandum and Articles. 
The Articles, for example, contain specific 
provisions and restrictions concerning the 
Company’s power to borrow money. Powers 
relating to the issuing of new shares are also 
included in the Articles and such authorities 
are renewed by shareholders at the AGM 
each year.
Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors confirm that the Annual Report 
and financial statements, taken as a whole, 
is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report and the Group and parent 
company financial statements, in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to 
prepare Group and parent company financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group 
financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) as adopted by the EU and applicable 
law and have elected to prepare the parent 
company financial statements in accordance 
with UK Accounting Standards and applicable 
law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice). Under company law the Directors 
must not approve the financial statements 
unless they are satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of 
the Group and parent company and of their 
profit or loss for that period. 
In preparing each of the Group and parent 
company financial statements, the Directors 
are required to:
 + Select suitable accounting policies and 
then apply them consistently;
 + Make judgements and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
 + For the Group financial statements, 
state whether they have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by 
the EU;
 + For the parent company financial 
statements, state whether applicable UK 
Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the parent 
company financial statements; and
 + Prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Group 
and the parent company will continue 
in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
proper accounting records that disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the parent company and enable 
them to ensure that its financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They 
have general responsibility for taking such steps 
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and 
detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, 
the Directors are also responsible for 
preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ 
Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report 
and Corporate Governance Statement that 
comply with that law and those regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and financial information included on the 
Company’s website.
Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 + The financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with the applicable set of 
accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole;
 + The Strategic Report includes a fair review 
of the development and performance of 
the business and the position of the issuer 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that they face; and
 + the Annual Report and Accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable, and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
Disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of 
approval of this report confirm that so far as 
they are each aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Group’s auditors are 
unaware; and each Director has taken all steps 
that he/she ought to have taken as a Director to 
make him/herself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to ensure that the Group’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
Separate resolutions proposing 
appointment and determination of KPMG 
LLP’s remuneration will be proposed at the 
AGM on 23 July 2015.
On behalf of the Board
Jon Turner
Group Company Secretary 
2 June 2015
Directors’ report continued
62  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent auditor’s report to the members of Synergy Health plc only
Opinions and conclusions arising from 
our audit
1  Our opinion on the financial statements 
is unmodified 
We have audited the financial statements of 
Synergy Health plc for the year ended 29 
March 2015 set out on pages 66 to 110. 
In our opinion: 
 + The financial statements give a true and 
fair view of the state of the Group’s and 
of the Company’s affairs as at 29 March 
2015 and of the Group’s profit for the 
year then ended; 
 + The Group financial statements have 
been properly prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European 
Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU); 
 + The Company financial statements have 
been properly prepared in accordance 
with UK Accounting Standards; and 
 + the financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2  Our assessment of risks of material 
misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the 
Group financial statements the risks of 
material misstatement that had the greatest 
effect on our audit were as follows:
Impairment of assets in the Netherlands 
linen services business and Chinese 
sterilisation business. 
Refer to page 39 (Audit Committee report), 
page 73 (accounting policy) and page 81 
(financial disclosures).
 + The risk –The Group has significant 
property, plant and equipment across 
a number of different businesses. The 
healthcare linen services business in the 
Netherlands continues to face challenging 
economic and market conditions with 
significant pressure on selling price and 
operating profit margin. The Chinese 
sterilisation business has recorded 
significant growth this year but remains 
in an early stage of its lifecycle and organic 
growth to this point has been slower than 
anticipated. There is a risk that the book 
value of the assets in these businesses 
exceeds their recoverable amount (as 
defined in accounting standards) and 
should therefore be written down in value 
(impaired). Due to the inherent uncertainty 
involved in forecasting and discounting 
future cash flows, which are the basis of 
the recoverable amount, this is one of the 
key judgemental areas that our audit is 
concentrated on. 
 + Our response – Our audit procedures 
included evaluating the controls relating 
to the preparation and approval of the 
group’s budgeting process upon which 
the forecasts are based. We critically 
assessed the budgets in order to obtain 
an understanding of the risks inherent 
within them. We considered the historical 
accuracy of forecasts in the past two years 
and considered the extent to which trading 
conditions in both the Dutch linen and 
Chinese sterilisation businesses in 2014 
and 2015 were assumed to continue in 
the forecast period. We challenged 
the assumptions in the budgets with 
reference to historical trends, and 
our own expectations based on our 
knowledge of the business and sector. 
In the Dutch linen business we considered 
the key inputs to be forecast revenue 
growth, future operating profit margin and 
the discount rate. With respect to forecast 
revenue growth and future operating profit 
margin we have considered the extent 
to which the difficult trading conditions 
experienced in 2014 and 2015 are assumed 
to continue in the forecast period and we have 
challenged Dutch operational management 
over their plans to improve future operating 
margin over the forecast period. We have 
considered longer term future growth 
assumptions against externally published 
sources such as OECD forecasts. With 
respect to the discount rate we utilised our 
own valuation specialist to provide a view of 
the applicable discount rate. We then applied 
a range of sensitivities to these key inputs, 
increasing the discount rate, reducing both 
future revenue and operating profit margin 
and assessing the level of available headroom 
as a consequence of reasonable changes 
to these key inputs.
In the Chinese sterilisation business we 
considered the key inputs to be forecast 
revenue growth in years 2-3, long term 
growth rate and the discount rate applied. 
With respect to validating the accuracy of 
forecast revenue growth we have compared 
the level of achieved growth against the 
business plan for the last two years and 
held discussions with the Regional Finance 
Director responsible for creation of these 
budgets to understand their view of the key 
inputs and sensitivities. With respect to the 
long term growth rate we have considered 
the growth rates applied against externally 
published sources such as OECD long-term 
forecasts. With respect to the discount rate 
we utilised our valuation specialist to provide 
a view of the applicable discount rate. 
We then applied a range of sensitivities to 
these key inputs, increase the discount rate, 
reducing medium term revenue growth 
assumptions and the long term growth rates 
and assessing the level of available headroom 
as a consequence of reasonable changes to 
these key inputs.
We have also assessed whether the group’s 
disclosures about the sensitivity of the 
outcome of the impairment assessment to 
changes in key assumptions reflected our 
own sensitivity analysis.
Identification of items as non-recurring 
(£5,812,000) 
Refer to page 40 (Audit Committee Report), 
page 71 (accounting policy) and page 77 
(financial disclosures).
 + The risk – The Group Income Statement 
includes a column that highlights items 
that are considered to be non-recurring 
in nature. These items are disclosed 
separately to enable the presentation of an 
“adjusted” profit (profit before amortisation 
of acquired intangibles and non-recurring 
items) for the year. Adjusted profit is a key 
performance indicator for the Group. The 
assessment as to whether income or 
expense should be (i) identified and (ii) 
recognised as non-recurring is a subjective 
and judgmental area, and there is a risk 
that costs and/or income are not 
appropriately classified.
 + Our response – Our audit procedures 
included critically assessing the nature 
of the items presented as non-recurring 
and challenging the rationale for their 
classification as non-recurring as well as 
consideration of whether other items of 
income or expenditure were appropriately 
omitted. We challenged the Group Finance 
Director and Group Financial Controller on 
items included as non-recurring. Any 
individually material items classified as 
non-recurring have been agreed to 
supporting documentation available to 
validate the quantum and classification of 
the income or expense. We evaluated the 
completeness of those items identified as 
non-recurring by comparing to movements 
in provisions, matters identified through 
review of board meeting minutes, 
component group reporting and inquiries 
with both those charged with governance 
and group financial management around 
litigation and claims. 
We also assessed whether the group’s 
disclosures about non-recurring items 
reflected our own understanding of 
these amounts.
63  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements  Recognition of accounting entries for the 
acquisition of Bioster 
Refer to page 40 (Audit Committee Report), 
page 71 (accounting policy) and page 92 
(financial disclosures).
 + The risk – During the year, the Group 
purchased the share capital of Bioster SpA 
and associated companies. Accounting 
standards dictate that assets and liabilities 
acquired in a business combination are 
measured at their fair value. This includes 
a requirement to identify and recognise 
intangible assets that may not have been 
previously recognised by the acquired 
business, and to recognise assets and 
liabilities in the acquired balance sheet at 
fair value. The identification and valuation 
of the acquired tangible and intangible 
assets and liabilities as separate items from 
goodwill can have a material impact on the 
financial statements and is an area that 
involves judgment. 
 + Our response – Our audit procedures 
included an assessment of the acquisition 
accounting entries presented by the 
Group, evaluating the procedures applied 
to identify and value additional assets and 
liabilities on acquisition, agreeing key items 
back to underlying data and challenging 
key judgments. We inspected external 
due diligence reports performed on the 
acquired company for any matters raised 
that had not been considered when 
assessing fair values. We also inspected 
the sale and purchase agreement for 
any terms and conditions in relation to 
the acquisition which would give rise 
to deferred or contingent consideration 
and assessed whether Group’s calculation 
reflected such terms. We assessed 
the appropriateness of the valuation 
techniques used to value the intangible 
assets and utilised our valuation specialist 
to evaluate the discount rate applied where 
fair value is estimated based on a forecast 
future cash flows valuation model.
We also considered whether the group’s 
disclosures about the acquisition of Bioster 
within the financial statements reflected 
our analysis.
3  Our application of materiality and an 
overview of the scope of our audit
The materiality for the group financial 
statements as a whole was set at £2.5 million. 
This has been determined with reference to a 
benchmark of group profit before taxation (of 
which it represents 5.7%). We report to the 
Audit Committee any corrected or 
uncorrected identified misstatements 
exceeding £125,000, in addition to other 
identified misstatements that warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the group’s sixty-two reporting 
components, we subject thirty-one to audits 
for group reporting purposes and one to 
specified risk-focused audit procedures. The 
latter was not individually financially significant 
enough to require an audit for group reporting 
purposes, but did present specific individual 
risks that needed to be addressed or to 
provide further audit coverage over the total 
population. These Group procedures covered 
86% of total Group revenue; 92% of Group 
profit before taxation; and 84% of total 
Group assets. 
The remaining 14% of total Group revenue, 
8% of Group profit before taxation and 16% 
of total Group assets is represented by 
thirty reporting components, none of which 
individually represented more than 15% 
of any of total Group revenue, Group profit 
before tax, or total Group assets. The 
majority of these components are non-trading 
companies. For these remaining components, 
we performed analysis at an aggregated 
group level to re-examine our assessment 
that there were no significant risks of 
material misstatement within these. 
The Group audit team instructed component 
auditors as to the significant areas to be 
covered, including the relevant risks detailed 
above and the information to be reported back. 
The Group audit team approved component 
materiality which was set at £1.5 million, having 
regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the 
Group across the components. The work on 
twenty-two of the thirty-one components 
subject to audits for group reporting purposes 
was performed by component auditors and 
the rest by the Group team.
The Group audit team visited component 
locations in the UK, USA and Netherlands 
and attended in person the audit completion 
meetings at each of these locations. 
The Group audit team also attended the 
completion meetings for Germany, France, 
Switzerland, Italy, Ireland, Malaysia and 
Thailand by telephone. We held telephone 
discussions with the other component audit 
teams during the year as we felt appropriate. 
At these visits and meetings, the findings 
reported to the Group audit team were 
discussed in more detail, and any further 
work required by the Group audit team was 
then performed by the component auditor.
4  Our opinion on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006 is 
unmodified
In our opinion: 
 + The part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; 
 + The information given in the Strategic 
Report and Directors’ Report for the 
financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent 
with the financial statements; and
 + Information given in the corporate 
governance statement set out on page 
37 with respect to internal control and 
risk management systems in relation to 
financial reporting processes and about 
share capital structures is consistent with 
the financial statements. 
5  We have nothing to report in respect of 
the matters on which we are required to 
report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required 
to report to you if, based on the knowledge we 
acquired during our audit, we have identified 
other information in the Annual Report that 
contains a material inconsistency with either 
that knowledge or the financial statements, 
a material misstatement of fact, or that is 
otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to 
you if: 
 + We have identified material inconsistencies 
between the knowledge we acquired 
during our audit and the Directors’ 
statement that they consider that the 
Annual Report and financial statements 
taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy; or
 + The section of the Annual Report 
describing the work of the Group Audit 
Committee does not appropriately 
address matters communicated by 
us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
 + Adequate accounting records have not 
been kept by the Company, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by 
us; or  
 
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Synergy Health plc only continued
64  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  + The Parent Company financial statements 
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or 
 + Certain disclosures of Directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or 
 + We have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit; or
 + A corporate governance statement has not 
been prepared by the Company. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required 
to review: 
 + The Directors’ statement, set out on page 
60, in relation to going concern; and 
 + The part of the corporate governance 
statement on pages 29-38 relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the ten 
provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review. 
We have nothing to report in respect of the 
above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities Statement set out on page 
62, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view. A description of the scope of an 
audit of financial statements is provided on the 
Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.
frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is 
made solely to the Company’s members as a 
body and is subject to important explanations 
and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, 
published on our website at www.kpmg.com/
uk/auditscopeukco2013a, which are 
incorporated into this report as if set out in full 
and should be read to provide an understanding 
of the purpose of this report, the work we have 
undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Tim Widdas (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP , Statutory 
Auditor  
Chartered Accountants  
St Nicholas House 
Park Row  
Nottingham 
NG1 6FQ 
2 June 2015
65  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
66 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
 
 
 
 
 
    2015   2014 
 Note 
Before 
 amortisation 
of acquired 
intangibles and 
non-recurring 
items 
£’000 
Amortisation 
of acquired 
intangibles and 
non-recurring 
items 
(note 4)
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
Before 
 amortisation  
of acquired  
intangibles and  
non-recurring  
items 
£’000 
Amortisation  
of acquired  
intangibles and  
non-recurring  
items 
(note 4)
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
Continuing operations        
Revenue 3 408,824 – 408,824 380,453 – 380,453 
Cost of sales  (233,761) – (233,761) (224,729) – (224,729)
Gross profit  175,063 – 175,063 155,724 – 155,724 
Administrative expenses        
– Administration expenses excluding 
amortisation of acquired intangibles   (110,502) (5,812) (116,314) (94,410) (3,254) (97,664)
– Amortisation of acquired intangibles  – (8,606) (8,606) – (8,557) (8,557)
  (110,502) (14,418) (124,920) (94,410) (11,811) (106,221)
Operating profit  64,561 (14,418) 50,143 61,314 (11,811) 49,503 
Finance income 6 4,291 – 4,291 4,141 – 4,141 
Finance costs 7 (10,855) – (10,855) (10,751) – (10,751)
Net finance costs  (6,564) – (6,564) (6,610) – (6,610)
Profit before tax 4 57,997 (14,418) 43,579 54,704 (11,811) 42,893 
Income tax 8 (13,346) 3,445 (9,901) (12,933) 4,305 (8,628)
Profit for the year  44,651 (10,973) 33,678 41,771 (7,506) 34,265 
Attributable to:        
Equity holders of the parent  44,542 (10,973) 33,569 41,455 (7,506) 33,949 
Non-controlling interests  109 – 109 316 – 316 
  44,651 (10,973) 33,678 41,771 (7,506) 34,265 
Earnings per share        
Basic 10   56.90p   57.81p 
Diluted 10   56.37p   57.05p 
Consolidated income statement 
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Consolidated income statement
For the period ended 29 March 2015
66  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  67 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
 
 
 Note 
2015 
£’000 
2014 
£’000 
Profit for the year  33,678 34,265 
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year:    
Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss    
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations  (9,838) (17,844)
Cash flow hedges     
– Fair value movement in equity  (623) (830)
– Reclassified and reported in net profit  830 1,385 
Related tax movements  (41) (145)
  (9,672) (17,434)
Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss    
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension plans 26 (6,491) (3,066)
Related tax movements 19 1,296 159 
  (5,195) (2,907)
    
Other comprehensive expense for the year  (14,867) (20,341)
Total comprehensive income for the year  18,811 13,924 
    
Attributable to:    
Equity holders of the parent  18,730 13,701 
Non-controlling interests  81 223 
  18,811 13,924 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the period ended 29 March 2015
67  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
68 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
The consolidated financial statements on pages 66 to 101 were approved by the Board on 2 June 2015 and signed on its behalf by: 
G Hill 
Director 
 Note 
2015 
£’000 
2014 
£’000 
Non-current assets    
Goodwill 11 214,545 216,246 
Other intangible assets 12 44,657 48,685 
Property, plant and equipment 13 290,929 259,807 
Investments  949 382 
Trade and other receivables 16 1,940 3,020 
Total non-current assets  553,020 528,140 
Current assets    
Inventories 14 12,887 13,477 
Asset held for sale 15 3,192 2,765 
Trade and other receivables 16 75,308 61,530 
Cash and cash equivalents  36,952 33,811 
Total current assets  128,339 111,583 
Total assets  681,359 639,723 
Capital and reserves attributable to the Group’s equity holders    
Share capital 22 369 368 
Share premium account  90,517 89,909 
Translation reserve  14,898 24,708 
Cash flow hedging reserve  (498) (664)
Merger reserve  106,757 106,757 
Retained earnings  145,582 123,025 
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent  357,625 344,103 
Non-controlling interest  3,256 2,473 
Total equity  360,881 346,576 
Current liabilities    
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 17 3,230 3,935 
Trade and other payables 20 78,049 68,412 
Derivative financial instruments  623 830 
Current tax liabilities  8,274 6,731 
Short-term provisions 21 1,570 2,472 
Total current liabilities  91,746 82,380 
Non-current liabilities    
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 17 194,787 177,455 
Retirement benefit obligations 26 20,315 16,882 
Deferred tax liabilities 19 5,307 7,529 
Trade and other payables 20 338 913 
Provisions 21 7,821 7,754 
Deferred government grants  164 234 
Total non-current liabilities  228,732 210,767 
Total liabilities  320,478 293,147 
Total equity and liabilities  681,359 639,723 
Consolidated statement of financial position
At 29 March 2015 
Consolidated statement of financial position
At 29 March 2015
68  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  69 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
 
 Note 
2015 
£’000 
2014 
£’000 
Profit for the year  33,678 34,265 
Adjustments  62,653 60,768 
Cash generated from operations  96,331 95,033 
Income tax paid  (10,378) (10,162)
Net cash generated from operating activities  85,953 84,871 
Cash flows from investing activities    
Acquisition of subsidiary – net of cash  23 (13,247) (1,558)
Acquisition of investments  (495) – 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment  (61,727) (39,243)
Purchase of intangible assets  (1,718) (1,671)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and investment property  1,742 647 
Payment of pre-acquisition liabilities  (6,676) – 
Interest received  1,604 1,609 
Net cash used in investing activities  (80,517) (40,216)
Cash flows from financing activities    
Dividends paid  (8,372) (12,563)
Dividends paid to minority interest  (134) (173)
Proceeds from borrowings  62,655 58,302 
Repayment of borrowings  (45,504) (70,643)
Repayment of hire purchase loans and finance leases  (2,944) (2,349)
Interest paid  (7,052) (6,836)
Proceeds from issue of shares  609 814 
Proceeds from issue of shares – non-controlling interest  416 1,105 
Purchase of treasury shares  – (3,046)
Net cash used in financing activities  (326) (35,389)
Net increase in cash and bank overdrafts  5,110 9,266 
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of period  32,263 25,189 
Exchange differences  (421) (2,192)
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of period  36,952 32,263 
    
  
2015 
£’000 
2014 
£’000 
Cash generated from operations    
Profit for the period  33,678 34,265 
Adjustments for:    
– depreciation   39,532 39,297 
– amortisation of intangible assets  9,677 9,406 
– equity-settled share-based payments  2,213 1,112 
– loss on sale of tangible fixed assets  931 1,463 
– curtailment and cessation gains on defined benefit pension schemes  (932) (716)
– finance income  (4,291) (4,141)
– finance costs  10,855 10,751 
– income tax expense  9,901 8,628 
Changes in working capital:    
– inventories  (504) 1,349 
– trade and other receivables  (241) 1,417 
– trade, other payables and provisions  (4,488) (7,798)
Cash generated from operations  96,331 95,033 
Consolidated cash flow statement 
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the period ended 29 March 2015
69  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
70 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
           
 
Share  
capital  
£’000 
Share  
Premium 
£’000 
Treasury 
share 
reserve 
£’000 
Merger 
reserve  
£’000 
Cash flow 
hedging  
reserves 
£’000 
Translation  
reserve  
£’000 
Retained  
earnings  
£’000 
Total 
attributable  
to equity 
holders 
of the 
parent 
£’000 
Non-
controlling  
interest 
£’000 
Total  
equity  
£’000 
Balance at 31 March 2013 365 89,098 – 106,757 (1,385) 42,459 105,774 343,068 1,307 344,375 
           
Total comprehensive income:           
Profit – – – – – – 33,949 33,949 316 34,265 
Other comprehensive income:           
Translation of foreign operations – – – – – (17,751) – (17,751) (93) (17,844)
Net movements on cash flow hedges – – – – 410 – – 410 – 410 
Actuarial movement net of tax – – – – – – (2,907) (2,907) – (2,907)
Total comprehensive income  
for the year – – 
– 
– 410 (17,751) 31,042 13,701 223 13,924 
Transactions with owners of the 
Company recognised directly in equity:   
 
       
Dividends paid – – – – – – (12,563) (12,563) – (12,563)
Movement in non-controlling interest – – – – – – – – (162) (162)
Non-controlling interest recognised  
in the period  – – 
– 
– – – – 
– 
1,105 1,105 
Issue of shares 3 811 – – – – – 814 – 814 
Purchase of treasury shares  – – (3,046) – – – – (3,046) – (3,046)
Issue/allocation of treasury of shares – – 3,046 – – – (3,046) – – – 
Share-based payments (net of tax) – – – – – – 2,129 2,129 – 2,129 
Transfers – – – – 311 – (311) – – – 
           
Balance at 30 March 2014 368 89,909 – 106,757 (664) 24,708 123,025 344,103 2,473 346,576 
           
Total comprehensive income:           
Profit – – – – – – 33,569 33,569 109 33,678 
Other comprehensive income:           
Translation of foreign operations – – – – – (9,810) – (9,810) (28) (9,838)
Net movements on cash flow hedges – – – – 166 – – 166 – 166 
Actuarial movement net of tax – – – – – – (5,195) (5,195) – (5,195)
Total comprehensive income  
for the year – – – – 166 (9,810) 28,374 18,730 81 18,811 
Transactions with owners of the 
Company recognised directly in equity:           
Dividends paid – – – – – – (8,372) (8,372) – (8,372)
Movement in non-controlling interest – – – – – – – – (122) (122)
Non-controlling interest recognised  
in the period  – – – – – – – – 803 803 
Non-controlling interest recognised  
in the period: acquisition – – – – – – – – 21 21 
Issue of shares 1 608 – – – – – 609 – 609 
Share-based payments (net of tax) – –  – – – – 2,555 2,555 – 2,555 
           
Balance at 29 March 2015 369 90,517 – 106,757 (498) 14,898 145,582 357,625 3,256 360,881 
The cash flow hedging reserve debit of £498,000 (2014: £664,000 debit and 2013: £1,385,000 debit) represents the fair value gains and 
losses on hedging arrangements that are effective and qualify for cash flow hedge accounting. The brought forward reserve of £664,000 debit 
unwound during the year and revaluation of existing instruments at the balance sheet date gave rise to the closing reserve. The movement on 
cash flow hedges credit of £166,000 includes a £41,000 debit relating to deferred taxation.  
The share-based payment credit of £2,555,000 (2014: £2,129,000) includes a debit of £2,000 (2014: debit £357,000) relating to deferred 
taxation and a credit of £344,000 (2014: credit £1,374,000) relating to current taxation. 
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form part of these financial statements. 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the period 29 March 2015 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the period 29 March 2015
70  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  71 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
1 General information 
Synergy Health plc (‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries (together ‘the Group’) deliver a range of specialist outsourced services to healthcare 
providers and other customers concerned with health management. The Company is registered in the United Kingdom under company 
registration number 3355631 and its registered office is Ground Floor Stella, Windmill Hill Business Park, Whitehill Way, Swindon, Wilts 
SN5 6NX. 
The financial statements are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds and have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the EU (‘IFRS’). The Company has elected to prepare its parent company 
financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (‘UK GAAP’). These are presented on pages 102 to 110. 
2 Accounting policies 
Basis of accounting 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company 
(its subsidiaries) made up to the nearest weekend to 31 March each year. The current accounting period is 52 weeks in length 
(2014: 52 weeks in length).  
Basis of consolidation: Subsidiaries 
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its 
involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. In assessing control, the Group takes  
into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable. The acquisition date is the date on which control is transferred to the 
acquirer. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences 
until the date that control ceases. Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-controlling interests 
even if doing so causes the non-controlling interests to have a deficit balance. Changes in the Group’s interest in a subsidiary that do not 
result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. Where the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the assets and liabilities are 
derecognised along with any related non-controlling interest and other components of equity. Any resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit 
or loss. Any interest retained in the former subsidiary is measured at fair value when control is lost. 
Joint arrangements and associates 
A joint arrangement is an arrangement over which the Group and one or more third parties have joint control. These joint arrangements 
are in turn classified as either a joint venture where the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement rather than rights to its assets 
and obligations for its liabilities; or a joint operation, where the Group has rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to 
the arrangement.  
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies. Significant 
influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity.  
Associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method (equity accounted investees) and are initially recognised at cost. 
The Group’s investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses. The consolidated financial 
statements include the Group’s share of the total comprehensive income and equity movements of equity accounted investees, from the date 
that significant influence or joint control commences until the date that significant influence or joint control ceases. When the Group’s share of 
losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the Group’s carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is 
discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an investee. 
Where the Group is a party to a joint operation, the consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the joint operation’s assets 
and liabilities, as well as the Group’s share of the entity’s profit or loss and other comprehensive income, on a line-by-line basis. 
Transactions eliminated on consolidation 
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated. 
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Group’s 
interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence 
of impairment. 
Measurement convention 
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except as disclosed in the accounting policies set out below.  
Going concern 
In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements the Directors have considered the Group’s business activities as set 
out in the strategic review and regional review, the financial position of the Group and its cash flows and borrowing requirements as set out in 
the Finance Director’s review, and the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 22 to 26. Based on the Group’s cash flow forecasts and 
projections, the Board is satisfied that the Group will be able to operate within the level of its facilities for the foreseeable future. For this reason 
the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the period ended 29 March 2015
71  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
72 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
2 Accounting policies continued 
Business combinations 
The Group applies IFRS 3 (revised) ‘Business combinations’ in accounting for business combinations. The acquisition of subsidiaries is 
accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, 
of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. The 
acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition are recognised at their fair value at 
the acquisition date. Provisional fair value allocations are reviewed and if necessary adjusted no later than one year from the acquisition date. 
Costs that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, 
are expensed as incurred. 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services 
provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes. 
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of services. The services rendered are discrete and routine in nature and are typically 
completed in a short period of time. Revenue is recognised once the service has been completed and where goods are supplied once the 
Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods to the buyer. The Group does not participate in activities 
that give rise to the need to make judgements over the stage of completion of a particular service for the purposes of recognising revenue. 
Non-recurring items 
Non-recurring income and expenses are those items that are one-off in nature and create significant volatility in reported earnings and are 
therefore reported separately in the income statement.  
Retirement benefit costs 
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. Payments made to state-managed 
retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Group’s obligations under the schemes are 
equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme. 
For defined benefit schemes the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being 
carried out at each balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and presented in the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested. 
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for 
unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past 
service cost plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme. 
Finance charges and income 
Interest charges and income are accounted for on an accruals basis. Financing transaction costs that relate to financial liabilities are charged 
to interest expense by reference to the effective interest rate method and are recognised within the carrying value of the related financial liability 
on the balance sheet. Fees paid for the arrangement of credit facilities are recognised through the finance expense over the term of the facility. 
Where assets or liabilities on the Group balance sheet are carried at net present value, the increase in the amount due to unwinding the 
discount is recognised as a finance expense or finance income as appropriate. 
Taxation 
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.  
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for that year. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable 
or deductible. Furthermore, as the Group operates in many jurisdictions and is subject to tax audits which are complex and can take several 
years to conclude, the accrual for current tax includes provisions for uncertain tax positions which require estimates for each matter and the 
exercise of judgement in respect of the interpretation of tax laws and the likelihood of challenge of historical tax positions. As amounts provided 
in any year could differ from the eventual tax liabilities, subsequent adjustments may arise which may have a material impact on the Group’s tax 
rate and/or cash payments. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the liability method. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.  
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures except where 
the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future. Deferred tax is not recognised on taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill or for temporary 
differences arising from the initial recognition of assets and liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affect neither 
accounting nor taxable profit.  
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged 
or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is 
also dealt with in equity. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets 
and liabilities on a net basis. 
  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015
72  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  73 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
2 Accounting policies continued  
Dividends 
Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Group’s shareholders. Interim 
dividends are recorded in the period in which they are approved and paid.  
Intangible assets 
Goodwill 
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable 
assets and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less 
any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the 
income statement. 
Other intangible assets 
Intangible assets acquired by the Group are initially capitalised at fair value as at the date of the acquisition, and subsequently stated at carrying 
value less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: 
Customer-related intangibles  5–15 years 
Trade names  10 years 
Costs incurred in setting up long-term agreements are capitalised as intangible assets and amortised over the life of the contract to which the 
costs relate. Technology licences are amortised from the date that they generate economic benefit and over the period of that benefit. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Land and buildings 
The Group’s policy is not to revalue property for accounting purposes.  
Depreciation 
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of tangible non-current assets (excluding cobalt), less estimated residual values, over their 
estimated useful lives in equal annual instalments as follows: 
Freehold land Not depreciated Plant and machinery 3–20 years 
Freehold property 50 years Office equipment 3–5 years 
Leasehold improvements Period of lease Cobalt 15 years 
Assets in the course of construction Not depreciated Circulating inventory 1–5 years 
Cobalt is depreciated over 15 years; the reducing balance method is used for the first eight years, then the residual net book value is 
depreciated on a straight-line basis over seven years. This method has been selected to align the depreciation charge with the radioactive  
decay profile of the cobalt-60 isotope. Potential decommissioning costs are also capitalised and amortised over 15 years. A corresponding 
provision is recognised in the balance sheet on acquisition.  
Circulating inventory mainly comprises linen textile assets provided to customers on a rental service basis. Assets held under finance leases  
are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease. 
During the year, management reassessed the useful economic lives of certain assets to establish consistency across the Group. The net impact  
of this change in accounting estimate was a recurring and sustainable decrease of 4.3% to the Group’s depreciation charge.  
Assets held under leases 
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.  
Assets held under hire purchase contracts are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, the present value of the 
minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance 
sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to 
achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.  
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Benefits received  
and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets  
At each balance sheet date the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated 
in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from 
other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. An intangible asset with 
an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. 
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset 
(cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. Any impairment in value is recognised in the income statement. 
  
73  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
74 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
2 Accounting policies continued  
Investment property 
Investment properties are properties (land and buildings) which are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for both. 
Investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of the buildings 
over 50 years. Land is not depreciated. 
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs 
and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Net realisable value represents 
the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to 
settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the Director’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance 
sheet date, and are discounted to present value where appropriate.  
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. 
Trade receivables  
Trade receivables are non-derivative financial assets which arise when the Group provides goods or services directly to a third party, and where 
there is no intention of trading the financial asset. The receivables are initially recognised at fair value. They are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. Any change in their value through impairment or reversal of 
impairment is recognised in the income statement. 
Provision against trade receivables is made when objective evidence is received that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due to it  
in accordance with the original terms of those receivables. The amount of the write down is determined as the difference between the asset’s 
carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows. 
Cash and cash equivalents  
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 
Overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are netted off against cash. 
Financial liabilities and equity instruments  
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity 
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Bank borrowings  
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, including premiums 
payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in profit or loss using the effective interest 
rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise. 
Trade payables  
Trade payables are initially measured at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. 
Equity instruments  
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs. 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting  
The Group’s activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Group uses floating 
to fixed interest rate swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts to manage these exposures. Some of these contracts are designated as 
cash flow hedges under IAS 39 ‘Financial instruments: recognition and measurement’. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments 
for speculative purposes. Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.  
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows or against net 
investment in overseas subsidiaries are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income 
statement. If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecasted transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, 
then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity 
are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts 
deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss. 
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement  
as they arise. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. At that time any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted 
transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred 
to the income statement. 
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and 
characteristics are not clearly related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with gains or 
losses reported in the income statement. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015
74  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  75 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
2 Accounting policies continued 
Foreign currencies 
The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it 
operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group 
company are expressed in pounds Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the 
consolidated financial statements. 
In preparing the financial statement of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency (foreign 
currencies) are recorded at rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date monetary assets and 
liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non-monetary items  
that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. 
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the 
income statement.  
In order to manage its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts and options (see above for the details 
of the Group’s accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments). 
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated at 
exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, 
unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.  
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve.  
Share-based payments 
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payments’. In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been 
applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 3 April 2005. 
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value 
(excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value of each award is expensed on a straight-line 
basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based 
vesting conditions. The level of vesting is reviewed annually; the charge is adjusted to reflect actual and estimated levels of vesting.  
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model except for the Long Term Incentive Plan awards which are subject to a Total 
Shareholder Return performance condition where a model following similar principles to the Monte Carlo approach is used. The expected life 
used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and 
behavioural considerations. 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that 
affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. Where estimates and associated 
assumptions are made they are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily 
apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Key areas of judgement, and estimate uncertainty, are set 
out below. 
+ Impairment tests have been undertaken with respect to goodwill (note 11) using commercial judgement and a number of assumptions and 
estimates have been made to support their carrying amounts. Sensitivity analysis as at 29 March 2015 has indicated that no reasonable 
foreseeable change in the key assumptions used in the impairment model will result in a significant impairment charge being recorded in the 
financial statements. In addition, a more detailed review has been carried out on certain Group assets, focusing on whether these assets 
required impairment. Following the review, no impairment was judged to be required. 
+ The designation of certain items of income and of cost as ‘non-recurring’ in nature, and their separate disclosure as such in the primary 
statements of the Group’s consolidated accounts. The recognition of certain contingent transaction costs and their assessed likelihood to 
materialise, as measured against known delivery milestones. 
+ In relation to the Group’s property, plant and equipment (note 13), useful economic lives and residual values of assets have been established 
using historical experience and an assessment of the nature of the assets involved.  
+ In relation to the Group’s cobalt provision, costs of future disposal are based on contractual arrangements with third parties and latest 
disposal cost estimates. 
+ The Group’s cobalt depreciation policy is based on the actual physical decay of the cobalt-60 isotope. 
+ In relation to the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes, actuarial assumptions are established using relevant market benchmark data and 
with the advice of external qualified actuaries. Pension deficit valuations are most sensitive to changes in the underlying discount rate and 
inflation assumptions. 
+ Customer-related intangibles that are acquired as part of an acquisition are valued based on the forecast discounted cash flows arising from 
these customers taking account of historically observed customer attrition rates. 
+ The Group operates in a number of countries, all of which have their own tax legislation. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised  
at the current tax rate which may not be the tax rate at which they unwind. The Group has available tax losses, some of which have been 
recognised and some of which have not, based upon management’s judgement of the ability of the Group to utilise those losses.  
75  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
76 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
2 Accounting policies continued  
Adoption of new and revised standards 
Except for the changes below, the Group has consistently applied the accounting policies set out in this note to all periods presented in these 
consolidated financial statements. 
The Group has adopted the following new standards and amendments to standards, including any consequential amendments to other 
standards, with a date of initial application of 1 January 2014. There was no material impact on the financial performance or position of 
the Group.  
+ Amendments to IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’. 
+ Amendments to IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’. 
+ Amendments to IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of interests in other entities’, 
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2015  
and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. None of these are expected to have a significant effect  
on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. The Group chose not to adopt any of the above standards and interpretations early.  
3 Segmental information 
The Group is organised into three operating segments: Applied Sterilisation Technologies and Laboratory Services (‘AST’), Healthcare Services 
(‘HS’), and Healthcare Solutions (‘HCS’). This represents a change from the reportable segments adopted in previous years, following a 
restructuring of the Group’s internal organisation on 1 April 2014. The comparative information disclosed below for previous periods has 
been restated. 
Information on these segments is reported to the chief operating decision maker (‘CODM’) for the purposes of resource allocation and 
assessment of performance. The chief operating decision maker has been identified as the Board of Directors. The CODM monitors the 
performance of the operating segments based on adjusted operating profit, being operating profit excluding the impact of amortisation on 
acquired intangibles and non-recurring items. Segment information is presented below. 
 
The table below reconciles the total segment profit above, to the Group’s operating profit and profit before tax: 
 
2015 
AST 
£’000 
HS 
£’000 
HCS 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
Revenue from external customers 137,496 175,832 95,496 408,824 
Segment profit 47,294 18,351 6,575 72,220 
Segment depreciation 17,963 6,086 15,483 39,532 
Segment assets 435,501 151,373 94,485 681,359 
     
2014 
AST 
£’000 
HS 
£’000 
HCS  
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
Revenue from external customers 120,378 158,738 101,337 380,453 
Segment profit 41,045 16,781 9,371 67,197 
Segment depreciation 16,741 6,349 16,207 39,297 
Segment assets 410,296 124,189 105,238 639,723 
 
2015 
£’000 
 
2014 
£’000 
Total segment profit 72,220 67,197 
Unallocated amounts:   
– Corporate expenses (7,659) (5,883)
– Non-recurring costs (5,812) (3,254)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (8,606) (8,557)
Operating profit 50,143 49,503 
Net finance costs (6,564) (6,610)
Profit before tax 43,579 42,893 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015
76  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  77 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
3 Segmental information continued  
IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’ requires the Group to disclose information about the extent of its reliance on its major customers. The Group has 
no single customer making up more than 10% of total revenues.  
The table below analyses the Group’s revenue from external customers, and non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred 
taxation and rights under insurance, by geography: 
4 Profit before tax 
Profit before tax has been arrived at after charging: 
Non-recurring items of £5,812,000 (2014: £3,254,000) have been charged in arriving at operating profit. The table and accompanying notes 
provide further details: 
Net non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs during the period were £5.8 million. Acquisition-related professional fees and other  
costs amounted to £4.5 million. The most significant component of this was £2.9 million relating to the proposed combination with STERIS. 
Operational and restructuring costs of £2.5 million primarily relate to the settlement of prior period claims and facility closure costs in the  
Dutch Linen business. 
In the prior year, non-recurring items of £3.3 million were charged in arriving at operating profit. The table below and accompanying notes 
provide further details: 
Net non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs during the period were £3.3 million. £1.4 million related to acquisition transaction fees. 
The most significant component of this cost was £0.6 million (net of the reimbursement of costs under an exclusivity agreement) relating to an 
ultimately unsuccessful acquisition. Within the Netherlands, we have incurred restructuring costs of £1.8 million on the closure of two laundries 
and two wash centres, along with the conversion of a laundry to a wash centre. 
  2015  2014 
 
Revenue 
£’000 
Non-current  
assets  
£’000 
Revenue  
£’000 
Non-current  
assets 
£’000 
UK 160,610 144,360 147,859 146,191 
Netherlands 82,306 100,042 92,528 116,200 
USA 82,702 48,969 76,009 41,793 
Rest of World 83,206 259,649 64,057 223,956 
 408,824 553,020 380,453 528,140 
 
2015 
£’000 
2014 
£’000 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 39,532 39,297 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets  8,606 8,557 
Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 1,071 849 
Cost of inventories recognised as expense 37,768 33,027 
Staff costs (note 5)  152,749 142,386 
Foreign exchange loss 118 140 
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services 477 464 
 £’000 
Costs incurred on the acquisition and disposal of businesses 4,515 
Operational and restructuring costs 2,510 
Gain on disposal of property (281)
Gain on curtailment of retirement benefit scheme (932)
2015 non-recurring charge 5,812 
 £’000 
Closure of certain operating and manufacturing facilities  1,820 
Costs incurred on the acquisition and disposal of businesses  1,353 
Other 81 
2014 non-recurring charge 3,254 
77  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
78 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
4 Profit before tax continued 
A more detailed analysis of auditors’ remuneration is provided below: 
The principal non-audit service was for transaction-related advisory fees, and amounted to £398,000 for the period. 
5 Staff costs 
The average number of monthly employees employed by the Group during the year, including Executive Directors, was as follows: 
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 
Details of the Directors’ aggregate emoluments can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration, commencing on page 52. 
6 Finance income 
7 Finance costs 
 
 
2015 
£’000 
2014  
£’000 
Audit services   
– Audit of these financial statements 73 82 
– Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries 386 366 
 459 448 
– Audit-related regulatory reporting 18 18 
– Other services 453 992 
 
2015 
Number 
2014 
Number 
Production 4,457 4,028 
Selling and distribution 311 328 
Administration 849 751 
 5,617 5,107 
 
2015 
£’000 
2014  
£’000 
Wages and salaries 130,158 123,162 
Social security costs 14,080 12,316 
Share-based payments  2,213 1,112 
Other pension costs 6,298 5,796 
Total staff costs 152,749 142,386 
 
2015 
£’000 
2014  
£’000 
Interest on bank deposits 1,734 1,673 
Interest income on defined benefit pension scheme assets 2,557 2,468 
Total financing income 4,291 4,141 
 
2015 
£’000 
2014 
£’000 
On bank loans and overdrafts 7,091 7,164 
Finance charges in respect of hire purchase loans 278 247 
Other interest payable and similar charges 340 194 
Total external borrowing costs 7,709 7,605 
Unwinding of discount on provisions – 94 
Interest on defined benefit plan obligations 3,146 3,052 
Total financing cost 10,855 10,751 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015
78  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  79 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
8 Taxation 
UK corporation tax is calculated at 21% (2014: 23%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for overseas operations is 
calculated at the local prevailing rates.  
The UK corporation tax rate reduced from 23% to 21% (effective from 1 April 2014) and 20% (effective from 1 April 2015). These changes 
were substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. This will reduce the Company’s future current tax charge accordingly. The deferred tax liability at 
29 March 2015 has been calculated based on the rate of 20% substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.  
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit before tax per the income statement as follows: 
 
9 Dividends 
As a result of the proposed combination with STERIS, the Board chose not to pay an interim dividend, and is not proposing to pay a final 
dividend (2014: 14.20p). The Board will continue to keep its dividend policy under review.  
 
 
2015 
£’000 
 
2014 
£’000 
Current tax:   
UK tax 4,775 4,414 
Overseas tax  9,576 8,707 
Adjustment in respect of prior years (2,285) (2,507)
Total current tax 12,066 10,614 
Deferred tax:   
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (2,235) (919)
Adjustment in respect of prior years 70 (228)
Effect of rate change – (839)
Total deferred tax (2,165) (1,986)
Total tax in income statement 9,901 8,628 
 
2015 
£’000 
 
2014  
£’000 
Profit before tax 43,579 42,893 
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 21% (2014: 23%) 9,152 9,865 
Effect of:   
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes and other permanent differences 2,112 553 
Different tax rates on overseas earnings 943 592 
Overseas withholding tax (3) 116 
Adjustment in respect of prior years (2,215) (2,735)
Effect of change in UK corporation tax rate 98 (629)
Changes in the recognition of tax losses (186) 866 
Tax charge for year 9,901 8,628 
 
2015 
£’000 
2014 
£’000 
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:   
Final dividend for the period ended 31 March 2013 of 12.80p per share – 7,521 
Interim dividend for the period ended 30 March 2014 of 8.57p per share – 5,042 
Final dividend for the period ended 30 March 2014 of 14.20p per share 8,372 – 
 8,372 12,563 
79  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
80 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
10 Earnings per share 
 
 
 
 
2015 
£’000 
 
2014  
£’000 
Earnings   
Earnings for the purposes of basic earnings per share being net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 33,569 33,949 
 
Shares 
’000 
Shares  
’000 
Number of shares   
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 58,998 58,726 
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:   
Share options 554 784 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 59,552 59,510 
Earnings per ordinary share   
Basic  56.90p 57.81p 
Diluted  56.37p 57.05p 
 
2015 
£’000 
 
2014 
£’000 
Adjusted earnings per share   
Operating profit 50,143 49,503 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 8,606 8,557 
Non-recurring items 5,812 3,254 
Adjusted operating profit 64,561 61,314 
Net finance costs (6,564) (6,610)
Adjusted profit on ordinary activities before taxation 57,997 54,704 
Taxation on adjusted profit on ordinary activities (13,346) (12,933)
Non-controlling interest (109) (316)
Adjusted net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 44,542 41,455 
Adjusted basic earnings per share  75.50p 70.59p 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share  74.80p 69.66p 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015
80  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  81 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
11 Goodwill 
Goodwill acquired on a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from 
that business combination. As set out in note 3 there was a restructuring of the Group’s internal reorganisation on 1 April 2014 and goodwill 
has been reallocated to reflect this. The reallocation has been made based on the service line to which the goodwill was most closely associated 
with and the allocation is as shown below. This table also provides the assumptions used by management in assessing the carrying value of 
these amounts. 
The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. An impairment test 
is a comparison of the carrying value of the assets of a segment to their recoverable amount based on a value in use calculation. An impairment 
results where the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value. During the year the goodwill for each segment was separately assessed 
and tested for impairment, with £nil (2014: £nil) impairment charges resulting. In addition, as described in the Audit Committee report on  
page 39, a more detailed review has been carried out on certain Group assets, focusing on whether these assets required impairment. 
Following the review, no impairment was judged to be required. 
As part of testing goodwill for impairment, detailed forecasts of operating cash flows for a period of five years are derived from the most recent 
financial forecasts approved by management. Cash flows for the period beyond the financial forecasts are extrapolated based on estimates of 
future growth rates as disclosed above. For each segment the future growth rates used in the recoverable amount calculation do not exceed  
the long-term average growth rates for the markets to which each segment is dedicated.  
Discount rates have been calculated based on pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the segment. In determining the discount rate management have sought to arrive at a pre-tax weighted average cost of capital using 
the capital asset pricing model to determine the cost of equity and then weighting the overall cost of capital for the Group by equity and debt. 
The discount rates applied to each specific cash-generating unit are set out in the table above. 
A number of key assumptions are used as part of impairment testing. These key assumptions are made by management reflecting 
past experience combined with their knowledge as to future performance and relevant external sources of information. In determining the 
recoverable amount of each segment the key assumptions are discount rate, mid and long-term growth rate, future sales prices and volumes, 
new business won and the cost structure of each business. Sensitivity analysis performed on these key assumptions did not reveal any 
reasonably possible change which could result in recoverable amounts falling below carrying amounts. 
 £’000 
Cost and carrying amount  
At 31 March 2013  223,453 
Exchange differences (8,427)
Recognised on acquisition of businesses 1,220 
At 30 March 2014 216,246 
Exchange differences (8,441)
Recognised on acquisition of businesses 6,740 
At 29 March 2015 214,545 
 2015     2014    
 
Pre-tax 
discount 
rate 
(%) 
Mid-term 
growth 
rates  
(%) 
Perpetuity 
growth 
rates 
(%) £’000  
Pre-tax 
discount 
rate  
(%) 
Mid-
term 
growth 
rates 
(%) 
Perpetuity 
growth 
rates 
(%) £’000 
AST segment 7.9 5 to 10 2.0 161,696  UK & Ireland segment 8.2 8.0 2.0 61,955 
HS segment  8.2 5 to 10 2.0 28,531  Europe & Middle east segment 8.1 4.0 2.0 117,101 
HCS segment 8.2 2 to 5 2.0 24,318  Americas segment 8.3 10.0 2.0 15,558 
      Asia & Africa segment 8.3 8.0 2.0 21,632 
    214,545     216,246 
81  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
82 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
12 Other intangible assets 
Amortisation of intangible assets is included in administrative expenses in the income statement. Other intangibles represent capitalised 
software; £369,000 was transferred from property, plant and equipment during the period.  
 
Trade 
name 
£’000 
Customer  
contracts and 
relationships  
£’000 
Other 
Intangibles 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
Cost     
At 31 March 2013  9,877 83,351 10,442 103,670 
Additions – – 709 709 
Transfers – – 1,671 1,671 
Acquired on acquisition of businesses – 1,654 – 1,654 
Exchange differences (322) (3,301) (58) (3,681)
At 30 March 2014 9,555 81,704 12,764 104,023 
Additions – – 1,718 1,718 
Transfers – – 369 369 
Acquired on acquisition of businesses – 3,351 730 4,081 
Exchange differences (377) (2,028) – (2,405)
At 29 March 2015 9,178 83,027 15,581 107,786 
     
Amortisation     
At 31 March 2013 6,652 38,595 2,134 47,381 
Charge for the year 1,099 7,458 849 9,406 
Exchange differences (218) (1,231) – (1,449)
At 30 March 2014 7,533 44,822 2,983 55,338 
Charge for the year 915 7,651 1,111 9,677 
Exchange differences (296) (1,590) – (1,886)
At 29 March 2015 8,152 50,883 4,094 63,129 
     
Carrying amount     
At 29 March 2015 1,026 32,144 11,487 44,657 
At 30 March 2014 2,022 36,882 9,781 48,685 
At 31 March 2013  3,225 44,756 8,308 56,289 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015
82  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  83 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
13 Property, plant and equipment 
The carrying amount of the Group’s plant and equipment includes an amount of £14.4 million (2014: 11.2 million) in respect of assets held 
under hire purchase loan contracts. 
At the balance sheet date, the Group had no land and buildings assets pledged to secure banking facilities or other loans granted to the Group 
(2014: land and buildings assets with a carrying value of £nil). 
At 29 March 2015, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to  
£4.1 million (2014: £2.4 million). 
Included in the cost of property, plant and equipment is £nil (2014: £805,000) of capitalised interest. 
 
 
Land and 
buildings  
£’000 
Plant, 
machinery 
and office 
equipment 
£’000 
Cobalt 
£’000 
Circulating  
inventory  
£’000 
Assets in 
course of 
construction 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
Cost        
At 31 March 2013 110,015 175,787 98,916 66,016 11,744 462,478 
Additions 2,655 6,091 10,690 14,330 3,908 37,674 
Disposals (549) (11,963) (4,141) (18,130) (77) (34,860)
Transfers 2,734 2,027 – – (9,659) (4,898)
Exchange differences (5,874) (7,577) (9,227) (2,947) (611) (26,236)
At 30 March 2014 108,981 164,365 96,238 59,269 5,305 434,158 
Additions 8,230 14,658 12,582 17,389 9,258 62,117 
Disposals (2,074) (2,384) (2,459) (10,657) (1,058) (18,632)
Acquisitions 9,919 5,939 – – – 15,858 
Exchange differences (3,320) (7,412) (4,764) (1,242) 591 (16,147)
Transfers 8 692 – – (1,338) (638)
At 29 March 2015 121,744 175,858 101,597 64,759 12,758 476,716 
       
Accumulated depreciation and impairment       
At 31 March 2013 28,928 80,604 37,279 35,962 – 182,773 
Charge for the year 7,958 8,975 8,474 13,890 – 39,297 
Disposals (428) (11,421) (4,136) (16,765) – (32,750)
Transfers (196) (1,280) – 52 – (1,424)
Exchange differences (1,779) (4,840) (5,236) (1,690) – (13,545)
At 30 March 2014 34,483 72,038 36,381 31,449 – 174,351 
Charge for the year 4,381 12,806 8,722 13,623 – 39,532 
Disposals (1,561) (2,265) (2,460) (9,673) – (15,959)
Transfers – (269) – – – (269)
Exchange differences  (1,959) (5,698) (2,660) (1,551) – (11,868)
At 29 March 2015 35,344 76,612 39,983 33,848 – 185,787 
       
Carrying amount       
At 29 March 2015 86,400 99,246 61,614 30,911 12,758 290,929 
At 30 March 2014 74,498 92,327 59,857 27,820 5,305 259,807 
At 31 March 2013  81,087 95,183 61,637 30,054 11,744 279,705 
83  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
84 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
14 Inventories 
The value of stock recognised as cost of sales is shown in note 4. The write down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to £158,000 
(2014: £193,000). The write down is included in cost of sales. 
15 Asset held for sale 
At both the start and the end of the period the Group held a US office building in current assets as an asset held for sale. This asset was and still 
is expected to be disposed of outside the Group within the next twelve months. 
16 Trade and other receivables 
The average credit period taken on sales of goods and services is 53 days (2014: 51 days). The Directors consider that the carrying amounts 
of trade and other receivables approximate their fair value. 
17 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about 
the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 18. The Directors consider that the carrying amount of the Group’s 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings approximates to their fair value. 
 
 
2015 
£’000 
2014 
£’000 
Raw materials 2,330 4,131 
Work-in-progress 1,360 225 
Finished goods 7,897 8,336 
Process consumables 1,300 785 
 12,887 13,477 
  
 
£’000 
At 31 March 2013  – 
Transfer in the year  2,765 
At 30 March 2014  2,765 
Exchange differences  427 
At 29 March 2015  3,192 
 
2015 
£’000 
2014 
£’000 
Current   
Amounts receivable for the sale of goods and services 62,514 50,697 
Other receivables 2,795 3,947 
Prepayments and accrued income 9,999 6,886 
 75,308 61,530 
Non-current   
Other receivables 566 1,508 
Prepayments 1,374 1,512 
 1,940 3,020 
   
Total 77,248 64,550 
 
2015 
£’000 
2014 
£’000 
Current liabilities   
Bank loans 572 348 
Bank overdrafts – 1,548 
Other interest-bearing loans – – 
Finance lease liabilities 2,658 2,039 
 3,230 3,935 
Long-term liabilities   
Bank loans 146,051 126,512 
Other interest-bearing loans 43,829 48,381 
Finance lease liabilities 4,907 2,562 
 194,787 177,455 
Total 198,017 181,390 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015
84  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  85 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
17 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued 
Analysis of borrowings by currency 
The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows: 
Terms and debt repayment schedule  
On 2 August 2011, the Group entered into new Revolving Credit Facilities with a club of banks. The new Revolving Credit Facilities were used  
to refinance the Group’s previous syndicated loan facility of £160 million, which had been due for repayment on 15 January 2012. The new 
Revolving Credit Facilities comprise one facility of £105 million, and a second facility of €130 million. Both Facilities are unsecured and attract  
a floating rate of interest, although fixing arrangements have been entered into as described in note 18.  
On 13 September 2012, the Group issued a US Private Placement note with a value of €20.6 million. The Private Placement note is due for 
repayment in September 2019. 
On 11 September 2013, the Group issued two further US Private Placement notes, one with a value of £10 million and the other with a value  
of €25.1million. The Private Placement notes are due for repayment in September 2020. 
At 29 March 2015, the Group had available £54.5 million of undrawn committed borrowing facilities. In addition, the Group had an undrawn 
overdraft facility of £10 million which it expects to renew during the financial year. 
Financial liabilities gross maturity 
The following are the contractual cash flows of financial liabilities, including interest payments: 
 
 
Total 
£’000 
Sterling  
£’000 
Euros 
£’000 
US Dollars 
£’000 
2015     
Bank loans 146,623 20,341 38,905 87,377 
Other interest-bearing loans 43,829 10,000 33,829 – 
Finance lease liabilities 7,565 5,616 1,949 – 
 198,017 35,957 74,683 87,377 
2014     
Bank loans 126,860 21,902 37,957 67,001 
Bank overdrafts 1,548 1,417 – 131 
Other interest-bearing loans 48,381 10,000 38,381 – 
Finance lease liabilities 4,601 4,601 – – 
 181,390 37,920 76,338 67,132 
 
2015 
% 
2014 
% 
Bank overdrafts 2.3 2.3 
Bank and other loans 2.9 2.9 
2015 
Carrying 
value 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
0–6 months 
£’000 
6–12 months  
£’000 
1–3 years 
£’000 
>3 years 
£’000 
Trade payables 27,618 27,618 27,618 – – – 
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 49,412 49,412 49,412 – – – 
Contingent consideration 1,357 1,469 1,011 33 131 294 
Bank loans less than one year 572 581 296 285 – – 
Bank overdrafts – – – – – – 
Other interest-bearing loans less than one year – – – – – – 
Finance leases less than one year 2,658 2,682 1,341 1,341 – – 
Bank loans greater than one year 146,051 149,239 977 977 147,043 242 
Other interest-bearing loans greater than one year 43,829 51,906 788 788 3,151 47,179 
Finance leases greater than one year 4,907 5,484 – – 3,273 2,211 
Financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) 276,404 288,391 81,443 3,424 153,598 49,926 
Derivative financial assets 623 623 623 – – – 
Financial liabilities 277,027 289,014 82,066 3,424 153,598 49,926 
85  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
86 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
17 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued 
Financial liabilities gross maturity continued 
Finance lease liabilities 
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows: 
All finance lease liabilities are contracted at fixed rates of interest, in both years. 
18 Financial instruments 
Financial instruments carried at fair value are required to be measured by reference to the following levels: 
Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities 
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) 
or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) 
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). 
All financial instruments carried at fair value have been measured by a Level 2 valuation method, with the exception of contingent consideration 
which is measured by a Level 3 valuation method.  
a) Financial risk management objectives and policies 
The Group’s principal financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise bank loans, finance leases and cash. The main purpose of these 
financial instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s operations. The Group also has various other financial instruments such as trade 
receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations. 
The Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts. The purpose is to manage the 
interest rate and currency risks arising from the Group’s operations and its sources of finance. 
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken. 
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Board 
reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below. 
b) Interest rate risk 
The Group is subject to fluctuations in interest rates on its loans and surplus cash deposits. At 29 March 2015 and 30 March 2014 the Group 
held hedging arrangements in order to fix the interest charge on $35.0 million of its bank debt. 
The swap arrangements cover: 
Amounts to be paid or received under these arrangements will be recognised in the interest expense consistent with the terms of the 
agreement. The expiry of each agreement is disclosed in the table above. 
The arrangements are fully effective in fixing the interest on the underlying debt. In revaluing them to fair value, the Group has recognised 
£623,000 (2014: £830,000) in current liabilities and equity, net of the associated deferred tax amount. 
2014 
Carrying 
value 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
0–6 months 
£’000 
6–12 months  
£’000 
1–3 years 
£’000 
>3 years 
£’000 
Trade payables 17,169 17,169 17,169 – – – 
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 51,030 51,030 51,030 – – – 
Contingent consideration 1,126 1,269 33 222 652 362 
Bank loans less than one year 348 348 348 – – – 
Bank overdrafts 1,548 1,548 1,548 – – – 
Other interest-bearing loans less than one year – – – – – – 
Finance leases less than one year 2,039 2,088 1,295 793 – – 
Bank loans greater than one year 126,512 131,623 857 857 129,909 – 
Other interest-bearing loans greater than one year 48,381 58,883 868 868 3,471 53,676 
Finance leases greater than one year 2,562 2,738 47 47 2,644 – 
Financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) 250,715 266,696 73,195 2,787 136,676 54,038 
Derivative financial assets 830 830 830 – – – 
Financial liabilities 251,545 267,526 74,025 2,787 136,676 54,038 
   2015   2014 
 
Minimum lease 
payments 
£’000 
Interest 
£’000 
Principal 
£’000 
Minimum lease  
payments  
£’000 
Interest  
£’000 
Principal 
£’000 
Less than one year 2,682 24 2,658 2,088 49 2,039 
Between one and five years 5,484 577 4,907 2,738 176 2,562 
 8,166 601 7,565 4,826 225 4,601 
Debt covered  Fixed rate Expiry 
$35 million 2.5% 31 March 2016 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015
86  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  87 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
18 Financial instruments continued 
b) Interest rate risk continued 
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on the element of the total Group interest which 
is not subject to fixed interest arrangements. The reasonable change is based on the difference between current market interest rates and two 
year forward rates: 
c) Foreign currency risk 
The Group’s principal currency exposures are to fluctuations in the exchange rate between Sterling and the Euro and between Sterling and the 
US Dollar. The Group’s policy is to ensure that the proportion of interest cost in each currency is consistent with the proportion of earnings in 
that currency. By arranging its affairs in this manner, the Group seeks to ensure that there is no disproportionate impact on its results as a result 
of exchange rate movements. 
During the 12 months to March 2015 the average exchange rate for Sterling against the Euro strengthened by 8% in comparison with the 12 
month average to March 2014. An 8% weakening in the average exchange rate for Sterling against the Euro over the entire year to March 2015 
would have resulted in decreased adjusted operating profit of £1.9 million (2014: a 3% strengthening, which would have led to an increase of 
£0.8 million). This analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant. An 8% strengthening in the average exchange rate for Sterling 
against the Euro would have an equal but opposite effect. 
During the 12 months to March 2015 the average exchange rate for Sterling against the US Dollar has strengthened by 1% in comparison to  
the 12 month average to March 2014. A 1% weakening in the average exchange rate for Sterling against the US Dollar over the entire year  
to March 2015 would have resulted in reduced adjusted operating profit of £0.1 million (2014: a 1% weakening, which would have led to a 
reduction of £0.0 million). This analysis assumes all other variables remain constant. A 1% strengthening in the average exchange rate for 
Sterling against the US Dollar would have an equal but opposite effect. 
Where the Group subsidiaries make significant purchases in non-functional currencies, such as US and Canadian Dollars, the Group enters into 
forward exchange currency contracts to manage this exposure. The Group utilises currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions 
and cash flows in foreign currencies and is a party to a variety of foreign currency forward contracts in the management of its exchange rate 
exposures. The instruments purchased are denominated in the functional currencies of the Group’s trading entities and its suppliers. 
The Group does not trade in derivatives. The derivatives held hedge-specific exposures and have maturities designed to match the exposures 
they are hedging. It is the intention to hold the financial instruments giving rise to the exposure and the underlying hedged item until maturity 
and therefore no net gain or loss is expected to be realised. 
Additionally, the Group holds net Euro and US Dollar denominated loans in UK companies totalling £72.7 million and £87.4 million respectively 
(2014: £76.3 million and £67.1 million respectively). This represents a fully effective designated net investment hedge against the first £72.7 
million of the Group’s Euro denominated net assets of £129.2 million and £87.4 million of the Group’s US Dollar denominated net assets of 
£127.4 million (2014: £76.3 million of £133.2 million and £67.1 million of £76.6 million). The revaluation of these loans resulted in  
a gain of £4.7 million (2014: gain of £2.0 million) which has been posted to the translation reserve. 
d) Credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations 
and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers. The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure 
spread over a large number of counterparties and customers. The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The 
amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for impairment. The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and 
cash, and trade and other receivables. The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties 
are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies. 
Management has credit policies in place to manage risk and to monitor exposure to risk on an ongoing basis. These include the use of 
customer-specific credit limits based on third party credit reports and in cases of customer default or requests for credit above agreed limits the 
use of pro forma invoices to secure payment in advance of delivery. Given these factors and based on extensive past experience, the Group 
believes that its financial assets are of good credit quality.  
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. Therefore, the maximum exposure to credit risk at the 
balance sheet date was £102,827,000 (2014: £89,963,000) being the total trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the 
balance sheet. 
The Group’s customer base mainly comprises major medical device companies, commercial distributors, NHS Trusts and healthcare providers, 
including public sector, private sector and charitable organisations, throughout the world. No single customer or top 10 customer grouping 
accounts for a significant proportion of the Group’s trade receivables. The Group has in place an insurance policy to cover the majority of its 
UK export customers. 
 
Increase/(decrease)  
in basis points 
 
Effect on profit after 
tax and equity 
£’000 
2015 5/(5) (52)/52 
2014 32/(32) (261)/261 
87  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
88 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
18 Financial instruments continued 
Credit quality of trade receivables and impairment losses  
At the balance sheet date, the ageing of trade receivables was: 
Financial assets are reviewed for impairment at the balance sheet date and a full provision for impairment is made against trade receivables that 
are not considered to be recoverable. The total provision against trade receivables at the period end was £313,000 (2014: £645,000), of which 
the majority relates to amounts more than 90 days overdue. 
No further analysis has been provided for cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables from Group companies, other trade receivables and 
other financial assets as there is limited exposure to credit risk and no provisions for impairment have been recognised. 
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. Details of the maturity of the Group’s 
financial liabilities are given in note 17. 
Capital management 
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are: 
i. to safeguard the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits to other 
stakeholders, and 
ii. to provide an adequate return to shareholders by (a) pricing products and services commensurate with the level of risk and (b) ensuring that returns 
on new investment programmes will maintain or increase shareholder returns. 
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the 
capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares, if required. 
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the periods ended 29 March 2015 and 30 March 2014. 
The table below presents the quantitative data for the components the Group manages as capital: 
 
Group 
2015 
£’000 
2014 
£’000 
Current 46,773 35,697 
1–30 days overdue 9,874 9,276 
31–60 days overdue 2,537 2,269 
61–90 days overdue 1,820 1,382 
More than 90 days overdue 1,510 2,073 
 62,514 50,697 
 
2015 
£’000 
2014 
£’000 
Shareholders’ funds 357,625 344,103 
Finance leases 7,565 4,601 
Bank loans 146,623 126,860 
Other interest-bearing loans 43,829 48,381 
Bank overdrafts – 1,548 
 555,642 525,493 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015
88  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  89 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
19 Deferred tax 
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior 
reporting period: 
The Group has deferred tax assets of £4,410,000 (2014: £4,802,000) in respect of capital and trading tax losses that have not been recognised 
as their recoverability is uncertain. Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where appropriate. 
The UK corporation tax rate reduced from 23% to 21% (effective from 1 April 2014) and 20% (effective from 1 April 2015). These changes 
were substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. The deferred tax liability at 29 March 2015 has been calculated based on the rate of 20% 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.  
20 Trade and other payables 
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken 
for trade purchases is 48 days (2014: 44 days).  
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.  
  
 
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£’000 
Recognition of 
intangibles 
£’000 
Share-based 
payments 
£’000 
Other temporary  
differences  
£’000 
Pension 
schemes 
£’000 
 
 
Total 
£’000 
At 31 March 2013 11,530 7,995 (1,960) (5,217) (3,669) 8,679 
Charge/(credit) to income 145 (2,182) (115) (350) 516 (1,986)
Charge/(credit) to equity and other  
comprehensive income – – 357 145 (159) 343 
Acquired with business during the period – 583 – – – 583 
Transfer from other liabilities – – – – (45) (45)
Exchange differences (27) – – – (18) (45)
At 30 March 2014 11,648 6,396 (1,718) (5,422) (3,375) 7,529 
Charge/(credit) to income (541) (1,041) (443) (594) 454 (2,165)
Charge/(credit) to equity and other  
comprehensive income – – 2 41 (1,296) (1,253)
Acquired with business during the period 974 918 – – – 1,892 
Exchange differences (536) 208 – (427) 59 (696)
At 29 March 2015 11,545 6,481 (2,159) (6,402) (4,158) 5,307 
 
2015
£’000 
2014 
£’000 
Current   
Trade payables 27,618 17,169 
Deferred contingent consideration 1,019 213 
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 49,412 51,030 
 78,049 68,412 
Non-current   
Deferred contingent consideration 338 913 
 78,387 69,325 
89  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
90 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
21 Provisions  
The cobalt disposal cost provision recognises a decommissioning liability in respect of radioactive isotopes of cobalt used at certain of the 
Group’s AST sites. This provision is being utilised as the cobalt to which the provision relates reaches the end of its useful economic life. 
Other provisions include provisions against vacated properties and other restructuring costs. These are expected to unwind over the next  
one to five years. 
22 Share capital 
During the year, the Company issued 213,644 ordinary shares (2014: 646,711 ordinary shares) of 0.625p in respect of options exercised 
under share option schemes. Proceeds amounted to £609,000 (2014: £814,000,000). The difference between the total consideration and  
the total nominal value of shares issued has been credited to the share premium account. 
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings  
of the Group. 
  
 
Cobalt  
disposal costs 
£’000 
Other 
provisions
£’000 
Total
£’000 
At 30 March 2014 5,877 4,349 10,226 
Additional provision in the year 241 627 868 
Unwinding of discounting – – – 
Utilised in the year (144) (2,418) (2,562)
Acquired with businesses during the period – 1,007 1,007 
Exchange differences (12) (136) (148)
At 29 March 2015 5,962 3,429 9,391 
    
Included in non-current liabilities 5,962 1,859 7,821 
Included in current liabilities – 1,570 1,570 
 5,962 3,429 9,391 
 
2015 
£’000 
2014 
£’000 
Allotted, called up and fully paid 369 368 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015
90  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  91 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
23 a) Acquisition of subsidiary – IDtek  
On 3 November 2014, the Group acquired 70% of the issued share capital of IDtek Track-and-Trace SA (‘IDtek’), a company incorporated  
in Switzerland, gaining control of the company and its subsidiaries. 
IDtek provides RFID-led solutions to a wide range of industries including energy and automotive sectors, and it is our intention to utilise its 
expertise and intellectual property to develop new services for the healthcare market.  
The provisional fair value of the net assets acquired and the related consideration were as follows: 
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of the business is attributable to the synergies generated following the integration of IDtek into the Group, 
and has been allocated to the HS segment.  
In accordance with IFRS 3 (revised) ‘Business combinations’, management have made adjustments to the book value of net assets acquired 
to arrive at the fair values disclosed above.  
Total transaction costs of £97,000 were incurred in the acquisition and were expensed within non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs.  
Summary of cash flows: 
Summary of deferred consideration: 
 
  
 
Provisional 
fair value
£’000 
Property, plant and equipment 13 
Intangible assets 730 
Inventories 33 
Trade and other receivables 533 
Cash and cash equivalents 288 
Trade and other payables (497)
Corporation tax payable (53)
Long-term payables (202)
Minority interest (21)
Fair value of assets acquired 824 
  
Cash consideration 2,286 
Deferred consideration 426 
Total consideration 2,712 
  
Goodwill arising on acquisition 1,888 
 £’000 
Cash consideration 2,286 
Cash acquired with business (288)
 1,998 
 £’000 
At acquisition 426 
Foreign exchange movement 32 
As at 29 March 2015 458 
91  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
92 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
23 b) Acquisition of subsidiary – Bioster  
On 15 May 2014, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Bioster S.p.A. and associated companies (‘Bioster’). 
Bioster Group operates ethylene oxide and electron beam sterilisation facilities in Italy, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, providing sterilisation 
services to the medical device, pharmaceutical and packaging industries. In addition, it operates an HS business in Italy. 
The provisional fair value of the net assets acquired and the related consideration were as follows: 
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of the business is attributable to the assembled workforce and the synergies generated following the 
integration of Bioster into the Group and has been allocated to the AST segment.  
In accordance with IFRS 3 (revised) ‘Business combinations’, management have made adjustments to the book value of net assets acquired 
to arrive at the fair values disclosed above. The most significant of these adjustments include recognition of intangible assets (customer lists), 
the recognition of deferred taxation liabilities, and the application of IFRS to the recognition of assets under finance leases and the associated 
finance lease liabilities. 
Total transaction costs of £375,000 were incurred in the acquisition of Bioster and were expensed within non-recurring items and acquisition-
related costs.  
During the period, the Bioster Group contributed £15,000,000 to revenue and £1,794,000 to operating profit.  
Summary of cash flows: 
Summary of deferred contingent consideration: 
 
 
Provisional 
fair value 
£’000 
Property, plant and equipment 15,845 
Intangible assets 3,351 
Investments 9 
Inventories 80 
Trade and other receivables 11,871 
Cash and cash equivalents 280 
Borrowing due within one year (3,517)
Trade and other payables (14,952)
Corporation tax payable (122)
Bank overdraft (1,902)
Borrowings due after one year (4,073)
Other provisions (1,007)
Deferred taxation liabilities (1,892)
Fair value of assets acquired 3,971 
  
Cash consideration 9,020 
Deferred contingent consideration (597)
Total consideration 8,423 
  
Goodwill arising on acquisition 4,452 
 £’000 
Cash consideration 9,020 
Cash acquired with business 1,622 
 10,642 
 £’000 
At acquisition (597)
Foreign exchange movement 66 
As at 29 March 2015 (531)
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015
92  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  93 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
23 c) Prior period acquisition of subsidiary – Genon 
On 31 January 2014, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Genon Laboratories Limited (‘Genon’), a company incorporated  
in England, as part of its strategy to expand the scale of its laboratory services business. 
The fair value of the net assets acquired and the related consideration were as follows: 
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of the business is attributable to the assembled workforce and the synergies generated following the 
integration of Genon into the Group.  
In accordance with IFRS 3 (revised) ‘Business combinations’, management have made adjustments to the book value of net assets acquired 
to arrive at the fair values disclosed above. The most significant of these is the recognition of intangible assets (customer lists). 
Total transaction costs of £46,000 were incurred in the acquisition and were expensed within non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs. 
During the period, the Genon business contributed £931,000 to revenue and £429,000 to operating profit.  
Summary of cash flows: 
Summary of deferred contingent consideration: 
 
 
Fair value
£’000 
Intangible assets 1,331 
Inventories 10 
Trade and other receivables 264 
Cash and cash equivalents 670 
Trade and other payables (424)
Deferred taxation liabilities (266)
Fair value of assets acquired 1,585 
  
Cash consideration 2,025 
Deferred consideration 20 
Contingent consideration 500 
Total consideration 2,545 
  
Goodwill arising on acquisition 960 
 £’000 
Cash consideration 2,025 
Cash acquired with business (670)
 1,355 
 £’000 
At acquisition and 29 March 2015 520 
93  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
94 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
23 d) Prior period acquisition of subsidiary – SH Logistics 
As part of the acquisition of Isotron plc and its group in 2007, the Group obtained a 50% interest in a jointly-controlled entity, Synergy Health 
Logistics B.V. (previously named Isotron Logistics B.V.) (‘SH Logistics’), whose principal activity is the provision of logistics consultancy and 
which is incorporated and operates in the Netherlands. 
On 1 April 2013, the Group purchased the remaining 50% of the issued share capital of SH Logistics from the joint venture partner. 
The fair value of the net assets acquired and the related consideration were as follows: 
The goodwill arising on the acquisition is attributable to the assembled workforce and the synergies generated following the integration of the 
remaining 50% of the business into the Group.  
Total transaction costs of £18,000 were incurred in the acquisition and were expensed within non-recurring items and acquisition-related 
costs. During the period, the Group’s increased ownership of the SH Logistics business contributed £455,000 to revenue and £114,000  
to operating profit. 
Summary of cash flows: 
Summary of deferred consideration: 
 
 
Fair value
£’000 
Cash and cash equivalents 8 
Fair value of assets acquired 8 
  
  
Cash consideration 134 
Deferred consideration 134 
Total consideration 268 
  
Goodwill arising on acquisition 260 
 £’000 
Cash consideration 134 
Cash acquired with business (8)
 126 
 £’000 
At acquisition 134 
Amounts paid (129)
Exchange difference (5)
As at 29 March 2015 – 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015
94  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  95 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
24 Operating lease arrangements 
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases, which fall due as follows: 
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its properties, vehicles and equipment.  
25 Share-based payments 
The Group recognised total expenses of £2,213,000 related to share-based payment transactions in the period (2014: £1,112,000). The Group 
has operated seven separate share option schemes in the past. By the start of the previous period, this had fallen to only four. 
The Executive Share Option Scheme 2007 
This scheme was adopted on 3 July 2007 and was approved by the Inland Revenue on 12 July 2007. It is administered by the Board and is 
open to all employees, and to Directors who devote not less than 25 hours per week to their duties. 
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to the date 
of grant. The vesting period is three years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of 10 years from the date of grant, the options expire. 
Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest except in the case of retirement, redundancy or similar situations. 
Options granted to a participating individual are Approved options to the extent that, when taken together with any other Approved options held 
by that individual, they do not exceed £30,000 in value. Any option granted in excess of that figure is Unapproved.  
Exercise of the options is subject to performance conditions determined by the Remuneration Committee linked to a sustained and significant 
improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company over a three-year period. Options granted during the year will vest in 
accordance with an increase in the Company’s earnings per share, adjusted for the amortisation of acquired intangibles, and non-
recurring items. 
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £20.00 (2014: £11.47).  
The options outstanding at 29 March 2015 were exercisable at prices between £5.05 and £7.96 and had a weighted average remaining 
contractual life of 2.9 years (2014: 3.9 years). No options were granted in the period ended 29 March 2015, or in the period ended 
30 March 2014. 
The approved share option plan 
The approved share option plan was adopted on 13 July 2001 and was approved by the Inland Revenue on 3 August 2001. It is administered 
by the Board and was open to all employees, and to Directors who devote not less than 25 hours per week to their duties. No further options will 
be granted under this scheme. 
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to the date 
of grant. The vesting period is between three and four years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of 10 years from the date of grant, 
the options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest. 
 
2015
£’000 
2014
£’000 
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the year 6,398 6,348 
 
2015
£’000 
2014
£’000 
In one year or less 6,823 6,758 
Between one and five years 16,724 16,823 
In five years or more 19,850 19,301 
 43,397 42,882 
 
2015 2014 
Number of 
share 
options 
(£)
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
 (£) 
Number of 
share 
options 
(£) 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
 (£) 
Outstanding at beginning of period 89,122 7.27 157,444 7.36 
Forfeited during the period (4,296) 7.96 (15,198) 7.96 
Exercised during the period  (15,961) 7.22 (53,124) 7.33 
Outstanding at end of period 68,865 7.24 89,122 7.27 
Exercisable at end of period 68,865 7.24 89,122 7.27 
95  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
96 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
25 Share-based payments continued 
The approved share option plan continued 
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
The ‘Phantom’ Performance Share Plan (‘Phantom PSP’) 
The Phantom PSP was adopted by the Group in a similar manner to the PSP scheme following the acquisition of Isotron plc. It was available  
to certain overseas employees of the Group. No new options will be granted under this scheme. The scheme was cash-settled. 
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
The Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) 
Following the acquisition of Isotron plc, the Group allowed members of the Isotron PSP scheme to roll forward their entitlement into an identical 
scheme based on Synergy shares. No new options will be granted under this scheme.  
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
The options outstanding at 29 March 2015 were exercisable at an exercise price of £0.83 and had a weighted average remaining contractual 
life of 1.33 years (2014: 2.3 years). No options were granted in the period ended 29 March 2015, or in the period ended 30 March 2014. 
The Save As You Earn scheme 
The Save As You Earn scheme was adopted on 13 July 2001 and is open to all UK employees and full-time Directors who have at least six 
months’ service with the Group. Options are granted for a period of either three, five or seven years. 
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to the date 
of grant discounted by 20%. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest except in the case of retirement, 
redundancy or similar situations. 
  2015  2014 
 
Number of 
share options
(£)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price  
 (£) 
Number of 
share options 
(£) 
Weighted 
average
exercise price 
 (£) 
Outstanding at beginning of period – – 4,413 3.86 
Forfeited during the period – – – – 
Exercised during the period – – (4,413) 3.86 
Outstanding at end of period – – – – 
Exercisable at end of period – – – – 
 
 2015  2014 
Number of 
share options 
(£)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
 (£) 
Number of 
share options 
 (£) 
Weighted 
average
exercise price
 (£) 
Outstanding at beginning of period – – 1,066 0.83 
Forfeited during the period – – – – 
Exercised during the period – – (1,066) 0.83 
Outstanding at end of period – – – – 
Exercisable at end of period – – – – 
 
 2015  2014 
Number of 
share options 
(£)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
 (£) 
Number of 
 share options 
 (£) 
Weighted 
average
exercise price
 (£) 
Outstanding at beginning of period 2,886 0.83 5,699 0.83 
Forfeited during the period – – (602) 0.83 
Exercised during the period – – (2,211) 0.83 
Outstanding at end of period 2,886 0.83 2,886 0.83 
Exercisable at end of period 2,886 0.83 2,886 0.83 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015
96  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  97 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
25 Share-based payments continued 
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £19.98 (2014: £12.22).  
The options outstanding at 29 March 2015 were exercisable at prices between £5.27 and £8.41 and had a weighted average remaining 
contractual life of 2.4 years (2014: 2.9 years). During the year ended 29 March 2015 no options were granted. 
The Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) 
The LTIP for executive Directors and senior executives was approved at the Annual General Meeting on 28 June 2005 and is described in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration on page 52.  
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £13.99 (2014: £11.21). The options 
outstanding at 29 March 2015 were exercisable at a price of £0.01, being the nominal value of the ordinary shares, and had a weighted 
average remaining contractual life of 7.9 years (2014: 8.1 years).  
During the year ended 29 March 2015 options were granted on 20 June, 25 June, 11 July, 14 July and 15 July 2014. The aggregate of the 
estimated fair values of the options granted on these dates that were expected to vest was £1.5 million. During the year ended 30 March 2014 
options were granted on 1 August 2013. The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on this date that were expected to 
vest was £0.6 million. The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year is £6.45 (2014: £2.38). 
The fair value of an award of shares under the LTIP has been adjusted to take into account Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) as a market-based 
performance condition, using a pricing model that takes into account expectations about volatility and the correlation of share price returns in 
the comparator group. The model follows similar principles as the Monte Carlo approach and takes into account that TSR vesting and share 
price performance are not independent. 
The inputs into the fair value models are as follows: 
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous three years at the date of 
grant. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, 
exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
 
  2015  2014 
 
Number of 
share options
(£)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price  
 (£) 
Number of 
share options
(£) 
Weighted 
average
exercise price 
 (£) 
Outstanding at beginning of period 341,557 7.49 331,025 6.93 
Granted during the period – – 114,144 6.93 
Forfeited during the period (14,491) 8.08 (39,802) 7.34 
Exercised during the period  (75,259) 6.55 (63,810) 6.29 
Outstanding at end of period 251,807 7.74 341,557 7.49 
Exercisable at end of period – – – – 
 
 2015  2014 
Number of 
share options 
(£)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
 (£) 
Number of 
share options 
 (£) 
Weighted 
average
exercise price 
 (£) 
Outstanding at beginning of period 1,124,633 0.01 1,575,573 0.01 
Granted during the period 238,643 0.01 274,545 0.01 
Forfeited during the period  (245,523) 0.01 (202,332) 0.01 
Exercised during the period (122,424) 0.01 (523,153) 0.01 
Outstanding at end of period 995,329 0.01 1,124,633 0.01 
Exercisable at end of period 94,281 0.01 72,953 0.01 
 2015 2014 
Weighted average share price £14.05 £11.16 
Weighted average exercise price £0.01 £0.01 
Expected volatility 18.00% 17.60% 
Expected life in years 3.0 3.0 
Risk free rate 1.46% 0.62% 
Dividend yield 1.94% 1.93% 
97  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
98 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
26 Retirement benefit schemes  
Defined contribution schemes 
The Group contributes towards a number of defined contribution and stakeholder schemes. The assets of these schemes are administered  
by trustees and held in funds independent from the assets of the Group. 
The total cost charged to income of £5,158,000 (2014: £4,709,000) represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group at rates 
specified in the rules of the plans.  
Defined benefit schemes 
The Group participates in seven defined benefit pension schemes: three in the UK, one in the Netherlands, two in Germany, and one in 
Switzerland. In addition, the Group participates in a multi-employer scheme in the Netherlands. These schemes expose the Group to actuarial 
risks such as: market (investment) risk, interest rate risk, inflation risk currency risk and longevity risk. They do not expose the Group to any 
unusual scheme-specific or Group-specific risks. 
Disclosures relating to UK schemes 
The Group sponsors the schemes which are funded defined benefit arrangements. Each is a separate trustee administered fund holding the 
pension scheme assets to meet long-term pension liabilities for past and present employees as at 31 March 2012. The level of retirement 
benefit is principally based on the final pensionable salary prior to leaving active service, and is linked to changes in inflation up to retirement. 
The schemes are subject to the funding legislation outlined in the Pensions Act 2004 which came into force on 30 December 2005. This, 
together with documents issued by the Pensions Regulator, and Guidance Notes adopted by the Financial Reporting Council, set out the 
framework for funding defined benefit occupational pension schemes in the UK. The trustees of the schemes are required to act in the best 
interest of the schemes’ beneficiaries. The appointment of the trustees is determined by the schemes’ trust documentation. 
A full actuarial valuation of each scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2012 in accordance with the scheme funding requirements of the 
Pensions Act 2004 and the funding of the schemes is agreed between the Group and the trustees in line with those requirements. These in 
particular require the surplus/deficit to be calculated using prudent, as opposed to best estimate, actuarial assumptions. For the purposes of 
IAS 19 the actuarial valuations as at 31 March 2012, which were carried out by a qualified independent actuary, have been updated on an 
approximate basis to 29 March 2015. There have been no changes in the valuation methodology adopted for this period’s disclosures 
compared with the previous period’s disclosures.  
The present value of scheme liabilities is measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the scheme using the 
projected unit credit method. The value calculated in this way is reflected in the net liability in the balance sheet as shown above. The projected 
unit credit method is an accrued benefits valuation method in which allowance is made for projected earnings increases. The accumulated 
benefit obligation is an alternative actuarial measure of the scheme liabilities, whose calculation differs from that under the projected unit credit 
method in that it includes no assumption for future earnings increases. In assessing this figure for the purpose of these disclosures, allowance 
has been made for future statutory revaluation of benefits up to retirement.  
A further measure of the scheme liabilities is the solvency basis, often taken as an estimate of the cost of buying out the benefits at the balance 
sheet date with a suitable insurer. This amount represents the amount that would be required to settle the scheme liabilities rather than the 
Company continuing to fund the ongoing liabilities of the scheme. All actuarial gains and losses will be recognised in the year in which they 
occur in other comprehensive income. 
The Company has reviewed the implications of the guidance provided by IFRIC 14 and has concluded that it is not necessary to make any 
adjustments to the IAS 19 figures in respect of an asset ceiling or Minimum Funding Requirement as at 29 March 2015. 
Allowance has been made for a pension increase exchange being introduced as an option at retirement in the scheme during the year. 
The corresponding impact has been recognised as a curtailment gain in the income statement. 
UK scheme-specific disclosures 
Synergy Health plc Retirement Benefits Scheme: The scheme is a defined benefit (final salary) funded pension scheme. Participation in this 
scheme is only offered to employees transferring their employment from NHS Trusts. The latest actuarial valuation showed a deficit of 
£2,348,000. The Group has agreed with the trustees that it will aim to eliminate the deficit over a period of 6 years and 9 months from 1 April 
2013 by the payment of annual contributions of £348,000 payable quarterly, in respect of the deficit increasing by 3% each year. In addition 
and in accordance with the actuarial valuation, the Group has agreed with the trustees that it will pay 24.2% of pensionable earnings in respect 
of the cost of accruing benefits and will meet expenses of the plan and levies to the Pension Protection Fund. The estimated value of liabilities at 
the date of the last full actuarial valuation prepared for the trustees of the pension scheme as at 31 March 2012 was £14,862,000 compared 
with assets at the same date of £5,828,000.  
 
 
2015
£’000 
2014
£’000 
Synergy Healthcare plc Retirement Benefits Scheme, UK 3,917 2,450 
Shiloh Group Pension Scheme, UK 4,451 2,622 
Vernon Carus Limited Pension and Assurance Scheme, UK 9,200 8,478 
Isotron B.V. Pension and Assurance Scheme, the Netherlands 673 1,813 
Synergy Health Radeberg, Germany 536 510 
Synergy Health Alleshausen, Germany 240 227 
Synergy Health Daniken, Switzerland 1,298 782 
 20,315 16,882 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015
98  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  99 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
26 Retirement benefit schemes continued  
UK scheme-specific disclosures continued 
Shiloh Group Pension Scheme: The scheme is a defined benefit (final salary) funded pension scheme, which is closed to new members and 
which ceased accrual of benefits on 31 March 2011. The Group currently pays deficit reduction contributions of £478,000 per annum. The 
latest actuarial valuation showed a deficit of £3,957,000. The Group has agreed with the trustees that it will aim to eliminate the deficit over a 
period of 6 years and 9 months from 1 April 2013 by the payment of annual contributions of £478,000 payable quarterly in respect of the 
deficit, increasing by 3% per year. In addition and in accordance with the actuarial valuation, the Group has agreed with the trustees that it will 
meet expenses of the scheme and levies to the Pension Protection Fund. The estimated value of liabilities at the date of the last full actuarial 
valuation prepared for the trustees of the pension scheme as at 31 March 2012 was £23,554,000 compared with assets at the same date 
of £10,580,000. 
Vernon-Carus Limited Pension and Assurance Scheme: The scheme is a defined benefit (final salary) funded pension scheme, which is 
closed to new members and which ceased accrual of benefits on 31 March 2011. The Group currently pays deficit reduction contributions 
of £1,574,000 per annum. This actuarial valuation showed a deficit of £12,855,000. The Group has agreed with the trustees that it will aim to 
eliminate the deficit over a period of 6 years and 9 months from 1 April 2013 by the payment of annual contributions of £1,574,000 payable 
quarterly in respect of the deficit, increasing by 3% each year. In addition and in accordance with the actuarial valuation, the Group has agreed 
with the trustees that it will pay expenses of the scheme and levies to the Pension Protection Fund. The estimated value of liabilities at the date 
of the last full actuarial valuation prepared for the trustees of the pension scheme as at 31 March 2012 was £60,964,000 compared with assets 
at the same date of £27,624,000. 
The Netherlands scheme 
In previous years, the Group has sponsored a funded defined benefit arrangement in the Netherlands. This was a separate fund holding the 
pension scheme assets to meet long term pension liabilities for past and present employees. From 1 January 2013 accrual ceased under the 
scheme. The scheme is not subject to the UK legislation related to valuation of occupational pension schemes.  
For the purposes of IAS 19 the actuarial valuation as at 30 March 2014, has been updated to 29 March 2015. There have been no changes  
in the valuation methodology adopted for this period’s disclosures compared with the previous period’s disclosures. The present value of plan 
liabilities is measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the scheme using the defined accrued benefit 
method. The value calculated in this way is reflected in the net liability in the balance sheet as shown above. All actuarial gains and losses will 
be recognised in the year in which they occur in other comprehensive income. The Company has reviewed the implications of the guidance 
provided by IFRIC 14 and has concluded that it is not necessary to make any adjustments to the IAS 19 figures in respect of an asset ceiling or 
Minimum Funding Requirement as at 29 March 2015. 
Other schemes 
Synergy Radeberg and Synergy Alleshausen Schemes: These schemes are defined benefit funded pension schemes, closed to new entrants. 
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out at 29 March 2015 by a qualified independent actuary, independent of the scheme’s 
sponsoring employer. 
Synergy Daniken (previously ‘LSH’) Scheme: The scheme is a defined benefit funded pension scheme. A full actuarial valuation of the scheme 
was carried out at 29 March 2015 by a qualified independent actuary, independent of the scheme’s sponsoring employer. 
Bioster S.p.A: Our Italian business has an obligation under Italian ‘Trattamento di Fine Rapporto’ (‘TFR’) rules to pay deferred salary to staff 
when their employment ends. This obligation applies only to staff employed before 2007. The Group recognised £460,000 within non-current 
liabilities for this post-employment benefit. 
Lips Textielservice: Our Dutch linen business participates in a multi-employer industry-wide defined benefit scheme (the ‘Textile Industry 
Pension Fund’). Participation in this pension plan is mandatory. The pension scheme is an average pay scheme with a conditional fee 
(indexation). Indexation of the assets and liabilities granted under the pension scheme takes place only if and insofar as the resources of 
the fund allow for it and this decision is taken by the pension fund. The pension entitlements under the pension plan are fully reinsured.  
The pension scheme is classified as a defined benefit agreement. The main agreements included in the pension plan are as follows: 
+ Pensionable salary is limited to a maximum, which is adjusted annually based on developments of the applicable legislation (Pension Law); 
+ The premium payable shall, in consultation with the administration of the fund and Collective Labour agreement parties, be set no lower than 
a cost-effective premium; 
+ In adopting higher than the cost-effective contribution, the fund may utilise the surplus for additional buffering under a recovery plan, or 
additional funding for future indexation, or for other purposes as described in the actuarial and business report of the fund; 
+ The fund may only apply discounts to the cost-effective premium if the pension obligations comply with the requirements of the Pension Law; 
+ In the event of a reserve deficit, the fund may, under specific circumstances, decide to reduce the pension entitlements and rights. 
It is not possible to identify the share of the underlying assets, liabilities, and overall surplus/deficit of the scheme attributable to the business, 
because the scheme is industry-wide. Under the specific exemptions within IAS 19, the scheme is therefore treated as a defined contribution 
scheme within the Group financial statements. The total cost charged to the income statement in respect of this scheme was £1,934,000 
(2014: £2,044,000). 
99  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
100 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
26 Retirement benefit schemes continued  
IAS 19 disclosures 
The disclosures below relate to post-retirement benefit plans in the UK, the Netherlands, and other countries which are accounted for as 
defined benefit plans in accordance with IAS 19. The valuations used for the IAS 19 disclosures are based on the most recent actuarial 
valuation undertaken by independent qualified actuaries as updated to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 to assess the deficits 
of the plans each year. 
Present values of defined benefit obligations, fair value of assets and deficit:  
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of the fair value of plan assets: 
The actual return on pension scheme assets over the period ending 29 March 2015 was £9,666,000 (2014: £1,109,000). The best estimate  
of contributions to be paid by the Group to defined benefit schemes for the period ending 29 March 2015 is £3,739,000. 
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of the present value of the defined benefit obligations:  
Total expense recognised in the consolidated income statement: 
Total amount recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: 
 
  
2015 
£’000 
2014
£’000 
Fair value of scheme assets  70,515 59,769 
Present value of defined benefit obligations  (90,830) (76,651)
Deficit in scheme  (20,315) (16,882)
Liability recognised in the balance sheet  (20,315) (16,882)
 
2015 
£’000 
2014
£’000 
Fair value of plan assets at start of period 59,769 57,810 
Interest income on assets 2,557 2,468 
Actuarial gain/(loss) 7,108 (1,359)
Contributions from sponsoring companies 3,578 3,245 
Contributions from plan participants 1,062 394 
Benefits paid (2,998) (2,633)
Reclassified from other liabilities  – 36 
Exchange adjustments (561) (192)
Fair value of plan assets at end of period 70,515 59,769 
 
2015 
£’000 
2014
£’000 
Defined benefit obligations at start of period (76,651) (73,763)
Current service cost (1,140) (1,087)
Interest cost (3,146) (3,052)
Contributions from plan participants (1,062) (394)
Actuarial losses (13,599) (1,707)
Benefits paid 2,998 2,633 
Gains on settlements and curtailments 932 716 
Reclassified from other liabilities – (263)
Exchange adjustments 838 266 
Defined benefit obligations at end of period (90,830) (76,651)
 
2015 
£’000 
2014
 £’000 
Current service cost 1,140 1,087 
Net interest on pension scheme liabilities 589 584 
Gains on settlements and curtailments (932) (716)
Net charge to income statement 797 955 
 
2015 
£’000 
2014 
£’000 
Gain/(loss) on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest cost) 7,108 (1,359)
Experience gain arising on defined benefit obligations 353 154 
Effects of changes in the demographic assumptions underlying defined benefit obligations (13,952) (1,861)
Effects of changes in the financial assumptions underlying defined benefit obligations – – 
Total amount recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income  (6,491) (3,066)
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015
100  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  101 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
26 Retirement benefit schemes continued  
IAS 19 disclosures continued 
Analysis of the scheme assets:  
The assets of these schemes are administered by trustees in funds independent from those of the Group. The scheme assets do not include 
investments issued by the Group nor any properties occupied by the Group. The overall expected rate of return on the scheme assets has been 
based on the average expected return for each asset class, weighted by the amount of assets in each class. All assets have a quoted market 
price in an active market with the exception of the cash and other assets. 
Key weighted average assumptions used by the actuary and the Directors for the significant pension schemes:  
The plan typically exposes the Group to actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest rate risk, salary growth risk, mortality risk and longevity 
risk. A decrease in corporate bond yields, a rise in inflation or an increase in life expectancy would result in an increase to scheme liabilities. 
This would detrimentally impact the balance sheet position and may give rise to increased charges in future P&L accounts. This effect would be 
partially offset by an increase in the value of the plan’s bond holdings. Additionally, caps on inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan 
against extreme inflation. 
27 Related party transactions 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed 
in this note. A number of the Group’s subsidiaries have minority shareholders, and where the Group has transactions in the year, or outstanding 
balances receivable or payable with these parties, these are classified as related party transactions and shown in the table below.  
Remuneration of key management personnel 
The remuneration of key personnel (including Directors) of Synergy Health plc was: 
Key personnel (including Directors) comprise the Executive and Non-Executive Directors, and four senior executives (2014: three). The four 
senior executives comprise two executives directly responsible for two of the Group’s operating regions, plus the Group HR Director and the 
Group Company Secretary. 
28 Contingent liabilities 
Synergy has contracted with advisors to obtain financial advice in connection with the proposed combination with STERIS. Transaction fees up 
to a maximum of £7.6 million could be payable, contingent upon certain performance milestones. At the balance sheet date, these criteria have 
yet to be met. In preparing these accounts, the Directors have given due consideration to the likelihood of these performance criteria being met. 
 
2015
£’000 
2014 
£’000 
Equities 9,573 19 
Diversified growth 35,226 31,443 
Bonds 14,819 21,678 
Other assets 10,181 6,298 
Cash 716 331 
Total market value of assets 70,515 59,769 
 
2015 
% 
2014 
% 
Rate of increase in salaries 2.5 2.2 
Inflation 2.0 3.1 
Discount rate for liabilities 3.2 4.2 
 
2015 
Revenue in 
the period
£’000 
2015 
Receivable/ 
(payable) 
£’000 
2014 
Revenue in 
the period
£’000 
2014 
Receivable/ 
(payable)
£’000 
Minority shareholder, Synergy Health Allershausen GmbH 351 (386) 309 (428)
Minority shareholder, Chengdu Synergy Health Laoken Sterilisation Co. Ltd – 387 – – 
Minority shareholder, SATYAtek SA – (193) – – 
 
2015
£’000 
2014
£’000 
Short-term benefits 3,156 2,943 
Post-employment benefits 173 148 
Share-based payments 1,356 2,523 
 4,685 5,614 
101  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
102 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
The Company financial statements on pages 102 to 110 were approved by the Board on 2 June 2015 and signed on its behalf by: 
G Hill 
Director 
The notes on pages 103 to 110 form part of these financial statements. 
 Note 
2015 
£’000 
2014
£’000 
Fixed assets    
Intangible assets 4 4,432 4,630 
Tangible assets 5 55 101 
Investments 6 362,289 361,386 
  366,776 366,117 
Current assets    
Debtors 7 179,550 186,627 
Cash at bank and in hand  2,607 2,764 
  182,157 189,391 
   
Trade and other payables 8 (75,315) (77,017)
Bank overdraft  – (110)
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year  (75,315) (77,127)
Net current assets  106,842 112,264 
    
Total assets less current liabilities  473,618 478,381 
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 9 (188,468) (174,261)
Net assets  285,150 304,120 
Capital and reserves    
Called up share capital 10 369 368 
Share premium account 11 90,517 89,909 
Merger reserve 11 106,757 106,757 
Cash flow hedging reserve 11 (498) (664)
Profit and loss account 11 88,005 107,750 
Shareholders’ funds 12 285,150 304,120 
Company balance sheet 
At 29 March 2015 
Company balance sheet
At 29 March 2014
102  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  103 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
1 Principal Company accounting policies 
The term ‘Company’ refers to Synergy Health plc. The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the 
Companies Act 2006 (‘the Act’). As permitted by the Act, the separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (‘UK GAAP’). 
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items that are considered material in relation to the Company’s 
financial statements. 
Basis of accounting 
The financial statements presented under UK GAAP are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable 
accounting standards. 
Under section 408 of the Act, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account. The Company’s profit 
for the financial year is disclosed in note 2. 
Intangible assets 
Intangible assets that are acquired by the Company are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Costs incurred 
in setting up long-term arrangements are capitalised as intangible assets and amortised over the life of the contract to which the costs relate. 
The estimated useful lives are as follows: 
Intangible assets: software 10 years 
Tangible fixed assets and depreciation 
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment. Freehold land is not depreciated. For all assets 
depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets.  
The estimated useful lives are as follows: 
Leasehold improvements Period of lease 
Plant and machinery 3–20 years  
Office equipment 3–5 years  
Deferred taxation 
Except where otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision without discounting is made for all timing differences between the 
treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax 
assets are recognised when it is more likely than not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax is measured using rates of tax that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Company’s balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. 
Trade and other receivables: Trade and other receivables are initially stated at fair value. They are subsequently measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. 
Trade and other payables: Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, 
using the effective interest rate method.  
Equity instruments: Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs. 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting: The Company’s activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign 
currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Company uses foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts to hedge 
these exposures. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. The use of financial derivatives is 
governed by the Company’s treasury policy as approved by the Board of Directors. 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is either recognised 
immediately in the profit and loss account or, if the underlying derivative qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting, then the gain or loss 
is recognised in equity to the extent that the hedge is effective. 
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or a forecasted transaction results in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the 
asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the 
initial measurement of the asset or liability. For cash flow hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or liability, amounts deferred  
in equity are recognised in the profit and loss account in the same period in which the hedged item affects the profit and loss account.  
When a cash flow hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised but the hedged forecasted transaction is still expected to occur, 
the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. 
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised 
immediately in the profit and loss account. 
 
Notes to the Company financial statements
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the Company financial statements
For the period ended 29 March 2015
103  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
104 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
1 Principal Company accounting policies continued 
Retirement benefits 
Defined contribution pension schemes: The pension costs charged against operating profits are the contributions payable to the schemes  
in respect of the accounting period.  
Leased assets 
Assets held under hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet and depreciated over their expected useful lives.  
The interest element of leasing payments represents a constant proportion of the capital balance outstanding and is charged to the profit  
and loss account over the period of the lease. 
All other leases are regarded as operating leases and the payments made under them are charged to the profit and loss account on  
a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Investments 
In the Company’s financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost except where they have experienced a 
permanent diminution in value. Where shares have been issued to acquire a subsidiary, the cost of the investment is the market value of  
the Company’s shares on the date the transaction took place.  
Share-based payments 
The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 ‘Share-based payment’. The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to 
certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value of options granted is 
recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. 
The fair value is measured at the date of grant of the equity-settled share-based payments and is spread over the period during which the 
employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of the options granted is measured using both the Black-Scholes and 
Monte Carlo models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense  
is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to growth in the Company’s Total 
Shareholder Return not achieving the growth threshold for vesting.  
The Company also provides employees with the option to purchase the Company’s ordinary shares at a discount of 20% of market value on the 
date of grant. The fair value of the options granted is measured using the Black-Scholes model. 
In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were 
unvested as at 3 April 2005. 
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries, it recognises, in its individual financial statements, 
an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its 
consolidated financial statements, with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity. 
Financial guarantees 
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, 
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the 
guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment 
under the guarantee. 
Cash flow 
Under the provisions of FRS 1 (revised) ‘Cash flow statements’, the Company has not presented a cash flow statement because the 
consolidated financial statements contain a cash flow statement. 
Related party transactions 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed. Disclosable related party transactions include transactions or outstanding balances with the Group’s minority shareholders, and  
the remuneration of key personnel (including Directors) of Synergy Health plc. Full related party transaction disclosures are provided in  
note 27 to the consolidated financial statements. 
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015
104  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  105 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
2 Profit and loss account 
The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of the Act and not presented a profit and loss account for  
the Company alone. A loss of £13,929,000 (2014: loss £8,966,000) is included within the consolidated financial statements. Audit fees and 
expenses paid to the Company’s auditors were £78,000 (2014: £77,000).  
Amounts receivable by the Company’s auditor in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the Company’s financial 
statements, have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated basis in the consolidated 
financial statements. 
3 Dividends 
As a result of the proposed combination with STERIS, the Board chose not to pay an interim dividend, and is not proposing to pay a final 
dividend (2014: 14.20p). The Board will continue to keep its dividend policy under review.  
4 Intangible assets 
 
 
2015 
£’000 
2014 
£’000 
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:   
Final dividend for the period ended 31 March 2013 of 12.80p per share – 7,521 
Interim dividend for the period ended 30 March 2014 of 8.57p per share – 5,042 
Final dividend for the period ended 30 March 2014 of 14.20p per share 8,372 – 
 8,372 12,563 
 
Software
£’000 
Cost  
At 31 March 2013 3,325 
Additions 1,603 
At 30 March 2014 4,928 
Additions 304 
At 29 March 2015 5,232 
  
Amortisation  
At 31 March 2013 – 
Charge for the year (298)
At 30 March 2014 (298)
Charge for the year (502)
At 29 March 2015 (800)
  
Net book value  
At 29 March 2015 4,432 
At 30 March 2014  4,630 
At 31 March 2013 3,325 
105  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
106 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
5 Tangible fixed assets 
The net book value of Company plant, machinery and office equipment includes £nil (2014: £nil) in respect of assets held under 
finance leases.  
6 Fixed asset investments 
Investments in subsidiary undertakings held by Synergy Health plc as at 29 March 2015 are: 
Additions comprise the cost of share options granted to employees of the Company’s subsidiaries.  
The Company holds, either directly or through subsidiary companies, 100% (except where shown) of the issued share capital of the following 
principal subsidiaries: 
 
 
Short leasehold 
properties 
£’000 
Plant, 
machinery 
and office 
equipment 
£’000 
Total
£’000 
Cost    
At 31 March 2013 78 601 679 
Additions – 7 7 
At 30 March 2014 and 29 March 2015 78 608 686 
 
Depreciation    
At 31 March 2013 78 459 537 
Charge for the year – 48 48 
At 30 March 2014 78 507 585 
Charge for the year – 46 46 
At 29 March 2015 78 553 631 
 
Net book value    
At 29 March 2015 – 55 55 
At 30 March 2014  – 101 101 
At 31 March 2013 – 142 142 
 
Shares in Group
undertakings
£’000 
Balance at 30 March 2014 361,386 
Additions 903 
Balance at 29 March 2015 362,289 
 
Equity % owned 
by the Company 
Country of 
incorporation Principal activity 
Synergy Health Holdings Limited 100 England Holding company 
Synergy Health Investments Limited 100 England Holding company 
Synergy Health Laboratory Services Limited 100 England Laboratory services 
Synergy Health Sterilisation UK Limited 100 England Device sterilisation and holding company 
Synergy Health Systems Limited 100 England Provision of IT services 
Synergy Health (UK) Limited 100 England Healthcare products and services 
Synergy Healthcare (UK) Limited 100 England Non–trading 
Synergy Health Managed Services Limited 100 England Healthcare products and services 
Trust Sterile Services Limited 100 England Non–trading 
Vernon and Co. Limited 100 England Non–trading 
Vernon Carus Limited 100 England Non–trading 
Synergy Healthcare Limited 100 England Non–trading 
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015
106  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  107 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
6 Fixed asset investments continued 
The Company holds, either directly or through subsidiary companies, 100% (except where shown) of the issued share capital of the following 
principal subsidiaries: 
  
 
Equity % owned 
by the Company 
Country of 
incorporation Principal activity 
Synergy Health US Holdings Limited 100 England Holding company 
Healthtex Synergy Limited 100 England Non–trading 
Drug Test Limited 100 England Non–trading 
Isotron Limited 100 England Non–trading 
Synergy Health International Limited 100 England Non–trading 
MT Health Limited 100 England Non–trading 
STS Synergy Limited 100 England Non–trading 
Shiloh Limited 100 England Non–trading 
Shiloh Properties Limited 100 England Non–trading 
Genon Laboratories Limited 100 England Laboratory services 
Synergy Health Ireland Limited 100 Republic of Ireland Medical device sterilisation 
Synergy Health Westport Limited  100 Republic of Ireland Medical device sterilisation 
Synergy Health France S.A.S. 100 France Holding company 
Synergy Health Marseille S.A.S. 100 France Medical device sterilisation 
Synergy Health Radeberg GmbH 100 Germany Medical device sterilisation 
Synergy Health Allershausen GmbH  62.5 Germany Medical device sterilisation 
IDtek Identifikationslösungen GmbH 70 Germany Trading company 
Bioster S.p.A. 100 Italy Medical device sterilisation/Hospital sterilisation 
Bioster Service Srl 100 Italy Non–trading 
Logister Srl 100 Italy Non–trading 
Ebster CZ sro 100 Czech Republic Medical device sterilisation 
Ebster SK sro 100 Slovakia Medical device sterilisation 
Bioster-Mottahedoon Egypt SAE 64.5 Egypt Non–trading 
Gammaster Sweden AB 100 Sweden Non–trading 
Vernon Carus (Malta) Limited 100 Malta Non–trading 
Synergy Health Ede B.V.  100 The Netherlands Medical device sterilisation 
Synergy Health (Europe) B.V. 100 The Netherlands Healthcare products and services 
Synergy Health Holding B.V. 100 The Netherlands Holding company 
Synergy Health Logistics B.V. 100 The Netherlands Logistics consultant 
Synergy Health Nederland B.V. 100 The Netherlands Holding company 
Synergy Health Utrecht B.V. 100 The Netherlands Laboratory services 
Lips Alkmaar B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services 
Lips Duiven B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services 
Lips Emmen B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services 
Lips Gemert B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services 
Lips Gezondheidszorg B.V. 100 The Netherlands Holding company 
Lips Goes B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services 
Lips Hoorn B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services 
Lips Linnenmanagement B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services 
Lips Salland B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services 
Lips Sittard B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services 
Lips Tiel B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services 
Lips Voorburg B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services 
Synergy Health Amsterdam B.V. 100 The Netherlands Hospital sterilisation 
Synergy Health Daniken AG 100 Switzerland Medical device sterilisation 
IDtek Track-and-Trace SA 70 Switzerland Holding company 
SATYAtek SA 35.7 Switzerland Trading company 
Synergy Sterilisation KL (M) Sdn Bhd 100 Malaysia Holding company 
Synergy Sterilisation (M) Sdn Bhd 100 Malaysia Medical device sterilisation 
Synergy Sterilisation Kulim (M) Sdn Bhd 100 Malaysia Medical device sterilisation 
Synergy Sterilisation Rawang (M) Sdn Bhd 100 Malaysia Medical device sterilisation 
Bizworth Gammarad Sdn Bhd 70 Malaysia Medical device sterilisation 
Synergy Decontamination (M) Sdn Bhd 100 Malaysia Non–trading 
Stellar Saga Sdn Bhd 100 Malaysia Non–trading 
107  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
108 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
6 Fixed asset investments continued 
A full list of the Group companies is available for inspection at the Company’s registered office. All the above companies are included in the 
consolidated financial statements. 
7 Debtors 
Deferred taxation 
The amounts provided for deferred taxation for the Company are analysed below: 
The UK corporation tax rate reduced from 23% to 21% (effective from 1 April 2014) and 20% (effective from 1 April 2015) which was 
substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. This will reduce the Company’s future current tax charge accordingly. The deferred tax asset at 29 March 
2015 has been calculated based on the rate of 20% substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
The deferred tax asset will be recoverable in the future as the benefit of share-based payments will be surrendered through UK Group Relief to 
other UK Group companies with expected future taxable profits.  
 
Equity % owned 
by the Company 
Country of 
incorporation Principal activity 
SINA-Sterilgamma Sdn-Bhd 40 Malaysia Non–trading 
Sterilgamma Logistic Sdn-Bhd 100 Malaysia Non–trading 
Synergy Health (Thailand) Limited 100 Thailand Medical device sterilisation 
Synergy Sterilisation South Africa (Pty) Limited 100 South Africa Medical device sterilisation 
Synergy Health (Suzhou) Limited 100 China Hospital sterilisation 
Chengdu Synergy Health Laoken Sterilisation Co. Ltd 51 China Hospital sterilisation 
Synergy Health (Suzhou) Sterilisation Technologies Limited 100 China Medical device sterilisation 
Synergy Health (Hong Kong) Limited 100 Hong Kong Holding company 
Synergy Health AST S.R.L. 100 Costa Rica Medical device sterilisation 
Synergy Health Outsourcing Solutions, S.A. de C.V. 100 Mexico Non–trading 
Synergy Health Outsourcing Solutions Inc 100 US Non–trading 
Synergy Health True North LLC 100 US Hospital sterilisation 
Synergy Health US Holdings Inc 100 US Holding company 
Synergy Health AST LLC 100 US Medical device sterilisation 
Synergy Health New York LLC 100 US Hospital sterilisation 
Synergy Health North America, Inc 100 US Hospital sterilisation 
 
2015 
£’000 
2014
£’000 
Amounts falling due within one year:   
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 166,989 172,365 
Prepayments and accrued income 799 2,907 
Corporation tax receivable 10,905 10,689 
Deferred taxation 857 666 
 179,550 186,627 
 
2015 
£’000 
2014
£’000 
Balance at 30 March 2014 666 570 
Charge to the profit and loss account 232 (70)
Credit to equity (41) 166 
Balance at 29 March 2015 857 666 
 
2015 
£’000 
2014
£’000 
Accelerated capital allowances (249) (221)
Share-based payments 980 717 
Other timing differences 126 170 
 857 666 
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015
108  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  109 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
8 Trade and other payables: amounts falling due within one year 
9 Creditors: amounts falling due after one year  
Bank overdraft facilities of £10 million (2014: £10 million) were available to the Company subject to the Group overdraft pool not exceeding  
£10 million (2014: £10 million). The Group pool is shared with the Company’s UK subsidiaries. Overall, none of the UK overdraft pool was 
utilised at 29 March 2015 (2014: £1.5 million). Interest rates payable are disclosed in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.  
10 Share capital 
Throughout the year, the Company issued 213,644 ordinary shares (2014: 646,711 ordinary shares) of 0.625p in respect of options exercised 
under share option schemes. Proceeds amounted to £609,000 (2014: £814,000).  
The difference between the total consideration and the total nominal value of shares issued has been credited to the share premium account. 
11 Reserves 
The loss in the Company is £13,929,000 (2014: loss £8,966,000) after tax and before dividends.  
In the year to 30 March 2008, a surplus arose on a Group reorganisation in the sum of £73,629,000 which was credited to the profit and loss 
account but was considered to be unrealised and therefore non-distributable.  
 
2015
£’000 
2014
£’000 
Trade creditors 938 1,062 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 69,014 71,569 
Other creditors including taxation and social security 134 107 
Accruals and deferred income 4,606 3,449 
Derivative financial instruments 623 830 
 75,315 77,017 
 
2015
£’000 
2014
£’000 
Bank loans and other interest-bearing liabilities 188,468 174,261 
Obligations under bank loans   
Amounts falling due:   
Between one and two years – – 
Between two and five years 145,052 126,527 
Greater than five years 43,416 47,734 
 188,468 174,261 
 
2015
£’000 
2014
£’000 
Alloted, called up and fully paid   
59,109,789 ordinary shares (2014: 58,896,145) of 0.625p each  369 368 
 
Share premium
account 
£’000 
Merger reserve 
£’000 
Cash flow 
hedging
reserve
£’000 
Profit and loss
account
£’000 
Balance at 31 March 2013 89,098 106,757 (1,385) 129,839 
Loss for the financial year – – – (8,966)
Dividends – – – (12,563)
Arising on issue of new share capital 811 – – – 
Purchase of treasury shares – – – – 
Issue/allocation of treasury shares – – – (3,046)
Cash flow hedges – derivative instruments – – 721  
Expense in relation to equity-settled share-based payments – – – 2,486 
Balance at 30 March 2014 89,909 106,757 (664) 107,750 
Loss for the financial year – – – (13,929)
Dividends – – – (8,372)
Arising on issue of new share capital 608 – – – 
Cash flow hedges – derivative instruments – – 166 – 
Expense in relation to equity-settled share-based payments – – – 2,556 
Balance at 29 March 2015 90,517 106,757 (498) 88,005 
109  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
110 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
12 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds 
13 Financial instruments 
The disclosure requirements of FRS 29 are covered by the disclosure requirements of IFRS 7 ‘Financial instruments: disclosures’. Financial 
instruments included in the Company are included in the Group disclosure in note 18 of the consolidated financial statements. 
Elements of the interest hedging arrangements described in note 18b to the consolidated financial statements were held in the name of Synergy 
Health plc. The arrangements are deemed to be fully effective in fixing the interest on the underlying debt and in revaluing them to fair value. 
The Company has recognised £623,000 in current liabilities and equity (2014: £830,000), net of the associated deferred tax amount.  
The Directors consider that the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities is equivalent to the value at which they are carried  
in the Company’s financial statements. 
14 Other commitments 
Financial guarantees 
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the 
Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee 
contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under 
the guarantee. 
15 Pensions 
The Company operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes for all eligible employees. Company contributions are charged to 
the profit and loss account in the period in which they relate. The charge for the period in respect of the defined contribution schemes was 
£157,000 (2014: £167,000).  
16 Share-based payments 
The requirements of FRS 20 ‘Share-based payment’ have been applied to grants of equity instruments made since 7 November 2002 
outstanding at 3 April 2005. The disclosure requirements of FRS 20 are identical to those of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payment’ and share-based 
payments included in the Company are included in the Group disclosure. Full IFRS 2 disclosures are provided in note 25 to the consolidated 
financial statements. 
The charge in the Company-only accounts in relation to equity-settled share-based payments was £1,310,000 (2014: £551,000). In addition 
the Company recognised £903,000 (2014: £561,000) in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries which relates to the equity-settled share-
based payment charge recognised in its consolidated financial statements with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity. 
 
 
2015 
£’000 
2014
£’000 
Loss for the financial year (13,929) (8,966)
Dividends (8,372) (12,563)
 (22,301) (21,529)
New share capital 609 814 
Expense in relation to share-based payments – net of tax 2,556 2,486 
Cash flow hedges – derivative instruments 166 721 
Issue/allocation of treasury shares – (3,046)
Net decrease in shareholders’ funds (18,970) (20,554)
Opening shareholders’ funds  304,120 324,674 
Closing shareholders’ funds 285,150 304,120 
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015 
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the period ended 29 March 2015
110  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
  111 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
AGM 23 July 2015 
Group results  
Interim results announced November 2015 
Full year results announced June 2016 
Dividend dates  
Interim dividend for 2015 announced November 2015 
Interim dividend for 2015 payable January 2016 
 
 
 
  
Financial calendar 
Financial Calendar
111  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements   
112 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  
Company registration number: 
3355631 
 Advisors  
 
Registered office: 
Ground Floor Stella 
Windmill Hill Business Park 
Whitehill Way 
Swindon  
Wiltshire SN5 6NX 
 Lead Banker: 
Barclays Bank plc  
Park House  
Newbrick Road  
Stoke Gifford  
Bristol BS34 8YU 
Registrars:
Computershare 
Investor Services plc 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ 
Secretary: 
J Turner  
 Cash Management 
Providers: 
HSBC Bank plc 
3, Rivergate 
Temple Quay  
Bristol BS1 6ER 
Brokers: 
Investec Bank (UK) Ltd  
2 Gresham Street 
London EC2V 7QP 
Auditors: 
KPMG Audit LLP 
St Nicholas House 
Park Row 
Nottingham NG1 6FQ 
Solicitors:
DLA Piper UK LLP 
Victoria Square House 
Victoria Square 
Birmingham B2 4DL 
 
Advisors 
Advisors
112  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Designed and produced by Luminous 
www.luminous.co.uk Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Synergy Health plc 
Head Office
Group
Synergy Health plc
Ground Floor Stella
Windmill Hill Business Park
Whitehill Way
Swindon
SN5 6NX
Tel +44 (0) 1793 891880
enquiries@synergyhealthplc.com
