 Global Specialists in 
Integrated Security Systems
Synectics plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 November 2015
Synectics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 We design, deliver and 
manage integrated security 
and surveillance systems for 
the world’s most demanding 
security environments
In this report
Introduction
01 Overview
02 At a glance
04 Chairman’s statement 
Strategic review
06 Chief Executive’s statement
08 Our markets
10 Our proprietary technology
12 Our people and values
14 Our business model
Performance review
16 Group financial results
22 Our divisions: Systems
24 Our divisions: Integration & Managed Services
Governance
26 Board of Directors
28 Chairman’s introduction
30 Corporate governance statement
32 Remuneration Committee report
36 Audit Committee report
38 Statutory Directors’ report
42 Risks and risk management
Financial statements
44 Independent auditor’s report
45 Consolidated income statement
46 Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income
47 Consolidated statement of financial position
48 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
49 Consolidated cash flow statement
50 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
78 Company balance sheet
79 Notes to the Company financial statements
Other information
87 Principal subsidiaries
88 Advisers
Introduction
Overview
  Visit our investor website for up to the minute 
news and announcements: www.synecticsplc.com
Gaming Oil & Gas
T ransport & 
Infrastructure
High Security  
& Public Space Headlines
» Revenue up 6% to £68.5 million
(2014: £64.6 million)
» Underlying profit* £1 .6 million
(2014: underlying loss* £2.4 million)
» Profit before tax £0.5 million
(2014: loss before tax £3.7 million)
» Underlying diluted EPS* 8.0p (2014: (14.0)p)
» Diluted EPS 2.5p (2014: (20.6)p)
» Net cash at 30 November 2015 £0.5 million
(2014: net debt £6.1 million)
» Y ear-end order book £26.6 million
(2014: £28.6 million)
» Successful implementation of profit
recovery plan
» Modest dividend restored with
recommended payment of 1 .0p per share
Financial overview
*  Underlying profit/(loss) 
represents profit/(loss) 
before tax and 
non-underlying items 
(which comprise 
restructuring costs, 
share-based payment 
charge and amortisation 
of acquired intangibles). 
Underlying earnings per 
ordinary share are based 
on profit/(loss) after tax 
but before non-
underlying items.
Revenue 
+6%
£82.4m
11 12 13 14 15
£69.1m
£68.5m
£77.0m
£64.6m
Underlying operating margin**
+5.9%
7.4%
11 12 13 14 15
5.1%
8.8%
2.5%
Underlying diluted EPS* 
+157%
25.2p
11 12 13 14 15
16.2p
32.6p £7.1m
£5.7m
11 12 13 14 15
Underlying profit/(loss)* 
before tax
+167%
£3.5m
£(2.4)m
£1.6m
(3.4)%
8.0p
(14.0)p
**  Underlying operat ing 
margin represents 
underlying operating 
profit/(loss) as a 
percentage of revenue, 
where underlying 
operating profit/(loss) 
represents underlying 
profit/(loss) before tax 
before charging finance 
income and finance costs.
Securing assets, livelihoods and people in demanding environments is what we do best. 
We help to protect oil rigs in the harsh conditions of the North Sea, frenetically busy 
international airports, cash-intensive casinos, and entire urban transport networks. 
It is our highly evolved Synergy 3 technology – combined with deeply committed people 
whose expertise and focus are, we believe, unparalleled – that makes all the difference. 
Our customers know they can have total trust in our solutions, and depend on us to deliver 
what they need, where they need it. 
01 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information Introduction
02 www.synecticsplc.com
Highlights 2015
At a glance
Who we are 
We are security and surveillance experts 
who create solutions for security and 
surveillance experts. Everything we do 
comes from a deep understanding of our 
customers and their needs. They know they 
can rely on us to listen to them and ensure 
that every solution is adapted exactly to 
meet their own set of challenges. 
What makes us tick 
We want our customers to have complete 
peace of mind, knowing that the people, 
assets and livelihoods that they are 
responsible for protecting are safe. 
We understand the pressures our 
customers face and we develop solutions 
they can absolutely depend on.
Where we operate
We work across four core sectors:
» Oil & Gas
» Gaming
» Transport & Infrastructure
» High Security & Public Space
Across three continents: 
» Europe
» Asia
» North America
Our global reach and expertise in different 
(yet highly compatible) core sectors has 
equipped us with a rich seam of transferable 
knowledge. This helps us to keep innovating 
in existing areas of expertise and gives us 
scope to move into new sectors where 
security and surveillance are also critical.
Our structure
Our business is split into two focussed 
divisions: Systems and Integration & 
Managed Services (‘IMS’).
Systems provides specialist electronic 
surveillance systems, based on its own 
proprietary technology, globally to end 
customers with large-scale and highly 
complex security requirements.
IMS focusses on delivering end-to-end, 
high integrity security and surveillance 
solutions, specialist mobile systems for 
transport operators, as well as service-led 
solutions for the management of facilities 
and security services.
Where security and surveillance 
are fundamental to our customers’ 
operations, Synectics will deliver
£68.5m
total sales
31.2%
gross margin
£0.5m
net cash  03 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
Five global hubs
North America
Revenue
9% 
£6.3m
United Kingdom 
and Europe
Revenue
65% 
£44.5m
Middle East
Revenue 
7% 
£4.9m
Asia and Pacific
Revenue 
19% 
£12.8m
Operations by geography
Operational hubs
Europe
 Singapore
UAE
UK
US
Our sales are measured by geographical location of contract. Introduction
04 www.synecticsplc.com
Chairman’s statement
Overview
In 2015 Synectics achieved its expected return to profitability 
after the significant downturn of the previous year. The recovery 
plan put in place at the beginning of the year was successfully 
implemented and delivered across the Group. All areas of activity 
were profitable. In the case of our largest single end market sector, 
Oil & Gas, revenues recovered somewhat compared with last year, 
but profitability was still markedly lower than in 2013, reflecting 
the continued impact of delays and cancellations in industry 
infrastructure investment brought about by the 70% decline 
in the price of oil.
Within the IMS division, substantial improvements were achieved 
both through better management control over the delivery of large 
security integration projects, and through solid organic growth of 
revenues and margins. The mobile systems transport surveillance 
activities produced a particularly strong performance in the year.
Good progress was also made by management in further 
simplifying the Group’s operating structure and in sharpening our 
focus on those specialist areas of the global electronic security 
and surveillance market where Synectics’ technology and 
capabilities are among the best in the world.
Results
For the year to 30 November 2015, Synectics’ consolidated revenue 
grew by 6.0% to £68.5 million (2014: £64.6 million). The Group 
made an underlying profit
1
 of £1.6 million (2014: loss £2.4 million). 
After charging £1.0 million (2014: £1.4 million) for exceptional 
restructuring and other non-underlying costs, the consolidated 
profit before tax for the year was £0.5 million (2014: loss £3.7 million). 
Underlying diluted earnings per share was 8.0p (2014: loss per 
share 14.0p).
In last year’s Annual Report, I stated that Synectics was 
expecting to generate substantial positive cash flow during 2015, 
as exceptionally high working capital balances caused by project 
delays in 2014 were unwound. I am pleased to report that this was 
achieved, with net cash flow from operations for the financial year 
of £6.9 million, and a net cash position at 30 November 2015 of 
£0.5 million (2014: net debt £6.1 million).
Dividend
In light of Synectics’ return to profitability and much-improved cash 
position, the Board is recommending payment of a resumed final 
dividend of 1.0p per share, payable on 6 May 2016 to shareholders 
registered on 29 March 2016, for consideration by shareholders 
at the Company’s Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2016. 
People
I would once again like to pass on to all employees the 
sincere thanks of the Board and shareholders for their continued 
commitment and efforts last year.
During 2015 the Group significantly increased its focus on 
formally collating and acting on employee feedback in all areas 
of our activity. Senior management and the Board appreciate 
the valuable feedback and pay close attention to employees’ 
comments. The results from the latest employee survey showed 
a desire for increased training in a number of areas, and this 
will be actively addressed in the current year.
Board changes
Paul Webb, previously head of the Systems division, was 
appointed Chief Executive from 1 February 2015. He has already 
brought to the role the benefits of his considerable energy and 
talents, as well as his deep knowledge of Synectics’ technology 
and markets.
As previously announced, Nigel Poultney retired as Group Finance 
Director, and from the Board, on 30 November 2015. He will remain 
with Synectics on a part-time basis, as Company Secretary and to 
effect an extended handover to his successor, for the remainder of 
this year. Nigel has been with Synectics for 24 years; throughout 
that time he has served the Group with outstanding commitment, 
loyalty and skill, and I am pleased to acknowledge here the 
Board’s most sincere gratitude to him.
“ Synectics achieved its expected 
return to profitability after the 
significant downturn of the 
previous year . The recovery plan 
put in place at the beginning 
of the year was successfully 
implemented and delivered. ”
David Coghlan
Chairman 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
Mike Stilwell was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director 
on 1 December 2015, having previously served as Financial Controller. 
Mike joined Synectics in 2012, and we look forward to working 
with him now in his new role.
Finally, Michael Butler was appointed to the Board 
on 23 February 2016 as an independent Non-Executive Director. 
Michael has had a highly successful business career, most 
recently in the satellite communications sector where his 
appointments have included a substantial period as Chief 
Operating Officer and a main board director of Inmarsat plc. 
His background and skills are very relevant to Synectics’ 
technology and markets, and are complementary to those 
of our other Non-Executive Directors.
Collectively, these are significant changes which should provide the 
Board with a positive combination of fresh viewpoints and continuity.
Strategy, organisation and financial objectives
A critical review led by Paul Webb, the Group’s new Chief Executive, 
over the past year has confirmed our strategy of creating leadership 
positions within specialised sectors of the electronic security and 
surveillance industry, through the combination of deep sector-specific 
market knowledge and, where appropriate, our own proprietary 
technologies. These proprietary technologies are based on open 
systems and built around Synectics’ core integration software; 
they are developed specifically for our chosen specialist market 
sectors and must provide fundamental differentiation from the 
offerings of mainstream suppliers in the wider electronic 
security market.
The other main conclusions from the review are set out in detail 
in the Strategic Review on pages 6 to 15. In brief summary they 
include that:
» the Group’s transport and critical infrastructure systems
activities, some elements of which are currently in different
divisions, should be much more closely integrated under the
umbrella of the Systems division;
» there is considerable scope to increase revenues, margins and
quality of earnings through closer alignment and co-operation
across the Group’s current range of activities;
» more of the Group’s resources and energies should be directed
at a smaller sub-set of activities that are strategically relevant
to the development of our business; and
» the Group should creatively devise and exploit further
opportunities to expand the scope of its supply in existing
market sectors, with a clear focus on selling, wherever feasible,
end-to-end packages of systems and services to increasingly
sophisticated and demanding customers.
The reorganisation of the Group’s transport & infrastructure 
activities will be coupled with additional investment in sales and 
technical capabilities during 2016. This area is a key thrust for 
the Group in which we see substantial opportunity for growing 
Synectics’ revenues through an increasingly differentiated 
sector-specific approach, as has already been successfully 
applied to the gaming and oil & gas sectors.
Over the five years to 30 November 2013, Synectics grew its 
revenues and profits consistently and, at the end of that period, 
achieved the medium-term objective set by the Board in 2010 of 
a consolidated operating margin in the range of 8%–10%. In 2013 
the Group also invested significantly in its products, internal systems 
and facilities, and it is now a more sustainable and more scalable 
business, but with a consequent higher fixed cost base even after 
the recent overhead reductions.
Looking beyond the serious current dislocations in the oil & gas 
market, the Board’s view is that Synectics remains well capable 
of achieving, in normal market conditions, consolidated operating 
profits in the same 8%–10% range as previously set. 
Outlook
Synectics’ expectations for 2016 are not based on any assumption 
of improvement in the oil & gas market. However, market volatility 
means that short-term forecasts are subject to higher than usual 
levels of uncertainty. The gaming sector appears well positioned for 
a good year, especially in the second half, and we expect a continuation 
of the improving trend in integration & managed services.
For Synectics as a whole, the Board is looking forward to a year of 
continued progress, though subject in some areas to an abnormally 
uncertain macro-economic environment.
David Coghlan 
Chairman
24 February 2016
1  Underlying profit/(loss) represents profit/(loss) before tax and non-underlying 
items (which comprise restructuring costs, share-based payment charge 
and amortisation of acquired intangibles). 06 www.synecticsplc.com
Strategic review
Overview
When I stepped into this role it was clear my immediate challenge 
was not to dramatically change our strategy, but to refresh the 
execution and refocus our efforts on areas of critical importance. 
So for us, 2015 has been a year of transition during which we have 
tackled some tough problems and laid a platform for future growth. 
Our approach to this has been fairly simple: we’ve provided 
strategic clarity, focussed on re-engaging with individuals and 
teams throughout the organisation and continued the process 
of aligning our business.
Immediate challenges
Our objective this year was simple: to get the business back 
on track.
With increasingly unpredictable market conditions it was very 
important that we retained our agility, to enable us to quickly and 
effectively adapt our approach, and that we continued to realise 
all the opportunities in the sectors we operate in. 
But we had become less focussed in a number of areas of 
critical importance, so reinstating a ‘customer first’ approach 
was vitally important, as well as focussing on our people.
Key elements of strategy
A critical element of Synectics’ strategy is to create leadership 
positions within specialised high-end sectors of the electronic 
security and surveillance industry, through the combination of 
deep sector-specific market knowledge and, where appropriate, 
our own proprietary technologies. This requires our people to be 
knowledgeable experts in the relevant parts of our customers’ 
businesses. It is therefore critically important we develop, 
equip and retain our staff to confidently fulfil that role.
Focussing on our sector-first principle is also vital to taking 
our deep vertical-market expertise into new territories. The 
considerable success of our Gaming business over the past 
few years epitomises the power of this approach, as we have 
successfully taken a proposition previously centred on the US 
into the Asian market. We are applying this skill to reassess the 
Group’s activities and effectively address the wider opportunities 
we can see in the transport & infrastructure market.
Our customers have consistently told us that we should act as 
one company, and that we had at times been slow to react to this. 
There is considerable scope for closer alignment and co-operation 
across the Group’s current range of activities, and the Group’s 
transport & infrastructure systems activities will now be much 
more closely integrated.
The role of Synectics in the industry
Where security and surveillance is a fundamental part of our 
customers’ operations, it is our responsibility to be their trusted 
partner. We achieve this by forming close relationships with our 
customers, supporting them in the long term by getting to know 
them and their specific needs. 
In the specialist sectors in which we operate, there are few 
companies that feel at home in those sorts of environments, 
and can do what Synectics does best. What we can deliver goes 
beyond just security and surveillance technology: we have hugely 
experienced people, and apply our creative intelligence to put 
together solutions that work.
Our people have an unrivalled level of commitment, expertise 
and focus that makes a huge difference to our customers. It’s this 
blend of aptitude and attitude that ultimately gives them confidence, 
and I believe that strength gives us a valuable advantage. Synectics’ 
history has played a big part in developing this ‘can-do’ attitude, 
and our values are built around that ethos.
We have the track record that proves we can deliver complex, 
challenging projects, and an enviable client reference list.
It’s this combination of smart technology and safe hands, together 
with deep sector knowledge, that’s unique in this industry.
Paul Webb
Chief Executive
24 February 2016
Chief Executive’s statement
“ On the back of this hard fought 
year, I am really pleased we 
have been able to return the 
business to solid profitability 
and significantly strengthen 
its cash position. ” 
Paul Webb
Chief Executive DEUTSCHE BAHN REGIONAL RAILWAYS 
IN NUREMBERG
Synergy 3 is a powerful command and control 
platform – a multi-tasking control room in a busy 
transport system is the perfect place to showcase 
its capabilities.
Nuremberg is one of the first fully operational and fully 
integrated 3-S Centres and its control room is the first 
in Germany to be equipped with the latest evolution of 
Synectics’ command and control platform, Synergy 3. 
Our European transport team provided hardware and software 
to modernise the control room, having installed the initial 
facilities several years ago. 
The control room includes six Synergy 3-powered 
workplaces with eight screens each, from which five staff 
monitor station cameras 24/7, as well as receiving alarm, 
emergency and service calls from train stations across 
the region of Northern Bavaria.
The build phase of the project was delivered in the first 
half of 2015 and was followed by a four-year service 
and maintenance contract. 08 www.synecticsplc.com
Strategic review
Market opportunities Demand drivers How we succeed
Oil & Gas
The downturn in the oil & gas market will inevitably bring 
changes, some of which have already taken place with more 
still to follow. We believe we will see a different landscape 
in terms of customers, competition and opportunities over 
the next few years.
Even in these difficult market conditions, the need for 
comprehensive, reliable, integrated, multi-site management 
systems remains a key requirement. 
It is the value of Synectics’ reputation for delivering solutions, 
coupled with a good commercial understanding of how to track 
opportunities and build a leading position, which enables 
Synectics to continue to win projects.
Although the market is experiencing global challenges, it continues 
to face complex demands to ensure the security of its sites: safety 
of on-site personnel, protection of offshore and onshore pipeline 
locations and the monitoring of hazardous and explosive areas. 
The market also demands solutions that comply with the ever-changing
landscape of the rigorous compliance legislation in this sector.
We have a strong position in this market, with a proposition 
based around turnkey solutions, excellent market knowledge 
and reputation, specialist expertise, and a specialist product 
range (COEX and Synergy) that is proven to be exceptionally 
reliable in very demanding conditions. 
Our ability to anticipate and respond to changes that are 
occurring in the market is crucial. We succeed by focussing 
on building strong relationships and it is our highly skilled 
and experienced people that enable us to interact with highly 
knowledgeable customers throughout every stage of a project.
Gaming
Our evolved Synergy command and control software 
platform continues to open up opportunities for system 
upgrades and expansions with longstanding customers.
In Asia, the market is still expanding and as our reputation 
within the region becomes even more firmly established 
we anticipate that more and more gaming corporations will 
value Synectics’ technical ingenuity and turnkey reliability.
Gaming environments are demanding, highly regulated and cash 
intensive. Effective gaming surveillance systems must deliver on 
performance and resiliency to ensure the highest level of protection. 
An effective gaming surveillance solution is never just about technology
– it is about empowering users to work smarter, not harder, giving 
them the uniquely relevant and specific information they need to take 
appropriate action under critical conditions to mitigate the risk of player 
scams, fraudulent claims, staff collusion and other security infringements.
Customising the user experience is a vital advancement for the casino
industry. The ability to combine data events from multiple alarm, 
transactional and analytical systems to achieve heightened levels
of situational awareness is fast becoming an operational necessity.
Our success in this market is founded on a proposition based 
around proven, scalable, highly reliable, flexible, customisable, 
open platform, turnkey security management systems designed
for and utilised by the world’s largest, most demanding and 
tightly regulated gaming facilities. 
We combine experienced technical and sales teams with
deep industry knowledge, a proven track record, the features 
and capabilities of Synergy 3, and the flexibility to work with 
existing hardware and preferred integrator partners.
This proposition appeals primarily to large single property or
multi-casino gaming corporations that value close long-term
relationships, technical ingenuity and turnkey reliability.
Transport &
Infrastructure
This is a large global market, spanning urban transport 
systems including airports and ports. 
There is a constant supply of major infrastructure upgrade 
opportunities and entirely new builds. Synectics’ capability 
to integrate legacy systems with latest generation technology 
using our proprietary command and control platform, Synergy 3, 
gives us the opportunity to deliver truly class-leading integrated 
security and surveillance solutions to this growing and 
innovation-led transport & infrastructure market.
Critical infrastructure is an obvious target for disruption of essential 
services. Synectics is well positioned to mitigate this risk, through 
innovation, technology, integration, remote monitoring, alarm escalation
and provision of resource and response services as and when needed.
Transportation environments also face a variety of unique security 
challenges to ensure the efficient, safe and secure transportation 
of passengers and cargo.
The demand for intelligent and attractive public transportation solutions
is high and Synectics’ combined strength and capability can deliver
an integrated security solution in this often multi-faceted market.
We have a proven and current track record of delivering large-scale,
integrated solutions for transport environments including Berlin,
Frankfurt and Jakarta.
Our core Synectics infrastructure offer, which combines smart
technology and human capability, is readily deployable in this
growing market.
High Security  
& Public 
Space
Critical and high security sites such as power stations and 
major utilities provide another obvious target for disruption 
of essential services. Coupled with the UK’s high level 
security status, these threats continue to drive investment 
in security provision.
As many local authorities move to consolidate their offerings, 
reduce cost and achieve operational efficiencies, Synectics 
continues to be well positioned to offer an end-to-end technology 
and resource solution to manage costs and improve the 
identification of potential threats.
Customers that fall within the commercial, high security arena, such 
as major utilities and financial institutions, continue to seek more 
sophisticated, value-added solutions from partners with 
the credentials and track record to deliver.
Greater integration of security systems with operational and building 
management systems continues to drive demand.
We have a long history of delivering turnkey/end-to-end 
solutions for the high security market, based on intuitive 
command and control. 
Synectics’ strength in design, integration, outsourced 
management and processes enables us to assume an 
ever-increasing responsibility for the protection of critical 
and high security sites, infrastructure and employees. 
Our markets
We thrive on 
providing solutions 
for environments 
where security 
and surveillance
are crucial
Overview
With decades of experience in our 
core sectors, we deliver solutions that 
perfectly fit our customers’ needs.
We get to know them and their 
challenges inside out, and then apply 
our unique creative intelligence and 
smart technology to develop security 
and surveillance solutions that give 
total peace of mind. 
Deeper integration of all aspects of 
electronic security, surveillance and 
operational management systems is a 
key demand driver in all our core market 
sectors. Our response to this need is to 
build on the core principle that inspired 
our name – Synectics. We intelligently 
combine disparate technologies in 
creative ways to provide total solutions 
that are greater than the sum of their parts.
 Find out more about 
our markets on our 
customer website: 
www.synecticsglobal.com 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic review Introduction
Market opportunities Demand drivers How we succeed
Oil & Gas
The downturn in the oil & gas market will inevitably bring 
changes, some of which have already taken place with more 
still to follow. We believe we will see a different landscape
in terms of customers, competition and opportunities over 
the next few years.
Even in these difficult market conditions, the need for
comprehensive, reliable, integrated, multi-site management
systems remains a key requirement. 
It is the value of Synectics’ reputation for delivering solutions,
coupled with a good commercial understanding of how to track
opportunities and build a leading position, which enables 
Synectics to continue to win projects.
Although the market is experiencing global challenges, it continues 
to face complex demands to ensure the security of its sites: safety 
of on-site personnel, protection of offshore and onshore pipeline 
locations and the monitoring of hazardous and explosive areas. 
The market also demands solutions that comply with the ever-changing 
landscape of the rigorous compliance legislation in this sector.
We have a strong position in this market, with a proposition 
based around turnkey solutions, excellent market knowledge 
and reputation, specialist expertise, and a specialist product 
range (COEX and Synergy) that is proven to be exceptionally 
reliable in very demanding conditions. 
Our ability to anticipate and respond to changes that are 
occurring in the market is crucial. We succeed by focussing 
on building strong relationships and it is our highly skilled 
and experienced people that enable us to interact with highly 
knowledgeable customers throughout every stage of a project.
Gaming
Our evolved Synergy command and control software 
platform continues to open up opportunities for system 
upgrades and expansions with longstanding customers.
In Asia, the market is still expanding and as our reputation
within the region becomes even more firmly established 
we anticipate that more and more gaming corporations will
value Synectics’ technical ingenuity and turnkey reliability.
Gaming environments are demanding, highly regulated and cash 
intensive. Effective gaming surveillance systems must deliver on 
performance and resiliency to ensure the highest level of protection. 
An effective gaming surveillance solution is never just about technology 
– it is about empowering users to work smarter, not harder, giving
them the uniquely relevant and specific information they need to take
appropriate action under critical conditions to mitigate the risk of player
scams, fraudulent claims, staff collusion and other security infringements.
Customising the user experience is a vital advancement for the casino 
industry. The ability to combine data events from multiple alarm, 
transactional and analytical systems to achieve heightened levels 
of situational awareness is fast becoming an operational necessity.
Our success in this market is founded on a proposition based 
around proven, scalable, highly reliable, flexible, customisable, 
open platform, turnkey security management systems designed 
for and utilised by the world’s largest, most demanding and 
tightly regulated gaming facilities. 
We combine experienced technical and sales teams with 
deep industry knowledge, a proven track record, the features 
and capabilities of Synergy 3, and the flexibility to work with 
existing hardware and preferred integrator partners.
This proposition appeals primarily to large single property or 
multi-casino gaming corporations that value close long-term 
relationships, technical ingenuity and turnkey reliability.
Transport &
Infrastructure
This is a large global market, spanning urban transport 
systems including airports and ports.
There is a constant supply of major infrastructure upgrade
opportunities and entirely new builds. Synectics’ capability 
to integrate legacy systems with latest generation technology 
using our proprietary command and control platform, Synergy 3,
gives us the opportunity to deliver truly class-leading integrated
security and surveillance solutions to this growing and 
innovation-led transport & infrastructure market.
Critical infrastructure is an obvious target for disruption of essential 
services. Synectics is well positioned to mitigate this risk, through 
innovation, technology, integration, remote monitoring, alarm escalation 
and provision of resource and response services as and when needed.
Transportation environments also face a variety of unique security 
challenges to ensure the efficient, safe and secure transportation 
of passengers and cargo.
The demand for intelligent and attractive public transportation solutions 
is high and Synectics’ combined strength and capability can deliver 
an integrated security solution in this often multi-faceted market.
We have a proven and current track record of delivering large-scale, 
integrated solutions for transport environments including Berlin, 
Frankfurt and Jakarta. 
Our core Synectics infrastructure offer, which combines smart 
technology and human capability, is readily deployable in this 
growing market.
High Security
& Public
Space
Critical and high security sites such as power stations and 
major utilities provide another obvious target for disruption 
of essential services. Coupled with the UK’s high level
security status, these threats continue to drive investment
in security provision.
As many local authorities move to consolidate their offerings,
reduce cost and achieve operational efficiencies, Synectics 
continues to be well positioned to offer an end-to-end technology
and resource solution to manage costs and improve the 
identification of potential threats.
Customers that fall within the commercial, high security arena, such 
as major utilities and financial institutions, continue to seek more 
sophisticated, value-added solutions from partners with 
the credentials and track record to deliver.
Greater integration of security systems with operational and building 
management systems continues to drive demand.
We have a long history of delivering turnkey/end-to-end 
solutions for the high security market, based on intuitive 
command and control. 
Synectics’ strength in design, integration, outsourced 
management and processes enables us to assume an 
ever-increasing responsibility for the protection of critical 
and high security sites, infrastructure and employees.  10 www.synecticsplc.com
Strategic review
Our proprietary technology
We continue to invest in strategically relevant 
research & development to meet the 
fast-changing market needs of our customers
Smart technology
Synectics continues to invest in its proprietary technology base. 
During 2015, the Group spent a total of £2.1 million on technology 
development (2014: £2.5 million). Of this total, £0.6 million was 
capitalised and the remainder expensed to the Income Statement. 
£0.9 million of previously capitalised development costs was 
amortised in the year.
The Synectics Technology Centre operates within the Systems 
division as a consolidated development unit for the Group as a 
whole. The focus continues to be on developing products that are 
specifically directed to the needs of Synectics’ core target customer 
sectors. The Group’s development roadmap operates in a well 
controlled environment that enables us simultaneously both to 
deliver on time our planned new product introductions, and to 
support globally the bespoke, large-scale and innovative projects 
that an increasing proportion of our customers are looking for.
In 2015, the focus was on: 
» further sector-led enhancements of our Synergy 3 command
and control platform;
» major upgrading of the capability of our T1600 mobile
recording device and the introduction of other
transport-focussed developments;
» development of the C3000 series HD camera primarily
for use in the oil & gas sector; and
» continuation of our open systems philosophy.
Synergy 3
In 2014 we launched the third generation of our highly evolved 
command and control system.
Since then, Synergy 3 has been widely adopted in all our market 
sectors, including deployment in a number of major projects.
However, based on both market trends and customer feedback, 
we continue to innovate and extend this product platform with 
sector-focussed capabilities, including:
» close integration of market-leading video content
analysis systems;
» significant enhancements to our Dataveillance engine
and procedural workflow capabilities, providing true
situational awareness;
» enhanced data mining capabilities with deep integration
to gaming management systems; and
» further ONVIF compliance.
 Synergy 3 was chosen for 
Jakarta International Airport, 
where the command and control 
system required close integration 
to numerous sub-systems including 
market-leading video analytics. 
See Jakarta International Airport 
case study on page 21
DESIGN MANUFACTURE MANAGE DELIVER
Commissioning, training  
and after-sales support
System design and pre-sales support Project management and systems engineering
Manufacture of COEX
camera stations and Synectics equipment 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic review Introduction
Synergy 3 Transport
During 2015, Synergy 3 was also adapted to suit the needs of our 
transportation customers, bringing evolved command and control 
and data analysis capabilities for both static and mobile applications 
in the transport sector.
Being built on our open systems philosophy, Synergy 3 Transport 
delivers consistent management of evidentially valuable video and 
data from Synectics’ own T-series devices as well as recording 
devices from third parties.
Other transport-focussed developments
Following the launch last year of the T1600 product, our hybrid 
on-vehicle recording device, 2015 saw the release of a major 
phase II implementation, which included additional functionality 
driven by our customers’ requirements, as well as significantly 
extending its data acquisition capabilities.
In 2015 we also delivered our first video-based automatic passenger 
counting solution, based on our proprietary recording platform.
C3000
2015 also saw the introduction of our IP COEX C3000 HD camera 
stations with high definition image capture, and on-board compression 
technology. Specifically engineered for hazardous areas and extreme 
environments, including the high temperatures of the Middle East, 
the enhanced C3000 camera station can stream high quality 1080p 
video signals in temperatures up to 70°C and as low as -55°C.
Open standards
Significant progress was made to enable the COEX C3000 HD IP 
camera to be ONVIF Profile S conformant and this capability will 
be launched early in 2016.
Our continued commitment to open standards saw Synergy 3 
achieve ONVIF Profile S conformance in the period. Development 
to support further ONVIF standards was also progressed to a level 
that will see ONVIF Profile G conformance achieved in early 2016. 
Open standards conformance is crucial to many of our customers 
to ensure freedom of choice of edge devices such as cameras 
and access control systems.
Looking ahead
We continue to closely monitor technology and market trends in 
order to drive our products and solutions forward in a strategically 
relevant manner, with a number of new products and enhancements 
to be introduced during 2016. Our approach to developing close 
relationships with our customers enables us to work with them 
to deliver the solutions that meet their exacting requirements.
A good example of this is our Advanced System Control suite, 
the part of our Synergy 3 solution that users see and touch, 
which will be launched in 2016.
The suite has been designed and developed over a period of 
time in close collaboration with a number of end users of our 
system, who have provided us with invaluable feedback that 
has ultimately resulted in the new ergonomically designed 
control suite. 
This is a significant step forward in user operability. It will see 
tactile devices such as joysticks and buttons paired intimately 
with gesture-based controls, which will allow operators to 
control our systems in a highly intuitive manner. 
“ Customer feedback combined with our 
expert knowledge, our experience and 
our analysis of future market trends 
were all channelled into evolving 
Synergy 3. ” 
Paul Webb
Chief Executive
Advanced System Control Suite 12 www.synecticsplc.com
Strategic review
Safe hands 
Synectics’ smart technology is not enough. The combined expertise 
and employee desire to take on challenging projects is key. We are 
small enough to have a human face, but have the credentials and 
scale to handle big, complex projects. 
We have countless accumulated years of knowledge and expertise 
working with customers in environments where security and 
surveillance are fundamental to their operation. But the main reason 
our customers put their trust in us is that we, as individuals, take the 
time to get to know them and their challenges properly and we 
work relentlessly to provide their ideal solution. 
Synectics’ history has played a big part in developing a ‘can-do’ 
attitude, and our values are built around that ethos.
We constantly applaud individuals who have these values at the 
forefront of their minds and champion the behaviours that we, 
and our customers, expect.
As a Group we also formally applaud individuals and teams who 
genuinely ‘live our values’ through a recognition and reward process 
that is shared across the business.
Key focus areas
During 2015 we significantly increased our focus on formally 
collating and acting on employee feedback in all areas of our activity. 
The most significant issue to arise from the latest employee survey 
was a desire for increased training in a number of areas, and this will 
be actively addressed in the current year.
We reintroduced a slightly modified performance and development 
review process during the year. The process not only provides more 
structure and guidance for our managers and employees, but also 
reinforces the importance of, and relationship between, capability, 
engagement and performance. Initial feedback has been positive 
and we will continue to build on this.
Our people and values
We consider our people 
to be our greatest asset 
Our values underpin everything we do. We... 
Understand
We listen, advise, respond 
and add value to all our internal 
and external customers.
Innovate
We are flexible, creative, 
proactive people and we 
deliver expert solutions using 
innovative technologies. 
Respect
We care, embrace diversity 
and trust each other. We are 
inclusive and we communicate 
openly and honestly.
Do the right thing
We act with integrity and we 
collaborate to deliver on our 
commitments. We challenge 
each other to improve.
“  Our people have an unrivalled 
level of commitment, expertise 
and focus that makes a huge 
difference to our customers. 
It’s this blend of aptitude and 
attitude that ultimately gives 
them confidence, and I believe 
that strength gives us a 
valuable advantage. ”
P aul W ebb
Chief Executive SINGAPORE CASINO
Forging lasting customer relationships based 
on performance excellence is at the heart of our 
business and is integral to our continued growth 
in global markets.
In 2015 Synectics secured a contract to significantly expand 
its fully integrated surveillance, recording and control room 
solution for an existing casino client in the Far East.
The project was the second major phase of work for this 
client. Phase I was delivered in 2013 when we designed and 
installed the largest and most complex surveillance system 
in the Group’s history.
Singapore has the world’s most demanding and rigorously 
enforced gaming regulations. The country’s two casinos alone 
generate approximately £6 billion per year and record nearly 
20,000 cameras between them. Lost video coverage can 
result in fines of up to 10% of revenue. 
Synectics was selected for the initial contract based on our 
system resilience and scalability, development agility, highly 
knowledgeable and responsive team, a proven track record, 
and our local presence. 14 www.synecticsplc.com
Strategic review
Our business model
We combine deep sector -specific 
market knowledge with smart 
technology and safe hands
We are experts
We have three decades of experience in creating security 
and surveillance solutions for some of the world’s most 
challenging environments. By developing close, long-term 
working relationships with our customers, we have been 
able to consistently provide solutions that are perfectly 
adapted to their needs.
We are creative
We approach every new challenge with creative intelligence, 
combining technologies and ideas in new ways. This enables 
us to create solutions that are always greater than the sum 
of their parts.
Underpinned by our core strengths 
We meet customers’ increasingly 
sophisticated needs
Our customers are increasingly looking for us to deliver 
integrated solutions uniquely tailored for their individual 
needs, whilst demanding reliability and a high level 
of control for systems in a range of demanding 
security environments. 
We deliver end-to-end integrated 
electronic security systems
The scope of our services ranges from system 
consultation and design, through installation and 
maintenance, to a fully-managed service solution. 
This can be delivered as an end-to-end solution or as a 
combination of services specifically selected in partnership 
with our customers to support their individual needs.
Our integrated offering
CA D
Consult
Design
Create
Integrate
Install
Commission
Maintain
Monitor
 IMS Systems
Our two divisions 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic review Introduction
We are human 
We are big enough to handle challenges of any size. But we are 
also small enough to give our customers a great service based 
on partnership, co-operation and long-term relationship building. 
We are committed
We have a clear focus: providing security and surveillance 
solutions where they are absolutely critical. Our satisfaction 
comes from knowing we have helped our customers by 
providing the best solution possible – where it matters most 
to them. Even our research & development initiatives are 
entirely driven by real, current customer challenges. 
We have a largely contract-based 
revenue model
By continuing to innovate and in keeping close to our 
customers we benefit from high contract renewal 
levels, helping to secure our income streams for 
the longer term. 
We drive revenue by winning larger 
shares of bigger projects 
We achieve this by identifying major opportunities 
at an early stage and working with our customers to 
develop solutions that protect their investments.
Sales channels
We generate new business by working in partnership 
with global integrators, technology partners and 
resellers, as well as working directly with end users.
Our revenue model
New 
contracts
End users
Technology 
partners
Resellers
Global 
integrators 16 www.synecticsplc.com
Performance review
Key performance indicators 
Our performance is measured principally 
using the following financial indicators.
Group financial results
Keeping track of Group performance
Group results for the year
The Group returned to profitability in 2015 after the poor financial 
performance of the previous year.
Total revenue for the year increased by 6% from £64.6 million to 
£68.5 million resulting in an underlying operating profit of £1.7 million 
compared to a loss of £2.2 million in 2014. 
In response to 2014’s poor trading performance, actions were 
taken at the end of last year and in the first half of 2015 to reduce 
the Group’s cost base. The successful implementation of these 
actions has contributed to the Group’s return to profitability.
Although our results continued to be impacted by disruption in 
global oil & gas markets, we nevertheless made revenue progress 
in this, our largest single market sector. In addition, improved 
management control ensured that the project cost overrun 
of the previous year was not repeated.
£0.8 million of restructuring costs were incurred during the year 
as action was taken to reduce the Group’s cost base, and are 
included in £1.0 million of non-underlying items reflected in the 
Income Statement.
Overall cash inflow in the period was £5.6 million due largely to 
the year’s trading profit and unwinding of abnormally high working 
capital levels at the beginning of the year arising primarily from 
increased stock and contract work in progress owing to the 
slowdown in activity in the Oil & Gas sector. The Group finished 
the year with net cash of £0.5 million compared with net debt at 
30 November 2014 of £6.1 million. The net movement of £6.6 million 
comprised an increase in cash and cash equivalents of £5.6 million 
and a £1.0 million reduction in term debt. 
Other key performance indicators are discussed in more detail 
on the following pages.
“ The Group returned to 
profitability in 2015 after the 
poor financial performance 
of the previous year. ”
Mike Stilwell
Finance Director
£68.5m
Revenue 
+6.0%
£82.4m
£64.6m
13 14 15
31 .2%
32.4%
29.2%
13 14 15
Gross margin 
+2.0%
£(2.2)m
£1 .7m
13 14 15
Underlying operating 
profit/(loss)
+177%
£7 .2m
Operating profit/(loss) before 
non-underlying items* and 
goodwill impairment.
£(3.6)m
£0.7m
Operating profit/(loss) 
+119%
£6.7m
13 14 15 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Governance Financial statements Other information Introduction Performance review Strategic review
*  Non-underlying items 
comprise restructuring
costs, share-based 
payment charge 
and amortisation of 
acquired intangibles.
Key performance indicators
Measure 2015 2014 Fav/(adv) 
Revenue (£m) 68.5 64.6 3.9
Gross margin % 31.2% 29.2% 2.0%
Underlying operating profit/(loss) (£m) 1.7 (2.2) 3.9
Operating profit/(loss) before non-underlying items* 
Underlying profit/(loss) before tax (£m) 1.6 (2.4) 4.0
Profit/(loss) before tax and non-underlying items*
Profit/(loss) before tax (£m) 0.5 (3.7) 4.2
Underlying operating margin % 2.5% (3.4)% 5.9%
Ratio of underlying operating profit/(loss) to revenue
Diluted earnings per share (p) 2.5 (20.6) 23.1
Underlying diluted earnings per share (p) 8.0 (14.0) 22.0
Based on underlying profit/(loss) before tax
Order book (£m) 26.6 28.6 (2.0)
Recurring revenue (£m) 16.7 15.7 1.0
Contracted sales where a service is delivered over a future time period 
and revenues are recognised in the relevant future accounting period
Recurring revenue as % of total revenue 24.4% 24.4% –
Net cash/(debt) (£m) 0.5 (6.1) 6.6
Cash balances net of loans
Working capital % 15.0% 24.3% 9.3%
Working capital as % of total revenue
Free cash flow (£m) 8.0 (5.2) 13.2
Cash flow from operations less capital expenditure, but before any 
payments in respect of non-underlying items
Cash conversion % 468% N/A N/A
Ratio of free cash flow to underlying operating profit
 O u r key performance 
indicators continue 
on the following pages
Diluted earnings per share
+112%
29.4p
13 14 15
(20.6)p
2.5p
(3.4)%
Underlying 
operating margin
+5.9%
8.8%
13 14 15
 Ratio of underlying operating  
profit/(loss) to revenue.
£(2.4)m
£(3.7)m
£1 .6m
£0.5m
Underlying profit/(loss) 
before tax
+167%
Profit/(loss) before tax
+114%
£7 .1m £6.6m
13 14 15 13 14 15
Profit/(loss) before tax, non-underlying 
items*, goodwill impairment and 
adjustments to deferred and 
contingent consideration.
2.5%
£7 .1m 18 www.synecticsplc.com
Performance review
Group financial results continued
Income Statement
Overall Group revenue for the year to 30 November 2015 amounted 
to £68.5 million compared with £64.6 million in the previous year, 
an increase of £3.9 million (6.0%).
Revenue split between our two business segments was as follows:
2015 2014 Inc/(dec)
Revenue £000 £000 £000 Inc/(dec) 
Systems 32,670 31,876 794 2.5%
Integration & 
Managed Services 36,820 33,746 3,074 9.1%
Intra-Group (986) (1,028) 42
Total revenue 68,504 64,594 3,910 6.1%
Revenues in the Systems division increased by £0.8 million to 
£32.7 million. This was largely due to improved sales performance 
in our Gaming and Oil & Gas sectors.
Revenues in the IMS division increased significantly by 9% to 
£36.8 million. This improvement was seen largely in our mobile 
systems business which saw an increase in its core market, 
in line with a rise in new UK bus and coach registrations, 
together with increased international activity.
Recurring revenue increased year on year to £16.7 million 
(2014: £15.7 million), representing approximately 24% of sales 
(2014: 24%).
The proportion of sales arising outside the UK increased slightly 
during the year to 43%, compared with 42% in the previous year.
Sales by geographical 
location of contract
 2015
 £000
 2014
 £000
Inc/(dec) 
 £000
UK 38,833 57% 37,310 58% 1,523
Rest of Europe 5,681 8% 7,336 11% (1,655)
UK and Europe – total 44,514 65% 44,646 69% (132)
North America 6,341 9% 8,535 13% (2,194)
Middle East 4,903 7% 3,344 5% 1,559
Asia and Pacific 12,746 19% 8,069 13% 4,677
Total revenue 68,504 100% 64,594 100% 3,910
Consolidated gross margins for 2015 increased by 2.0% overall. 
Improvements in margins of 5.5% in the IMS division, around half 
of which arose largely as a result of the non-recurrence of a substantial 
loss-making UK integration contract in the previous year, were 
offset by modest margin reductions in the Systems division 
due largely to price competition in the Oil & Gas sector.
The full segmental analysis is as follows:
Gross margin % 2015 2014 Inc/(dec) 
Systems 37.5% 38.9% (1.4)%
Integration & Managed Services 24.8% 19.3% 5.5%
Total Group 31.2% 29.2% 2.0%
Underlying operating expenses in the year decreased by 6.9% 
to £19.6 million largely as a result of actions taken to reduce the 
Group’s cost base in response to last year’s poor performance.
2015 2014 Inc/(dec)
Operating expenses £000 £000 £000 Inc/(dec) 
Underlying 
operating expenses 19,628 21,079 (1,451) (6.9)%
Non-underlying items:
Restructuring costs 806 1,120 (314)
Share-based 
payment charge 125 127 (2)
Amortisation of 
acquired intangibles 107 118 (11)
1,038 1,365 (327)
Total operating 
expenses 20,666 22,444 (1,778) (7.9)%
Non-underlying operating expenses amounted to £1.0 million 
(2014: £1.4 million) and included restructuring costs of £0.8 million 
arising from continued re-alignment of the Group’s operating cost 
base in response to the trading performance in the previous year.
Net finance costs in 2015 reduced by £28,000 to £163,000 largely 
due to interest receivable on pension scheme assets exceeding 
interest payable on pension scheme liabilities during the year.
Finance 2015 2014 Inc/(dec)
income/(costs) £000 £000 £000 Fav/(adv)
Finance income 225 246 (21) (8.5)%
Finance costs (338) (437) 49 11.2%
Net finance costs (163) (191) 28 14.7%
Underlying diluted 
earnings per share
+157%
32.6p
13 14 15
 Based on underlying profit/(loss)
before tax.
(14.0)p
8.0p
Order book 
-7%
£26.6m
£28.1m
£28.6m
13 14 15
Recurring revenue 
+6.4%
£16.7m
£15.6m
£15.7m
13 14 15
Contracted sales where a service is 
delivered over a future time period and 
revenues are recognised in the relevant 
future accounting period.
Recurring revenue  
as % of total revenue
–%
24.4%
18.9%
24.4%
13 14 15 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Governance Financial statements Other information Introduction Performance review Strategic review
Consolidated underlying profit before tax was £1.6 million in 2015 
compared with a loss of £2.4 million in the year to 30 November 2014.
Profits from the Systems division increased to £1.3 million on 
the back of a 2.5% increase in revenue, rationalised cost base but 
reduced gross margins as a result of increased competition within 
Oil & Gas. In IMS a 9% improvement in sales, together with the 
non-recurrence of a £1.0 million negative impact from the unprofitable 
integration contract in 2014, resulted in a £2.2 million profit for the 
division. Central costs savings of £0.2 million were made across 
the year, reducing the central cost base to £1.8 million.
Underlying  
profit/(loss)
 2015 2014 Inc
 £000 £000 £000 Fav
Systems 1,337 1,031 306 29.7%
Integration & 
Managed Services 2,224 (1,139) 3,363 295.3%
Central costs (1,848) (2,084) 236 11.3%
Underlying operating 
profit/(loss) 1,713 (2,192) 3,905 178.1%
Interest (163) (191) 28 14.7%
Underlying profit/
(loss) before tax 1,550 (2,383) 3,933 165.0%
Research & development costs are charged to the division 
benefitting from the service provided by the Synectics Technology 
Centre, principally the Systems division. In 2015 £2.1 million was 
spent on research & development with £1.6 million charged to the 
Income Statement after capitalisation of £0.6 million of development 
costs. This compares with total expenditure of £2.5 million in 2014 
of which £1.4 million was capitalised.
Due to improved performance in both divisions in 2015, the Group 
underlying operating margin was 2.5% compared with (3.4)% in 2014.
Underlying operating margins 2015 2014 Inc 
Systems 4.1% 3.2% 0.9%
Integration & Managed Services 6.0% (3.4)% 9.4%
Total Group 2.5% (3.4)% 5.9%
The tax charge for 2015 was £0.1 million compared with a tax credit 
in 2014 of £0.4 million due to the losses incurred in that year. The 
underlying tax rate (being the percentage ratio of the tax charge 
for the period to underlying profit before tax, after adding back the 
tax effect of non-underlying items) was 15% and benefited from 
the lower tax rates applicable to the Group’s subsidiaries in 
Singapore and Macau.
At 30 November 2015 the Group recognised a deferred tax asset 
of £0.5 million (30 November 2014: £0.6 million) in relation to tax 
losses which are expected to be offset against future taxable profits. 
Further tax losses of £2.6 million (30 November 2014: £2.7 million) 
are capable of offset against the future taxable profits of certain 
Group companies, but have not yet been recognised in the 
financial statements.
Diluted earnings per share for 2015 was 2.5p compared with (20.6)p 
in the year ended 30 November 2014. However, the Directors believe 
that a better measure of performance is the underlying diluted 
earnings per share which is calculated on the underlying profit/(loss) 
before tax as defined above. Diluted underlying earnings per share 
was 8.0p compared with (14.0)p in 2014.
2015 2014 Inc
Earnings per share p p p Inc 
Diluted earnings 
per share 2.5 (20.6) 23.1 112%
Diluted underlying 
earnings per share 8.0 (14.0) 22.0 157%
Statement of Financial Position
The net assets of the Group amounted to £36.8 million at 
30 November 2015 (30 November 2014: £36.4 million) and 
can be summarised as follows:
 2015 2014 
 £000 £000 
 Property, plant and equipment 3,264 3,952
 Intangibles 22,372 23,357
 Retirement benefit asset 515 540
 Non-current assets 26,151 27,849
 Cash balances/(overdraft) 3,224 (2,417)
 Loans and borrowings (2,675) (3,659)
 Net cash/(debt) 549 (6,076)
 Other net current assets 10,267 15,682
 Net tax assets 4 159
 Provisions (129) (1,169)
 Net tax assets 36,842 36,445
Non-current assets at 30 November 2015 were £26.2 million 
compared with £27.8 million at 30 November 2014, and include 
a retirement benefit asset of £0.5 million arising from the surplus 
on the Group’s closed defined benefit scheme (see note 29 on 
pages 72 to 75).
Total capital expenditure in the year decreased to £1.0 million 
compared to £3.6 million in 2014, as the prior year saw significant 
spending on the development of the Group’s Scunthorpe property 
purchased in 2013 to consolidate two existing operations into one 
site, together with £0.3 million on a major upgrade of information 
technology systems. During 2015 £0.6 million was capitalised 
in respect of technology development projects.
This capital expenditure of £1.0 million (2014: £3.6 million) compares 
with depreciation and amortisation charges of £1.9 million in the year 
(2014: £1.5 million).
Working capital levels fell by £5.4 million to £10.3 million at 
30 November 2015 as abnormally high working capital levels at 
the beginning of 2015 unwound over the year. These balances 
arose primarily from increased stock and contract work in progress 
owing to the slowdown in activity in the Oil & Gas sector. 20 www.synecticsplc.com
Performance review
Group financial results continued
Statement of Financial Position continued
As a consequence, working capital expressed as a percentage 
of annual revenues decreased from 24% in 2014 to 15% at 
30 November 2015.
The tax asset reduced during the year as a result of a net tax 
refund of £0.1 million, as payments in respect of 2015 profits 
were more than offset by refunds for the losses incurred during 
2014. The net tax balance at 30 November 2015 was £4,000 and 
reflected a net current tax asset of £0.2 million (2014: £0.3 million) 
and a deferred tax liability of £0.2 million (2014: £0.1 million). The 
deferred tax balance includes a deferred tax asset of £0.5 million 
(2014: £0.6 million) in relation to losses incurred in the prior period.
Provisions at 30 November 2015 amounted to £129,000 
(30 November 2014: £1.2 million). The prior year amount included 
£1.1 million in respect of restructuring costs which were 
subsequently settled in the first half of 2015.
Cash
The Group ended the year with net cash of £0.5 million at 
30 November 2015 (30 November 2014: net debt of £6.1 million) 
including term loans of £2.7 million drawn to finance the acquisition 
of Synectic Systems GmbH (previously Indanet GmbH) in 2012 
and to purchase the property in Scunthorpe in 2013 which are 
repayable in 2017 and 2018 respectively.
The movement in net debt during the year is reflected 
in the Statement of Financial Position as follows:
£000
Increase in cash balances 1,989
Decrease in bank overdrafts 3,652
Net cash inflow 5,641
Loan repayments during the year 727
Effect of exchange rate changes 257
Increase in net cash 6,625
The net cash inflow of £5.6 million in the year is summarised in the 
table below. Major non-operating cash flow items include capital 
expenditure of £1.0 million as described above, offset by proceeds 
from the sale of property of £0.3 million, receipt of a government 
grant of £0.3 million in relation to employment and training in 
North Lincolnshire and scheduled loan repayments of £0.7 million.
2015 2014
 £000 £000
Underlying operating profit/(loss) 1,713 (2,192)
Depreciation and amortisation charges and 
profit/(loss) on disposal of non-current assets 1,735 1,435 
Decrease/(increase) in working capital 5,429 (833)
Government grant released to 
Income Statement (146) –
Cash from/(used in) operations before 
non-underlying payments 8,731 (1,590)
Restructuring costs (1,814) (183) 
Cash generated by/(used in) operations 6,917 (1,773)
Interest paid (net) (181) (191)
Taxation received/(paid) 78 (1,426)
Capital expenditure (1,001) (3,622)
Disposal proceeds 280 –
Cash received from government grant 311 –
Loan repayments (727) (804)
Issue of shares and share scheme interests 
realised in the year 13 408 
Dividends paid – (928)
Effect of exchange rate changes (49) 145
Net cash flow 5,641 (8,191)
Mike Stilwell
Finance Director
24 February 2016
Working capital 
+9.3%
15.0%
18.0%
24.3%
13 14 15
Working capital as % of revenue.
£8.0m
Free cash flow 
+254%
13 14 15
£(5.2)m
N/A
£0.3m
N/A
Cash flow from operations less capital 
expenditure, but before any payments 
in respect of non-underlying items.
Ratio of free cash flow to underlying 
operating profit.
Cash conversion 
468%
13 14 15
Net cash/(debt)  
+108%
£(6.1)m
13 14 15
£1 .2m
Cash balances net of loans.
£0.5m TERMINAL 3 AT JAKARTA’S SOEKARNO-HATTA 
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
Our deep understanding of the client’s specific 
needs, plus our strong proprietary technology 
offering enabled us to demonstrate ‘the art of the 
possible’. We have delivered a client solution that 
will not only support its needs today, but is agile 
enough to deliver for it in the future.
Synectics has designed and delivered an integrated security 
management solution for the new Terminal 3 at Jakarta’s 
Soekarno-Hatta International Airport, the busiest airport 
in South East Asia.
Airport operator PT. Angkasa Pura II (Persero) – (AP II) required 
a reliable, resilient and scalable end-to-end solution that provided 
a single control environment and supported integration with 
the airport’s multiple edge device sub-systems.
Working in partnership with systems integrator Jaya Teknik, 
part of the Jaya Group of companies, we supplied an integrated, 
end-to-end security and safety solution with Synergy 3 
command and control.
“ Synectics was selected for this project because it was 
able to demonstrate extensive experience in designing 
and delivering mission-critical solutions.” 
Linda Hadi, Vice Director at Jaya Teknik TICT Division 22 www.synecticsplc.com
Performance review
Synectics’ Systems division provides specialist 
electronic surveillance systems, based on its 
own proprietary technology, globally to end 
customers with large-scale highly complex 
security requirements, particularly for oil & gas 
operations, gaming, infrastructure protection, 
high security and public spaces.
Revenue £32.7 million (2014: £31.9 million; 
2013: £44.8 million)
Gross margin 37.5% (2014: 38.9%;  
2013: 38.5%)
Operating profit* £1.3 million (2014: £1.0 million; 
2013: £7.0 million)
Operating margin* 4.1% (2014: 3.2%; 2013: 15.7%)
The Systems division began 2015 with the difficult combined task 
of bedding in its new organisation and expanded central operations 
facility opened the previous year, while at the same time completing 
significant overhead and direct cost reductions to adapt to changed 
market conditions in the oil & gas industry. The resulting challenges 
were addressed successfully, with a minimum of disruption.
Oil & Gas
The market for security and surveillance systems in the oil & gas 
sector continued to experience volatility and changing customer 
intentions but, against that difficult background, Synectics grew 
its revenues in the sector and increased its market share. The 
business remained profitable and is well positioned to benefit 
when more normal market conditions return. 
The business successfully refocussed its efforts on the smaller 
packages of works, extensions and upgrades that are proceeding, 
mainly with existing clients (for example Phase III of the North East 
Bab Field Development in the UAE, as well as ongoing work at the 
Jazan Refinery located in Saudi Arabia), which has enabled it to 
grow revenues despite the difficult conditions.
The challenging market conditions continue to result in project 
cancellations, deferrals and a significant reduction in the number 
of new project opportunities. Against this background, Synectics 
nevertheless secured a number of new oil & gas projects, most 
notably working with new customers, to deliver solutions for the 
TouatGaz project in Algeria and the Kaombo FPSO project in 
Angola. Significantly, there were no major lost bids in the period.
As mergers, acquisitions and withdrawals continue to reshape 
the customer and competitor landscape, the business remains 
agile and focussed on developing new routes and key strategic 
partnerships in the changing market, to keep it on a strong 
footing when the market recovers.
We continue to identify some opportunities in the marine 
market from our historical strengths within the shipyards of Korea 
and South East Asia, though this market also remains weak. 
Project highlight
Delivering end-to-end turnkey solutions: 
TouatGaz (Algeria) 
Synectics has delivered an integrated command and control 
system for this important onshore oil & gas installation. The 
system incorporates COEX camera stations and Synectics’ 
Synergy 3 command and control platform for hundreds of 
cameras. Synectics’ ability to provide full end-to-end turnkey 
solutions and to operate in extreme heat (up to 70ºC), with 
high system resilience, were all factors influencing the 
contract award.
“ This project reflects the strong presence Synectics  
has in the North African market, providing both 
onshore and offshore solutions for key 
developments in the region.”
Paul Webb, Chief Executive
Systems
Our divisions
Gaming
Transport &
Infrastructure
Oil & Gas
High Security 
& Public 
Space 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Governance Financial statements Other information Introduction Performance review Strategic review
37 .5%
Gaming
The Gaming sector performed well in 2015, both through strong 
repeat business from existing core customers and from securing 
new customers particularly in the Far East.
2015 saw Synectics’ Synergy 3 command and control platform 
gain significant traction in the gaming market. It has been adopted 
by a significant number of new sites, as well as being rolled out to 
many existing sites as part of upgrade projects, particularly in the 
North American market where Synectics now supports around 
100 gaming sites.
The Far East continues to be a focus for growth in this sector. 
As well as a major expansion programme for an existing client 
in Singapore, during the period we have also provided integrated 
surveillance solutions for a number of major casinos in Malaysia, 
Korea and the Philippines. These new installations build on 
Synectics’ strong base across the region and should provide 
significant follow-on opportunities.
Since the year end, Synectics has been awarded a further multi-million 
pound contract to provide an integrated surveillance solution for a new 
casino resort in Macau, currently under construction for a major 
international gaming operator. 
This follows the opening of an office in Macau in 2015, which will 
play a key role in extending our sales and support capability at a 
local level in this market. 
The outlook remains positive with significant investment and 
development activity continuing in the Asian market, which we are 
well positioned to take advantage of given our ever-strengthening 
presence in the region.
Transport & Infrastructure
Synectics has a long track record of delivering solutions for 
complex and sensitive environments where protecting people and 
assets is critical. Increased focus on transport & infrastructure, 
which is a large and growing segment of the market, suits our core 
strengths and capabilities well. We are already seeing positive 
results from the realignment of our activities in this area, which 
will continue into 2016.
During 2015, our enterprise software platform, Synergy 3, was 
selected as the airport safety and security solution for Terminal 3 
at Jakarta’s Soekarno-Hatta International Airport, the first Synergy 3 
deployment in the sector. 
Other projects included a situational awareness system for a top 
ten international airline, a government highways project in Asia, 
a major rail hub in Germany, and our first passenger counting 
solution for the German rail market.
Although the UK public space market remains challenging, 
Synectics continues to support many sites in this sector and has 
successfully secured contracts for upgrades and expansions, 
including two London Boroughs, to supply Synectics’ Synergy 3 
command and control system.
* Before non-underlying items and Group central costs.
£32.7m
Revenue 
+2.5%
£44.8m
£31 .9m
13 14 15
Gross margin 
-1 .4%
38.5%
38.9%
13 14 15
Operating profit* 
+30%
13 14 15
Operating margin* 
+0.9%
15.7%
13 14 15
£7 .0m
“  Our extensive US experience in the sector enabled us 
to demonstrate our key attributes to the Asia Pacific 
market – quality, reliability and a deep understanding 
of our customers’ operational needs. From that base 
we’ve built a reputation that is going from strength 
to strength.”
Paul Webb, Chief Executive
£1 .3m
£1 .0m
4.1%
3.2% 24 www.synecticsplc.com
Performance review
Synectics’ Integration & Managed Services 
(‘IMS’) division is one of the leading UK providers 
of design, integration, turnkey supply, monitoring 
and management of large-scale electronic 
security systems. Its main markets are in critical 
infrastructure, transport, public space and multi-site 
systems. Its capabilities include a nationwide 
network of service engineers, UK government 
security-cleared personnel and facilities, and an 
in-house 24-hour monitoring centre and helpdesk. 
The IMS division supplies proprietary products 
and technology from Synectics’ Systems 
division as well as from third parties.
Revenue £36.8 million (2014: £33.7 million; 
2013: £38.4 million)
Gross margin 24.8% (2014: 19.3%; 2013: 24.7%)
Operating profit/(loss)* £2.2 million (2014: loss £1.1 million; 
2013: profit £2.2 million)
Operating margin* 6.0% (2014: (3.4)%; 2013: 5.8%)
Within the IMS division, the managed services and mobile 
systems activities performed well during 2015, and our integrated 
services activities completed a successful turnaround and return 
to profitability. 
The IMS division also achieved key milestones during 2015 in its 
objective of sales growth through active closer co-operation, both 
internally between the managed services and integration activities 
of IMS, and within the wider Synectics Group between IMS and 
the Systems division. There are clear benefits being achieved from 
this co-operation and cross-selling, and we expect these gains to 
increase markedly over time.
Integrated systems
The UK security systems integration activities successfully 
transitioned during 2015 to a new operating structure. At the 
outset of the 2015 financial year the Board tasked the new senior 
management team with delivering a rapid and sustainable recovery 
from the loss incurred in the previous year, which had arisen from 
the direct and indirect impacts of delays and cost overruns on 
a major project. Although some of the benefits of the changes 
introduced are still to come, losses were eliminated and a positive 
profit contribution was generated in the year. Much good work has 
been done by management to put in place the improved sales and 
operational platform needed to deliver the levels of revenue and 
profit growth of which this business is capable.
In this period, more focus has been given to larger commercial, high 
security and infrastructure projects, where Synectics’ businesses 
have traditionally done well. Examples include the successful 
retention of a power utility service contract for a further three-year 
term, and the first significant project with a large global 
construction company. 
After the year end we also secured a major contract under which 
we will deliver and service a complex security and safety system 
for a new gas-fired power station that will supply electricity to 
a million UK homes.
We continued to win significant work in the public heritage 
sector, securing the initial stage of a five-year project to upgrade 
the entire security platform for the British Museum. This award 
also included a three-year service and maintenance contract. 
Other contracts were won for the Victoria and Albert Museum 
and the Royal Parks.
Integration 
& Managed 
Services
Transport &
Infrastructure
High Security 
& Public 
Space
Our divisions continued 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Governance Financial statements Other information Introduction Performance review Strategic review
24.8%
£2.2m
6.0%
£36.8m
Revenue 
+9%
£38.4m
£33.7m
13 14 15
Gross margin 
+5.5%
24.7%
19.3%
13 14 15
Operating profit/(loss)* 
+300%
13 14 15
Operating margin* 
+9.4%
5.8%
13 14 15
£2.2m
Managed services
Our managed services team continued to perform well and 
delivered another solid year.
Our focus continues to be on delivering security management and 
facilities management services for clients with large and complex 
estates. Although glass-fronted retail has been under considerable 
pressure from online retail models and consolidation has been 
evident, few reduced their estate size during the period. 
We continued to focus on delivering outstanding service to our 
existing clients, resulting in a number of significant contract renewals 
including with Jewson, WHSmith, Aurum Group and Argos. 
As a result of these longstanding client partnerships we are well 
placed to identify opportunities to expand our service provision. 
In turn, this has led to investment in our bespoke operations system 
to accommodate a more interactive service tracking solution. This 
has significantly enhanced our core proposition and has opened 
up opportunities to secure new clients in adjacent sectors.
Mobile systems
Our mobile systems business delivered exceptionally good results 
both in terms of organic revenue growth and increased operating 
margins, derived principally from improved operational efficiencies 
on a continuing long-term contract and a return to modest growth 
in new UK bus registrations. Notable successes during the year 
included contracts with ADL Plaxton for Hong Kong Citybus 
vehicles, as well as a major upgrade programme with Go-Ahead.
In addition, Synectics secured a major new three-year service and 
support contract with Metroline, further consolidating our position 
as the UK and Ireland’s leading on-vehicle CCTV and telematics 
provider to the bus and coach market. 
As industry thought leaders, Synectics also initiated a series of 
customer forums with London and other major bus operators 
during the period. These forums provide opportunities to gain 
valuable insights into future market developments.
Synectics’ IMS division remains one of the UK’s largest and most 
capable providers of security systems and services, and the Board 
is confident the division will deliver further improvement in results 
in 2016.
* Before non-underlying items and Group central costs.
(3.4)%
£(1 .1)m
Contract highlight
Continuing our partnership with Metroline 
In 2015 we secured a three-year service contract with 
Metroline T ravel & West to support and maintain CCTV 
systems on its fleet of over 1,600 vehicles. 
The contract also includes the installation of 400 T1600 DVR 
upgrades to the Metroline West fleet of vehicles.
Synectics has been working in partnership with Metroline 
since 2003, when CCTV was first introduced onto its buses.
“ From the start we have had a strong relationship with 
Synectics based on good service and a willingness 
to work with us on existing and new projects 
as our demands of technology increase. ”
Ian Foster, Engineering Director at Metroline 26 www.synecticsplc.com
Governance
Board of Directors
Board composition
The Board of Synectics comprises, in 
addition to the Chairman, four Independent 
Non-Executive Directors and two Executive 
Directors. Membership of each of the Audit 
Committee and Remuneration Committee 
is made up solely of the Independent 
Non-Executive Directors. This structure 
follows the Code provisions for listed 
companies of any size.
The Board of Directors
David Coghlan
Chairman
has degrees in Law and in Finance from the University of New 
South Wales in Sydney and an MBA from Wharton in Philadelphia. 
He was formerly a partner at strategy consultants Bain & Company. 
He is currently a director of AIM-quoted SCISYS plc and chairman 
and/or a director of several other companies, mainly in the 
electronics technology field.
Paul Webb
Chief Executive
joined the Group in 2004. Since then Paul has overseen the 
rapid growth of the Group’s industrial systems activities and, 
more latterly, led the consolidation of all of Synectics’ proprietary 
technology systems activities into a single operation. He has 
a degree in Physics from Imperial College London.
Mike Stilwell
Finance Director
joined Synectics in October 2012 as Group Financial Controller, 
after finance roles with the Saint-Gobain Group, Coventry Building 
Society and the Caparo Group. He qualified as a Chartered Accountant 
with KPMG in 2001 and has a degree in Accounting and Financial 
Analysis from the University of Warwick. Financial statements Other information
27 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Introduction Strategic review Governance Performance review
Steve Coggins
Independent Non-Executive Director
has held various senior roles in both sales and marketing and 
general management in the information technology arena including 
senior vice-president at both Amdahl (now part of Fujitsu) and at 
Silicon Graphics. Earlier he spent time at IBM and also in engineering 
computing in the aircraft industry.
Michael Butler
Independent Non-Executive Director
has held various senior roles in general management, sales 
and marketing in telecommunications businesses, including 
president and chief operating officer and an executive board 
director of Inmarsat plc. He was previously managing director 
of MCI Worldcom UK. He is currently a director of several other 
companies, including non-executive chairman of Broadband 
Satellite Services Limited, and also a qualified business coach.
Dennis Bate CBE
Independent Non-Executive Director
has 54 years of experience in the construction industry, of which 
38 years were spent with Bovis, most latterly as board director 
responsible for Bovis’ operations in the UK and Eastern Europe. 
Following retirement from Bovis, Dennis has held a number 
of non-executive roles and currently provides a wide range 
of consultancy services. He was awarded the CBE for his 
services within the industry.
Peter Rae
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and is a graduate 
of the University of Cambridge, and formerly chief executive of 
S.W. Wood plc (now Wyndeham Press plc). He has current interests 
in a wide range of engineering and other businesses. 28 www.synecticsplc.com
Governance
Introduction to governance
For some time now Synectics has been 
including in its Annual Reports a specific 
section collating the Board’s reports on the 
various elements of corporate governance. 
The formal reports on these matters are 
contained in the following sections. The 
purpose of this regular introduction is to 
provide a broader narrative account of 
Synectics’ governance in one or two 
specific areas.
In previous introductions I have provided a progress report on 
our continuing review of governance in general as well as an 
explanation of the rationale behind the Board’s approach to 
some important issues:
» values and leadership;
» the composition, independence and effectiveness of the Board;
» the Group’s share-based long-term remuneration plans;
» diversity;
» risk management; and
» corporate culture.
Those comments still remain an up-to-date reflection of core 
aspects of Synectics’ governance and, although I won’t repeat 
them here, anyone wanting a fuller picture will find the detail 
in the Group’s 2012, 2013 and 2014 Annual Reports, available 
on our corporate website.
The issue I would like to address this year is Synectics’ 
development and training of its people.
Although the matter of a board’s role in overseeing the development 
of a company’s human resources attracts less attention than some 
other governance topics, possibly because it is less easily reduced 
to some or other simplified (or simplistic) metric, it is actually included 
front and centre in the UK Corporate Governance Code. The very 
first principle set out in the Code includes the provision that:
‘The board should set the company’s strategic aims and ensure 
that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for 
the company to meet its objectives…’ 
Adequate finances are fairly self-evident but what is the Board 
doing to oversee Synectics’ human resources?
The question breaks down into two related but distinct issues: 
succession planning, and development and training of our staff.
Chairman’s introduction
“ The Board is very conscious of 
its role to reinforce development 
and training, including succession 
planning, as a crucial link between 
the Group’s strategy and the skills 
and expertise of its people. ”
David Coghlan
Chairman Financial statements Other information
29 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Introduction Strategic review Governance Performance review
The Board has spent considerable time over recent years discussing 
succession planning for the Group’s senior management ranks. 
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and Divisional Managing 
Directors are all regularly assessed on the development and progress 
of succession plans within their areas of responsibility, and 
Non-Executive members of the Board have frequent opportunities 
to observe and interact with those identified for potential senior 
promotion, individually, through the work of the Audit Committee 
and at full Board meetings and strategy sessions. These plans are 
discussed regularly both by the full Board and by the Chairman 
and Non-Executive Directors without Executives present.
One result of this explicit attention can be seen in the fact that 
the Group has at different times within the last year been able 
to replace both its Chief Executive and its Finance Director 
with internal promotions.
The importance of this was brought home during a ‘lessons learned’ 
debate by the Directors as part of the Board’s self-evaluation process 
last year, during which there emerged a clear consensus that the root 
cause of a damaging and avoidable lapse in operational management 
in one of our divisions could be traced back to external hiring mistakes. 
The corollary is that, while the cost of ‘over-investing’ in recruiting, 
training and developing our own employees may look in straitened 
times like a temptingly discretionary overhead, it can easily be dwarfed 
by the consequences of an inadequate internal promotion pool.
Beyond succession planning, the wider issue of development 
and training of our employees has been given increased importance 
by Synectics’ Board and senior management in recent years. 
A few examples among many of how this objective is being 
implemented include:
» the introduction of special sessions by the Group’s senior
technology leaders where staff in non-technical functions are
educated on the details of our latest technology and products;
» mentoring assignments where senior managers support
individuals in the broader management team;
» the introduction of a leadership development programme; and
» the inclusion of personal development of their staff as a specific
element in the personal objectives of our senior managers.
As mentioned elsewhere in this Annual Report, feedback on 
training from Synectics’ regular all-employee opinion survey in 
2015 was clear, and could be crudely summarised as ‘we want 
more, please’. 
A critical element of Synectics’ strategy is to serve specialist 
high-end sectors of the security market through making our products 
and services more precisely adapted to the individual needs of those 
sectors. This requires our people to be knowledgeable experts 
in the relevant parts of our customers’ businesses. The Group’s 
success will depend in part on how well we develop, equip and 
retain our staff to confidently fulfil that role.
The Board is very conscious of its role in this area: to reinforce 
development and training, including succession planning, as 
a crucial link between the Group’s strategy and the skills and 
expertise of its people. We increasingly see human resources 
as a core issue, properly at the forefront of governance principles.
Finally, the Board continues to support wholeheartedly the letter 
and spirit of the UK Corporate Governance Code, and it remains 
our intent to follow Code provisions wherever we sensibly can 
within the constraints of the Group’s size and resources.
David Coghlan
Chairman
24 February 2016 30 www.synecticsplc.com
Governance
The corporate governance disclosures 
include the Chairman’s Introduction, 
the Corporate Governance Statement, 
the Remuneration Committee report 
and the Audit Committee report.
The Board
The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, four  
Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors. The 
Group believes the size and composition of the Board give it 
sufficient independence, balance and broad experience to provide 
effective oversight of Synectics’ strategy, performance, resources 
and standards of conduct. The strong representation of Non-Executive 
Directors on the Board demonstrates its independence, provides 
a greater depth of experience and facilitates challenge. 
The roles of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive are 
undertaken by separate individuals. The Chairman, David Coghlan, 
is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring that there 
is effective communication with shareholders. The day-to-day 
leadership and management of the business are undertaken by the 
Group Chief Executive, Paul Webb, assisted by senior management.
Peter Rae fulfils the role of the Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director of the Group. He was appointed based on his ability to 
perform the role and his deep knowledge and experience of the 
Group. He supports and deputises for the Chairman on matters 
relating to Directors and engagement with shareholders.
The Company Secretary, in conjunction with the Chairman, 
ensures that accurate, timely and clear information is provided to 
the Board in order for informed decisions and discussions to take 
place. The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the 
Board on governance matters and regulatory requirements. The 
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter 
reserved for the Board. All Directors have direct access to the 
Company Secretary and to independent professional advice 
at the Group’s expense as required.
The Group purchases and maintains Directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance in respect of the Group, the Company and its Directors 
throughout each financial year.
Role of the Board
Great importance is placed on a well informed and decisive Board. 
Board meetings are held regularly throughout the year. In 2015, 
six scheduled Board meetings and eight Board Committee 
meetings were held. In addition, as it does each year, the Board 
convened and participated in a separate full day’s discussion 
of the Group’s strategy and three-year plan.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its 
consideration and those delegated to Board Committees. The Board’s 
responsibilities include setting the Group’s overall business and 
commercial strategy; setting and monitoring business objectives 
to achieve the strategy; setting and monitoring annual budgets and 
financial and capital plans; and considering Group policies and any 
major investments or organisational changes.
Agenda items scheduled for every Board meeting include strategy, 
business performance, operations, human resources, finance and 
governance. The agenda is reviewed and agreed by the Chairman 
to ensure that the Board addresses the right issues at the right 
times and that sufficient time is allowed for appropriate 
consideration and debate.
Following Board Committee meetings, the Board receives copies 
of the Committees’ minutes at the next Board meeting and can 
raise any queries or concerns with the Committee Chairmen.
Board meetings
Board meetings are scheduled in different Group offices to give 
the Board the opportunity to meet local management and employees, 
and to develop greater business knowledge and depth of awareness 
of business-specific opportunities and threats. All Directors receive 
papers sufficiently in advance of meetings to enable due consideration.
During 2015, matters dealt with by the Board included:
» review and monitoring of Group strategy and progress
against business objectives;
» operational and financial performance of the Group;
» Group budgets and three-year plan;
» approval of financial statements and dividend policy;
» risk management oversight;
» review of internal controls and approval of the internal
audit plan;
» Board and senior management succession planning;
» approval of large contracts and bids;
» approval of large capital expenditure projects;
» Committee reports and recommendations;
» remuneration of Executive Directors and senior management;
» review of corporate governance reporting; and
» Board and Committee evaluation and progress of actions
from the 2014 evaluation.
Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings during 
the 2015 financial year was as follows:
Total number of meetings
Board
Audit
 Committee
Remuneration
 Committee
DJ Coghlan 
Chairman 5 – –
D Bate 5 3 4
SW Coggins
Chairman of Audit Committee 5 3 4
PM Rae
Chairman of 
Remuneration Committee 5 3 4
J Shepherd (resigned
31 January 2015) 1 * – –
NC Poultney (resigned 
30 November 2015) 5 – –
PA Webb 5 – –
* Number of meetings eligible to attend prior to retirement from the Board: one.
Corporate governance statement Financial statements Other information
31 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Introduction Strategic review Governance Performance review
Directors’ conflicts of interest
A Conflicts Register is maintained by the Company Secretary to 
monitor and manage any potential conflicts of interest. Training 
on the Companies Act 2006 has been given to all Directors on 
the provisions within, and Directors are reminded of their duties at 
each Board meeting. Any conflicts are declared at the first Board 
meeting at which the Director becomes aware of a potential conflict 
and then recorded in the Conflicts Register. The Board considers 
all conflicts in line with the provisions set out in the Articles and 
non-conflicted Directors can authorise conflicts with or without limits 
and conditions. The Directors are required to review their interests 
recorded in the Conflicts Register on an annual basis.
Board Committees
The Group has two standing Board Committees: a Remuneration 
Committee and an Audit Committee. The roles and activities of 
those Committees are included in the respective Committee 
reports on pages 32 to 37.
The functions of a nominations committee are undertaken by 
the Group Board as a whole. Where necessary and appropriate, 
a nominations sub-committee is appointed temporarily to fulfil 
specific tasks. Given the size of the Group, and the size and 
composition of its Board, the Directors believe it is both practical 
and beneficial for matters of Board composition and recruitment, 
Board performance evaluation, Executive and Non-Executive 
succession planning, and training and development to be undertaken 
by the Board as a whole. All such matters are regularly scheduled 
on the Board’s agenda and are discussed thoroughly and robustly, 
incorporating the detailed perspectives and experience of all Directors.
Board appointments
All Non-Executive Directors are provided with a letter of appointment 
on acceptance of the appointment, which includes the terms and 
conditions of their role. The letters of appointment are updated as 
appropriate from time to time and are available on request from 
the Company Secretary.
Diversity
The Group recognises the benefits of having a diverse board, 
senior management team and workforce in general and seeks to 
recruit and develop the best-qualified candidates to support and 
achieve the Group’s long-term strategic and business objectives. 
The Group monitors and encourages diversity across the whole 
workforce in terms of gender, skills, culture, disability and ethnicity 
and believes such diversity contributes to the success of the Group.
Board performance and effectiveness
Induction
The Group’s policy is for all new Directors to undertake a formal 
and comprehensive induction to the Group upon joining the Board. 
The induction process is undertaken by the Company Secretarial 
department. On acceptance of appointment all Directors are 
provided with an induction pack, which includes: their appointment 
letter and terms; latest accounts and constitutional documents; 
protocol for conflicts of interest, price-sensitive information, Directors’ 
duties and data protection; Group Model Code and Group policies; 
Board meeting procedures and matters reserved; Board minutes 
for the previous twelve months; and meeting dates and contact 
details. Substantive induction to the Group’s businesses is provided 
through meetings with senior management and site visits to the 
Group’s operations.
Performance evaluation
The Board undertakes a self-assessment process annually. This 
includes evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the 
Board, of its Committees and of each Director. The process is led 
by the Chairman and involves a full, robust and open debate in a 
Board meeting and actions for improvement are agreed. Progress 
against these actions arising from performance evaluations is 
then monitored and reported on throughout the following year. 
The performance of the Chairman is reviewed in the Chairman’s 
absence by the Board, led by the Senior Independent Director. 
Directors’ individual performance and development objectives are 
set to support individual and business needs, as well as the action 
plan for the Board and Committees. 
Independence
As part of the appraisal of each Director, the independence of all 
Non-Executive Board members is reviewed and evaluated annually. 
Peter Rae, Steve Coggins and Dennis Bate have served on the Board 
for 18, eleven and ten years respectively. Each brings different and 
complementary high-level experience relevant to the current business 
and future development of the Group. During 2015, and at all times 
previously, each has addressed all issues facing the Board with a high 
level of candour, robustness and insight. Their in-depth knowledge 
of the Group and the electronic surveillance industry, gained from 
their tenure, combined with their different and complementary 
skills and knowledge developed from other directorships, provide 
valuable independent perspectives and contribute to the success 
of the Group and to the performance and effectiveness of the 
Board. For these reasons, each of these three Non-Executive 
Directors is considered by the Board to be independent.
During 2015 Synectics conducted an extensive and open search 
for an additional Independent Non-Executive Director, culminating 
in the appointment of Michael Butler on 23 February 2016. 
Michael’s credentials are described in the Board of Directors 
section on page 27.
Shareholder engagement
The Board welcomes dialogue with shareholders and actively 
engages with them through face-to-face meetings and written 
queries, and at the Company’s Annual General Meeting. Individual 
meetings are conducted with those substantial shareholders who so 
request following the announcement of final and half-year results. 
The Group’s brokers are requested to collate all responses from 
such investor meetings and to pass these to the Board. In addition, 
the Chairman apprises all Board members of any other significant 
shareholder feedback or discussions. As part of the continued 
review of the Group’s governance reporting, the Annual Report 
and Accounts includes expanded narrative governance disclosures 
that take into account the views of shareholders expressed 
through the engagement process. 32 www.synecticsplc.com
Governance
Remuneration Committee report
This report provides information about the 
Remuneration Committee, the remuneration 
policies approved and applied by the Board, 
and the actual remuneration of Directors for 
the year ended 30 November 2015. This report 
does not constitute a directors’ remuneration 
report in compliance with the requirements 
of the Code, as the Group is exempt from 
such requirements.
Unaudited information
Remuneration Committee
The Group’s Remuneration Committee comprises:
» Peter Rae, Chairman of the Committee, Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director;
» Dennis Bate, Independent Non-Executive Director;
» Michael Butler, Independent Non-Executive Director; and
» Steve Coggins, Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Committee members are Independent Non-Executive Directors 
and have no personal or financial interests, other than as shareholders, 
in the matters considered by the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee operates within the remit delegated 
by the Board, which is set out in formal terms of reference. The 
remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Chairman 
and the Executive members of the Board. No Director or manager 
is involved in any decision regarding their own remuneration. A copy 
of the terms of reference can be obtained from the Company 
Secretary or from the Group’s website at www.synecticsplc.com/
index.php/remuneration-committee. 
Neither the Executive Directors nor the Chairman attend other 
than by invitation of the Remuneration Committee and are not 
present at any discussion of their own remuneration.
The principal duties of the Remuneration Committee are to:
» recommend to the Board for approval overall Group remuneration
policies, and the specific remuneration each year for all Directors
and senior management, including bonuses, incentive payments
and share options and awards;
» ensure Executive Directors and senior executive management
are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced
performance in a fair and reasonable manner;
» approve the design of, and determine targets for, any
performance-related pay schemes;
» review the design of all share incentive plans for approval
by the Board and, where appropriate, shareholders;
» determine whether awards will be made under any share
incentive plans, including the size of the award and the
performance targets to be used;
» determine the policy for pension arrangements for
Executive Directors and senior executive management;
» ensure that contractual terms on termination and any payments
made are fair, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to
mitigate loss is fully recognised;
» consider applicable legislation, regulation, best practice guidance
and recommendations, and developments on remuneration
policy and remuneration reporting;
» review remuneration trends at individual subsidiaries and the
Group as a whole, and oversee any major changes in employee
benefit structures across the Group;
» select and appoint any remuneration consultants to advise
the Committee, if required; and
» review the Committee’s performance, constitution and terms
of reference to ensure it operates effectively and to recommend
any changes to the Board for approval.
The Committee Chairman reports formally to the Board on the 
Committee’s proceedings after each meeting; ensures that an 
annual report of the Group’s remuneration policy and practices is 
published in the Group’s Annual Report and Accounts; and (from 2012) 
ensures each year that the Remuneration Committee report, which 
contains the Directors’ remuneration, is put to shareholders for 
approval at the Annual General Meeting.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information 
it requires from any employee of the Group in order to perform 
its duties and to obtain external professional advice at the 
Group’s expense.
During the past financial year the Remuneration Committee met 
four times. The Committee considered the 2014 bonus awards 
for certain senior executive management and salary increases for 
the Executive Directors and senior executive management. The 
Committee approved the discretionary executive bonus scheme 
to take effect in the financial year 2015 for Executive Directors. 
For the 2015 financial year, the upper limits on bonuses were set 
at 75% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 60% for the 
Finance Director. An award of options under the Performance 
Share Plan on 30 March 2015, for the Executive Directors and 
senior managers, was considered and approved. The Committee 
approved exercises of options over shares, and sales of shares, 
in respect of the Group’s various incentive plans during the year. 
The Committee determined the appropriate leaver treatment for 
participants in the Performance Share Plan who had left the Group 
during the year. The Committee also approved the remuneration 
of senior executives and the remuneration terms for Mike Stilwell, 
effective from his appointment to the Board on 1 December 2015. Financial statements Other information
33 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Introduction Strategic review Governance Performance review
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors
Executive Directors are employed by the Group and are 
required to devote substantially the whole of their time to 
its affairs. The policy of the Board is to provide competitive 
packages reflective of the industry in which it operates to attract, 
retain and motivate high calibre individuals as Executive Directors 
and to ensure that their remuneration packages (consisting of basic 
salary, performance-related bonuses, pension arrangements and 
other benefits including interests in share schemes) reflect their 
responsibilities, performance and experience, and encourage and 
reward superior performance. The policy is also aimed at ensuring 
employees are rewarded fairly for their individual contributions to 
its performance and encourage appropriate behaviours in line 
with the Group’s attitude to risk.
The principal elements of the Executive Directors’ remuneration 
packages are as follows:
» Basic salary – the Group aims to pay competitive market salaries
and to recognise individual development and progression through
the annual salary and personal review processes. Salaries are
reviewed annually.
» Annual performance-related bonuses – in line with the scheme
covering other senior members of staff, performance-related
bonuses for the Executive Directors are based on the
achievement of specific financial targets for the Group
and agreed personal objectives.
» Pension arrangements – the Group makes contributions into
money purchase schemes on behalf of the Executive Directors.
Pension payments are based only on basic salary.
» Other benefits – these principally comprise car benefits, life
assurance and membership of the Group’s healthcare scheme.
» Long-term incentive arrangements – the Group operates
various share plans in which certain of the Executive Directors
participate. Details of the share plans are given in note 22 to the
financial statements. Directors’ interests in the shares of the
Group are detailed in the shareholdings disclosure on page 39.
Executive Directors are not automatically entitled to compensation 
payments for loss of office, other than payment in lieu of their 
contractual notice period, if legally required.
Executive Directors do not hold directorships in other companies 
unrelated to the Group, and, accordingly, no remuneration is due 
to the Group.
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors are independent of the Group and are 
expected to spend an average of approximately two days a month 
on the Group’s business. They are not restricted from undertaking 
additional directorships, subject to avoiding any conflicts of interest.
After considering recommendations from the Chairman, the Board 
determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors 
excluding the Chairman. The remuneration of the Chairman is 
determined by the Remuneration Committee. Non-Executive 
Directors receive fees which are reviewed annually in light of their 
responsibilities, experience and contribution to the Group’s affairs, 
as well as market rates. Non-Executive Directors do not receive 
any performance-related pay or rewards, and the Group does not 
deduct for, or contribute to, a pension.
Audited information
Details of the Directors’ emoluments are given below.
a) Remuneration
2015 2014
Salary Total Total 2015 2014
and fees Bonuses* Benefits (excl pension)  (excl pension) Pension Pension 
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive Directors
NC Poultney (retired 30 November 2015) 187 41 31 259 200 34 32
PA Webb 219 39 20 278 18 26 2
J Shepherd** 42 – 6 48 290 5 30
Non-Executive Directors
DJ Coghlan 75 – 12 87 86 – –
PM Rae 30 – – 30 30 – –
SW Coggins 30 – – 30 30 – –
D Bate 30 – – 30 30 – –
Total 613 80 69 762 684 65 64
* Bonuses are paid or accrued based on the achievement of agreed personal objectives and corporate performance metrics.
**  Mr Shepherd retired from the Board on 31 January 2015. During the year Mr Shepherd received an amount for compensation for loss of office in line 
with the arrangements disclosed in the 2014 Remuneration Committee report.
Pension contributions shown above reflect pension payments into money purchase arrangements. There were no other pension 
payments or accrued pension benefits arising under money purchase schemes in respect of Directors. 34 www.synecticsplc.com
Governance
Remuneration Committee report continued
b) Share schemes
The Directors’ interests in the Company’s share schemes are 
presented below. No new options were granted to, or exercised 
by, any Director between 1 December 2015 and 24 February 2016.
Performance Share Plan
The following Executive Directors held an interest in the Company’s 
shares at 30 November 2015 through awards made under the 
Synectics Performance Share Plan (the ‘PSP’), which was established 
on 9 October 2012, as set out below and in note 22.
Under the rules of the PSP, selected employees are awarded an 
interest over a certain number of Company shares which only vest 
after a three-year period, at nil cost to the employees. The number 
of shares that vest at the end of the three-year period is dependent 
on the Company meeting certain performance thresholds linked 
to the FTSE AIM All Share Total Return Index. The performance 
conditions are identical to those that applied under the Executive 
Shared Ownership Plan, details of which are presented below.
The awards made in October 2012 reached the end of their 
vesting period in October 2015. After the year end the Committee 
reviewed the Company’s performance against the applicable 
performance conditions and has determined that no proportion 
of the 2012 award could be considered to have vested. As such, 
the participants’ interests in the 2012 award have lapsed.
No rights under this scheme were exercised by Directors during 
the year.
Executive Shared Ownership Plan
The following Directors shown below held an interest in the 
Company’s shares at 30 November 2015 through participation in 
the Quadnetics Executive Shared Ownership Plan (the ‘ExSOP’), 
which was established on 7 July 2009, having superseded an earlier 
scheme established in 2005, as set out below and in note 22. 
The last awards under the ExSOP were made in March 2011.
Under the provisions of the ExSOP, shares are jointly owned by 
nominated senior employees and by an employees’ share trust 
on terms, similar to a share option scheme, whereby the value 
of appreciation in the Company’s share price over a minimum 
three-year period accrues to the relevant employee, provided 
the Company meets certain performance thresholds linked to 
the FTSE AIM All Share Total Return Index. No rights under 
this scheme were exercised by Directors during the year.
Participation in the ExSOP
7 July 2009* 7 March 2011
Number of Issue price Number of Issue price
Date awarded shares (p) shares (p)
NC Poultney 200,000 147.5 10,000 178.0
PA Webb 100,000 147.5 100,000 178.0
DJ Coghlan 93,243 147.5 – –
* Share awards issued on this date were rolled over from share awards held under a previous version of the ExSOP.
Awards made under the PSP
9 October 2012 31 October 2013 30 March 2015
Number of Issue price Number of Issue price Number of Issue price
Date awarded shares (p) shares (p) shares (p)
NC Poultney 10,000 272.5 5,000 510.0 30,000 117.5
PA Webb 10,000 272.5 5,000 510.0 50,000 117.5 Financial statements Other information
35 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Introduction Strategic review Governance Performance review
Employees’ Share Acquisition Plan
The Executive Directors also participate in the Quadnetics 
Employees’ Share Acquisition Plan (the ‘ESAP’), which was adopted 
on 23 April 2010. Deductions from salary are used to buy partnership 
shares in Synectics plc at the end of each six-month accumulation 
period. The Trustee of the ESAP will use any dividend income paid 
on these shares to buy further shares to be held in the scheme 
as dividend shares.
Partnership shares can be withdrawn from the scheme by the 
employee at any time, but withdrawals before the fifth anniversary 
after purchase are subject to income tax; withdrawals after the 
fifth anniversary of their purchase date can be made in full and are 
not subject to income tax. Dividend shares are required to be held 
in trust for a period of three years following the purchase date. 
Employees who leave the Group are required to withdraw all of 
their shares in the scheme and are subject to the same rules.
The Executive Directors had the following interests over Company 
shares held in the ESAP at 30 November 2015:
Partnership shares
Purchase 
price (p)
NC Poultney
Number 
of shares
PA Webb
Number 
of shares
14 October 2010 147.5 338 338
7 April 2011 177.5 422 422
2 November 2011 185.5 405 405
20 April 2012 200.0 375 375
9 October 2012 272.5 275 275
3 April 2013 282.5 265 266
14 October 2013 393.0 191 190
4 April 2014 404.0 186 186
2 October 2014 350.0 257 214
17 April 2015 153.0 589 492
22 October 2015 123.5 729 607
4,032 3,770
Dividend shares
25 July 2011 200.0 7 7
2 November 2011 205.0 9 9
17 May 2012 289.0 19 19
9 October 2012 272.5 14 14
8 May 2013 445.0 21 21
4 October 2013 488.0 13 13
7 May 2014 430.0 30 30
113 113
4,145 3,883
The mid-market prices of the Company’s shares at the beginning 
and end of the financial year were as follows:
Ordinary
 shares of 
20p each
At 1 December 2014 155.0p
At 30 November 2015 107.5p
The maximum and minimum share prices during the year were 
as follows:
Ordinary
 shares of 
20p each
Maximum 212.5p
Minimum 107.5p
c) Service contracts
There are no Directors’ service contracts with notice periods in 
excess of one year. The notice periods under the service agreements 
for Executive Directors and letters of appointment for Non-Executive 
Directors are as follows:
Notice period
DJ Coghlan 12 months
D Bate 3 months
MJ Butler 3 months
SW Coggins 6 months
PM Rae 1 month
MJ Stilwell 6 months
PA Webb 12 months
By Order of the Board
Peter Rae
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
24 February 2016 36 www.synecticsplc.com
Governance
Audit Committee report
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises: 
» Steve Coggins, Chairman of the Committee, Independent
Non-Executive Director;
» Dennis Bate, Independent Non-Executive Director;
» Michael Butler, Independent Non-Executive Director; and
» Peter Rae, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
All of the Committee members are Independent  
Non-Executive Directors and have no personal or financial 
interests, other than as shareholders, in the matters considered 
by the Committee.
The Audit Committee has formal terms of reference which set out 
its duties delegated by the Board. A copy of the terms of reference 
can be obtained from the Company Secretary or from the Group’s 
website at www.synecticsplc.com/index.php/audit-committee. 
During the last financial year the Committee met three times. 
Neither the Executive Directors nor the Chairman attend meetings 
other than by invitation of the Committee members. The Committee 
invites the auditor to attend certain meetings.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to obtain external 
professional advice at the Group’s expense in order to perform 
its duties. 
The main function of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board 
in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities. Its principal duties are to:
» make recommendations to the Board on the appointment,
re-appointment or removal of the external auditor and the
amount of their remuneration;
» discuss and agree the scope of the audit and review the
auditor’s management letter and the Group’s response;
» review and agree the scope and work of the Group’s
internal audit activities;
» review half-year and annual financial statements and formal
announcements relating to financial performance;
» review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s internal
financial controls, and internal control and risk management systems;
» consider compliance with relevant laws and regulations;
» consider findings of internal investigations and management’s
response; and
» review the Committee’s terms of reference and recommend
any proposed changes to the Board for approval.
During the financial year the Audit Committee considered 
the following matters:
» the suitability of the Group’s accounting policies and practices;
» the half-year and full-year financial results;
» the scope and cost of the external audit;
» the auditor’s full-year report for 2014;
 » the re-appointment and evaluation of the performance of KPMG LLP
as the Group’s external auditor (incumbent since 2007);
» the arrangements in respect of Internal Audit, including its
resourcing and the scope of the annual internal audit plan
for 2015/16;
» periodic internal control reporting;
» corporate governance developments; and
» a summary of the key risks that may impact the Group
and agreed mitigating actions to minimise the risk.
Internal controls
The Board of Directors, advised by the Audit Committee, has 
overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control and 
for reviewing its effectiveness. Details of the system of internal 
control, the principal risks facing the Group, and the strategies 
put in place to mitigate them, are set out in the Risks and Risk 
Management section on pages 42 and 43.
Audit independence
The Audit Committee and the Board place great emphasis on the 
objectivity of the external auditor in its reporting to shareholders.
The audit partner and senior manager are present at Audit Committee 
meetings as required to ensure full communication of matters relating 
to the audit. The overall performance of the auditor is reviewed 
annually by the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of 
management, and feedback is provided when necessary to senior 
members of the audit firm unrelated to the audit. The Audit Committee 
also has discussions with the auditor, without management being 
present, on the adequacy of controls and on any judgemental areas. 
The scope of the forthcoming year’s audit is discussed in advance by 
the Audit Committee. Audit fees are approved by the Audit Committee.
In accordance with best practice and professional standards, external 
auditors are required to adhere to a rotation policy whereby the audit 
engagement partner is rotated after five years. The most recent 
audit partner rotation was in 2012. Financial statements Other information
37 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Introduction Strategic review Governance Performance review
The Committee keeps the performance and independence of 
KPMG under annual review and an audit tender will be undertaken 
at a time considered appropriate by the Committee, taking into 
account the independence, quality of the audit and service 
provided by the external auditor.
Assignments of non-audit work have been and are subject to controls 
by management that have been agreed by the Audit Committee 
so that audit independence is not compromised. 
Other than audit, the Board is required to give prior approval of work 
carried out by the auditor and its associates in excess of £50,000. 
Part of this review is to determine that other potential providers 
of the services have been adequately considered. These controls 
provide the Audit Committee with confidence in the independence 
of the auditor in its reporting on the audit of the Group. 
Non-audit services
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the current provision of 
non-audit services by the Group’s auditor does not impair its 
independence or objectivity. That conclusion is based on the 
relatively low amount of fees for non-audit services in comparison 
to audit services (see note 5 to the financial statements), and on 
specific discussions with the auditor.
By Order of the Board
Steve Coggins
Chairman of the Audit Committee
24 February 2016 38 www.synecticsplc.com
Governance
Statutory Directors’ report
The following matters are reported by the 
Directors in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006 requirements in force at the date 
of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Principal activities
The principal activities of Synectics plc (the ‘Company’) and its 
subsidiary companies (the ‘Group’) are set out within the Strategic 
Report, which comprises the Chairman’s Statement, the Strategic 
Review, the Performance Review and the Risks and Risk Management 
section, on pages 4 to 25, and pages 42 and 43.
Review of business and future developments
The Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 
30 November 2015 is set out on page 45. 
A review of the Group’s business activities during the year and its 
prospects for the future can be found in the Chairman’s Statement, 
the Strategic Review and the Performance Review on pages 4 to 25. 
These reports together with the Chairman’s Introduction, the 
Corporate Governance Statement, the Remuneration Committee 
report and the Audit Committee report are incorporated into this 
report by reference and should be read as part of this report.
Key performance indicators
The Directors measure the Group’s performance principally using 
the following financial indicators (as reflected in this Annual Report):
» revenue;
» gross margin %;
» underlying operating profit and underlying profit before tax;
» underlying operating margin %, being the ratio of underlying
operating profit to revenue;
» operating profit;
» profit before tax;
» diluted earnings per share;
» underlying diluted earnings per share (based on underlying
profit after tax);
» order book;
» recurring revenue (being contracted sales where a service is
delivered over a future time period and revenues are recognised
in the relevant future accounting period);
» recurring revenue as a % of total revenue;
» net cash balance;
» working capital %;
» free cash flow; and
» cash conversion %.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Details of the principal risks and uncertainties considered by the 
Board to affect the Group, and the related risk mitigation actions, 
are given on pages 42 and 43.
Group results and dividends
The consolidated profit after tax for the year was £406,000 
(2014: loss after tax £3,358,000).
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 1.0p per share 
(2014: £nil), totalling around £173,000 to be paid on 6 May 2016 
to shareholders registered on 29 March 2016. There was no 
interim dividend paid during the year (2014: £nil).
Financial instruments
Details of financial instruments to which the Group is a party 
are shown in note 30 to the financial statements.
Fixed assets
In the opinion of the Directors, there is no material difference 
between the book value and the current open market value 
of the Group’s interest in land and buildings.
Research & development expenditure
The Group has continued to invest in research & development of 
both software and hardware products for surveillance applications 
during the year incurring total costs of £2.1 million (2014: £2.5 million), 
of which £1.6 million (2014: £1.2 million) has been written off 
to the Income Statement.
Share capital
The Company’s issued ordinary share capital comprises a single class 
of ordinary shares of 20p each, with 17,794,439 shares in issue and 
listed on AIM of the London Stock Exchange as at 30 November 2015. 
No shares were held in treasury and 1,419,464 shares were held 
by the Company’s employee share trusts. Details of movements 
in the issued share capital can be found in note 21 to the financial 
statements. No securities were issued in connection with a rights 
issue during the year.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the 
Company. All issued shares are fully paid up and carry no additional 
obligations or special rights. There are no restrictions on transfers 
of shares in the Company, or on the exercise of voting rights attached 
to them, other than those which may from time to time be applicable 
under existing laws and regulations.
Employee share plans
During the year, the Company has remained within its headroom 
limits for the issue of new shares for share plans as set out in the 
rules of the plans. The Company uses an employee benefit trust to 
acquire partnership shares (at the end of each accumulation period) 
and dividend shares in the market, when permitted. A total of 
24,237 shares in the Company were purchased by the employee 
benefit trust during the 2015 financial year. Financial statements Other information
39 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Introduction Strategic review Governance Performance review
Directors’ interests
Interests of the Directors and their connected persons in the issued share capital of the Company as at 30 November 2015 were as follows:
2015
Number of
 shares held
2015
Interests in
share schemes
2015
Total interests
in shares
2014
Total interests 
in shares
DJ Coghlan 1,521,303 93,243 1,614,546 1,594,546
PM Rae 232,302 – 232,302 218,302
D Bate 146,000 – 146,000 146,000
SW Coggins 13,080 – 13,080 13,080
NC Poultney 13,000 259,145 272,145 240,827
PA Webb – 268,883 268,883 217,784
1,925,685 621,271 2,546,956 2,430,539
Significant shareholdings
As at the close of the market on 10 February 2016, the Company was aware of the following holdings, excluding Directors’ holdings, 
of 3% or more of the Company’s total issued share capital:
Number
of shares
% of total 
voting rights 
Nature of 
interest
Whitehall Associated SA 5,335,000 29.98% Direct
Charles Stanley Group Plc 1,477,711 8.30% Direct
Quadnetics Employees Benefit Trust 1,419,464 7.98% Direct
Standard Life Investments Limited 843,048 4.74% Direct
Cavendish Asset Management 691,200 3.88% Direct
Lion Nominees Limited 552,362 3.10% Indirect
Board of Directors
With the exception of John Shepherd who retired from the Board 
on 31 January 2015, all Directors were in office throughout the 
financial year ended 30 November 2015. On 30 November 2015 
Nigel Poultney retired from the Board and from the role of 
Finance Director. Subsequent to the year end, on 1 December 2015, 
Mike Stilwell was appointed to the Board and appointed 
Finance Director and Michael Butler was appointed to the Board 
as a Non-Executive Director on 23 February 2016. Details and 
biographies of the current Directors are shown on pages 26 and 27.
The powers of the Company’s Directors and rules that apply to 
changes in the Directors are set out in the Company’s Articles of 
Association (the ‘Articles’). Any changes to the Articles would 
require the consent of the Company’s shareholders.
In accordance with the Articles, one-third of the Directors are 
required to retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting 
and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. The Directors 
proposed for re-election at the 2016 Annual General Meeting 
are Michael Butler, Peter Rae and Mike Stilwell.
Directors’ indemnity
As permitted by the Articles, each of the Directors has the benefit 
of an indemnity which is a qualifying third-party indemnity as 
defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. The indemnity 
was in force throughout the financial year and is currently in force. 
No indemnity is provided for the Group’s auditor.
Conflicts of interest
The Articles permit the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, authorise 
situations where a Director has an interest that conflicts, or may 
possibly conflict, with the interests of the Group (‘Situational 
Conflicts’). The Board operates an effective formal system for 
Directors to declare Situational Conflicts and for them to be 
authorised by the non-conflicted Directors if thought appropriate 
and subject to limits or conditions.
Related party transactions
Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party 
transactions involving Directors or their connected persons are 
carried out on an arm’s length basis and are properly recorded. 
Details of any related party transactions are given in note 26 to 
the financial statements. 40 www.synecticsplc.com
Governance
Statutory Directors’ report continued
Essential contracts or arrangements
The Group has a number of contractual agreements with suppliers 
in support of its business activities. Whilst the loss of certain of 
these arrangements may cause temporary disruption, there are 
none, for which mitigation plans have not been put in place, which 
are individually considered to be essential to the Group’s business.
Change of control provisions
There are no significant agreements which contain provisions entitling 
other parties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of 
a change of control of the Group; and no provisions in the Directors’ 
service agreements or employees’ contracts that provide for 
compensation for loss of office or employment occurring 
because of a takeover.
Employment policies
The Group employed an average of 533 people in 2015 (2014: 546).
The Group has established employment policies that comply 
with current legislation and codes of practice, including in the 
areas of health and safety and equal opportunities. The Group 
consults employees on developments and changes to take account 
of their views when making decisions that may impact their interests.
The Group makes every effort to recruit and continue the employment, 
training and promotion of those persons who are or become disabled. 
Employee engagement
The Group engages with its employees regularly through various 
media: email alerts, focus groups, monthly bulletins, team briefings, 
a biannual senior management conference and an annual staff survey. 
Details of the performance of the Group are shared with all employees 
at the appropriate time using the methods above.
The Group operates a HMRC-approved share incentive plan to 
encourage employees to take a greater interest in the Group’s 
performance through share ownership. Details are set out in the 
Remuneration Committee report on pages 32 to 35.
Policy on payment of suppliers
The Group’s policy during the year was to pay suppliers in accordance 
with agreed terms. At 30 November 2015 the Group had 59 days’ 
purchases outstanding in trade payables (2014: 61 days’).
Charitable donations and activity
The Group made donations amounting to £3,700 (2014: £2,800) 
to charitable causes during the year.
Political donations
The Group made no political donations during the year 
and its policy is not to make such donations. 
Going concern
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern 
basis. The Directors have reviewed the Group’s objectives, policies 
and processes for managing its capital, financial risk management, 
financial instruments, exposure to credit and liquidity risk, and 
financial forecasts. As a result of this review the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements. Further details regarding the 
adoption of the going concern basis can be found in note 1 
to the financial statements.
Annual General Meeting
The notice convening the Annual General Meeting is distributed 
separately to shareholders at least 20 working days before the 
meeting. Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially 
separate issue. The poll results from the 2016 Annual General 
Meeting will be made available on the Company’s website after 
the meeting.
Auditor
A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor 
of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting.
Post-balance sheet events
There are no post-balance sheet events to report.
Disclosure of information to auditor
Having made the required enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware, 
there is no relevant audit information (as defined by section 418(3) 
of the Companies Act 2006) of which the Company’s auditor is 
unaware and each Director has taken all steps that ought to have 
been taken to make himself aware of any relevant audit information 
and to ensure that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information. Financial statements Other information
41 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Introduction Strategic review Governance Performance review
Directors’ responsibilities statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the 
Strategic Report, the Directors’ Report and the Group and Parent 
Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent 
Company financial statements for each financial year. As required 
by the AIM Rules of the London Stock Exchange they are required 
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted 
by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the 
Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK 
Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their 
profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and 
Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
 » select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
» make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
» for the Group financial statements, state whether they have
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
» for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained
in the financial statements; and
» prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the
Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group 
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the Group’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Responsibilities statement
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
» the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as
adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities,
financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
» the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development
and performance of the business and the position of the Company
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a
whole, together with a description of the principal risks and
uncertainties that they face; and
» the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole,
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s position
and performance, business model and strategy.
Forward-looking statements
This report may contain certain statements about the future 
outlook for Synectics plc. Although the Directors believe their 
expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any statements 
about future outlook may be influenced by factors that could cause 
actual outcomes and results to be materially different.
Strategic report approval
The Strategic Report, set out on pages 4 to 25, and pages 42 and 43, 
consists of the Chairman’s Statement, the Strategic Review, the 
Performance Review and the Risks and Risk Management section.
By Order of the Board
Nigel Poultney
Company Secretary
24 February 2016 42 www.synecticsplc.com
Governance
Risks and risk management
Risk
Factors that may impact the business
Mitigation 
What we are doing to minimise the risk
People skills and dependency
As with most businesses, particularly those operating
in a technical field, we are dependent on our employees 
with key managerial, engineering and technical skills.
The Group aims to offer appropriate remuneration packages and 
incentive arrangements in order to mitigate this risk. In addition 
the Group actively reviews its succession planning objectives and, 
in recent years, has increased its focus on personal development 
reviews and the provision of relevant training for all members of staff.
Reputational risk
The nature of the Group’s business and its customer base means 
that Synectics is dependent for future business on its reputation 
in the marketplace, particularly for the quality and reliability of its 
products and services, and the overall integrity of its people.
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining Synectics’
strong culture and promoting its core values. The Board, and all levels
of management, consistently emphasise the need to embed these
attributes in the culture of the Group, and test this by regularly seeking
feedback from customers and employees.
Project delivery risk 
and contractual liabilities
Where the Group’s service offering fails to meet agreed 
standards or timescales there is a risk that the Group will be 
exposed to cost overruns and claims for contractual liabilities 
as a result of this failure.
Project and service delivery are closely monitored and reviewed 
across Synectics on a regular and frequent basis. The Group maintains
rigorous quality standards in all its operations and carefully assesses 
the terms on which it agrees to enter into contractual relationships 
at appropriate levels of responsibility.
T echnological risk
As the industry becomes increasingly technical and transitions 
to digital technology, there is a risk that products become 
obsolete or irrelevant.
Synectics seeks to counter this risk through its investment in research
& development resources and a continued focus on customer-led
development to ensure that the most appropriate product development
paths are followed. One example of such an initiative is the annual
customer forum held for the bus and coach customers of our
Integration & Managed Services division.
Product failure risk
Where the Group’s product offering fails to meet agreed 
standards there is a risk that the Group will be exposed to 
replacement or rework costs as a result of this failure.
Product quality is closely monitored and reviewed across Synectics. 
The Group maintains rigorous quality standards in all its operations 
and expects the same standards of its supplier base. Where possible 
product liability is mitigated through contractual arrangements within
the supply chain.
Price and margin pressure
The electronic security industry in general is competitive
with continued pressure on sales and margins.
We will continue to focus on customer sectors where electronic 
security systems have a critical cost of failure, or an extreme 
environmental requirement, rather than the mass volume markets. 
In addition we will maintain a core of increasingly software-based 
proprietary technology giving higher margin opportunities, and 
focus on developing recurring revenues.
Declining global energy prices impacting 
project awards and timescales
Declining returns for companies investing in large energy-related
infrastructure ventures may lead to projects being delayed or
cancelled altogether. This could reduce demand for the Group’s 
specialist products designed predominantly for the Oil & Gas sector,
and hence negatively impact performance. These delays could 
also detrimentally impact the Group’s working capital position.
The Group mitigates this risk by addressing a number of sectors, 
other than Oil & Gas, which are less heavily influenced by oil prices. 
In addition overhead costs are kept under constant review to ensure 
that they are appropriate to activity levels within the business.
Geopolitical risk impacting project 
awards and timescales
Political instability has the potential to impact whether new
projects go ahead, existing project timescales and the trading 
partners the Group chooses to work with. The Group’s trading 
performance, particularly within the Oil & Gas sector, is potentially
exposed to delays in the scheduling of large-scale projects as a 
result of the changing geopolitical landscape in the Middle East. 
These delays could also detrimentally impact the Group’s
working capital position.
The Group attempts to mitigate this risk through winning business 
globally in regions where project timescales are not impacted by local 
political issues and ensuring detailed knowledge of projects on which 
it is bidding.
Understanding and 
managing key risks 
to the Group
The Group seeks to understand and manage 
the various risks that arise from its operations. 
The Group is subject to a variety of risks which 
may have an adverse impact on the business, 
results of operations, cash flow, turnover, 
profitability, assets, liquidity and capital reserves.
The principal risks facing the Group, and 
the strategies put in place to mitigate them, 
are described here.
The Board of Directors, advised by the Audit Committee, has 
overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control and 
for reviewing its effectiveness. Responsibility for implementing 
sound and effective systems of internal control has been delegated 
by the Board to senior management. The purpose of the system of 
internal control is to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, 
but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Directors have established an organisational structure with clear 
operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority. 
In particular there are clear procedures for capital investment appraisal 
and approval, contract risk appraisal and financial reporting within 
a comprehensive financial planning and accounting framework.
The Directors believe the internal control environment is generally 
adequate and appropriate given the size and complexity of the 
Group. During the prior year a failure in controls to identify project 
management issues on a large, complex project in the Integration 
& Managed Services division led to significant cost overruns being 
incurred. Measures were immediately put in place to prevent this 
happening again. These additional controls have been effective 
throughout the year.
In order to give additional assurance on controls, and to supplement 
the work undertaken by the external auditor, the Group uses the 
experience of its central accounting team to undertake a programme 
of internal audit approved by the Group’s Audit Committee. Financial statements Other information
43 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Introduction Strategic review Governance Performance review
Risk
Factors that may impact the business
Mitigation 
What we are doing to minimise the risk
People skills and dependency
As with most businesses, particularly those operating 
in a technical field, we are dependent on our employees 
with key managerial, engineering and technical skills.
The Group aims to offer appropriate remuneration packages and 
incentive arrangements in order to mitigate this risk. In addition 
the Group actively reviews its succession planning objectives and, 
in recent years, has increased its focus on personal development 
reviews and the provision of relevant training for all members of staff. 
Reputational risk
The nature of the Group’s business and its customer base means 
that Synectics is dependent for future business on its reputation 
in the marketplace, particularly for the quality and reliability of its 
products and services, and the overall integrity of its people.
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining Synectics’ 
strong culture and promoting its core values. The Board, and all levels 
of management, consistently emphasise the need to embed these 
attributes in the culture of the Group, and test this by regularly seeking 
feedback from customers and employees.
Project delivery risk 
and contractual liabilities
Where the Group’s service offering fails to meet agreed 
standards or timescales there is a risk that the Group will be 
exposed to cost overruns and claims for contractual liabilities 
as a result of this failure.
Project and service delivery are closely monitored and reviewed 
across Synectics on a regular and frequent basis. The Group maintains 
rigorous quality standards in all its operations and carefully assesses 
the terms on which it agrees to enter into contractual relationships 
at appropriate levels of responsibility.
T echnological risk
As the industry becomes increasingly technical and transitions 
to digital technology, there is a risk that products become 
obsolete or irrelevant.
Synectics seeks to counter this risk through its investment in research 
& development resources and a continued focus on customer-led 
development to ensure that the most appropriate product development 
paths are followed. One example of such an initiative is the annual 
customer forum held for the bus and coach customers of our 
Integration & Managed Services division.
Product failure risk
Where the Group’s product offering fails to meet agreed 
standards there is a risk that the Group will be exposed to 
replacement or rework costs as a result of this failure.
Product quality is closely monitored and reviewed across Synectics. 
The Group maintains rigorous quality standards in all its operations 
and expects the same standards of its supplier base. Where possible 
product liability is mitigated through contractual arrangements within 
the supply chain.
Price and margin pressure
The electronic security industry in general is competitive 
with continued pressure on sales and margins.
We will continue to focus on customer sectors where electronic 
security systems have a critical cost of failure, or an extreme 
environmental requirement, rather than the mass volume markets. 
In addition we will maintain a core of increasingly software-based 
proprietary technology giving higher margin opportunities, and 
focus on developing recurring revenues.
Declining global energy prices impacting
project awards and timescales
Declining returns for companies investing in large energy-related 
infrastructure ventures may lead to projects being delayed or 
cancelled altogether. This could reduce demand for the Group’s 
specialist products designed predominantly for the Oil & Gas sector, 
and hence negatively impact performance. These delays could 
also detrimentally impact the Group’s working capital position.
The Group mitigates this risk by addressing a number of sectors, 
other than Oil & Gas, which are less heavily influenced by oil prices. 
In addition overhead costs are kept under constant review to ensure 
that they are appropriate to activity levels within the business.
Geopolitical risk impacting project 
awards and timescales
Political instability has the potential to impact whether new 
projects go ahead, existing project timescales and the trading 
partners the Group chooses to work with. The Group’s trading 
performance, particularly within the Oil & Gas sector, is potentially 
exposed to delays in the scheduling of large-scale projects as a 
result of the changing geopolitical landscape in the Middle East. 
These delays could also detrimentally impact the Group’s 
working capital position.
The Group attempts to mitigate this risk through winning business 
globally in regions where project timescales are not impacted by local 
political issues and ensuring detailed knowledge of projects on which 
it is bidding.
 Read more about how the Group manages risk in the 
Corporate Governance Statement on pages 30 and 31
 T he Audit Committee advises the Board of Directors 
on matters of risk management. It has its own report, 
which can be read on pages 36 and 37 Financial statements
44 www.synecticsplc.com
Independent auditor’s report
To the members of Synectics plc
We have audited the financial statements of Synectics plc for the 
year ended 30 November 2015, which comprise the Consolidated 
Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated 
Cash Flow Statement, the Parent Company Balance Sheet and 
the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is 
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company 
financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting 
Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members, 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions 
we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
(set out on page 41), the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an 
opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements 
is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website 
at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
» the financial statements give a true and fair view of the
state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as
at 30 November 2015 and of the Group’s profit for the year
then ended;
» the Group financial statements have been properly prepared
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
» the Parent Company financial statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice; and
» the financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matter prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and 
the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, 
in our opinion: 
» adequate accounting records have not been kept by the
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
» the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement
with the accounting records and returns; or
» certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law
are not made; or
» we have not received all the information and explanations
we require for our audit.
Stuart Smith
Senior Statutory Auditor
For and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
One Snowhill 
Snow Hill Queensway 
Birmingham 
B4 6GH 
24 February 2016 Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
45 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 30 November 2015
2015 2014
Note £000 £000
Revenue 2 68,504 64,594
Cost of sales (47,163) (45,707)
Gross profit 21,341 18,887
Operating expenses 3 (20,666) (22,444)
Profit/(loss) from operations
– Excluding non-underlying items 6 1,713 (2,192)
– Non-underlying items 4 (1,038) (1,365)
Total profit/(loss) from operations 675 (3,557)
Finance income 8 225 246
Finance costs 9 (388) (437)
Profit/(loss) before tax
– Excluding non-underlying items 1,550 (2,383)
– Non-underlying items 4 (1,038) (1,365)
Total profit/(loss) before tax 512 (3,748)
Income tax (expense)/credit 10 (106) 390
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of the Parent 406 (3,358)
Basic earnings per ordinary share 12 2.5p (20.6)p
Diluted earnings per ordinary share 12 2.5p (20.6)p
Underlying basic earnings per ordinary share 12 8.0p (14.0)p
Underlying diluted earnings per ordinary share 12 8.0p (14.0)p Financial statements
46 www.synecticsplc.com
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 30 November 2015
2015 2014
£000 £000
Profit/(loss) for the year 406 (3,358)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Remeasurement (loss)/gain on defined benefit pension scheme, net of tax (36) 277
Effect of recognising the pension scheme surplus, net of tax – 153
(36) 430
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 234 224
Losses on a hedge of a net investment taken to equity (345) –
(111) 224
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of the Parent 259 (2,704) Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
47 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Consolidated statement of financial position
As at 30 November 2015
2015 2014
Note £000 £000
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 13 3,264 3,952
Intangible assets 14 22,372 23,357
Retirement benefit asset 29 515 540
26,151 27,849
Current assets
Inventories 15 10,391 12,624
Trade and other receivables 16 21,265 25,627
Tax assets 542 373
Cash and cash equivalents 17 3,338 1,349
35,536 39,973
Total assets 61,687 67,822
Current liabilities
Loans and borrowings 19 (857) (4,553)
Trade and other payables 18 (21,389) (22,569)
Tax liabilities (379) (72)
Current provisions 20 (104) (1,147)
(22,729) (28,341)
Non-current liabilities
Loans and borrowings 19 (1,932) (2,872)
Non-current provisions 20 (25) (22)
Deferred tax liabilities 10 (159) (142)
(2,116) (3,036)
Total liabilities (24,845) (31,377)
Net assets 36,842 36,445
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company
Called up share capital 21 3,559 3,559
Share premium account 16,043 16,043
Merger reserve 9,971 9,971
Other reserves (2,639) (2,656)
Currency translation reserve 240 351
Retained earnings 9,668 9,177
Total equity 36,842 36,445
The financial statements on pages 45 to 77 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 24 February 2016 
and were signed on its behalf by:
Paul Webb Mike Stilwell
Chief Executive Finance Director
Company number: 1740011 Financial statements
48 www.synecticsplc.com
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 30 November 2015
Called up Share Currency
share premium Merger Other translation Retained
capital account reserve reserves reserve earnings Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 December 2013 3,539 15,765 9,971 (2,797) 127 12,937 39,542
Loss for the year – – – – – (3,358) (3,358)
Other comprehensive income
Currency translation adjustment – – – – 224 – 224
Remeasurement gain on defined benefit pension scheme, 
net of tax – – – – – 430 430
Total other comprehensive income – – – – 224 430 654
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year – – – – 224 (2,928) (2,704)
Dividends paid (note 11) – – – – – (928) (928)
Credit in relation to share-based payments (note 23) – – – – – 127 127
Issue of ordinary shares 20 278 – – – – 298
Share scheme interests realised in the year – – – 141 – (31) 110
At 30 November 2014 3,559 16,043 9,971 (2,656) 351 9,177 36,445
Profit for the year – – – – – 406 406
Other comprehensive loss
Currency translation adjustment – – – – (111) – (111)
Remeasurement loss on defined benefit pension scheme, 
net of tax – – – – – (36) (36)
Total other comprehensive loss – – – – (111) (36) (147)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year – – – – (111) 370 259
Credit in relation to share-based payments (note 23) – – – – – 125 125
Share scheme interests realised in the year – – – 17 – (4) 13
At 30 November 2015 3,559 16,043 9,971 (2,639) 240 9,668 36,842 Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
49 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 30 November 2015
2015 2014
Note £000 £000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit/(loss) for the year 406 (3,358)
Income tax expense/(credit) 10 106 (390)
Finance income 8 (225) (246)
Finance costs 9 388 437
Depreciation and amortisation charge 1,885 1,515
(Profit)/loss on disposal of non-current assets (43) 38
Government grant released to Income Statement 24 (146) –
Share-based payment charge 125 127
Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 2,496 (1,877)
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 2,233 (2,889)
Decrease in receivables 4,408 2,068
(Decrease)/increase in payables and provisions (2,220) 925
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 6,917 (1,773)
Interest received – 1
Tax received/(paid) 78 (1,426)
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 6,995 (3,198)
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 13 (346) (2,021)
Sale of property, plant and equipment 280 –
Capitalised development costs 14 (553) (1,361)
Purchased software 14 (102) (240)
Net cash used in investing activities (721) (3,622)
Cash flows from financing activities
Repayment of borrowings (727) (804)
Share scheme interests realised in the year 13 110
Cash received from government grant 24 311 –
Issue of shares – 298
Interest paid (181) (192)
Dividends paid 11 – (928)
Net cash used in financing activities (584) (1,516)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (49) 145
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 5,641 (8,191)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year (2,417) 5,774
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 17 3,224 (2,417) Financial statements
50 www.synecticsplc.com
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 November 2015
1 Principal accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have been 
applied consistently to all the periods presented unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU (‘adopted IFRS’), and with those parts 
of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under adopted IFRS. The Company has elected to prepare its Parent 
Company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP; these are presented on pages 78 to 86.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 30 November 2015 comprise the Company 
and its subsidiaries and the Group’s interest in jointly controlled entities.
These financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost convention except where the measurement of balances at fair 
value is required as set out below. The following policies are those that the Group considers to be its principal accounting policies 
in respect of its consolidated results.
Standards and interpretations effective in the current period
The following standards and interpretations have been adopted in the financial statements as they are mandatory for the year ended 
30 November 2015:
Effective for periods 
Endorsed beginning on or after:
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2014
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2014
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2014
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2014
Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2014
Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets 1 January 2014
Disclosure of interests in other entities
As a result of IFRS 12, the Group and the Company have expanded disclosures about their interests in subsidiaries.
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
With effect from 1 December 2015, the Group has adopted ‘Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities’ (amendments to IAS 32). 
The amendments clarify that to offset financial assets and financial liabilities, the Group’s right of offset must be legally enforceable in 
the normal course of business, in the event of default, and in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Group and all of the counterparties. 
Following a review of the Group’s cash pooling arrangements which have previously been presented net by geography and banking group 
within cash and cash equivalents (see note 17), management has determined that the right of offset is enforceable and therefore the 
existing presentation of the cash pooling arrangements is appropriate.
The adoption of the standards and interpretations above has not had a material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
The following standards and interpretations are available for early adoption but have not been applied by the Group in these financial statements:
Effective for periods
Endorsed beginning on or after:
Annual improvements to IFRSs 2011–2013 Cycle 1 January 2015
Annual improvements to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle 1 February 2015
Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans 1 February 2015
Annual improvements to IFRSs 2012–2014 Cycle 1 February 2016
The Directors anticipate that all of the above standards, interpretations and amendments will be adopted in the Group’s financial statements 
for the year commencing 1 December 2015 and/or 1 December 2016 as appropriate. 
None of these standards, interpretations or amendments is expected to have a material impact on profit, earnings per share or net assets 
in future periods.
The following standards are not yet effective and have not been adopted early by the Group:
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’
IFRS 16 ‘Leases’
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
51 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
1 Principal accounting policies continued
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, and 
information on the financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position, are described in the reports which together make 
up the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 25 and on pages 42 and 43.
As detailed in note 19, the Group has secured banking facilities in place which are used to meet the day-to-day working capital requirements. 
There are various covenants attached to these facilities. The Directors have considered the financial position of the Group at 30 November 2015 
and the projected cash flows and financial performance of the Group for at least twelve months from the date of approval of these 
financial statements.
The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group would 
be able to operate within the terms of its current facilities.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully and have adequate 
resources to continue in operation as a going concern for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from 
its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. In assessing control, the Group 
takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable. The acquisition date is the date on which control is transferred 
to the acquirer. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control 
commences until the date that control ceases. Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the 
non-controlling interests even if doing so causes the non-controlling interests to have a deficit balance.
Change in subsidiary ownership and loss of control
Changes in the Group’s interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
Where the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the assets and liabilities are derecognised along with any related non-controlling interest 
and other components of equity. Any resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. Any interest retained in the former subsidiary 
is measured at fair value when control is lost.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated. 
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the 
Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there 
is no evidence of impairment. 
Goodwill
Goodwill is recorded at cost, being the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value at the date of acquisition of the Group’s share 
of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, less accumulated impairment losses. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected to benefit from the 
synergies of the combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more 
frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than 
the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit 
and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. An impairment loss 
recognised for goodwill would not be reversed in a subsequent period.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Revenue
Revenue, which excludes value added tax, is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. Revenue is reduced 
for rebates and other similar allowances. 
Installation contract income
Revenue and profits attributable to contracts are included in the Consolidated Income Statement as the contracts proceed in proportions 
relevant to their state of completion (based on costs incurred as a proportion of estimated total contract costs), less amounts recognised 
in previous years. Financial statements
52 www.synecticsplc.com
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 November 2015
1 Principal accounting policies continued
Contract balances
When contract costs incurred to date plus recognised profits less recognised losses exceed payments on account, the surplus is shown 
as amounts due from customers for contract work. For contracts where payments on account exceed contract costs incurred to date plus 
recognised profits less recognised losses, the surplus is shown as the amounts due to customers for contract work. Amounts received before 
the related work is performed are included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, as a liability. Amounts billed for work performed 
but not yet paid by the customer are included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position under trade and other receivables.
The Group sells certain products bundled with maintenance or other services to be delivered over a predetermined period of time. Where 
the commercial substance is that the individual components operate independently of each other such that each component represents a 
separable good or service that can be provided to customers, either on a stand-alone basis or as an optional extra or, alternatively, where 
one or more of the components may be capable of being provided by another supplier, these are considered as identifiable and separate 
components to which general revenue recognition criteria can be applied separately. Once the separate components have been identified, 
the amount received or receivable from the customer is allocated based on the individual component’s fair value.
Maintenance contracts
Income receivable from maintenance contracts is recognised in revenue on a straight-line basis over the contract term. Income 
from maintenance contracts which relates to periods subsequent to the year end is included in current liabilities as deferred income.
Sale of goods
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership 
of the goods, which primarily takes place on delivery of the goods. Revenues arising from the sale of goods are not significant to the total 
Group revenue.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets acquired under finance leases, including hire purchase agreements where applicable, are capitalised and depreciated in accordance 
with the Group’s depreciation policy or over the term of the lease if shorter. The capital element of future lease payments is included in 
the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as obligations under finance leases. Lease payments are apportioned between finance 
charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance 
charges are expensed directly to income.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term 
of the lease. 
Benefits received as an incentive to sign a lease, whatever form they may take, are credited to the Consolidated Income Statement 
on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Foreign currency
The individual financial statements of each Group entity are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which the 
entity operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each 
Group entity are expressed in Sterling (‘£’), which is the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements. 
In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency 
(foreign currencies) are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary 
items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary items carried at 
fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the period in which they arise.
Exchange differences arising from a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation, the settlement of which is neither 
planned nor likely in the foreseeable future, are considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation and are recognised 
directly in equity in the translation reserve. Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a hedge of a net investment in a 
foreign operation are recognised directly in equity, in the translation reserve, to the extent that the hedge is effective. When the hedged 
part of a net investment is disposed of, the associated cumulative amount in equity is recycled to profit or loss as an adjustment to the 
profit or loss on disposal. Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
53 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
1 Principal accounting policies continued
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are expressed 
in Sterling using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange 
rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuated significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the dates of the 
transactions are used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and recognised in the Group’s foreign currency translation 
reserve. Such exchange differences are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the period in which the foreign operation 
is disposed. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign 
operation and translated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Government grants
Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attached conditions will 
be complied with. When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income on a systematic basis over the periods that the 
related costs, for which it is intended to compensate, are expensed. When the grant relates to an asset, it is recognised as income in 
equal amounts over the expected useful life of the related asset by reducing the cost of the asset, and therefore reducing subsequent 
depreciation charges.
Retirement benefit costs
Group employees are members of various pension schemes, all of which operate on a money purchase basis. Contributions to these 
schemes are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement as an expense when employees have rendered service entitling them to 
the contributions.
The Group also operates a retirement benefit scheme, which has deferred defined benefit members. The expected return on 
the scheme’s assets and the expected increase in the present value of the scheme’s liabilities during the period are included in the 
Consolidated Income Statement as other finance income and charges as appropriate. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Pension scheme liabilities and, to the extent that they are recoverable, pension 
scheme assets are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and represent the difference between the market 
value of the scheme’s assets and the present value of the scheme’s liabilities. 
Pension scheme liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and are discounted at a rate using 
the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability. Past service cost is recognised 
immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period 
until the benefits become vested. 
Share-based payments
In accordance with IFRS 2, equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value is recognised 
as an employee expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of the number of shares that will 
eventually vest. The fair value of the options granted is calculated using an option pricing model which is based on the Black-Scholes model, 
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
Transactions of the Company-sponsored Executive Shared Ownership Plan are treated as being those of the Company and are therefore 
reflected in the Parent Company and Group financial statements. In particular the scheme’s purchases of shares in the Company are 
debited directly to equity, within ‘Other reserves’.
Taxation
The income tax expense is the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the Consolidated Income 
Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that 
are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date. Financial statements
54 www.synecticsplc.com
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 November 2015
1 Principal accounting policies continued
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred 
tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences, and deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the 
initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit 
nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, 
and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that 
the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences 
associated with such investments and interests are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable 
profits against which to utilise the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the 
asset realised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. The measurement 
of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the 
reporting date, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities 
and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities 
on a net basis.
Current and deferred tax for the period
Current and deferred tax are recognised as an expense or income in the Consolidated Income Statement, except where they relate to 
items credited or debited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also recognised directly in equity, or where they arise from the initial 
accounting for a business combination. In the case of a business combination, the tax effect is taken into account in calculating goodwill 
or in determining the excess of the acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities over the cost of the business combination.
Non-underlying items
The Group discloses certain financial information both including and excluding non-underlying items. The presentation of information 
excluding non-underlying items allows a better understanding of the underlying trading performance of the Group and provides consistency 
with the Group’s internal management reporting. Non-underlying items are identified by virtue of their size, nature or incidence and the 
Directors consider that these items should be separately identified.
Dividends
Dividends proposed by the Directors and unpaid at the end of the year are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been 
approved by shareholders at a general meeting of the Company. Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid. Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
55 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
1 Principal accounting policies continued
Property, plant and equipment
All property, plant and equipment assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of fixed assets, other than freehold land which is not depreciated, less their estimated 
residual values, on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life, commencing on the first day of the month after being brought into 
use. The principal annual rates used for this purpose are:
» Freehold buildings – 2%
» Short leasehold improvements – over the term of the lease
» Plant, equipment and motor vehicles – 10% to 33%
Residual values, remaining useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed annually and adjusted if appropriate.
Gains or losses on disposal are included in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Research & development costs
Research costs are written off to the Consolidated Income Statement as incurred.
Development costs are capitalised and held as ‘Intangible assets’ in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when the costs 
relate to a clearly defined project; the costs are separately identifiable; the outcome of such a project has been assessed with reasonable 
certainty as to its technical feasibility and its ultimate commercial viability; the aggregate of the deferred costs plus all future expected 
costs in bringing the product to market is exceeded by the future expected sales revenue; and adequate resources are expected to exist 
to enable the project to be completed. Amortisation is charged over the useful life of the product, from the commencement of commercial 
sales, which is usually over a period of three to five years.
Amortisation periods and methods are reviewed annually and adjusted if appropriate.
Development expenditure that does not meet these criteria is written off to the Consolidated Income Statement as incurred.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets, such as purchased computer software, are shown at historical cost less accumulated amortisation 
and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis from the date the assets are available for use over 
the estimated useful lives of the intangible asset. The useful life of purchased software is three to five years.
Amortisation periods and methods are reviewed annually and adjusted if appropriate.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill 
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets, other than goodwill, to determine 
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount 
of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable 
amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Where a 
reasonable and consistent basis of allocation can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual cash-generating units.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows 
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount 
of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in income. 
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised 
estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that 
would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal 
of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in income. Financial statements
56 www.synecticsplc.com
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 November 2015
1 Principal accounting policies continued
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a first in first out basis. In the case of finished goods, cost includes 
all direct expenditure and production overheads based on the normal level of activity. Where necessary, an appropriate allowance is made 
for obsolete, slow-moving and defective inventories.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a 
result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate 
can be made of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance 
sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Deferred consideration relating to business combinations
Deferred consideration relating to business combinations is initially measured at fair value at the date of acquisition and at subsequent 
reporting dates measured in accordance with the appropriate accounting standard, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognised 
in profit or loss.
Restructuring
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid 
expectation in those affected that it will be carried out.
Onerous contracts
Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured as provisions. An onerous contract is considered 
to exist where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed 
the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Financial instruments
The Group classifies financial instruments, or their component parts, on initial recognition as a financial asset, a financial liability or an 
equity instrument in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement. The Group does not apply hedge accounting.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits and bank current accounts with an original 
maturity of three months or less at acquisition.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortised cost less 
any impairment loss.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortised cost.
Loans and borrowings
Loans and borrowings comprise bank term loans and bank overdrafts.
Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position if 
there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or to realise 
the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously. To meet these criteria, the right of set-off must not be contingent on a future event 
and must be legally enforceable in all of the following circumstances: the normal course of business, the event of default and the event 
of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Group and all of the counterparties.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management makes various judgements that can significantly affect 
the amounts recognised in the financial statements. The critical judgements are considered to be the following: Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
57 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
1 Principal accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition
When the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of 
the contract activity at the balance sheet date. This is normally measured by the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed 
to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion. Variations 
in contract work are included to the extent that the amount can be measured reliably and its receipt is considered probable.
Where the outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred 
where it is probable they will be recoverable. Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately. 
Where products and maintenance are bundled in a contract some judgement may be required to identify the separate components which 
are recognised in accordance with general revenue recognition criteria.
Capitalisation of development costs
It is Group policy to capitalise and amortise development expenditure for the production of new or substantially improved products and 
processes if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development. 
Such expenditure is amortised over the period which the Directors expect to obtain economic benefits. This policy includes judgements 
regarding the initial recognition of the asset based upon market research and expected future net revenues. It also includes estimations 
regarding the period of amortisation. 
Significant estimates
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies the Directors are required to make estimates and assumptions about the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based 
on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the 
revision affects both current and future periods. To date there has been no material impact on the carrying value of assets or liabilities 
from such estimates.
Impairment of goodwill
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill is 
allocated. The value-in-use calculation includes estimates about future financial performance and long-term growth rates and requires 
management to select a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. The key assumptions used 
in the impairment review are disclosed in note 14 to the financial statements.
Deferred tax
The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of unutilised losses and other temporary differences arising in certain of the 
Group’s businesses. This requires management to make decisions on the recoverability of such deferred tax assets based on future 
forecasts of taxable profits. If these forecast profits do not materialise, or there are changes in the tax rates or to the period over which 
the losses or temporary differences might be recognised, the value of the deferred tax asset will need to be revised in a future period.
The Group has losses for which no value has been recognised for deferred tax purposes in these financial statements, as future 
economic benefit of these temporary differences is not probable. If appropriate profits are earned in the future, the temporary difference 
may result in a benefit to the Group in the form of a reduced tax charge in a future period.
Defined benefit plans
Accounting for pensions requires the Group to use actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions 
that may differ from actual developments in the future. These include the determination of the discount rate, mortality rates and future 
pension increases. Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, a defined benefit asset or obligation is 
highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. The Group has recognised an 
asset in respect of the scheme surplus at the balance sheet date. Future economic benefits are available to the Group in the form 
of reduction in future contributions or a cash refund. Further details regarding the defined benefit plan are given in note 29.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when there is a present legal or constructive obligation 
as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the obligation. Provisions for restructuring are recognised when the Group has an approved restructuring plan 
that has either commenced or been announced publicly. Future operating costs are not provided for. Financial statements
58 www.synecticsplc.com
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 November 2015
2 Segmental analysis
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be determined based on the Group’s internal reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(‘CODM’). The CODM has been determined to be the Chief Executive as he is primarily responsible for the allocation of resources to the 
segments and the assessment of the performance of each of the segments. Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s 
strategic operating segments. The operating segment reporting format reflects the differing economic characteristics and nature of the 
services provided by the Group and is the basis on which strategic and operating decisions are made by the CODM.
The management of the Group’s operations, excluding Central functions, is organised within two strategic operating segments, Systems 
and Integration & Managed Services. These, together with Central functions, comprise the Group’s three reportable segments. No operating 
segments have been aggregated to form these reportable segments. 
The CODM uses underlying operating profit, as reviewed at monthly business review meetings, as the key measure of the segments’ 
results as it reflects the segments’ underlying trading performance for the period under evaluation. Underlying operating profit is a consistent 
measure within the Group.
2015 2014
Revenue £000 £000
Systems 32,670 31,876
Integration & Managed Services 36,820 33,746
Total segmental revenue 69,490 65,622
Reconciliation to consolidated revenue:
Intra-Group sales (986) (1,028)
68,504 64,594
No single customer contributed 10% or more to the Group’s revenues.
2015 2014
Underlying operating profit/(loss) £000 £000
Systems 1,3³7 1,031
Integration & Managed Services 2,224 (1,139)
Total segmental underlying operating profit/(loss) 3,561 (108)
Reconciliation to consolidated underlying operating profit/(loss):
Central costs (1,848) (2,084)
1,713 (2,192)
Underlying Share-based Amortisation Total
operating Restructuring payment of acquired profit from
profit* costs charge intangibles operations
Underlying operating profit 2015 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Systems 1,337 (521) (41) – 775
Integration & Managed Services 2,224 – (37) – 2,187
Total segmental underlying operating profit 3,561 (521) (78) – 2,962
Reconciliation to consolidated underlying operating profit:
Central costs (1,848) (285) (47) (107) (2,287)
1,713 (806) (125) (107) 675
*  Underlying operating profit/(loss) represents operating profit/(loss) before non-underlying items (restructuring costs, share-based payment charge and amortisation 
of acquired intangibles). Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
59 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
2 Segmental analysis continued
Underlying Share-based Amortisation Total profit/
operating Restructuring payment of acquired (loss) from
profit/(loss)* costs charge intangibles operations
Underlying operating loss 2014 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Systems 1,031 (74) (50) – 907
Integration & Managed Services (1,139) (278) (37) – (1,454)
Total segmental underlying operating loss (108) (352) (87) – (547)
Reconciliation to consolidated underlying operating loss:
Central costs (2,084) (768) (40) (118) (3,010)
(2,192) (1,120) (127) (118) (3,557)
*  Underlying operating profit/(loss) represents operating profit/(loss) before non-underlying items (restructuring costs, share-based payment charge and amortisation 
of acquired intangibles).
Net assets
Net assets attributed to each business segment represent the net external operating assets of the respective businesses excluding 
goodwill, bank balances and debt which are shown as unallocated amounts, together with central assets and liabilities.
2015
Assets Liabilities Net assets
£000 £000 £000
Systems 24,642 (8,885) 15,757
Integration & Managed Services 13,179 (11,405) 1,774
Total segmental net assets 37,821 (20,290) 17,531
Reconciliation to consolidated net assets:
Goodwill 19,166 – 19,166
Cash and borrowings 3,338 (2,789) 549
Unallocated 1,362 (1,766) (404)
61,687 (24,845) 36,842
2014
Assets Liabilities Net assets
£000 £000 £000
Systems 28,899 (10,635) 18,264
Integration & Managed Services 16,454 (11,478) 4,976
Total segmental net assets 45,353 (22,113) 23,240
Reconciliation to consolidated net assets:
Goodwill 19,491 – 19,491
Cash and borrowings 1,349 (7,425) (6,076)
Unallocated 1,629 (1,839) (210)
67,822 (31,377) 36,445
2015 2015 2014 2014
2015 Total Capital 2014 Total Capital
By geographical segment Revenue assets additions Revenue assets additions
Geographical location of contract £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
United Kingdom and Europe 44,514 51,880 238 44,646 60,847 1,835
North America 6,341 4,326 57 8,535 3,118 95
Middle East 4,903 38 – 3,344 22 –
Asia and Pacific 12,746 5,443 51 8,069 3,835 91
68,504 61,687 346 64,594 67,822 2,021 Financial statements
60 www.synecticsplc.com
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 November 2015
3 Net operating expenses
2015 2014
£000 £000
Distribution costs 258 294
Administrative expenses (before non-underlying costs) 19,370 20,785
Non-underlying costs (note 4) 1,038 1,365
Total administrative expenses 20,408 22,150
20,666 22,444
4 Non-underlying items
2015 2014
Note £000 £000
Restructuring costs  a 806 1,120
Share-based payment charge 125 127
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 107 118
1,038 1,365
a.  The restructuring costs incurred during 2015 and 2014 relate predominantly to severance costs arising from a review of the Group’s cost base. 
5 Auditor’s remuneration
2015 2014
£000 £000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 38 41
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for other services to the Group:
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 93 112
– tax compliance services 54 40
– other tax advisory services 10 20
195 213
6 Profit/(loss) from operations
2015 2014
£000 £000
Profit/(loss) from operations is stated after charging:
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,255 807
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 630 708
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 33,449 32,364
Research & development expenditure 1,569 1,172
Rental payments under operating leases:
– plant, machinery and vehicles 922 920
– other 804 763 Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
61 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
7 Staff costs and Directors’ remuneration
The average number of persons (including Executive Directors) employed by the Group during the year was:
2015 2014
Number Number
Reportable segment (see note 2)
Systems 239 249
Integration & Managed Services 278 279
Central 16 18
533 546
2015 2014
£000 £000
Staff costs (for the above persons)
Wages and salaries 18,344 18,819
Social security costs 1,858 2,101
Pension costs 506 505
Share-based payment charge 125 127
20,833 21,552
The Directors consider that the key management personnel of the business comprises its Board of Directors, whose remuneration 
is shown in the Remuneration Committee report on page 33, and members of the Executive Management Team. Details of the 
remuneration for key management personnel are set out in note 26.
8 Finance income
2015 2014
£000 £000
Bank interest receivable – 4
Interest income on pension scheme assets 225 242
225 246
9 Finance costs
2015 2014
£000 £000
Interest payable on bank overdrafts 92 100
Interest payable on bank loans 89 95
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 207 242
388 437
10 Taxation
2015 2014
Tax charge/(credit) £000 £000
Current taxation
UK tax 3 (246)
Overseas tax 295 391
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (260) (130)
Total current tax 38 15
Deferred taxation
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (163) 223
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 231 12
Estimated recoverable deferred tax asset – (640)
Total deferred tax 68 (405)
Total tax charge/(credit) for the year 106 (390) Financial statements
62 www.synecticsplc.com
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 November 2015
10 Taxation continued
Reconciliation of tax charge/(credit) for the year
The corporation tax assessed for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.33% (2014: 21.67%). 
The differences are explained below:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before tax 512 (3,748)
Tax on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before tax at standard rate of 20.33% (2014: 21.67%) 104 (812)
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 112 264
Net effect of different rates of tax in overseas businesses (164) (47)
Tax losses not recognised 83 323
Adjustment in respect of prior periods (29) (118)
Total tax charge/(credit) for the year 106 (390)
Deferred tax
The deferred tax in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position relates to the following:
Property, Other Retirement
plant and temporary benefit
equipment differences asset Losses Total
Deferred tax (liability)/asset £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 December 2013 (341) (128) – – (469)
Income Statement (54) (181) – 640 405
Statement of Comprehensive Income – – (110) – (110)
Currency translation adjustment (5) 37 – – 32
At 30 November 2014 (400) (272) (110) 640 (142)
Income Statement 20 101 – (189) (68)
Statement of Comprehensive Income – – 7 – 7
Currency translation adjustment (3) 47 – – 44
At 30 November 2015 (383) (124) (103) 451 (159)
Factors that may affect future tax charges
In July 2015, the UK government announced its intention to further reduce the corporation tax rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% 
from 1 April 2020. This has been substantively enacted during the year. Accordingly deferred tax has been provided for at the rate 
at which it is expected to be settled.
Deferred tax assets of £0.5 million (2014: £0.6 million) have been recognised in relation to legal entities which suffered a tax loss 
in the preceding period. The assets are recognised based upon future taxable profit forecasts for the entities concerned.
The Group has further tax losses available to be carried forward for offset against the future taxable profits of certain Group companies 
amounting to approximately £2.6 million (2014: £2.7 million). No deferred tax asset (2014: £nil) in respect of these losses has been recognised 
at the year end as the Group does not currently anticipate being able to offset these against future profits in order to realise any economic 
benefit in the foreseeable future. 
In addition to the above, the Group has capital losses of approximately £19 million (2014: £19 million) available for offset against future 
taxable gains. No deferred tax asset in respect of these losses, which would amount to £3.4 million, has been recognised in these financial 
statements as there is insufficient certainty that the asset will be recovered against future capital gains. Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
63 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
11 Dividends
The following dividends were paid by the Company during the year:
2015 2014
Pence Pence
per share £000 per share £000
Final dividend paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as liabilities in that year – – 5.5 950
Interim dividend paid in respect of current year – – – –
– – 5.5 950
Total dividend paid, net of treasury share dividends – – – 928
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 November 1.0 173 – –
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 November 2015 has not yet been approved by shareholders and as such has not been 
included as a liability as at 30 November 2015. Subject to approval, this is expected to be paid on 6 May 2016 to shareholders on the 
register at 29 March 2016. This will give a total dividend for the year of 1.0p per share (2014: £nil per share).
12 Earnings per ordinary share
2015 2014
Pence Pence
per share per share
Basic earnings per ordinary share 2.5 (20.6)
Diluted earnings per ordinary share 2.5 (20.6)
Underlying basic earnings per ordinary share 8.0 (14.0)
Underlying diluted earnings per ordinary share 8.0 (14.0)
Earnings per ordinary share have been calculated by dividing the profit/(loss) after taxation attributable to equity holders of the Parent 
for each financial year by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and ranking for dividend during the year.
The calculations of basic and underlying earnings per share are based upon:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Earnings for basic and diluted earnings per share 406 (3,358)
Non-underlying items 1,038 1,365
Impact of non-underlying items on tax charge/(credit) for the year (128) (295)
Earnings for underlying basic and underlying diluted earnings per share 1,316 (2,288)
2015 2014
000 000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares – basic calculation 16,370 16,320
Dilutive potential ordinary shares arising from share options
1
193 –
Weighted average number of ordinary shares – diluted calculation 16,563 16,320
1  Under IFRS no allowance is made for the dilutive impact of share options which reduce a loss. The basic and diluted EPS measures are therefore the same 
for the year ended 30 November 2014. Financial statements
64 www.synecticsplc.com
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 November 2015
13 Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
Freehold Short equipment
land and leasehold and motor
buildings improvements vehicles Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 December 2013 1,077 1,399 3,850 6,326
Additions 1,074 110 837 2,021
Disposals – (12) (410) (422)
Currency translation adjustment – 1 19 20
At 30 November 2014 2,151 1,498 4,296 7,945
Additions – 16 330 346
Disposals (315) (59) (161) (535)
Government grant related to asset (165) – – (165)
Transfer between categories – (15) 15 –
Currency translation adjustment – 13 (19) (6)
At 30 November 2015 1,671 1,453 4,461 7,585
Depreciation
At 1 December 2013 51 765 2,869 3,685
Charge for the year 29 101 578 708
Disposals – (10) (374) (384)
Currency translation adjustment – (1) (15) (16)
At 30 November 2014 80 855 3,058 3,993
Charge for the year 34 112 484 630
Disposals (93) (44) (161) (298)
Transfer between categories 33 (10) (23) –
Currency translation adjustment – 14 (18) (4)
At 30 November 2015 54 927 3,340 4,321
Net book value
At 30 November 2015 1,617 526 1,121 3,264
At 30 November 2014 2,071 643 1,238 3,952 Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
65 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
14 Intangible assets
Capitalised
Acquired development Purchased
Goodwill intangibles costs software Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 December 2013 23,560 716 4,632 1,540 30,448
Additions – – 1,361 240 1,601
Disposals – – – (9) (9)
Currency translation adjustment (117) (31) (11) – (159)
At 30 November 2014 23,443 685 5,982 1,771 31,881
Additions – – 553 102 655
Disposals – – – (4) (4)
Currency translation adjustment (741) (80) (24) (11) (856)
At 30 November 2015 22,702 605 6,511 1,858 31,676
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 December 2013 3,993 288 2,592 903 7,776
Charge for the year – 118 472 217 807
Currency translation adjustment (41) (16) 7 – (50)
Disposals – – – (9) (9)
At 30 November 2014 3,952 390 3,071 1,111 8,524
Charge for the year – 107 930 218 1,255
Currency translation adjustment (416) (49) – (6) (471)
Disposals – – – (4) (4)
At 30 November 2015 3,536 448 4,001 1,319 9,304
Net book value
At 30 November 2015 19,166 157 2,510 539 22,372
At 30 November 2014 19,491 295 2,911 660 23,357
Annual test for impairment of goodwill
During the year, the Group assessed the recoverable amount of goodwill by comparing it to the value in use of the cash-generating units (‘CGUs’) 
to which it relates. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the CGUs that are expected to benefit from 
that business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill was allocated to the CGUs as follows:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Systems 9,977 10,302
Integration & Managed Services (excluding Mobile) 4,580 4,580
Mobile 4,609 4,609
19,166 19,491
The recoverable amount of the CGUs is determined based on a value-in-use calculation which uses cash flow projections based on 
financial budgets and business plans approved by the Directors covering a three-year period. The three-year cash flows continue to be 
risk adjusted to reflect a conservative outlook. Cash flows beyond that period have been extrapolated using a steady 2.25% per annum 
growth rate, which the Directors consider to be specific to the business and does not exceed the UK long-term average growth rate, 
and is therefore considered appropriate to apply to each of the CGUs. Financial statements
66 www.synecticsplc.com
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 November 2015
14 Intangible assets continued
The key assumptions used in the cash flow projections are as follows:
» continued working capital unwind in 2016;
» terminal value applied after ten years assuming an eight (2014: seven) times multiple; and
» pre-tax discount rates as follows:
2015 2014
% %
Systems 10.7 9.9
Integration & Managed Services (excluding Mobile) 10.4 9.5
Mobile 10.1 9.1
The discount rates used are based on the Group weighted average cost of capital, which has been risk adjusted to reflect specific divisional 
risks such as the nature of the market served, cost profiles and the barriers to entry into each market segment, as well as other 
macro-economic factors. 
The other key assumptions have been assigned values by management using estimates based on past experience and expectations 
of the future performance of the CGUs. 
The Directors believe that, based on sensitivity analysis performed, even in the current economic conditions any reasonably possible 
change in the key assumptions on which the recoverable amounts are based would not cause the CGUs’ carrying amounts to exceed 
the recoverable amounts. Therefore there is no impairment to goodwill in the period.
15 Inventories
2015 2014
£000 £000
Raw materials and consumables 4,449 5,782
Work in progress 821 1,110
Finished goods for resale 4,807 4,441
10,077 11,333
Contract balances 314 1,291
10,391 12,624
2015 2014
£000 £000
Contract balances comprise:
Net costs incurred 314 1,291
16 Trade and other receivables
2015 2014
£000 £000
Trade receivables 13,502 15,493
Allowance for doubtful debts (302) (273)
13,200 15,220
Amounts recoverable on contracts 6,177 7,599
Other receivables 1,137 2,051
Prepayments 751 757
21,265 25,627
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and generally have 30 to 90-day terms. At 30 November 2015 the Group had 59 days’ sales 
outstanding in trade receivables (2014: 61 days’).
Due to their short maturities, the fair value of trade and other receivables approximates to their book value. Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
67 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
16 Trade and other receivables continued
Movement in allowance for doubtful debts
2015 2014
£000 £000
At 1 December 273 502
Provided 241 146
Amounts utilised (212) (375)
At 30 November 302 273
As at 30 November 2015, trade receivables of £3,962,000 (2014: £5,430,000) were past due but not impaired. The ageing analysis 
of these trade receivables is as follows:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Up to three months past due 3,216 4,405
Three to six months past due 196 484
Over six months past due 550 541
3,962 5,430
17 Cash and cash equivalents
2015 2014
£000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 3,338 1,349
For the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 3,338 1,349
Bank overdraft (114) (3,766)
3,224 (2,417)
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents approximates to their book value.
Cash at bank earns interest at the daily bank base rate.
18 Trade and other payables
2015 2014
£000 £000
Trade payables 7,797 9,208
Other taxation and social security 1,334 1,207
Other payables 315 223
Accruals 8,224 8,242
Deferred income 3,719 3,689
21,389 22,569
Due to their short maturities, the fair value of trade and other payables approximates to their book value.
19 Loans and borrowings
2015 2014
Current
Non-
current Total Current
Non-
current Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Bank term loans 743 1,932 2,675 787 2,872 3,659
Bank overdraft 114 – 114 3,766 – 3,766
Total 857 1,932 2,789 4,553 2,872 7,425 Financial statements
68 www.synecticsplc.com
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 November 2015
19 Loans and borrowings continued
The fair value of financial liabilities is not substantially different from the carrying value. The terms and debt repayment details of the loans 
and borrowings are as follows:
Value drawn Interest
000 Maturity rate Security
€3.7 million term loan €2,100 30 September 2017 EURIBOR +2.75% Group assets
£1.5 million term loan £1,200 26 November 2018 LIBOR +2.5% Group assets
£8.0 million overdraft facility £114 On demand Base +2.5% Group assets
During the year €0.8 million of the Euro and £150,000 of the Sterling bank loans were repaid.
20 Provisions
Deferred and
contingent
Restructuring consideration Property Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 December 2013 126 49 69 244
Utilised in the year (183) – (16) (199)
Charge to Income Statement 1,120 – 4 1,124
At 30 November 2014 1,063 49 57 1,169
Utilised in the year (1,814) – (38) (1,852)
Charge to Income Statement 806 – 6 812
At 30 November 2015 55 49 25 129
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Current 104 1,147
Non-current 25 22
129 1,169
The Group has a number of properties where the Directors believe that dilapidation costs may be incurred or where the property is sublet and 
the Directors believe that they may not be able to fully recover future rental costs, and therefore appropriate cost provisions have been made. 
It is anticipated that the property cost provision carried forward at 30 November 2015 will be utilised within three years. The restructuring 
provision relates to severance costs incurred in the year and is expected to be utilised in the year ending 30 November 2016. The deferred 
consideration provision will also be utilised in the year ending 30 November 2016.
21 Called up share capital and reserves
The number of allotted, called up and fully paid shares is as follows:
2015 2014
Number £000 Number £000 
Ordinary shares of 20p each
Allotted, called up and fully paid 17,794,439 3,559 17,794,439 3,559
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at 
meetings of the Group. The 1,419,464 shares held under the Group Executive Shared Ownership Plan (‘ExSOP’) at 30 November 2015 
are treated as treasury shares and are therefore excluded from the basic earnings per share calculation.
The merger reserve has been created in accordance with sections 612 and 613 of the Companies Act 2006 whereby the premium on 
ordinary shares in the Company issued to acquire shares has been credited to the merger reserve rather than the share premium account.
The cost of own shares held within the ExSOP of £3,363,003 (2014: £3,379,214) has been deducted from other reserves. The nominal 
value of these shares is £283,893 (2014: £285,493). Other reserves also includes a capital redemption reserve of £8,000 (2014: £8,000). Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
69 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
22 Options over shares of Synectics plc
The Group operated three share schemes in the year: the Quadnetics Employees’ Share Acquisition Plan, the Quadnetics Executive 
Shared Ownership Plan and the Synectics Performance Share Plan.
Quadnetics Employees’ Share Acquisition Plan
The Quadnetics Employees’ Share Acquisition Plan (the ‘ESAP’) was adopted on 23 April 2010. Deductions from salary are used to buy 
partnership shares in Synectics plc at the end of each six-month accumulation period. The Trustee will use any dividend income paid on 
these shares to buy further shares to be held in the scheme as dividend shares. 
Partnership shares can be withdrawn from the scheme by the employee at any time, but withdrawals before the fifth anniversary after 
purchase are subject to income tax; withdrawals after the fifth anniversary of their purchase date can be made in full and are not subject 
to income tax. Dividend shares are required to be held in trust for a period of three years following the purchase date. Employees who 
leave the Group are required to withdraw all of their shares in the scheme and are subject to the same rules.
The scheme holds 55,510 ordinary shares at 30 November 2015, which were acquired by the scheme Trustee as follows:
Third or fifth 2015 2014
Type of anniversary of Purchase/ Number Number
Effective date of purchase shares the purchase date base price of shares of shares
14 October 2010 Partnership 15 October 2015 147.5p 3,123 3,461
7 April 2011 Partnership 8 April 2016 177.5p 4,235 4,657
25 July 2011 Dividend 26 July 2014 200.0p 63 70
2 November 2011 Partnership 3 November 2016 185.5p 3,902 4,307
2 November 2011 Dividend 3 November 2014 205.0p 86 95
20 April 2012 Partnership 21 April 2017 200.0p 3,840 4,275
17 May 2012 Dividend 18 May 2015 289.0p 179 198
9 October 2012 Partnership 10 October 2017 272.5p 2,849 3,509
9 October 2012 Dividend 10 October 2015 272.5p 136 150
3 April 2013 Partnership 4 April 2018 282.5p 3,024 3,754
8 May 2013 Dividend 9 May 2016 445.0p 206 231
4 October 2013 Dividend 5 October 2016 488.0p 131 149
14 October 2013 Partnership 15 October 2018 393.0p 2,802 3,806
4 April 2014 Partnership 5 April 2019 404.0p 2,746 3,949
7 May 2014 Dividend 8 May 2017 430.0p 309 357
2 October 2014 Partnership 3 October 2019 350.0p 4,372 5,855
17 April 2015 Partnership 18 April 2020 153.0p 9,683 –
22 October 2015 Partnership 23 October 2020 123.5p 13,824 –
Shares held at end of year 55,510 38,823
At 30 November 2015 the shares held by the ESAP had a market value of £59,673 (2014: £60,176).
Movements during the year were as follows:
Number of
shares
Shares held at 1 December 2014 38,823
Shares acquired during the year 24,237
Withdrawals from the scheme during the year (7,550)
Shares held at 30 November 2015 55,510
Quadnetics Executive Shared Ownership Plan
The Quadnetics Executive Shared Ownership Plan (the ‘ExSOP’) was formed in July 2009. Under the provisions of the ExSOP, shares 
(the ‘ExSOP shares’) are jointly owned by nominated senior employees and by an employees’ share trust on terms, similar to a share 
option scheme, whereby the value of appreciation in the Company’s share price over a minimum three-year period accrues to the relevant 
employee, provided the Company meets certain performance thresholds.  Financial statements
70 www.synecticsplc.com
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 November 2015
22 Options over shares of Synectics plc continued
In summary, none of the awarded ExSOP shares will vest unless the total return (dividends plus share price appreciation) on the 
Company’s shares is better than the performance of the FTSE AIM All Share Total Return Index over the three-year period from award. 
The shares will vest fully if the Company’s performance beats the Index by more than 5% over that period. If the Company’s share 
performance matches the Index, then 25% of the awarded shares will vest and between these points vesting will be pro-rata.
In March 2011, 293,000 shares available in the trust as a result of employees leaving the Group were transferred to the corporate 
Trustee of the Plan at £1.73 each as joint owner together with certain employees, being the mid-market price of the Company’s 
ordinary shares immediately prior to the transfer.
ExSOP shares outstanding at 30 November 2015 are exercisable as follows:
Relevant
share price 2015 2014
at date of Number of Number of
Date awarded Exercise dates award shares shares
7 July 2009 8 July 2012 onwards 147.5p 790,081 798,081
7 March 2011 8 March 2014 onwards 173.0p 142,400 142,400
Balance of shares in respect of leavers 486,983 486,983
1,419,464 1,427,464
Movements during the year were as follows:
Number of
shares
Shares held at 1 December 2014 1,427,464
Vested shares sold or transferred in the year (8,000)
Shares held at 30 November 2015 1,419,464
Dividends have been waived in respect of the 486,983 shares not specifically allocated to employees.
Synectics Performance Share Plan
The Synectics Performance Share Plan (the ‘PSP’) was formed on 9 October 2012.
Under the PSP, selected employees are entitled to exercise an option to receive a certain number of Synectics plc shares at any time 
after a three-year vesting period, at no cost to themselves. The number of shares that are awarded at the end of the three-year period 
is dependent on the achievement of certain performance criteria.
The performance criteria are identical to those that apply under the existing ExSOP. Provided that the total return on Synectics plc shares 
has outperformed the FTSE AIM All Share Total Return Index (the ‘Index’) by 5% or more in the three years following the award, beneficiaries 
will be entitled to receive the full number of shares awarded. If Synectics plc’s share performance matches the Index, then 25% of the 
awarded shares will vest and between these points vesting will be pro-rata. If the total return on Synectics plc shares underperforms the 
Index, then no entitlement will vest. The limit on the number of shares over which interests may be awarded also remains unchanged.
It is intended that if the performance criteria are met in full or part, the appropriate number of shares will be transferred to the employees 
from unallocated Synectics plc shares already held within the employee benefit trust established for the existing ExSOP.
PSP shares outstanding at 30 November 2015 are exercisable as follows:
Relevant
share price 2015 2014
at date of Number of Number of
Date awarded Exercise dates award shares shares
9 October 2012 9 October 2015 onwards 272.5p – 88,250
31 October 2013 31 October 2016 onwards 510.0p 55,500 65,500
5 March 2014 5 March 2017 onwards 437.5p 14,000 23,000
30 March 2015 30 March 2018 onwards 125.0p 300,000 –
369,500 176,750
84,250 (2014: nil) options under the PSP expired during the year. Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
71 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
23 Share-based payment charge
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted or awards made under the Group’s share schemes is measured 
by reference to the fair value of the share options granted or share scheme shares awarded.
For the equity-settled share scheme awards, the estimate of the fair value of the services received for accounting purposes is measured 
based on an adjusted Black-Scholes model using the following assumptions:
October 2012 October 2013 March 2014 March 2015
Synectics PSP awards awards awards awards
Number of share options awarded 142,250 78,500 25,500 335,000
Exercise price nil nil nil nil
Share price on date of award £2.725 £5.10 £4.375 £1.25
Expected volatility 20% 25% 30% 30%
Expected dividend yield 3.5% 2.2% 2.3% 4.0%
Risk-free interest rate 2.1% 3.0% 3.1% 1.8%
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected life of option 4 years 5 years 5 years 5 years
The weighted average fair value of options granted during 2015 was £1.02.
The expected volatility is based wholly on the historic volatility.
Share options and share scheme awards are granted under a service condition and a performance measure based around the Company’s 
share price relative to the FTSE AIM All Share Total Return Index.
The total charge recognised for the year arising from share-based payments is as follows:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Equity-settled share-based payments 125 127
Total carrying value of liabilities – –
24 Government grants
2015 2014
£000 £000
At 1 December – –
Received during the year 311 –
Released to the Income Statement (146) –
Offset against related asset (165) –
At 30 November – –
Government grants have been received for the purchase of certain items of property, plant and equipment. There is one remaining 
condition attached to these grants which is expected to be met during the first half of 2016. 
25 Contingent liabilities
Certain subsidiary companies have agreed to guarantee a number of bonds, issued by Lloyds Bank plc, HSBC and JLT, amounting 
to a total of £1.0 million at 30 November 2015 (2014: £1.2 million).
26 Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note. The subsidiaries in the Group are listed in note 6 of the Company accounts.
During the year Synectic Systems Group Limited received a credit of £5,360 through return of goods (2014: purchases of £80,251) 
to a company in which a Director of Synectics plc and its subsidiaries has an indirect interest. There were no amounts outstanding at 
30 November 2015 (2014: prepaid balance £7,251).
An amount of £7,500 (2014: £nil) was paid for services provided in the year to a company in which a Director of Synectics plc held a direct 
interest. There were no amounts outstanding at 30 November 2015.
During the year an amount was paid to the spouse of a Director of Synectic Systems (Asia) Pte Limited of S$4,320 for provision 
of accommodation to an external consultant engaged by the company (2014: S$nil).  Financial statements
72 www.synecticsplc.com
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 November 2015
26 Related party transactions continued
Transactions with key management personnel:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Salary and fees 613 775
Benefits 69 100
Bonus 80 –
Compensation for loss of office – 318
Total short-term remuneration 762 1,193
Post-employment benefits 65 85
Share-based payments 28 30
855 1,308
John Shepherd retired from the Board on 31 January 2015. During the year John Shepherd received an amount for compensation for loss 
of office in line with the arrangements disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report.
27 Capital commitments
At the year end capital commitments not provided for in these financial statements amounted to £113,650 (2014: £105,730).
28 Operating lease commitments
The Group had total outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall 
due as follows:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Within one year 1,393 1,622
Within two to five years 2,956 2,696
In excess of five years 689 1,208
5,038 5,526
The Group’s lease commitments primarily relate to land and buildings and vehicles.
29 Pension commitments 
The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme and a number of defined contribution schemes.
a) Defined benefit scheme
The Group operates the Quadrant Group plc Retirement Benefit Scheme. This scheme includes both a defined benefit section in respect
of past employees of the Group and a defined contributions section in respect of past employees and one current employee. The accrual
of benefits in the defined benefit section ceased in 1996 and the liabilities relate only to members with preserved benefits or pensions in
payment. A full actuarial valuation was carried out by a qualified independent actuary, independent of the scheme’s sponsoring employer,
as at 30 June 2013. These results have been updated to 30 November 2015. The major assumptions used by the actuary are shown
on page 74.
The Group has paid contributions of £nil (2014: £5,000) in the year. Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
73 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
29 Pension commitments continued
The disclosures below relate to the defined benefit section, with the contributions to the defined contributions section being disclosed 
in section b) on page 75.
Net defined benefit asset
2015 2014
£000 £000
Fair value of scheme assets 6,310 6,409
Present value of scheme liabilities (5,795) (5,869)
Net defined benefit asset 515 540
Effect of not recognising the scheme surplus – –
Net defined benefit asset recognised in the balance sheet 515 540
Associated deferred tax liability (103) (110)
Future economic benefits are available to the Group in the form of a reduction in future contributions or a cash refund. Any surplus 
ultimately repaid by the Trustees would be subject to a tax charge deducted at source. 
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of the present value of the defined benefit obligations
2015 2014
£000 £000
Defined benefit obligations at the start of the year 5,869 5,565
Interest cost 207 242
Re-measurements:
– gains due to scheme experience (11) (1)
– gains due to changes in demographic assumptions – (190)
– losses due to financial assumptions 59 489
Benefits paid (329) (236)
Defined benefit obligations at the end of the year 5,795 5,869
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of the fair value of plan assets
2015 2014
£000 £000
Fair value of plan assets at the start of the year 6,409 5,753
Interest income 225 242
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts recognised in interest income 5 645
Contributions by the Company – 5
Benefits paid (329) (236)
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 6,310 6,409
(Losses)/gains recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
2015 2014
£000 £000
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts recognised in interest income 5 645
Re-measurements (48) (298)
Total actuarial (losses)/gains (43) 347
Effect of recognising the scheme surplus – 193
Total amount recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (43) 540
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income since 
the adoption of IAS 19 is £497,000 (2014: £540,000). Financial statements
74 www.synecticsplc.com
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 November 2015
29 Pension commitments continued
Assets
2015 2014 2013
Fair value of Fair value of Fair value of
plan assets plan assets plan assets
£000 £000 £000 
Equity 155 151 146
Bonds 6,106 6,255 5,611
Cash 49 3 (4)
Total assets 6,310 6,409 5,753
As at 30 November 2015, the fair value of the assets shown above include holdings of £17,596 in Synectics plc shares which constitute 
employer-related investments. There are no further amounts in assets which represent the Company’s own financial instruments or any 
property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Company.
Actual return on plan assets 
The actual return on the plan assets over the year ended 30 November 2015 was £230,000.
Principal actuarial assumptions 
2015 2014 2013
% per % per % per
annum annum annum
Inflation 3.20 3.20 3.70
Inflation (CPI) 2.30 2.30 2.80
Rate of discount 3.50 3.60 4.30
Allowance for revaluation of deferred pensions of CPI or 5% pa if less 2.30 2.30 2.80
Allowance for commutation of pension for cash at retirement – – –
The mortality assumptions adopted at 30 November 2015 imply the following life expectancies at age 65: 
2015 2014
Years Years
Male currently aged 45 24.1 24.0
Female currently aged 45 26.5 26.4
Male currently aged 65 22.3 22.2
Female currently aged 65 24.6 24.5
Analysis of the sensitivity to the principal assumptions of the present value of the defined benefit obligation
The sensitivities shown are approximate and each sensitivity considers one change in isolation. The inflation sensitivity includes the 
impact of changes to the assumptions for revaluation and pension increases. The average duration of the defined obligation at the period 
ending 30 November 2015 is 13 years.
Change in assumption Change in liability
Discount rate Decrease of 0.25% Increase by 3.0%
Rate of inflation Increase of 0.25% pa Increase by 0.1%
Rate of mortality Increase in life expectancy of one year Increase by 3.5%
The Company estimates that no additional contributions will be paid to the plan during the year ending 30 November 2016. Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
75 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
29 Pension commitments continued
History of experience gains and losses
30 Nov 30 Nov 30 Nov 30 Nov 30 Nov
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Fair value of plan assets 6,310 6,409 5,753 5,996 5,450
Present value of defined benefit obligations (5,795) (5,869) (5,565) (5,629) (5,165)
Surplus in plan 515 540 188 367 285
Experience adjustment on plan assets – – (266) 641 350
Experience adjustment on defined benefit obligations 11 1 (203) (27) –
b) Defined contribution schemes
Contributions made by the Company to the defined contribution section of the Quadrant Group plc Retirement Benefit Scheme amounted
to £34,000 in the year (2014: £39,000).
There are also a number of other defined contribution pension schemes operated by various companies within the Group. The Group’s 
total expense for these other schemes in the year was £472,000 (2014: £466,000). 
30 Financial instruments 
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to shareholders. 
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash held in interest-bearing current accounts (note 17), loans and borrowings on fixed terms 
(note 19), bank overdrafts (note 19) and equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent, comprising issued share capital (note 21), 
reserves and retained earnings. The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements. The Group’s dividend policy 
depends on both the earnings profile and investment opportunities together with wider macro-economic factors.
Foreign currency risk
The Group operates internationally giving rise to exposure from changes in foreign exchange rates, with the US Dollar, the Euro and the 
Singapore Dollar being the main foreign currencies in which the Group trades. The Group’s policy is to manage transaction exposure in 
respect of the Group’s UK subsidiaries through the use of forward exchange contracts, which are entered into in respect of forecast foreign 
currency transactions when the amount and timing of such forecast transactions becomes reasonably certain. The Group had no 
commitments in respect of forward exchange contracts at either 30 November 2015 or 30 November 2014.
At 30 November 2015, certain subsidiaries within the Group had the following forecast foreign currency transactions during the next two 
years which have not been hedged, principally due to either natural hedges being available of receipts against payments or to significant 
uncertainty over the timing of the transactions:
2015 2015 2014
€000 $000 $000
Receipts – 4,390 1,403
Payments (195) (3,322) – Financial statements
76 www.synecticsplc.com
30 Financial instruments continued
The Group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates on the translation of profits earned by its overseas subsidiaries. These profits are 
translated at average exchange rates for the year which is an approximation to rates at the date of transaction. The Group’s overseas 
subsidiaries account for approximately 7.2% (2014: 0.6%) of the Group’s net assets as follows:
2015 2014
Functional currency of entity % %
US Dollars 4.2 1.9
Euros (3.0) (4.1)
Singapore Dollars 6.0 2.8
Total 7.2 0.6
Translation exposure in respect of these assets is not hedged.
At 30 November 2015 the Group held foreign currency cash balances of $1,963,000 (2014: $2,941,000) and S$25,000 (2014: S$907,000), 
and was overdrawn by €2,576,000 (2014: €1,333,000).
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 10% fall in the relevant foreign currencies:
USD impact Euro impact SGD impact
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Profit/(loss) 34 112 (146) (348) 192 61
Other equity 159 152 21 74 269 130
Total 193 264 (125) (274) 461 191
The table below shows the extent to which the Group had significant monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than the local 
currency of the Company in which they are recorded. Foreign exchange differences on the retranslation of these assets and liabilities 
are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
2015 2014
Sterling SGD Sterling SGD
£000 £000 £000 £000
Sterling – 198 – 75
US Dollars (332) 333 (323) 771
Euros (1,517) – (2,185) –
Total (1,849) 531 (2,508) 846
The Group’s investment in its German subsidiary, Indanet GmbH (previously Synectic Systems GmbH), is hedged by a Euro-denominated 
loan (carrying amount: €3.7 million (2014: €3.7 million)) which mitigates the foreign currency risk arising from the retranslation of the 
subsidiary’s net assets. The loan is designated as a net investment hedge. No ineffectiveness was recognised from the net investment 
hedge. The fair value of the loan is not substantially different from its carrying value. The Group’s investments in other subsidiaries are 
not hedged.
Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk that a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, resulting 
in financial loss to the Group, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and interest-bearing current accounts. 
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit evaluations are performed 
on all customers requiring credit using information supplied by independent rating agencies where available. The Group also uses other 
publicly available information and its own trading records to rate major customers. The credit risk on current accounts is limited because 
the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
At the balance sheet date, there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented 
by the carrying amount of each financial asset in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 November 2015 Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
77 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
30 Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does not have sufficient cash to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group ensures 
that sufficient cash and undrawn facilities are available to fund ongoing operations and to meet its medium-term capital and funding 
obligations, and to meet any unforeseen obligations and opportunities.
At the year end, the Group had net funds/(debt) of:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Current accounts (note 17) 3,338 1,349
Loans and borrowings (note 19) (2,789) (7,425)
549 (6,076)
The level of the Group’s bank overdraft facilities is reviewed annually and at 30 November 2015 the Group had undrawn overdraft facilities 
of up to £7.9 million, on which interest would be payable at the rate of bank base rate +2.50%.
Financial liabilities of the Group principally comprise trade creditors falling due for payment within twelve months of the balance sheet 
date (2014: twelve months), bank overdraft repayable on demand and bank loans which fall due for final repayment within three years 
of the balance sheet date.
Interest risk 
Interest-bearing assets comprise cash held in current accounts, earning interest at bank base rate. During the year these bank deposits 
bore interest at base rate of 0.5% (2014: 0.5%). The Group benchmarks the rates being obtained in order to maximise its returns, within 
the credit risk framework referred to above.
The interest rates for bank loans and overdrafts are set out in note 19.
The Group’s funding position did not carry any significant interest rate risk at 30 November 2015 or 30 November 2014.
A 0.5% rise or fall in interest rates would not have a material impact on the results of the Group.
31 Subsidiaries
The Group consists of a Parent Company, Synectics plc, incorporated in the UK and a number of subsidiaries held directly and indirectly 
by Synectics plc, which operate and are incorporated around the world. Note 6 to the Company’s financial statements lists details 
of all subsidiaries.
One subsidiary, Synectic Systems (Macau) Limited, has an accounting reference date of 31 December, which is different to that of 
the consolidated financial statements of 30 November. This is to more closely align the accounting period with the tax reporting 
requirements in Macau and thereby reduce administrative costs.  Financial statements
78 www.synecticsplc.com
2015 2014
Note £000 £000
Fixed assets
Plant, equipment and motor vehicles 5 407 527
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 6 19,426 19,348
19,833 19,875
Current assets
Debtors 7 30,811 29,347
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 (8,330) (5,875)
Net current assets 22,481 23,472
Total assets less current liabilities 42,314 43,347
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 8 (6,616) (5,691)
Loans and borrowings 9 (1,932) (2,871)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 10 (57) (767)
Non-current liabilities (8,605) (9,329)
Net assets 33,709 34,018
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 11 3,559 3,559
Share premium account 12 16,043 16,043
Merger reserve 12 9,971 9,971
Other reserves 12 (1,393) (1,406)
Retained earnings 12 5,529 5,851
Equity shareholders’ funds 33,709 34,018
The financial statements on pages 78 to 86 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 24 February 2016 
and were signed on its behalf by:
Paul Webb Mike Stilwell
Director Director
Company number: 1740011
Company balance sheet
As at 30 November 2015 Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
79 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Notes to the Company financial statements
For the year ended 30 November 2015
The principal activity of the Company was to act as a holding company for its trading subsidiaries.
1 Principal accounting policies
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom (‘UK GAAP’). 
A summary of the more important Company accounting policies, which have been consistently applied, is set out below.
Basis of accounting
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention.
Fixed asset investments
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost plus deemed capital contributions arising from share-based payment transactions less any 
provision for impairment. The Company records an increase in its investments in subsidiaries equal to the share-based payments charge 
recognised by its subsidiaries with a corresponding credit to equity. Details of the Group’s share-based payment charge are set out in 
note 23 of the Group Financial Statements.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges are 
accounted for on an accruals basis in the profit or loss account and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent 
that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of fixed assets, less their estimated residual values, on a straight-line basis over 
the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned, commencing on the first day of the month after being brought into use. 
The principal annual rates used for this purpose are 10%–33%.
Leased assets
Rentals payable under operating leases are written off to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to 
pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law. Timing differences arise 
from the inclusion of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the 
financial statements. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered. Deferred 
tax balances are not discounted.
Pension costs
Company employees are members of a number of schemes, all of which operate on a money purchase basis. Contributions to these 
schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
The Company also participates in a retirement benefit scheme, the Quadrant Group plc Retirement Benefit Scheme, which has deferred 
defined benefit members. The expected return on the scheme’s assets and the expected increase in the present value of the scheme’s 
liabilities during the period are included in the profit and loss account as other finance income or charges as appropriate. Actuarial gains 
and losses are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses. Pension scheme liabilities and, to the extent that they 
are recoverable, pension scheme assets are recognised in the balance sheet and represent the difference between the market value 
of the scheme’s assets and the present value of the scheme’s liabilities, net of deferred taxation.
Pension scheme liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and are discounted at a rate using 
the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis and 
therefore, as required by FRS 17 ‘Retirement benefits’, accounts for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme. As a result, 
the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the accounting period.  Financial statements
80 www.synecticsplc.com
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 November 2015
1 Principal accounting policies continued
Foreign currency
Transactions denominated in foreign currency are translated into Sterling at the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are retranslated into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial 
period or, if appropriate, at the forward contract rate. Exchange differences arising on these transactions are taken to the profit and loss 
account in the period in which they arise.
Dividends
Dividends proposed by the Directors and unpaid at the end of the year are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been 
approved by shareholders at a general meeting of the Company. Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
Employee share schemes
Transactions of the Company-sponsored ExSOP are treated as being those of the Company and are therefore reflected in the Parent 
Company financial statements. In particular the scheme’s purchases of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
Related party transactions
The Company takes advantage of the exemption under FRS 8 and does not disclose transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries.
2 Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration is shown in the Remuneration Committee report on page 33.
3 Directors
The remuneration of the Directors is set out below:
2015 2014
Directors’ emoluments £000 £000
Salaries and benefits 585 508
Pension benefits under defined contribution plan 65 64
Compensation for loss of office – 318
650 890
Detailed information on the emoluments, pensions, option holdings and shareholdings for each Director is shown in the Remuneration 
Committee report on pages 32 to 35.
4 Dividends
The following dividends were paid by the Company during the year:
2015 2014
Pence per Pence per
share £000 share £000
Final dividend paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as liabilities in that year – – 5.5 950
Interim dividend paid in respect of current year – – – –
– – 5.5 950
Total dividend paid, net of treasury share dividends – – – 928
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 November 1.0 173 – –
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 November 2015 has not yet been approved by shareholders and as such has not been 
included as a liability as at 30 November 2015. Subject to approval, this is expected to be paid on 6 May 2016 to shareholders on the 
register at 29 March 2016. This will give a total dividend for the year of 1.0p per share (2014: £nil per share). Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
81 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
5 Plant, equipment and motor vehicles
£000
Cost
At 1 December 2014 740
Additions 18
At 30 November 2015 758
Depreciation
At 1 December 2014 213
Charge for the year 138
At 30 November 2015 351
Net book value
At 30 November 2015 407
At 30 November 2014 527
6 Investments in subsidiary undertakings
£000
Cost
At 1 December 2014 27,530
Share-based payments capital contribution 78
At 30 November 2015 27,608
Provision for impairment as at 1 December 2014 and 30 November 2015 (8,182)
Net book value
At 30 November 2015 19,426
At 30 November 2014 19,348 Financial statements
82 www.synecticsplc.com
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 November 2015
Country of
incorporation Class of share
Proportion
of voting
rights and
shares held Nature of business
Directly held by Synectics plc
Synectic Systems Group Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Design and manufacture of video systems control 
products, integrated digital CCTV systems and 
CCTV equipment and systems for extreme or 
hazardous environments
Quadrant Security Group Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Design, installation and maintenance of CCTV 
security systems and integrated security systems, 
and security management and support services
Synectic Systems Inc. USA Common stock 100% Design and supply of video systems control 
products and integrated digital CCTV systems
Indanet GmbH (previously Synectic Systems 
GmbH)
Germany Ordinary shares 100% German holding company
Coex Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Flash No.1 Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Flash No.2 Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Flash No.3 Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Fotovalue Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Foxall & Chapman Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Look CCTV Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Look Closed Circuit TV Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Midlands Video Systems Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Monument Photographic Laboratories Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
MVS (Research) plc UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Newco 3006 Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Protec plc UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
QSG Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Quadnetics Employees’ Trustees Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Quadnetics Group Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Quadnetics Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Quadnetics SIP Trustees Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Quadrant Integrated Systems Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Quadrant Properties Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Quadrant Research & Development Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Quadrant Support Services Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Quadrant Video Systems plc UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Quick Imaging Centre Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
S&M (Processing) Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Sanpho Pension Trustees Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
6 Investments in subsidiary undertakings continued
Details of the Company’s subsidiaries at 30 November 2015 are as follows: Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
83 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Country of
incorporation Class of share
Proportion
of voting
rights and
shares held Nature of business
Directly held by Synectics plc (continued)
SSS Management Services Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Stanmore Systems Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Synectic Systems Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Synectics Group Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Synectics High Security Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Synectics Industrial Systems Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Synectics Mobile Systems Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Synectics Security Group Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Synectics Security Networks Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Synectics Surveillance Technology Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Synectics Technology Centre Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Indirectly held by Synectics plc
Synectic Systems GmbH (previously Indanet GmbH) Germany Ordinary shares 100% Design and manufacture of video systems control 
products, integrated digital CCTV systems and CCTV 
equipment and systems for the transport sector 
Synectic Systems (Asia) Pte Limited Singapore Ordinary shares 100% Design and supply of video systems control 
products and integrated digital CCTV systems
Synectic Systems (Macau) Limited Macau Ordinary shares 100% Design and supply of video systems control 
products and integrated digital CCTV systems
A1 Presentations Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Falcon Equipment and Systems Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
IES Integrated Electronic Systems Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Integrated Environmental Systems Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Protec 2001 Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Quadrant Security Group (Saudi Arabia) Limited Saudi Arabia Ordinary shares 100% In liquidation
SDA Network Solutions Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
SDA Protec (2001) Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
SDA Protec Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Sectronic (Marketing) Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Security Design Associates (1979) Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Software Developments (Digital Direct) Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
SSS Managed Services Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Synectics Managed Services Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
Synectics No. 2 Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Dormant
6 Investments in subsidiary undertakings continued Financial statements
84 www.synecticsplc.com
7 Debtors
2015 2014
£000 £000
Deferred taxation 26 26
Other debtors 6 80
Amounts due from subsidiaries 30,653 28,896
Corporation tax receivable 47 317
Prepayments and accrued income 79 28
30,811 29,347
2015 2014
£000 £000
Deferred taxation
At 1 December 2014 26 15
Credit to profit and loss – 11
At 30 November 2015 26 26
The deferred taxation balances comprise:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Fixed asset timing differences 16 16
Other timing differences 10 10
26 26
8 Creditors
2015 2014
£000 £000
Amounts falling due within one year
Bank overdraft 7,161 4,524
Loans and borrowings (note 9) 743 787
Trade creditors 195 320
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 1 2
Other taxation and social security – 67
Other creditors 11 13
Accruals and deferred income 219 162
8,330 5,875
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 6,616 5,691
14,946 11,566
The bank overdraft is part of a Group offset arrangement.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 November 2015 Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
85 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
9 Loans and borrowings
2015 2014
£000 £000
Current (note 8) 743 787
Non-current 1,932 2,871
Total 2,675 3,658
Loans and borrowings comprise the Company’s bank term loan and overdraft facilities. The terms and debt repayment details are as follows:
Value drawn Interest
000 Maturity rate Security
€3.7 million term loan €2,100 30 September 2017 EURIBOR +2.75% Group assets
£1.5 million term loan £1,200 26 November 2018 LIBOR +2.5% Group assets
£8.0 million overdraft facility £7,161 On demand Base + 2.5% Group assets
During the year €0.8 million of the Euro and £150,000 of the Sterling bank loans were repaid.
10 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Restructuring Property Total
£000 £000 £000
At 1 December 2014 732 35 767
Utilised in the year (936) (35) (971)
Charged to the profit and loss account 261 – 261
At 30 November 2015 57 – 57
The restructuring provision relates to severance costs incurred and is expected to be utilised in the year ending 30 November 2016.
11 Called up share capital
The number of allotted, called up and fully paid shares is as follows:
2015 2014
Number £000 Number £000 
Ordinary shares of 20p each
Allotted, called up and fully paid 17,794,439 3,559 17,794,439 3,559
12 Reserves
The movements on equity shareholders’ funds during the year were as follows:
Called up Share
share premium Merger Other Retained
capital account reserve reserves earnings Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 December 2014 3,559 16,043 9,971 (1,406) 5,851 34,018
Loss after tax for the year – – – – (447) (447)
Credit in relation to share-based payments – – – – 125 125
Share scheme interests realised in the year – – – 13 – 13
At 30 November 2015 3,559 16,043 9,971 (1,393) 5,529 33,709
Cumulative goodwill written off directly to the profit and loss account at 30 November 2015 was £593,000 (2014: £593,000). 
The consolidated result attributable to the shareholders of Synectics plc for the year includes a loss of £447,000 (2014: profit £1,484,000) 
which has been dealt with in the financial statements of the Company. Synectics plc has taken advantage of the legal dispensation under 
section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 allowing it not to publish a separate profit and loss account. Financial statements
86 www.synecticsplc.com
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 November 2015
13 Contingent liabilities
The Company has agreed, in some instances jointly with subsidiary companies, to guarantee borrowings, annual operating lease rentals 
and performance bonds amounting to £1.0 million at 30 November 2015 (2014: £1.2 million). 
14 Capital commitments
At 30 November 2015 capital commitments not provided for in these financial statements amounted to £nil (2014: £nil).
15 Operating lease commitments
The Company is committed to making operating lease payments during the next year as follows:
2015 2014
Land and Land and
buildings Other Total buildings Other Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 
Operating leases which expire:
Within one year – 4 4 – 6 6
Within two to five years 26 34 60 26 65 91
26 38 64 26 71 97
16 Pension commitments
Some employees of the Company are members of the defined contribution section of a defined benefit pension scheme (the Quadrant 
Group plc Retirement Benefit Scheme) and defined contribution schemes operated by the Group. For further details of the Quadrant 
Group plc Retirement Benefit Scheme, see note 29 of the Group financial statements.
Defined contribution schemes
Contributions made by the Company to the defined contribution section of the Quadrant Group plc Retirement Benefit Scheme amounted 
to £34,000 in the year (2014: £39,000).
In addition, the Company’s total expense for other defined contribution pension schemes during the year was £58,000 (2014: £81,000). Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
87 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Principal subsidiaries
The principal subsidiaries and divisions within the Group during the year were as follows:
Quadrant Security Group Limited
Design, installation, maintenance and management of advanced 
integrated CCTV and security systems
qsg.co.uk
3 Attenborough Lane
Chilwell
Nottingham NG9 5JN
Tel: +44 (0) 115 925 2521
Axis 6
Rhodes Way
Radlett Road
Watford
Hertfordshire WD24 4YW
Tel: +44 (0) 1923 211550
SSS Management Services
Total security outsourcing support and management services 
to retail and multi-site customers
sss-support.co.uk
Shannon House
Coldharbour Lane
Aylesford
Kent ME20 7NS
Tel: +44 (0) 1622 798200
Synectic Systems Group Limited
Design and development of advanced surveillance technology, 
operating through the following divisions:
synecticsglobal.com
Synectics House
3–4 Broadfield Close
Sheffield S8 0XN
Tel: +44 (0) 114 255 2509
Moat Road
Normanby Enterprise Park
North Lincolnshire DN15 9BL
Tel: +44 (0) 1652 688908
Synectics Mobile Systems
Development and supply of CCTV systems for bus manufacturers 
and operators
synecticsmobile.com
2 Wyder Court
Bluebell Way
Millennium City Park
Preston PR2 5BW
Tel: +44 (0) 1253 891222
Synectic Systems, Inc.
Developers of integrated software solutions and products for 
complex security and surveillance networks
synecticsglobal.com
4180 Via Real, Suite A
Carpinteria
California 93013
USA
Tel: +1 888 755 6255
Synectic Systems GmbH (previously Indanet GmbH)
Provider of integrated surveillance and security management 
systems to the European transport industry
synectics-germany.de
Machtlfinger Straße 13
81379 München
Tel: +49 89 748862-0
Synectic Systems (Asia) Pte Limited
Provision of specialist video-based electronic systems 
and technology, for use in high security applications
synecticsglobal.com
10 Ubi Crescent
#06–80 Ubi Techpark (Lobby E)
Singapore 408564
Tel: +65 6749 6166
Synectic Systems (Macau) Limited
Provision of specialist video-based electronic systems 
and technology, for use in high security applications
synecticsglobal.com
Avenida Comercial de Macau
Fit
5 Andar “A”
Macau
Tel: +65 6749 6166
Other information 88 www.synecticsplc.com
Other information
Secretary and registered office
Nigel Poultney
Synectics plc
Studley Point
88 Birmingham Road
Studley
Warwickshire B80 7AS
Tel: +44 (0) 1527 850080
Email: legalandsecretarial@synecticsplc.com
Bankers
Lloyds Bank plc
125 Colmore Row
Birmingham B3 3SF
Stockbrokers
Stockdale Securities Limited
Beaufort House
15 St. Botolph Street
London EC3A 7BB
Auditor
KPMG LLP
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway
Birmingham B4 6GH
Registrars and transfer office
Capita Asset Services
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham BR3 4TU
Corporate communications
Buchanan Communications Limited
107 Cheapside
London EC2V 6DN 
Advisers  
Design Portolio is committed to planting 
trees or every corporate communications 
project, in association with Trees or Cities. Synectics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Synectics plc
Studley Point
88 Birmingham Road
Studley, Warwickshire
B80 7AS, United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0) 1527 850080
Email: info@synecticsplc.com
 www.synecticsplc.com
