 CUSTOMER AT OUR HEART
CONTINUING THE 
TRANSFORMATION
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 1
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report 110
Group income statement 116
Group statement of other 
comprehensive income 117
Group cash flow statement 118
Group balance sheet 119
Group statement  
of changes in equity 121
Notes to the financial statements 122
Company balance sheet 169
Company cash flow statement 170
Company statement  
of changes in equity 171
Notes to the Company  
financial statements 172
Five year record 180
 
Shareholder information 182
Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review 16
Our business model 19
Market overview 25
Our strategic objectives 28
Financial review 36
Risk management 56
People 60
Corporate social responsibility 
& sustainability 62
Governance
Chairman’s governance statement 68
Board of Directors 70
Corporate governance report 73
Annual statement by Chair of 
Remuneration Committee 88
Directors’ remuneration policy 90
Annual report on 
Directors’ remuneration 96
Other disclosures  105
Overview
Our brand architecture 4
Our resources 5
Financial highlights 5
Chairman’s statement 10
CONTINUING THE  
TRANSFORMATION
Thomas Cook is the oldest and best loved name in travel. 
With sales of £7.8 billion and 20 million customers each year, 
the very essence of our business is to deliver inspiring 
personal journeys that make our customers  
return year-on-year.
Our customers’ experience must be placed at the heart 
of our transformation, and our business model and strategy 
are focused on doing just that…
Read more about  
booking on page 8
Read more about  
departure on page 34
Read more about  
in-destination on page 46
Read more about  
returning home on page 54  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 3
overview
CUSTOMER AT OUR HEART 4
OVERVIEW
More details on our hotel brands can be found on page 47
OUR BRAND ARCHITECTURE 
Read more about brand strength on page 23
CORPORATE BRAND
ALIGNED REGIONAL HEROES
ENDORSED BRANDS
INDIVIDUAL BRANDS
OUR HOTEL BRANDS
City Escapes FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 5
OUR RESOURCES
Read more about our financials on page 36
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Retail outlets
3,110 
Aircraft 
91 
Employees
21,813 
Departed customers
20.0m 
Revenue by Segment* £m 
UK and Ireland
Continental Europe
Northern Europe
Airlines Germany
£2,457m
£3,449m
£1,057m
£1,257m
Underlying EBIT by Segment** £m 
UK and Ireland
Continental Europe
Northern Europe
Airlines Germany
£119m
£71m
£96m
£56m
* Includes £386 million of internal revenue. 
The term “underlying” refers to trading results that are adjusted for separately disclosed items that are significant in understanding the ongoing results of the Group. Separately disclosed items are included 
on the face of the income statement and are detailed in Note 7 to the Group financial statements.
** Includes corporate costs of £32 million. 6
OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS BY REGION
9,262
UK and Ireland
6,473
Continental Europe
3,089
Northern Europe
2,989
Airlines Germany
Employees by Segment
WHERE WE OPERATE
Thomas Cook Group plc is one of the world’s leading leisure 
travel groups with sales of £7.8 billion in the year ended 
30 September 2015. Thomas Cook is supported by 21,813 employees 
and operates from 15 source markets; it is number one or two 
(by revenue) in all its core markets. Thomas Cook Group plc’s 
shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange (TCG).
KEY FACTS:
Customers: 6,109k
Retail outlets: 830
Aircraft: 32
Employees
9,262
†
UK AND IRELAND
Further expansion of new products together with successful 
implementation of operational actions and continued cost-out, 
delivered an underlying EBIT margin of 4.8% in FY15.
2015 2014 2014 Like-for-like
Revenue £2,457m £2,585m £2,458m
Gross margin % 26.7% 26.1% 26.6%
Underlying EBIT £119m £89m £84m
Underlying EBIT % 4.8% 3.5% 3.4%
† Includes 277 corporate employees. 
CONTINENTAL EUROPE
Competitive market conditions in Germany resulted in a reduction 
of underlying EBIT to £71 million, £19 million lower than last year on a 
like-for-like basis.
2015 2014 2014 Like-for-like
Revenue £3,449m £3,958m £3,554m
Gross margin % 13.5% 14.2% 14.2%
Underlying EBIT £71m £102m £90m
Underlying EBIT % 2.1% 2.6% 2.5% FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 7
AIRLINES GERMANY
KEY FACTS:
Customers: 7,061k
Retail outlets: 2,274
Aircraft: 6
Employees
6,473
KEY FACTS:
Customers: 1,698k
Retail outlets: 6
Aircraft: 11
Employees
3,089
KEY FACTS:
Customers: 7,713k*
Aircraft: 42
Employees
2,989
UK AND IRELAND
NORTHERN EUROPE
CONTINENTAL EUROPE
NORTHERN EUROPE
Despite a challenging operating environment, Northern Europe 
reported an underlying EBIT result of £96 million, an improvement of 
£18 million on last year on a like-for-like basis, demonstrating strong 
differentiation of its product offering in its source markets.
2015 2014 2014 Like-for-like
Revenue £1,057m £1,153m £998m
Gross margin % 27.9% 27.4% 27.0%
Underlying EBIT £96m £101m £78m
Underlying EBIT % 9.1% 8.7% 7.8%
AIRLINES GERMANY
Strong profit performance in Airlines Germany due to increased long 
haul flying programme as a result of strategic decision to increase 
customer choice.
2015 2014 2014 Like-for-like
Revenue £1,257m £1,299m £1,145m
Gross margin % 28.4% 27.8% 28.7%
Underlying EBIT £56m £50m £47m
Underlying EBIT % 4.5% 3.8% 4.1%
* Includes 2,593 million in-house customers. booking is fast, easy  
and in a way that best  
suits our customers.
of all bookings in 
the UK and Germany 
are made through 
travel agencies, 
where frequent retail 
training helps to 
constantly improve 
our customers’ 
booking experience.
Across our source markets, customers can book in a way that best suits them, 
as our Customer Relationship Management (“CRM”) platform empowers us  
with accurate and relevant information every time. 
BOOKING WITH THOMAS COOK
BOOKING IN UK AND GERMANY
60 to  80 
%
welcome
Booking Departure In-destination Returning home
 
Read more about how we are transforming booking on page 22
8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
9
CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (CRM)
of bookings are made online – before 
departure, customers can manage 
their booking details, learn more about 
their destination and book excursions 
and additional services through 
our customer mobile app and our 
“myaccount” website.
CRM enables us to react  
and respond to customers’ 
ideas and feedback at 
every stage of their journey.
76
%
BOOK 
HERE
BOOKING IN NORTHERN EUROPE 10
OVERVIEW
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
FRANK MEYSMAN  
CHAIRMAN
 »A customer-centric, 
dynamic organisation 
will be the backbone 
of our future success.«
Underlying EPS
FY15
8.9p
Profit after tax
Profit after tax of £19 million, an increase of £134 million 
(FY14: loss after tax £115 million)
£19m
SHAREHOLDER VALUE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 11
our own-brand hotels, supporting the improvement and further 
development of our differentiated hotel offering. Good progress is 
already being made on the establishment of the investment vehicle, 
recruitment of a fund management team and development of a solid 
pipeline of potential acquisition opportunities.
These strategic achievements have made us more resilient as 
a company and more able to absorb the impact of unusual or 
unexpected activity in the market. The potential “Grexit” – the 
possible exit of Greece from the Eurozone – is one example of such 
unusual activity, as endless political debates, together with currency 
fluctuations and a level of civil unrest, caused temporary uncertainty 
amongst many Continental European customers. The unexpected 
scale of the refugee crisis has also required close consideration 
and action. The all-too-often tragic scenes broadcast worldwide of 
families arriving on the beaches of some of the Greek islands and 
Turkey, and the sheer number of refugees entering Western European 
countries, have affected our customers’ choice of holiday destination 
and impacted trading, particularly in Germany. Though events such 
as these have a financial impact on the Company, we appreciate 
that there will always be external factors that influence the market 
and, therefore, our business. We are now in a position that we can 
manage and work to mitigate the impact of such events; whilst doing 
so, we have also ensured that we continue to listen to our customers. 
To support our customers who are looking to contribute to the 
relief effort providing aid to the refugees, our Group Airlines enabled 
customers travelling to some of the impacted destinations to carry 
an amount of additional luggage free of charge. 
The shocking terrorist attack in Tunisia created a very different 
challenge for us and the industry as a whole. I am extremely proud 
of the way we looked after our customers in the wake of this horrific 
event, demonstrating our core value of keeping our customers at our 
heart. We were able to react to the situation very quickly and we 
successfully repatriated 15,000 of our customers from Tunisia to their 
home countries within a matter of days. Our teams on the ground and 
across the airlines, together with those in our contact centres and 
retail stores, worked tirelessly to ensure that we took care of those 
of our customers who wanted to come home, and rebooked holidays 
for our customers who were still to travel. 
Dear Shareholder
The year behind us was one of real progress for Thomas Cook. 
Over the 12 months, we drove a number of very positive achievements 
in the execution of our strategy, including the successful transition 
of leadership of the Group to Peter Fankhauser, the launch of our 
new operating model, and the strengthening of both our business 
partnerships and our financial footing. However, at the same time 
the year was shaped by external events, which affected a number 
of important destinations for holidaymakers and the European travel 
industry as a whole. 
Taking into account these circumstances, I think it is fair to say that 
the results we are presenting to you represent a positive step on 
the transformation journey of our Company, but do not yet achieve 
the standards we set for ourselves or expect that we are capable 
of delivering. 
As part of our plan to make our capital structure more efficient, we 
signed a new £800 million financing facility in May, which provided 
a revolving credit facility, and a bonding and guarantee facility, 
maturing in May 2019. This replaced our £470 million facility, which 
would have expired in May 2017. The success of the actions taken 
over the last three years has led to improved financial performance 
across the Group, which in turn has meant that the opportunities to 
improve Thomas Cook’s liquidity and capital structure have increased. 
This was demonstrated by the strong support we received in January 
for a six-and-a-half-year, €400 million Eurobond to replace the 
2015 bond. 
In March, we announced our partnership with the Chinese investment 
group Fosun and their acquisition of 4.8% of the Company through 
a subscription to new equity. We welcomed Fosun not only as 
a new supportive shareholder, but more importantly as a key 
business partner. Since our announcement, we have established a 
joint venture in China to develop domestic, inbound and outbound 
tourism activities for the Chinese market under Thomas Cook brands. 
The joint venture will be based in the China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade 
Zone. We have also agreed with Fosun to establish a hotel investment 
vehicle to acquire hotel and resort properties in key destinations for 
Thomas Cook holidaymakers. This should enable us to better utilise  12
OVERVIEW
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT CONTINUED
The hard work of our Group Airlines’ teams has been recognised 
across the industry and we are proud to have received five awards in 
the last year, including “Most Popular Airline”, awarded to Condor by 
the German Institute for Service and Quality resulting from a German 
customer survey, and “Europe’s Leading Charter Airline Winner 2015”, 
awarded to our UK Airline by the World Travel Awards and voted for by 
UK charter airline customers. I would like to thank Christoph Debus, 
our Chief Airlines and Hotels Officer, and his team for their significant 
efforts and achievements this year. 
We are currently undertaking a programme of work to ensure that 
our entire organisation, whether in a customer-facing role or one of 
our corporate offices, operates with a focus on our customer; our 
decision making at all levels will always take account of the customer 
perspective. As part of this programme of work, we appointed former 
Sainsbury’s CEO Justin King to lead a review of all of our business 
practices relating to our customers. His findings form part of our 
strategy to further transform Thomas Cook into a truly customer-
focused and customer-centric business. Furthermore, to demonstrate 
our ongoing commitment to the health, safety and welfare of our 
customers when travelling on holiday, we have established a charity 
promoting safer tourism, the Safer Tourism Foundation. 
Our vision is to be the best-loved holiday company, delighting our 
customers, our people and our shareholders. To achieve our vision 
we need each and every one of our people to perform their role 
to the best of their ability, putting our customers at the heart of 
everything they do. We are realistic in our expectations that we 
cannot control external factors, and, given the number of customers 
who holiday with us every year, there will always be challenges to 
contend with. However, by putting our customers at our heart, we 
are acknowledging the duty of care we owe to each customer who 
has chosen to travel on holiday with us, and we are demonstrating 
the amount we value the trust placed in us, to provide our customers 
with the best weeks of their year. 
» We are currently 
undertaking a 
programme of work 
to ensure that our 
entire organisation...
operates with a focus 
on our customer« FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 13
One year ago I explained that with the appointment of Peter 
Fankhauser as our new Group CEO we would be entering the next 
phase of our transformation. Under Peter’s strong leadership, our 
focus is now to implement and execute our strategy for profitable 
growth. The Board members and I are extremely pleased with all that 
Peter has achieved this year and we look forward to working with 
him over the next year, as we continue on the transformation journey. 
The introduction of our New Operating Model (“NUMO”), together 
with a new three-year business plan, describe how we are going 
to transform Thomas Cook further, for the benefit of our customers, 
our people and our Shareholders. Peter has a highly experienced 
committed Management Team in place and is evolving horizontal 
leadership structures to ensure that across the Group the business 
delivers the same goals, tracking against the same KPIs. I would 
also like to thank Michael Healy and his team for their excellent 
work and the critical role they have played in enabling this year’s 
achievements. All of our people continue to work extremely hard and 
demonstrate their commitment to our Company on a daily basis, even 
when faced with setbacks and the frustration of our year-end results 
not reflecting the extent of their work. The Board members and I 
recognise this level of effort and we are extremely appreciative of it. 
We have a strong and diverse Board in place with a good mixture 
of different high-profile personalities, with the right motivation, 
experience and skills. Carl Symon stepped down at the end of this 
year and we thank him for his service to the Company and the 
valuable contributions he made to the Board as Senior Independent 
Director. We are in the process of recruiting a new Non-Executive 
Director to add to our high-calibre team of Directors, as they support 
the Company on its transformation journey, and help to handle and 
overcome any future challenges. More detail of the changes made to 
the Board over the last year are set out in my corporate governance 
statement on page 68. 
This year has shown that the Group is more resilient than ever 
before and that we have a clear strategy for the future, which the 
Management Team will continue to execute. We are committed to 
delivering against our targets and to exceeding the expectations 
of stakeholders. The implementation of our NUMO will allow us to 
improve the experiences of our customers even further, with a 
focus on the development of our own hotel and resorts product. 
A customer-centric, dynamic organisation will be the backbone 
of our future success and, as demonstrated by the results of our 
group-wide employee engagement survey “Every Voice”, will be 
delivered by an engaged workforce, who are proud to be a part 
of the Thomas Cook Group. 
I am particularly pleased that external as well as internal appreciation 
of Thomas Cook has increased. Indeed at the end of the fiscal year, an 
increased percentage of our customers have told us that they would 
recommend Thomas Cook as a holiday company to their family and 
friends. These internal and external views of our Company support 
our positive progress. The Board is confident that the Management 
Team, under Peter Fankhauser’s leadership, will complete this critical 
next stage of Thomas Cook’s strategy successfully, and generate 
profitable growth together with an increased loyal customer base. 
We believe that customer focus and long-term profitability go 
hand in hand and, in my fourth year as Chairman, I am extremely 
pleased that we are now entering our 175th year, and we do so 
as a profit-making company. 
FRANK MEYSMAN  
CHAIRMAN
24 November 2015  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
15
strategic 
report
TRANSFORMING FOR GROWTH
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Delivering improved financial results
Underlying EBIT
£310m
 
Delivering stronger margins
Underlying gross margin
22.6
%
Delivering a stronger balance sheet
Net debt
£139m
Delivering more cost-out and 
profit improvement benefits
Cumulative cost out
£510m
Delivering more operational cash flow
Cash conversion
75
%
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
PETER FANKHAUSER  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
 »Our transformation has 
entered its next stage as 
we develop Thomas Cook 
into an organisation  
that places customers  
at its heart.«   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
17 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Our mantra of placing the customer at our heart underpins every 
element of our business. As a holiday company, our aspiration is 
to provide the best possible holiday experience to our customers, 
exceeding their expectations, exciting them and being passionate 
about the most important weeks of their year. We are responsible for 
the well-being of 20 million people every year. This is a tremendous 
responsibility of which we are acutely aware.
Delivering world-class quality for our customers means we must 
maintain even tighter control over all parts of the customer journey. 
Hotels and flights are the pillars of every holiday and they are key 
to the customer experience. Therefore, we have invested more than 
£100 million to refurbish the cabins of our entire fleet of aircraft. 
State-of-the-art in-flight entertainment and a luxurious business 
class on long haul flights are already delighting our guests during 
their time on board. In addition, since FY13 we have added 21 brand 
new Airbus A321 aircraft to our fleet. For our customers, we know 
that their holiday experience begins when they board one of our 
aircraft. Having launched more than 200 own-brand hotels in just 
over two years, our priority is now to refine the customer experience, 
elevating it to the best possible quality, and driving up occupancy 
rates in these key properties.
Thomas Cook’s answer to the radical changes in the industry is our 
New Operating Model, a set of initiatives designed to improve the 
way we do business. It is all about making the best use of our assets 
and capacity, developing the holiday offering, enhancing the omni-
channel proposition and generating operating efficiencies. We will 
grow through improved quality, better products and services for 
customers, and more efficient structures operating with less costs, 
in an integrated and harmonised way.
Dear Shareholder
Let me begin with some personal remarks about the past year. It has 
been the first financial year in my new role as the CEO of Thomas 
Cook and it has been a year full of both challenges and opportunities. 
While the last few years were focused on securing the business, 
successfully finalising our turnaround and laying the foundation for 
our strategy, my focus now is to execute our strategy for profitable 
growth and fully implement the transformation process in our 
business. Now is the time that our strategy for profitable growth 
becomes reality. Our transformation has entered its next stage as 
we develop Thomas Cook into an organisation that places customers 
at its heart.
You are no doubt aware that we’ve faced some recent criticism, 
particularly in the UK, for events in which we should have provided 
a higher degree of care and support to our customers. Following the 
inquest into the tragic deaths of Bobby and Christi Shepherd whilst 
staying at a hotel booked through Thomas Cook in 2006, it became 
clear that the Company had failed to treat the children’s family 
as it should have done. In the last few months, I have worked to 
build a relationship with the family and am very grateful for their 
continued engagement, working with us to develop and implement 
new initiatives putting the customer at our heart. I gave my personal 
commitment that Thomas Cook will do the right thing in the future, 
which we began with an independent review of our customer service 
and welfare, conducted by former Sainsbury’s CEO Justin King. 
His review gave us some very helpful insights into the areas where 
we need to improve and I am committed to delivering world-class 
quality and service. 
Continuing on this journey, we have established the Safer Tourism 
Foundation, a charity which aims to improve the safety of holiday 
makers travelling abroad, with a particular focus on the dangers of 
carbon monoxide. Thomas Cook will underwrite the first £1 million 
to be raised for the Safer Tourism Foundation and we acknowledge 
the substantial donation of former CEO Harriet Green towards 
this amount.  18 STRATEGIC REPORT
The transformation of Thomas Cook will see the Company become a 
global travel group steered by horizontal functions with strong local 
market organisations that are close to the customer. We have already 
begun to establish three horizontal platforms across all markets that 
will provide the local businesses with the right product categories: 
differentiated, complementary and specialist holidays. 
The business will now focus more on our core, own-brand and 
partner hotels, which we refer to as differentiated holidays. 
We will concentrate on circa 2,500 hotels as our core product. We are 
working towards this at a Group level to ensure alignment within all 
local markets. Each local market will be able to put all its power into 
selling quality holidays at the right price to delight our customers.
In addition to this core differentiated product, we will build a totally 
flexible complementary offer of hotels, sourced automatically and 
distributed primarily via our IT systems. To compete with new 
technology-driven competitors, we need the breadth and variety 
of a wide range of products that are quality assured, but offered for 
the lowest possible total cost. 
In between these two platforms – differentiated and complementary 
– sits our specialist business for premium holidays and long haul. 
Long haul is one of our real success stories, with constant growth 
over recent years. Our airline has increased its long haul offering 
significantly and added new routes to the network.
We have made tremendous progress especially in the UK where 
our business performance has improved significantly, despite 
external events. Last winter at the beginning of our financial year, 
we re-launched our premium brand Signature, creating a single 
brand that offers the best product range across all product types 
and destinations. We’ve developed an offering that “goes the extra 
mile” through choice, flexibility, depth of product expertise and magic 
moments throughout the customer journey. This initiative is already 
paying off, with increased booking figures and higher margins.
The past year has also seen a significant strategic development 
for Thomas Cook on our journey to becoming a global travel group, 
through our new partnership with the Chinese investment group 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Fosun. A team of our employees has already moved to Shanghai, China 
to lead the launch of our joint venture developing domestic, inbound 
and outbound tourism activities for the Chinese market under 
Thomas Cook brands.
In closing, I would like to focus on our employees. I am extremely 
proud of our team and would like to thank each one of our employees 
for their continued hard work and commitment to our Company. 
This year we conducted our third full employee engagement survey 
across the Group and I am very happy to report that our overall Core 
Index score for employee engagement has increased by 4% from last 
year’s score (which also showed an increase of 4% on the previous 
year). Our Senior Management Team recognise the importance of 
employee engagement and we are each committed to continuing this 
positive trend. We will move forwards together, with the customer at 
our heart, and an awareness throughout the Group that each one of 
us must support and personally demonstrate this core value in all we 
do at Thomas Cook. 
Though we appreciate there is more to do, to deliver the value to 
our Shareholders that they are expecting of us and that we have 
the potential to achieve, the past year marks a significant positive 
milestone on our journey, as it is the first year since 2010 that we 
are able to report our results as a profit-making company after 
tax. In 2016, we celebrate the 175th anniversary of Thomas Cook’s 
first package trip, the birth of the modern travel business and 
our Company. We have a great heritage and with the customer 
at our heart, we will create a great future; a stronger Thomas 
Cook, that delights our customers, our employees and of course 
our Shareholders. 
PETER FANKHAUSER  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
24 November 2015
 »The past year has also 
seen a significant 
strategic development 
for Thomas Cook on our 
journey to becoming 
a global travel group.« FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
19 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
HOW VALUE IS CREATED
4
Customer value
Innovation
5 
Shareholder value
We create value by providing our customers with great 
holidays and a high level of personal service, built on 
strong customer relationships and underpinned by 
industry-leading consumer brands.
Third-party
In-house
Q:  How does Thomas Cook 
create value through its 
business model?
A:  We offer our customers an 
integrated, end-to-end travel 
experience, underpinned 
by the strength of the 
Thomas Cook brands
A:  We help make sense of the 
overwhelming choice of travel 
products available to customers
A:  We differentiate ourselves 
from competitors by offering 
high levels of service and 
support throughout the 
customer journey
A:  We offer quality and 
financial assurance
SERVICE AND ASSURANCE
SERVICE AND ASSURANCE
1
Supply of hotel beds  
and airline seats
2 
Production and marketing  
of travel packages, 
components and ancillaries
3
Omni-channel distribution
Brands, services and 
product/package portfolio
Third-party
In-house
Q:  What makes hotel partners 
and other suppliers want to 
work with Thomas Cook?
A: Our distribution strength
A:  Our industry expertise and 
market intelligence
A:  Our deep supplier relationships, 
dedicated service agents and 
field support
Q:  How does Thomas 
Cook sustain its 
competitive advantage?
A:  We develop new holiday concepts 
and services in response to 
customer needs, preferences 
and industry trends
A:  We invest in our core brands, 
and in our processes and 
technology infrastructure
A:  We are proud innovators 
in our industry
Q:  Why do customers buy from 
Thomas Cook and why do they 
continue to do so? Where does 
Thomas Cook’s competitive 
advantage come from?
A: Product range and choice
A: Value for money
A: Service and assurance
A: Brand strength 20 STRATEGIC REPORT
Investment in own-brand hotels for summer 2015 Investment in airlines with a customer focus
Sourcing good quality hotels and flights efficiently and economically 
is key to our business. This includes investing in hotel and flight 
capacity and utilising it well, balancing risk and non-risk capacity, 
and flexing allocations of this capacity within the Group to maximise 
profits. We source our hotels and flights both from our in-house 
operations and third-parties. Our in-house operations, through which 
we can better control product quality and typically make higher 
margins, are at the core of our holiday offering. Given our strong 
position in the market, we are able to leverage our Group buying 
power to take measured risks in inventory and balance these risks 
against customer demand. 
THOMAS COOK HOTELS & RESORTS
Our Hotels & Resorts unit is dedicated to sourcing and managing 
our own-brand hotel portfolio, through which we deliver consistent 
quality-controlled holiday experiences to our customers. It is 
responsible for approximately 200 own-brand hotels, located across 18 
destination countries, ensuring that they operate smoothly and to our 
brand standards, and overseeing investments and upgrades. As well 
as strategic planning and pioneering new hotel formats, the Hotels 
& Resorts unit is also responsible for the strong positioning of our 
existing in-house brands Sunwing, Sunprime, Sentido, Sunconnect, 
Smartline, and the recently launched Casa Cook, within the Group and 
among customers. The Group favours an asset-light approach to hotel 
management, with most own-brand hotels operated under franchise 
agreements. In order to further develop customer awareness of our 
own-hotel brands, our Hotels & Resorts unit intends selectively to sell 
capacity directly to customers, as well as through our tour operators.
THOMAS COOK AIRLINES
Our in-house airlines enable our tour operators to benefit from 
guaranteed capacity and seat rates, as well as operating profitable 
seat-only businesses on numerous routes in their own right. 
Our airlines operate under the Thomas Cook brand in the UK, Belgium 
and Scandinavia, and the Condor brand in Germany. By balancing 
their use of in-house flight capacity with flights provided by 
third-parties, our tour operators are able to flex their risk business 
according to demand, while at the same time taking advantage of 
flexible seat sourcing at competitive spot prices from third-party 
carriers. Our airlines provide just over half of the Group’s total flight 
volume, with the remainder being supplied by third-parties. We have 
significantly upgraded our fleet over recent years, purchasing a total 
of 25 brand new Airbus A321 aircraft (21 of which we have already 
taken delivery of, with the remaining four entering service in summer 
2016), and investing over £100 million to refurbish cabins in the rest 
of the fleet such that by spring next year 95% of our fleet will either 
be refurbished or new.
209 
Own-brand hotels
25 
New aircraft purchased
60 
New cabin interiors so far
1. No change 70
2. Major refurbishments  58
3. Minor refurbishments  55
4. Brand implementations  21
5. New builds  5
 1 2
 3
4
 5
1
SUPPLY OF HOTEL BEDS AND AIRLINE SEATS
OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
21 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
We offer a broad range of holiday experiences and travel products 
in order to meet the needs of a wide array of customer segments. 
Our product offering includes core differentiated and exclusive 
holidays to a closely managed portfolio of own-brand hotels and 
selected partner hotels chosen on the basis of quality and high 
standards of service, complemented by a broad range of other 
hotels and flights to offer customers range, choice and flexibility. 
Our flexible business model allows customers to select either fully 
packaged holidays, or individual travel components, in line with their 
preferences. Ancillary products such as travel insurance, airline 
seat selection and car hire, allow our customers to personalise their 
holiday, purchasing everything they need for their holiday from a 
single supplier. 
PACK AGE HOLIDAYS
Pre-packaged or classic package holidays combine two or more 
components of a holiday (typically a flight and a hotel at a minimum) 
and are sold as a single product to the end consumer. Usually these 
components are sourced from pre-allocated charter flight and 
hotel inventory (charter risk), giving the tour operator certainty 
over availability and pricing. The classic package remains popular 
and economical for core sun and beach holidays, and is one of the 
largest and most popular holiday segments in Western Europe. 
Package holidays offer our customers convenience and value, 
together with the care and support of our staff throughout the 
holiday experience.
In addition to classic packages, we also offer dynamic packages, 
which allow customers to tailor their holidays in line with their 
individual requirements – destination, duration, quality and price are 
all customisable. We source these holiday components from a range 
of third-party providers, package them with other services, and resell 
them to the end consumer directly or via a third-party travel agent 
Making ancillaries tangible
2 
PRODUCTION AND MARKETING OF TRAVEL PACK AGES, COMPONENTS AND ANCILLARIES
with a mark-up or commission. There has been a significant growth 
in the amount of dynamically packaged holidays sold in the last few 
years, and this will remain a key strategic focus.
COMPONENTS
The sale and marketing of components is an important part of our 
business, providing a flexible offering to our customers in order to 
meet their requirements. This also allows our Hotels & Resorts unit 
and airlines to better manage yields and occupancy, especially in the 
shoulder and low seasons.
ANCILLARIES
Regardless of the type of holiday experience or travel product our 
customers buy, ancillaries are key both to completing the customer 
proposition and allowing customers to take a “one-stop shop” 
approach to their travel buying, whilst providing us with a valuable 
source of incremental revenue and margin. We aim to offer a basic 
package that consists of only a hotel and flight (in some markets 
a hotel, transfer and flight), and allow customers to tailor-make 
their perfect holiday through the addition of modular ancillaries in 
order to meet all of their requirements. Ancillary products include 
travel or booking insurance, airline meals and seat selection, extra 
luggage, private transfers, room upgrades and excursions whilst 
in resort. We have also developed other, more innovative ancillaries, 
such as the ability for some of our Scandinavian customers flying 
with Thomas Cook Airlines to check in their luggage for their return 
journey at the hotel rather than at the airport, and the ability to 
pre-book specific hotel rooms in some of our differentiated hotels. 
Airshoppen is our catalogue-based pre-flight shopping business, 
which has been successfully developed in Scandinavia and is now 
being expanded into other markets.  22 STRATEGIC REPORT
OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED
We believe in being accessible to our customers – both physically and 
online. Our omni-channel approach means that our customers can 
now access our products and services either via any web-connected 
device, phone or in person at one of our stores. We also place 
significant importance on direct or controlled distribution, through 
which we distribute product directly to customers, enabling us to 
build direct relationships with them, as well as reducing our cost to 
serve. Recognising the value of the travel distribution trade, we also 
sell via third-party distributors in order to broaden our reach.
OMNI-CHANNEL APPROACH
Developing our websites to offer a better online experience is critical 
to our omni-channel philosophy. We have developed OneWeb, our 
international web platform, which has now fully replaced all legacy 
front-end systems for thomascook.com in the UK, and is in the 
process of being introduced into the Netherlands on thomascook.nl. 
OneWeb has led to a significant uplift in conversion in the UK across 
each device type, through a greatly improved user experience. 
Using a common codebase deployed across multiple markets, 
OneWeb will enable us to deliver new website functionality and 
innovations rapidly across the Group. In mobile, we have made 
significant progress creating responsive websites and mobile 
applications, and usage trends are very encouraging.
In stores, as well as developing new concept and next generation 
stores to test new features and technologies, we have also 
introduced new ways of working for our Travel Advisors to allow them 
to spend more time with our customers, focusing on performance 
briefs at the start of each shift and management observation and 
coaching. Tablets and Wi-Fi have also now been rolled out to many 
of our stores. 
3
OMNI-CHANNEL DISTRIBUTION
Our contact centres also sell directly to customers, as well as 
providing sales and customer support at any customer touchpoint 
on the customer journey. A holiday is one of the most cherished 
purchases of the year for our customers, and we recognise this 
importance by ensuring that our support is tailored to each 
individual caller and delivered through personal contact rather 
than an automated computer system. Our contact centre service is 
available out of hours and complements our web and retail offering. 
This supports the growth of our digital organisation and our omni-
channel strategy.
DIRECT DISTRIBUTION
Direct, or controlled, distribution is a key strategic advantage, 
allowing us to form direct relationships with our customers, as well 
as reducing distribution costs. Our model has some local adaptations 
within each of our markets in this respect. In the UK, Northern 
Europe and Belgium, we enjoy a high level of controlled distribution 
through our own websites, call centres and, in the case of the UK and 
Belgium, our stores. In Germany, however, the majority of our travel 
products and services are sold through third-party travel agents. 
Online is a key means to increase our controlled distribution, and 
we are placing considerable emphasis on further developing this 
channel across our markets. We are very aware that a large portion 
of our market continues to value the face-to-face service offered 
by our Travel Advisers – for these market segments our focus is on 
continuously improving the in-store experience whilst introducing 
new technology to support the sales process.
UK and Ireland
Continental
Europe
Northern 
Europe
16% 13%
15% 76%
49% 33%
Controlled distribution
Our Web Our Retail FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
23 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
CUSTOMER SERVICE AND EXPERIENCE
We aim to create value by putting customers at the heart of our 
business. Our customer service is present at many different 
touchpoints during the holiday experience, including in-store, online, 
at the airport, on our aircraft and in-destination, and we aim to 
provide high-quality seamless advice and support from the time of 
booking, through to the holiday itself, and upon the return home. 
Recognising the importance of customer service and trust to our 
overall proposition, we have introduced four promises to underpin our 
customer relationships. These promises focus on our reliability and 
trust, the quality of our holidays, the transparency of the information 
we provide, and our customer service. They include our innovative 
24-hour hotel satisfaction guarantee, which offers customers at many 
of our hotels means of redress if we cannot resolve an issue or problem 
within 24 hours*. Our four customer promises are shown below.
Unlike online and offline travel agents and many other tour operators, 
we operate a significant in-destination services organisation, which 
employs around 2,500 efficient and customer-oriented staff in the 
summer. Their role includes providing customer service and support 
to customers at their hotel, managing quality, and providing leisure 
and entertainment services for guests. We believe this is a key 
differentiator for Thomas Cook. 
Customer promises
4
CUSTOMER VALUE
Our experience, flexibility across platforms, destinations and deep 
sector expertise helps ensure that the level of service our customers 
receive – via the internet or face-to-face, at home or in-resort – is 
truly differentiated from the competition. 
QUALITY AND ASSURANCE
We have developed a high level of trust with our customers. 
Our product inventory is quality assured, taking into account 
customer and third-party reviews. For our high-volume destinations, 
we have engaged SGS, a specialist third-party auditor, to carry out 
professional checks to ensure that a high standard is maintained. 
An active health and safety assurance process is also in place across 
our entire product range. 
BRAND STRENGTH
Thomas Cook is one of the leading leisure travel brands in the 
industry, given our 174-year heritage. 
The Thomas Cook master brand is supported by a number of 
very strong local brands across our source markets, including 
Neckermann, JetTours, Ving, Spies, and Tjäreborg which are integrated 
with the Thomas Cook Group through the Sunny Heart logo. 
We recognise that trust and consistency are two of the most 
important drivers of conversion across our source markets and so we 
strive to ensure that these values are deeply embedded in our brands. 
This table shows 
our four customer 
promises that will be 
used in our UK tour 
operator business. 
These promises 
will be tailored for 
use in each of our 
source markets.
* Terms and conditions apply.  24 STRATEGIC REPORT
OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED
5 
SHAREHOLDER VALUE
SUSTAINABLE AND PROFITABLE GROWTH
We believe that our strong business model, combined with our 
strategy to further develop and strengthen our business through 
our New Operating Model (see page 29), will enable us to deliver 
sustainable and profitable growth in the future. In particular, our 
twin focus of: improving our customer proposition by creating and 
marketing more differentiated products underpinned by an improved 
customer service; and generating increased operating efficiencies 
by changing the way we work, will lead to continuing improvements 
in our financial position. 
CASH GENERATION AND STRENGTHENING OF 
BALANCE SHEET
Following the successful recapitalisation of the business in FY13, 
a key element of our corporate strategy has been and remains 
cash flow generation and the retention of a greater proportion of 
our earnings for reinvestment in the business, debt reduction or 
distribution to Shareholders. We have made significant progress in 
this area, with the Group consistently achieving significantly higher 
levels of cash conversion than in FY12 (see page 50). 
In January 2015, we strengthened the balance sheet with a 
€400 million bond due in 2021, refinancing the €400 million bond 
which matured in June 2015. In March 2015, we raised a further 
£92 million through an issue of new equity to Fosun, in order to 
underpin our strategic partnership. In May 2015, we refinanced our 
bank facilities, increasing the total facilities amount to £800 million 
and extending the maturity to May 2019. 
HOW WE DISTRIBUTE THOSE RETURNS
As we embark on the second phase of our transformation, our focus 
remains on ensuring a sustainable, profitable outlook for the Group, 
our employees and many stakeholders.
In particular, our strategy of profitable growth and cash generation 
positions the business to deliver value to Shareholders in three 
main areas:
 > share price appreciation;
 > debt reduction; and
 > dividend payments.
In view of the progress we have made and the projected benefits 
we believe are deliverable as part of our profitable growth strategy, 
we expect to pay a dividend from FY16 profits in early FY17.
Our policy will be to target a payout ratio of between 20% and 30% 
of net profit each year. We believe this represents an appropriate 
balance between debt reduction and providing a return to 
shareholders. A final dividend will be declared with the full year 
results announcement each year, starting with the announcement 
of our FY16 results, in a year’s time. In view of the seasonality of the 
Group’s profit profile, it is not our intention to pay interim dividends 
for the foreseeable future. The Board will review the policy annually 
as we reduce debt, to determine the scope to increase the payout 
ratio in the future.
Alongside making dividend payments, the reduction of fixed-term 
debt remains a priority for the Group, and we intend to continue 
to move towards a more efficient capital structure, with reduced 
interest costs. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
25 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
MARKET OVERVIEW
WHERE OUR MARKET IS TODAY
The Travel & Tourism industry is again expected to outperform the wider 
economy in 2015, and register positive growth for the sixth successive 
year. Global growth is expected to be 2.8% in 2015, while direct travel 
& tourism GDP growth is forecast at 3.7%. This represents a continuation 
of the pattern seen over recent years, where the strengthening of 
the world economy following the financial crisis of 2008/09 has been 
accompanied by accelerated growth in travel and tourism. The UNWTO is 
forecasting average growth rate of 3.8% per year in international tourism 
arrivals between 2010 and 2020.
ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
The global economy is expected to achieve moderate growth of 2.8% 
in 2015 overall, with the recovery in high-income countries, including 
those in which our source markets are based, expected to gather 
momentum. Growth in developing markets is expected to slow, as 
a result of tighter financial conditions and lower commodity prices.
Within our source markets, the UK is showing the strongest economic 
growth, with GDP expected to rise by 2.6% in 2015. Lower oil prices, 
robust job creation and rising wages continue to bolster consumer 
spending, which coupled with the strong Pound is leading to 
increased demand for international travel. Growth in the Eurozone 
is weaker than the UK, at an estimated 1.5% for 2015, although it is 
accelerating from recent levels, supported by a weakening Euro, 
declining oil prices, record low interest rates and an improvement in 
bank credit supply conditions. In China, while structural adjustments 
and policy efforts to address financial vulnerabilities continue, growth 
is expected to decline modestly to 7.1% in 2015. 
Our markets have also been affected by geopolitical events, with 
the terrorist attack in Tunisia in June affecting that destination 
in particular, the threat of a Greek exit from the Euro impacting 
demand to Greece for a period in July, and more recently events 
in Egypt leading to the near-cessation of travel to Sharm-el-Sheikh. 
Nevertheless, Europe’s tourism market has seen an overall rise 
in international tourist arrivals of 4% for the year-to-date, as at 
June 2015.
International tourist arrivals (m)
1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 1995 1997 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2014 2015
+3.8%
+6.5%
+4.2%
+3.0%
+3.7%
+7.3% +0.0%
+2.9%
–1.7%
+10.1%
5.8%
+5.7%
+6.5%
+1.9%
–4.0%
+6.5%
+5.1%
+4.1%
+4.7%
+4.2%
+4
%
in first 8 months of 2015
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200 26 STRATEGIC REPORT
MARKET OVERVIEW CONTINUED
REGULATORY AND POLITICAL ENVIRONMENT
Consumer protection is a constant and increasing area of focus 
at the EU level. Within the framework of regulations and standards 
in each of our source markets, we offer our package customers 
the assurance of financial protection including the reimbursement 
of travel costs in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of a tour 
operator. The European Package Travel Directive (“PTD”) places various 
disclosure and liability obligations upon us as marketers of travel 
packages. The reconsideration of this directive started at the EU 
level in July 2013 and concluded in Autumn 2015. The proposed revision 
is intended to enhance consumer protection rights and to create 
a more level playing field among travel businesses. The changes 
created by the reforms will take effect in 2017/18. The UK Government 
has announced that it will, once the PTD is finalised, reconsider the 
industry’s ATOL consumer protection regime. 
The airline industry is heavily regulated principally for safety reasons. 
It also faces increasing levels of taxation and the enhanced protection 
of consumer rights. European airlines, including our own, are subject 
to air passenger rights legislation whereby airlines may be required to 
pay compensation to passengers whose flights are delayed by more 
than three hours. This legislation is also in the process of revision 
within the EU, but progress has been interrupted by a sovereignty 
dispute between Spain and the UK regarding the applicability of 
this legislation to Gibraltar. During this period, the original EU law 
(Regulation 261) has continued to be modified by the courts in various 
EU countries such that its original scope and application has been 
much increased. 
In this respect, two examples are of note. One is where the courts in 
the UK have established that claims for compensation are permissible 
in instances of technical fault, even though the original drafting of the 
EU legislation recognised that technical faults were an area for which 
compensation would normally not be payable. The Court of Justice of 
the European Union have confirmed this principle, which means that 
compensation will now generally be payable for all delays caused 
by technical faults to aircraft, irrespective of the cause throughout 
Europe. In another UK case it was established that compensation 
claims for delayed flights are valid even if the flight took place up 
to six years ago, and again, this finding is inconsistent with the 
application elsewhere in the EU. 
Since its introduction, this legislation has impacted the airline 
industry significantly. We continue to engage in lobbying governments 
in the interests both of our industry and our customers, and to 
remind them of the importance of travel and tourism as a source 
of employment and driver of growth.
Our holiday programmes are also influenced by national and political 
events, and the responses of governments to them. We follow such 
governmental travel advice closely and are generally able to change 
our flying programme and hotel capacity to alternative destinations 
at short notice in order to continue to meet our customers’ 
expectations. Most notably, the tragic events in Tunisia in June 2015 
have led to the UK Government warning against non-essential travel 
to that country, resulting in the withdrawal of our programme from 
the UK.
KEY INDUSTRY TRENDS
A number of mega-trends continue to influence and steer the leisure 
travel market.
HOTELS AND RESORTS 
In order to protect their business model, all major tour operators 
(selling package holidays) have developed their product offering to 
include a more well defined hotel portfolio. This hotel offering includes 
exclusive hotels that are only sold by a single tour operator, and 
differentiated hotels that have been specifically designed to appeal to 
a target market. Tour operators have been developing their own-brand 
hotels to follow, and benefit from the momentum behind, this trend.
Thomas Cook identified this trend early on and we have worked to 
develop our own hotel brands, since first creating the SunWing brand 
more than 40 years ago. Today the Thomas Cook Group offers more 
than 200 hotels across our five hotels brands (SENTIDO, SmartLine, 
SunConnect, SunPrime and SunWing) with a total of 41,000 rooms 
available each day. Our new brand, Casa Cook, is due to open in 
summer 2016. Our own hotel brands and assets form a core part of 
our strategy and operating model, and by maximising utilisation we 
will be able to grow our portfolio profitably. Through the creation of 
our hotel investment fund and with the support of our investors, 
we will strengthen our hotel portfolio and be in control of our assets, 
which will in turn allow us to more easily manage the quality of 
our products and maximise returns.
THE EVER-GROWING COMPLEXITY OF 
DIGITAL CHANNELS
For Thomas Cook, the trends we see in digital offer many exciting 
opportunities, some of which we are actively responding to already 
and others which are still in development. As has been the case for 
a number of years, the growth of mobility continues to be an exciting 
and critical trend in the travel industry which can be seen in a 
number of customer behaviours. Customers are using mobile devices 
(smartphones, tablets, etc.) to not only research and share travel 
ideas, but also to make bookings. Thomas Cook does not only look 
at mobile, but at the wider concept of mobility. We continue to invest 
in our Group platform to optimise our booking experience across 
all devices and also in our Companion App to broaden the services 
we offer customers post-booking and whilst they are on holiday. 
This trend will continue to grow as customers become increasingly 
confident with such devices, bandwidth continues to expand 
(allowing richer content) and usability insight grows. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
27 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Within these market developments, Thomas Cook, which operates 
its own Group Airlines but also purchases approximately 50% of its 
air capacity from third-parties, is able to sustain its strong market 
position. The close coordination with our own tour operator ensures 
strong load factors on our flights where 46% of the airlines’ revenue 
is generated by our own tour operator. In parallel, we expand into 
third-party sales channels, driven by substantial growth of seat-only 
sales through higher web share ratios and better conversion rates 
on our new and improved websites in many of our markets. We offer 
our customers a competitive product, driven by a comprehensive 
fleet renewal. Nearly 90% of our fleet are either new or have been 
completely refurbished over the past two years. Our airlines are now 
managed to optimise our competitive cost position by bundling our 
volumes in joint contract negotiations. An integrated perspective on 
our sales enabled us to introduce new flights to popular destinations 
for our customers. Our airlines achieved a competitive on-time 
performance of 82.2% during 2014-15.
At the tour operator interface, Thomas Cook’s strong market 
position enables us to differentiate our services further. 
Our dynamic packaging engine allows customers to customise 
individual components of their travel, backed by our quality 
assurance guarantee.
A related trend, which is extremely relevant to Thomas Cook, 
is the desire by customers to move between channels as they 
consider and make their travel decisions. As an omni-channel 
retailer, we are very close to all the challenges and opportunities 
this brings. Critical to success is the ability to allow customers to 
begin, continue and complete their engagement with Thomas Cook 
through whatever channel they choose – whether this is digital or 
face-to-face. Thomas Cook has embraced this trend with digital teams 
working hand-in-hand with colleagues in retail teams to enhance 
our customer experience. We have a number of digital initiatives in 
place and in development to make the transitions between channels 
as simple as possible for our customer (for example, MyAccount 
and DreamCapture). Additionally, we work hard to create enhanced 
in-store experiences for customers through digital innovations such 
as the Thomas Cook Virtual Holiday experience which we have now 
extended to our brochures.
Whilst there are many other trends (including social media, wearables, 
ancillaries, rich content), too many to cover fully here, it is exciting 
that despite numerous technological advances, our customers 
continue to embrace our relationship in new ways as we enter 
our 175th year of business. 
LOW-COST AIR TRAVEL
Low-cost airlines are continuing to grow dramatically across 
Europe. Fleet sizes of the leading low-cost carriers are expected 
to grow significantly over the coming years. These airlines are also 
moving up the value chain and becoming integrated tour operators, 
thereby increasing their offering to consumers substantially. In 2015, 
excess air travel capacity led to further increasing pressure on the 
industry as a whole. Combined with the growing threat of online 
disruptors, consumer power to drive competitive prices remains 
at an all-time high.
% OF TRAFFIC BY DEVICE, 2014-2015
Desktop
Tablet
Mobile
52
%
23
%
25
% 28 STRATEGIC REPORT
OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
OUR FOUR KEY STRATEGIC PILLARS
1 
OWN-BRAND HOTELS AND FLIGHTS 
Maximise value from our own-brand hotels and aircraft
2 
OUR HOLIDAY OFFERING
Focus on differentiated holidays, complemented by a broad range of flexible hotels and flights
3
OMNI-CHANNEL AND CUSTOMER 
Enhance our omni-channel proposition and web efficiency
4
EFFICIENCIES
Simplify operations and remove duplication
Our strategy is to grow profitably, by providing our customers 
with a broad range of high-quality differentiated and flexible 
holiday experiences, supported by world-class customer 
service. Recognising that the hotel and flight is key to any 
holiday experience, we are putting our own portfolio of 
own-brand hotels and flights at the centre of our customer 
proposition, complemented by a wide range of third-party 
products. In order to realise our strategy, we have outlined four 
main strategic objectives as seen below. We believe that these 
strategic pillars will enable us to generate resilient revenue 
growth, improve profitability, increase cash flows and deliver 
further shareholder value.
CUSTOMER AT OUR HEART
We firmly believe that providing consistently excellent 
customer experiences is the key to the long-term growth and 
success of our business. With more satisfied customers, we 
can increase customer retention rates and loyalty, driving top 
line growth through an increased customer lifetime value, 
and margin growth through lower customer acquisition costs. 
We have therefore launched a major programme to ensure we 
put the customer back at the heart of our business. 
This programme includes key initiatives such as reviewing 
and improving customer service levels across the Group, 
introducing a customer charter and satisfaction guarantee, 
further empowering front line staff to delight our customers, 
and embedding Net Promoter Score (NPS) improvement targets 
into our reward framework. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
29 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
1 
OWN-BRAND HOTELS AND FLIGHTS
See more on page 30
2 
OUR HOLIDAY OFFERING
See more on page 31
3 
OMNI-CHANNEL AND CUSTOMER
See more on page 32
4 
EFFICIENCIES
See more on page 33
Hotels & Resorts unit
Grow own-brand hotel occupancy  
and improve yield
Optimise mix (package vs seat only) 
and yielding
Grow sales to fewer, higher margin, 
quality hotels
Develop low-cost model
Improve omni-channel  
effectiveness and efficiency
Increase ancillary sales  
through improved CRM
In-house airline
Differentiated holidays
Complementary products
Online and retail
“One Tour Operator”
Cost-out continuation
CRM and ancillaries
NEW OPERATING MODEL TO DRIVE 
TRANSFORMATION
Our New Operating Model (“NUMO”) is a programme of key 
initiatives that will enable us to implement our strategy 
in a clear and structured way over the next three years. 
Through NUMO, we can create a future to be proud of with our 
customers truly at the heart of our business.
STRATEGIC PILLARS KEY NUMO INITIATIVES BENEFITS
Align and integrate  
tour operator processes
Generate further efficiencies  
through cost-out
These initiatives aim to generate significant, sustainable, long-term 
profit growth, including revenue growth through a better quality 
proposition that attracts more customers at higher price points, and 
margin improvements through better yielding and cost efficiencies.
We believe the New Operating Model will enable Thomas Cook to 
achieve the following, between FY15 and FY18:
 > Revenue growth at least in line with the European leisure travel 
market, which is estimated to grow, on average, at between 2% 
and 3% per year
 > Annual EBIT benefits of between £100 million and £120 million 
by FY18, with one-off implementation costs totalling approximately 
£100 million, of which £25 million was incurred in FY15
 > Cash conversion in excess of 70% per year, based on a revised 
definition of cash conversion, being the percentage of underlying 
profit before tax that is converted into free cash flow
 > Fixed-term debt reduction of at least £300 million over the next 
three years
We expect these benefits to be generated by business improvement 
initiatives which focus on the areas below are embedded in our 
strategy as described on the following pages. Further details were 
provided at our analyst presentation on 25 November 2015, a copy 
of which is available at www.thomascookgroup.com 30 STRATEGIC REPORT
OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES CONTINUED
1
OWN-BRAND HOTELS AND FLIGHTS
WHAT NEXT?
Having launched approximately 200 own-brand hotels in just over 
two years, our priority is now to refine the customer experience and 
drive occupancy rates in these key properties. Our Hotel & Resorts 
division will manage this initiative as we expand this area of the 
business, assuming responsibility for further key hotel relationships 
and development projects across the Group.
Our airlines will take delivery of a further four brand new Airbus A321 
aircraft next summer, completing our single aisle fleet replacement 
programme. At the same time we will continue to look for 
opportunities to further profitably grow our seat-only business, refine 
the customer experience and generate further benefits from the 
recent integration of our four airlines into a single airline platform.
OUR AIM
As a customer-centric business, we aim to provide an industry-
leading consumer experience with our own-brand hotels and flights 
firmly placed at the forefront. We are developing our Hotels & Resorts 
division into a hotel management company that controls and develops 
our core hotel offering and managing our Group Airlines business to 
ensure that our aircraft offer the very latest in customer comfort and 
reliability, while delivering maximum occupancy for both.
OUR PROGRESS IN 2015
Through our Hotels & Resorts division we added 72 own-brand hotels 
in FY15, taking the total to 209 for the summer 15 season. We worked 
with the owners of these hotels over the winter to completely 
refurbish or rebuild around a quarter of them, implementing quality 
measures across the portfolio which are consistently monitored 
and managed. As a result, bookings of our own-brand hotel brands 
(Sunwing, Sunprime, Sentido, SunConnect and Smartline) rose 
by 41% last year. This reflects growing customer demand for our 
differentiated holiday products and we continue to drive occupancy 
growth among these hotels.
Since FY13 we have taken delivery of 21 brand new Airbus A321 aircraft 
and fully refurbished cabins in 60 existing aircraft as part of a 
£100 million investment programme. We have now either replaced or 
fully refurbished around 90% of our fleet, resulting in a significantly 
upgraded flying experience, increased customer satisfaction and 
greater operational efficiency. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
31 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
2
OUR HOLIDAY OFFERING
We also launched Thomas Cook Signature as our brand for premium, 
tailor-made holidays – resulting in an uplift in UK premium holiday 
bookings of 10% year-on-year. We continued to promote our 
complementary products, including the launch of Thomas Cook City 
Escapes in the UK which offers competitive pricing on our widest 
choice of city destinations covering 31,000 hotels in over 2,000 
destinations around the world.
WHAT NEXT?
We are building common platforms for each of our product categories, 
which will enable us to benefit from more efficient sourcing of 
holiday product and optimise our yield management processes 
across the Group. Our wide range of complementary product will be 
sourced from a low-cost, digital production hub. We plan to migrate 
approximately 10,000 low-volume hotels that are traditionally sourced 
onto this platform.
OUR AIM
Our product strategy is to focus the customer proposition on 
differentiated holidays, which offer a better quality customer 
experience. Our differentiated holiday product consists of a 
portfolio of own-brand and quality-controlled hotels, and includes 
specialist holidays that focus on more niche and tailored product. 
These products drive higher average selling prices, margin and, 
ultimately, higher customer loyalty and retention. This holiday offering 
is supplemented by a wide range of complementary products that 
give customers greater flexibility and choice when choosing their 
next destination. 
OUR PROGRESS IN 2015
We have identified a core portfolio of approximately 2,500 hotels 
which form the basis of our differentiated holidays. Factors that 
distinguish these hotels include a higher level of in-resort service and 
our innovative 24-hour customer guarantee, whereby we will rectify 
a customer issue within 24 hours of being notified, and promise to 
compensate the customer if we fail to do so. In specialist holidays, 
we grew our presence in the long haul market significantly, with 
double-digit capacity and like-for-like revenue growth.  32 STRATEGIC REPORT
OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES CONTINUED
3
OMNI-CHANNEL AND CUSTOMER
WHAT NEXT?
We are continuing to optimise our websites, and in particular to 
develop features that enable us to offer increasingly personalised 
services to customers via our online platforms. We are also in the 
process of rolling out OneWeb to the Netherlands and intend over 
time to introduce it to our other Continental European markets. 
We plan to review our call centre procedures and technologies, with 
the aim of bringing them onto a single platform based on improved, 
harmonised business processes. We will also aim to grow our share 
of controlled distribution, particularly in Germany, in order to develop 
closer and more direct customer relationships. We also intend to 
sharpen our focus on ancillary sales to complement the holiday 
experience, in particular through improved CRM services.
OUR AIM
As a full service tour operator, we have close personal contact 
with many of our customers throughout their holiday experience. 
Our objective is to further develop these customer relationships to 
make customer interactions with us as seamless as possible through 
better technology, an omni-channel proposition and to improve 
customer service, relations and loyalty.
OUR PROGRESS IN 2015
Our online customer experience has seen significant improvements 
over the year, as a result of the investment we have made to develop 
our international web platform OneWeb, with conversion uplifts of 
10% for desktop, 16% for tablet and 67% for mobile devices. Our focus 
on mobile has been enabled by our dedicated Mobile Development 
Team based in Stockholm. Amongst other things, the team launched 
a successful digital companion app into the Scandinavian and UK 
markets, following on from the success of our TravelGuide app in 
Germany over the last three years. These apps allow customers to 
search for holidays, manage their bookings, make balance payments, 
help to know their destinations better and book excursions and 
ancillaries. In the UK, the new web journey has been fully integrated 
into our retail stores, enabling us to recognise and serve customers 
seamlessly across all channels. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
33 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
4
EFFICIENCIES
WHAT NEXT?
Having made the required organisational changes, we will continue to 
embed our One Tour Operator initiative, harmonising IT platforms and 
business processes, and removing as much duplication as possible 
between our source markets. At the same time we will continue to 
pursue every opportunity to minimise cost and complexity throughout 
our business.
OUR AIM
Continuing to build a more efficient and effective business is 
key to Thomas Cook’s ongoing transformation and development. 
Although we have made excellent progress in reducing costs to 
date, we believe there remains opportunity for significant further 
efficiencies, while still improving customer satisfaction and welfare. 
This will be achieved by reducing duplication between markets, 
and by better integrating processes and functions.
OUR PROGRESS IN 2015
Our Cost-out and Profit Improvement programme continued to deliver 
significant benefits in 2015, achieving £110 million of further cost 
savings, in addition to the £400 million of cumulative savings achieved 
in the previous three years. These savings were generated from a 
variety of measures which created efficiencies across the Group, 
but particularly in the UK and in our airline, where our initiatives to 
transition what previously was four airlines to “one airline system” 
has generated significant benefits.
Mirroring the initiative with our airlines, and as part of our New 
Operating Model, we are pursuing a “One Tour Operator” initiative that 
seeks to integrate our tour operations across the Group, consolidating 
our processes, simplifying our structure and making us more 
efficient and effective. On 1 October 2015, we implemented a new 
organisational structure to support this, creating horizontal functions 
to steer the business, with strong local market organisations that are 
close to the customer.
 »we will continue to 
embed our One Tour 
Operator initiative, 
harmonising IT platforms 
and business processes«   34
 
Read more about how we are transforming our fleet on page 30
 holidays  
really do begin  
on board.
17 million
Customers can buy 
boutique products 
on our website, we 
deliver their order 
direct to their seats.
Altogether our Group airlines carry 17 million passengers 
every year. Across our fleet of 91 aircraft, customers can fly 
with us to over 100 destinations worldwide. We’ve recently 
upgraded and refurbished our fleet and purchased 25 new 
aircraft. Our new Premium Cabins guarantee more legroom, 
signature in-flight meals along with complimentary drinks 
and state-of-the-art, on-demand entertainment systems. 
Our Economy Cabins have brand new, ergonomically designed 
seats, ensuring comfort is our priority for all customers. 
DEPARTURE WITH THOMAS COOK
PASSENGERS PER YEAR AIRSHOPPEN
Booking Departure In-destination Returning home FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
35
new
a fleet of
91 aircraft
25
DESTINATIONS AIRCRAFTS
NEW PREMIUM CABINS
worldwide 
destinations
More legroom,  
signature in-flight meals,  
complimentary drinks, 
entertainment systems.
100 36 STRATEGIC REPORT
FINANCIAL REVIEW
STRONGER, LEANER AND 
POISED FOR GROWTH
MICHAEL HEALY  
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
 »We are financially 
stronger, reporting 
a bottom line profit with 
a strengthened balance 
sheet from our successful 
financing activities.« FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
37 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
£m (unless otherwise stated) 
Year ended  
30 September 
2015
Year ended  
30 September
2014
Change  
£m
Like-for-like change
(ii)
£m
Revenue 7,834 8,588 (754) 86
Gross profit 1,774 1,916 (142) 20
Gross Margin (%) 22.6% 22.3% 0.3% 0.0%
Operating expenses (1,464) (1,593) 129 10
Underlying(i) profit from operations (Underlying EBIT) 310 323 (13) 30
EBIT Separately Disclosed Items (99) (271) 172 172
Profit/from operations (EBIT) 211 52 159 202
Associated Undertakings 8 26 6
Net finance charges (underlying) (141) (143) 2 2
Separately disclosed finance charges (28) (25) (3) (3)
Profit/(loss) before tax 50 (114) 164 207
Tax (31) (1) (30) (30)
Profit/(loss) after tax 19 (115) 134 177
Basic EPS 1.6p (8.2)p 9.8p
Underlying EPS 8.9p 11.3p (2.4)p
Free cash flow
(iii)
161 116 45
Net debt (139) (326) 187 156
(iv)
Notes: 
(i)   ‘Underlying’ refers to trading results that are adjusted for separately disclosed items that are significant in understanding the ongoing results of the Group. Separately disclosed items are detailed in Note 7.
(ii)  ‘Like-for-like’ change adjusts for the impact of disposals, foreign exchange translation, fuel and other. The detailed like-for-like adjustments are shown on page 38.
(iii) Free cash flow is cash from operating activities less capital expenditure and interest paid.
(iv) ‘Like-for-like’ net debt adjusts the prior year comparative for foreign exchange translation, the impact of changing finance lease arrangements, new equity investment and disposal proceeds.
FINANCIAL RESULTS AND PERFORMANCE REVIEW GROUP 38 STRATEGIC REPORT
LIKE-FOR-LIKE ANALYSIS
Certain items, such as the normal translational effect of foreign 
exchange movements, affect the comparability of the underlying 
performance between financial years. Accordingly, to assist in 
understanding the impact of those factors, and to better present 
year-on-year trading progression, ‘Like-for-like’ comparisons with 
FY14 are presented in addition to the change in reported numbers. 
The ‘Like-for-like’ adjustments to the Group’s FY14 results and the 
resulting year-on-year movements are as follows:
Revenue
£m
Gross 
margin
%
Operating 
expenses
£m
EBIT
£m
FY14 Reported (Continuing) 8,588 22.3% (1,593) 323
Impact of Currency Movements (641) 0.1% 97 (38)
Disposals/store closures (98) (0.1)% 22 (5)
Reduced fuel cost (101) 0.3% – –
Year Ended September 2014 
‘Like-for-like’ 7,748 22.6% (1,474) 280
 
Year Ended September 2015 Reported 7,834 22.6% (1,464) 310
Like-for-like Change (£’m) 86 n/a 10 30
Like-for-like Change (%) 1.1% FLAT 0.6% 10.7%
OVERVIEW
The comments below are based on like-for-like comparisons unless 
otherwise stated, as Management believes this provides a clearer 
view of ongoing business performance.
Our FY15 financial performance delivered continued growth in like-
for-like underlying Group EBIT which, combined with a significant 
reduction in Separately Disclosed Items, led to a reported profit after 
tax of £19 million, a like-for-like improvement of £177 million compared 
to the prior year. This is the first time in five years that the Group has 
reported a bottom-line profit. 
Group revenue grew by £86 million (1%) on a like-for-like basis, whilst 
underlying EBIT increased by £30 million on a like-for-like basis to 
£310 million. We achieved higher profitability through an improved 
product mix and efficiencies and through delivery of our Cost Out 
and Profit Improvement programme.
Free cash flow for the year was £161 million (FY14: £116 million), which 
benefited from an improved working capital position. In addition, 
we issued 73.1 million new shares to Fosun, representing 4.8% of 
the enlarged issued ordinary share capital of the Company, for 
£91.8 million as part of a strategic partnership announced in March 
2015). This resulted in net cash inflow for the year of £247 million 
(FY14: £107 million). 
As a consequence of the Group’s improved cash flow, and after 
reflecting non-cash changes such as foreign currency translation, 
Group net debt reduced to £139 million at September 2015 from 
£326 million at the end of FY14.
During FY15 we continued to strengthen the Group’s financial position 
through further improvements to our capital structure and by 
increasing access to liquidity. See page 49 for further details. 
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
39 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GROSS MARGIN 
On a like-for-like basis, FY15 gross margin is in line with last year, 
maintaining a cumulative improvement of 160 basis points since FY12.
An improved product mix and higher margin ancillary products 
contributed a gross margin improvement of 70 basis points. 
Gross margin also continued to benefit from our Cost Out and 
Profit Improvement initiatives, which contributed a 60 basis 
point improvement, mainly due to efficiencies within our airlines. 
These improvements were offset by hotel bed cost inflation which 
lowered gross margin by 100 basis points, and increases in non-fuel 
flying costs which impacted gross margin by 30 basis points.
These components of the like-for-like movement in gross margin are 
outlined below:
Gross margin £m
(1.0)%
0.7%
(0.3)%
0.6%
22.6% 22.6%
FY14 like-for-like
gross margin 
Non-fuel
flying costs
Profit
improvement
FY15 gross
margin
Product/
yield mix 
Bed cost
inflation
REVENUE 
Group revenue increased by £86 million (1%) on a like-for-like basis. 
This reflects a £263 million increase in sales of holidays to own-
brand hotels and other new products, partially offset by the effect 
of disruption in Tunisia of £130 million and a net reduction in other 
revenue of £47 million. The strong growth in own-brand products 
reflects the continued focus on differentiated holidays which 
yield higher margins, improved customer retention and better 
ancillary sales. 
The main components of the like-for-like revenue movement are:
Revenue £m
7,834
7,748
(130)
263
(47)
FY14 like-for-like
revenue 
Own brand hotels
and other new products
Other FY15
revenue
Tunisia
Revenue by segment £m 
         
£2,457 m £3,449m
£1,057m £1,257m
£( 386)m
UK and Ireland Continental Europe
Northern Europe Airlines Germany
Corporate*
£7 ,834m
Group 40 STRATEGIC REPORT
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
Underlying EBIT £m 
         
£119m £71m
£96m £56m
£( 32)m
UK and Ireland Continental Europe
Northern Europe Airlines Germany
Corporate
£310m
Group
* As a result of inter-company eliminations.
OPERATING EXPENSES/OVERHEADS
Operating expenses for FY15 of £1,464 million represent a year-on-year 
like-for-like decrease of £10 million (1%), mainly due to the Group’s Cost 
Out initiatives. In total, cash operating costs were £23 million (2%) 
lower than last year on a like-for-like basis, offset by a £13 million 
increase in depreciation which reflects the higher level of investment 
in IT and our airlines in recent years.
£m
Year ended 
30 Sep 2015
Year ended 
30 Sep 2014 Change
Year ended 
30 Sep 2014 
like-for-like
Like-for-like 
change
Personnel Costs (859) (913) 54 (845) (14)
Net Operating 
Expenses (431) (507) 76 (468) 37
SubTotal (1,290) (1,420) 130 (1,313) 23
Depreciation (174) (173) (1) (161) (13)
Total (1,464) (1,593) 129 (1,474) 10
UNDERLYING EBIT
Group underlying EBIT increased by £30 million on a like-for-like basis 
to £310 million in FY15. The growth in underlying EBIT is primarily due 
to improved margins through the expansion of our own-brand and 
differentiated holidays, the addition of profitable long haul routes 
in our airlines and the continuing delivery of our Cost Out and Profit 
Improvement measures.
Overall, gross profit improved by £20 million, as an underlying margin 
benefit of £42 million was partially offset by market disruption in 
Tunisia, which cost approximately £22 million.
Overheads were £10 million lower than last year, mainly due to further 
Cost Out benefits of £61 million in FY15, offset by the re-investment 
of £19 million through further Strategic Operating investments and 
a higher depreciation charge (£13 million), mainly associated with 
the recent investment in our airline fleet. 
Underlying EBIT £m
(5)
(38)
280
61
(19)
(32)
42
(22)
310
323
FY14
headline
EBIT 
Strategic
Opex
investment
Depreciation
and other
FY15
EBIT
Impact of
currency
movements
Disruption
in Tunisia
FY14 like-
for-like
EBIT
Gross
profit
excluding
Tunisia
Overhead
cost-out
Disposals
/store
closures
6_Segmental_Review_p40_p53_v60.indd   40 06/01/2016   13:12 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
41 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
SOURCES OF GROWTH IN UNDERLYING EBIT
In FY15 the Group reported an improvement in underlying EBIT 
of £30 million on a like-for-like basis with all segments reporting 
improved results, with the exception of Continental Europe.
The adjustments to reflect year-on-year growth in like-for-like EBIT 
on a segmental basis are summarised as:
Underlying EBIT 
reconciliation (£m)
United 
Kingdom
Continental 
Europe
Northern 
Europe
Airlines 
Germany Corporate Group
FY14 Reported 89 102 101 50 (19) 323
Disposals/Store 
Closures (5) –––– (5)
Impact of Currency 
Movements – (10) (23) (5) – (38)
Accounting changes – (2) – 2 – –
FY14 Like-for-like 84 90 78 47 (19) 280
FY15 Reported 119 71 96 56 (32) 310
Like-for-like change 35 (19) 18 9 (13) 30
of which Gross 
Margin 4 (39) 27 29 (1) 20
of which Overhead 31 20 (9) (20) (12) 10
Reported performance by segment for FY15 is as follows:
£m
United 
Kingdom
Continental 
Europe
Northern 
Europe
Airlines 
Germany Corporate Group
       
Revenue 2,457 3,449 1,057 1,257 (386)
*
7,834
Gross Margin % 26.7% 13.5% 27.9% 28.4% n/a 22.6%
Underlying EBIT 119 71 96 56 (32) 310
* As a result of intercompany eliminations.
The financial performance of each segment is considered in the 
following pages:
Gross margin %
27.9%
13.5%
28.4%
22.6%
26.7%
United
Kingdom
Airlines
Germany
Group Continental
Europe
Northern
Europe
Like-for-like EBIT growth £m
UK and Ireland Continental Europe Northern Europe
Airlines Germany Corporate Group
£(19)m
£(13)m
£30m
£35m
£9m
£18m 42 STRATEGIC REPORT
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
UNITED KINGDOM AND IRELAND
Revenue
2,457
Gross margin
26.7
%
EBIT
119
EBIT margin (%)
4.8
%
Departed customers (000’s)
6,109
 FY15FY14Change
FY14 
like-for-like
Like-for-like 
change
Revenue 2,457 2,585 (128) 2,458 (1)
Gross margin 26.7% 26.1% 0.6% 26.6% 0.1%
Underlying EBIT 119 89 30 84 35
Underlying EBIT 
margin (%) 4.8% 3.5% 1.3% 3.4% 1.4%
Departed customers 
(000’s) 6,109 6,170 (61) 6,153 (44)
Our UK business delivered a strong performance during FY15, 
with underlying EBIT growing by £35 million on a like-for-like basis 
to £119 million, representing a 140 basis point increase in EBIT 
margin to 4.8%. This was delivered through increased sales of 
our own-brand hotels, further long haul expansion in the airline, 
successful implementation of operational actions and continued 
Cost Out initiatives. FY15 underlying EBIT was adversely impacted 
by £11 million due to disruption in Tunisia and benefited from the 
release of maintenance provisions in the UK airline of £10 million 
(flat year-on-year). 
Revenue of £2,457 million was £1 million lower than prior year on a 
like-for-like basis (£128 million lower on a headline basis). The business 
significantly expanded its Winter programme, with an increase in 
both new and existing long haul destinations, with a corresponding 
increase in both Seat Only revenue and increased package holiday 
sales. However, this growth was offset by the disruption to the 
Summer programme with the cancellations of holidays to Tunisia. 
Gross margin increased by 10 basis points on a like-for-like basis 
to 26.7%. This reflects the continuing benefits of improvements 
in product quality, with a higher proportion of customers staying 
in our own-brand hotels and increasing operating efficiencies 
in our UK airline.
Our OneWeb platform, which was launched in FY14, has increased the 
booking conversion rates across all device types. With a 16% increase 
in conversion on tablets, and 67% increase on mobile devices, 
OneWeb is proving particularly effective at converting customer 
interest on these rapidly growing platforms.
Our UK business has been significantly transformed over the past 
three years by removing unprofitable sales, improving product quality 
and by implementing cost efficiencies. As a result, the business is 
now better positioned for profitable growth. 
» Our UK business has 
been significantly 
transformed over the 
past three years by 
removing unprofitable 
sales, improving 
product quality and 
by implementing 
cost efficiencies.« FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
43 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
CONTINENTAL EUROPE
Revenue
3,449
Gross margin
13.5
%
EBIT
71
EBIT margin (%)
2.1
%
Departed customers (000’s)
7, 061
 FY15FY14Change
FY14 
like-for-like
Like-for-like 
change
Revenue 3,449 3,958 (509) 3,554 (105)
Gross margin 13.5% 14.2% (0.7)% 14.2% (0.7)%
Underlying EBIT 71 102 (31) 90 (19)
Underlying EBIT 
margin (%) 2.1% 2.6% (0.5)% 2.5% (0.4)%
Departed customers 
(000’s) 7,061 7,458 (397) 7,399 (329)
Revenue and underlying EBIT performance by key market within 
Continental Europe is set out below:
Revenue and EBIT by market 
Revenue (£m) FY15 FY14 Change
FY14 
like-for-like
Like-for-like 
change
Germany 2,059 2,449 (390) 2,066 (7)
Russia 144 181 (37) 163 (19)
France 265 329 (64) 298 (33)
Other continental 
markets 981 999 (18) 1,027 (46)
Total 3,449 3,958 (509) 3,554 (105)
EBIT by market
Underlying EBIT (£m) FY15 FY14 Change
FY14 
like-for-like
Like-for-like 
change
Germany 52 77 (25) 70 (18)
Russia 1 (3) 4 (3) 4
France (14) (9) (5) (8) (6)
Other continental 
markets 32 37 (5) 31 1
Total 71 102 (31) 90 (19)
Continental Europe delivered an underlying EBIT result of £71 million, 
£19 million lower than last year on a like-for-like basis. The reduction in 
EBIT is primarily related to margin pressure as a result of overcapacity 
affecting our German business together with weakening consumer 
confidence. This has led to an EBIT decline of £18 million on a like-for-
like basis in Germany. In response, we have strengthened our German 
management team, improved third-party agency relationships, further 
increased our focus on differentiated product and own-brand hotels, 
and we plan to strengthen our omni-channel approach with a new 
web platform to launch during H1 2016. We believe these measures, 
along with a continued focus on customer value in priority to headline 
pricing, will help to offset a competitive trading environment. 
Overall revenue was £105 million (3%) lower than last year on a like-
for-like basis, due primarily to planned capacity reductions in France 
and Russia to reflect local market conditions. 
Our French business saw its operating loss widen by £6 million 
to £14 million on the back of a continued weaker French consumer 
demand generally and lower customer demand to North African 
destinations in particular. 
Through a reduction in risk capacity, our Russian business continued 
to focus on profitable business which, together with further cost 
savings, saw the business report a profit of £1 million in FY15, an 
improvement of £4 million on the FY14 result. This is first time the 
business has been profitable since it was acquired. 
Our other Continental markets performed well, despite competitive 
market conditions. The Benelux region reported an EBIT result which 
was in line with last year on a like-for-like basis, whilst our Eastern 
European businesses in Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic 
recorded year-on-year growth totalling £1 million. 44 STRATEGIC REPORT
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
» Despite a competitive 
environment in the 
Nordics, our business 
remains the market 
leader in terms of 
number of passengers 
and profitability.«
NORTHERN EUROPE
Revenue
1,057
 FY15FY14Change
FY14 
like-for-like
Like-for-like 
change
Revenue 1,057 1,153 (96) 998 59
Gross margin 27.9% 27.4% 0.5% 27.0% 0.9%
Underlying EBIT 96 101 (5) 78 18
Underlying EBIT 
margin (%) 9.1% 8.7% 0.4% 7.8% 1.3%
Departed customers 
(000’s) 1,698 1,511 187 1,702 (4)
Our Northern Europe business reported an EBIT result of £96 million 
for FY15, £18 million better than last year on a like-for-like basis, 
as it further increased its industry leading EBIT margin to over 9%. 
Despite a competitive environment in the Nordics, our business 
remains the market leader in terms of number of passengers and 
profitability. Through an improved yield management performance, 
the business was well positioned to take advantage of poor weather 
in the early part of the Summer, to deliver an exceptionally strong 
trading performance in the “lates” market in the fourth quarter. 
FY15 EBIT also benefited from a revision to aircraft maintenance 
provisions of circa £4 million during the year.
Revenue of £1,057 million was £59 million higher on a like-for-like 
basis, demonstrating the strong differentiation of its product offering, 
which retains unrivalled popularity with customers in its source 
markets, together with strong ancillary sales. 
Gross Margin of 27.9% was 90 basis points higher than FY14 on a 
like-for-like basis. Load factors in excess of 99% and strong average 
selling prices led to high margins for classic packages, complemented 
with further sales of dynamic packages and higher ancillary sales 
reflecting effective online distribution, powerful brands and a focus 
on customer relationship management.
Departed customers (000’s)
1,698
EBIT margin (%)
9.1
%
EBIT
96
Gross margin
27 .9
% FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
45 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
CORPORATE AIRLINES GERMANY
Revenue
1,257
 FY15FY14Change
FY14 
like-for-like
Like-for-like 
change
Operating expenses (32) (20) (12) (20) (12)
Foreign exchange 0 1 (1) 1 (1)
EBIT (32) (19) (13) (19) (13)
Corporate operating expenses were £13 million higher than last year 
on a like-for-like basis at £32 million (FY14: £19 million). As we reported 
in our FY14 announcement, the Corporate result in FY14 benefited by 
£12 million from revised provisions for employee share incentive plans 
and other remuneration schemes which were not repeated in FY15.
 FY15FY14Change
FY14 
like-for-like
Like-for-like 
change
Revenue 1,257 1,299 (42) 1,145 112
Gross margin 28.4% 27.8% 0.6% 28.7% (0.3)%
Underlying EBIT 56 50 6 47 9
Underlying EBIT 
margin (%) 4.5% 3.8% 0.7% 4.1% 0.4%
Departed customers 
(000’s) 7,713 7,196 517 7,263 450
Condor, our German airline, again performed strongly in a competitive 
market to report EBIT of £56 million in FY15, £9 million higher than last 
year on a like-for-like basis.
Revenues increased by £112 million on a like-for-like basis, driven 
by profitable growth of our long haul business. Long haul revenues 
increased by 14.5%, with Seat Capacity up 9% compared to last year. 
Despite an increase in capacity, load factors improved further to 
89.6% from 88.4% in FY14. Yields were up 3.6%, driven by strong sales 
for our fully refurbished business class cabin. 
In the short/medium haul market, capacity increased by 7.1%, driven 
by the increased earning capacity of our aircraft following the cabin 
refurbishments. Load factors increased by 1.1 percentage points to 
91.6%, but yields declined by 4% as a consequence of the reduction in 
fuel market prices and intense competitive pressures in this market. 
EBIT margin of 4.5% was 40 basis points higher than last year on a 
like-for-like basis, as a strong long haul business, fuel price reductions 
and the continuation of our Profit Improvement Programme more 
than compensated for short/medium haul market pressures, currency 
effects from the decline of the Euro against the US Dollar, and 
increased aircraft, landing and overflight costs. 
Our Profit Improvement Programme also focused on ancillary 
sales with the successful introduction of our Airshoppen concept 
in Germany. As a consequence, ancillary revenue per customer 
increased by 5%.
Departed customers (000’s)
7,713
EBIT margin (%)
4.5
%
EBIT
56
Gross margin
28.4
% 46
 
Read more about how we are transforming our hotels on page 30
In-destination teams 
put the customer at 
the heart of everything 
they do – they are 
available through our 
Connected service.
43 
quality managers
across our 
destinations – 
listening to our 
customers and 
identifying ideas  
for improvement.
Concept hotel customers can enjoy an experience catered 
exactly for their needs. Our in-destination teams work 
tirelessly to put the customer at the heart of everything they 
do. Connected Consultants are available 24/7, by phone, online, 
text and social media. Responding to queries and questions, 
they make sure customers get the information and support 
they need for a hassle-free holiday. Our Reps are the face 
of Thomas Cook in-destination. Their local knowledge and 
endless enthusiasm inspires customers of all ages, delivering 
a holiday never to be forgotten. To support our Reps, our newly 
introduced case handling system allows them to manage 
customer demands consistently, encouraging any requests  
or issues to be handled on the spot. 
IN-DESTINATION WITH THOMAS COOK
IN-DESTINATION TEAMS QUALITY MANAGERS
hassle-free 
holiday.
7
24
Booking Departure In-destination Returning home FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
47
THOMAS COOK HOTELS & RESORTS
Lollo & Bernie visited 
81 Thomas Cook Group 
family hotels this year  
(in 2016 they will visit 
more than 100 Thomas 
Cook Group family 
hotels). Creating amazing 
holiday memories for 
both children and adults!
FOCUS ON:  
FAMILIES WHO 
KNOW WHAT 
PREMIUM  
SHOULD BE.
FOCUS ON:  
COUPLES WHO 
WANT 4/5* HOTELS 
IN PREMIUM 
LOCATIONS. KIDS 
ARE WELCOME  
BUT WE FOCUS  
OUR SERVICE  
ON ADULTS.
FOCUS ON:  
COUPLES AND 
FRIENDS WHO 
WANT TO BE TAKEN  
CARE OF IN THE 
PRIVACY OF A  
4/5* HOTEL.
FOCUS ON:  
WORKING SINGLES, 
COUPLES AND 
GROUPS OF 
FRIENDS WHO 
HAVE PLANS BUT 
ARE LOOKING 
FOR FUNCTIONAL 
ACCOMMODATION.
FOCUS ON:  
FAMILIES WITH 
INDEPENDENT 
YOUNG KIDS AND 
TEENS LOOKING 
FOR A SIMPLE BUT 
GREAT VALUE-
FOR-MONEY CLUB 
EXPERIENCE.
FOCUS ON:  
YOUNG MODERN 
TRAVELLERS WHO 
LOVE FASHION AND 
DESIGN AND ARE 
SEARCHING FOR 
A HEALTHY WORK-
LIFE BALANCE.
THOMAS COOK HOTELS & RESORTS
p 
 
s
zing 
lts! 48 STRATEGIC REPORT
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
TAXATION
The overall tax charge in the year increased to £31 million from 
a £1 million charge in FY14 as summarised below. Current tax of 
£27 million is £10 million higher than last year due to increased 
charges for our profitable businesses in Northern Europe and 
Continental Europe, while the change in deferred tax reflects the 
recognition of deferred tax assets in FY14 in respect of carried 
forward tax losses in our UK business. 
FY15
£m
FY14
£m
Current tax (27) (17)
Deferred tax (4) 16
Total tax charge (31) (1)
Total cash tax (18) (32)
Further information is included within Note 9. 
OPERATING LEASE CHARGES 
Operating lease charges of £205 million have increased by £20m since 
FY14, as analysed below:
FY15
£m
FY14
£m
Included within EBIT:
Aircraft operating lease charges 135 106
Retail operating lease charges 44 49
Hotel operating lease charges 26 30
Total 205 185
NET FINANCE COSTS 
Group net finance costs for the year decreased by £2 million to 
£151 million (FY14: £153 million). This consisted of net interest charges 
before aircraft financing of £134 million (FY14: £132 million) and aircraft 
financing charges totalling £17 million (FY14: £21 million). 
SEPARATELY DISCLOSED ITEMS
Net Separately Disclosed Items (SDIs) for FY15 were a £120 million 
charge, a reduction of £176 million compared to the prior year 
(FY14: £296 million). This breaks down into a cash SDI impact of 
£69 million (FY14: £119 million) and non-cash impact of £51 million 
(FY14: £177 million).
FY15 FY14
Cash
(i)
£m
Non-
cash
£m
Total
£m
Cash
(i)
£m
Non-
cash
£m
Total
£m
Restructuring (51) (1) (52) (109) (1) (110)
Reassessment of  
contingent consideration –1818 –– –
Asset valuations ––– – (57) (57)
Onerous contracts  
and legal disputes (5) (30) (35) (5) (74) (79)
Other (13) (17) (30) (5) (20) (25)
EBIT related items (69) (30) (99) (119) (152) (271)
Profit on disposal of 
associated undertaking –77 –– –
Finance related charges – (28) (28) – (25) (25)
Total (69) (51) (120) (119) (177) (296)
(i) Cash items encompasses both current year cash flows, and cash effects which have not been 
realised before the end of the period.
Further information is included within Note 7.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
49 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
SUMMARY CASH FLOW STATEMENT 
(i)
FY15
£m
FY14
£m
Underlying EBIT 310 323
Depreciation 174 173
EBITDA 484 496
Working capital 139 3
Tax (18) (32)
Pensions and other (20) (22)
Operating cash flow 585 445
Exceptional items
(ii)
(98) (43)
Capital expenditure (201) (156)
Net interest paid (125) (130)
Free cash flow
(iii)
161 116
New Equity 92 –
Other (6) (9)
Net cash flow 247 107
Opening net debt (326) (421)
Net cash flow 247 107
Other movements in net debt
(iv)
(60) (12)
Closing net debt (139) (326)
(i)    The Group uses three non-statutory cash flow measures to manage the business. Operating cash 
flow is net cash from operating activities excluding interest income, aircraft related costs and the 
cash effect of separately disclosed items impacting EBIT. Free Cash flow is cash from operating 
activities less capital expenditure and interest paid. In FY14 Free Cash flow also includes the 
net cash received on disposals. Net cash flow is the net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash 
equivalents excluding the net movement in borrowings, finance lease repayments and facility 
set-up fees.
(ii)  Exceptional items include net cash from disposals of £20 million in FY15 and £78 million in FY14.
(iii)  Free cash flow is cash from operating activities less capital expenditure and interest paid.
(iv)  Represents retranslation of foreign currency debt items and amortisation of capitalised fees.
Free cash flow for the year was £161 million (FY14: £116 million) 
helped by improved working capital, offset by greater investment in 
capital expenditure and restructuring costs. In addition, new equity 
was issued to Fosun as part of a strategic partnership announced 
in March 2015, which resulted in net cash flow for the year of 
£247 million (FY14: £107 million). 
EARNINGS PER SHARE
Underlying earnings per share, before separately disclosed items, was 
8.9 pence, a year-on-year reduction of 2.4 pence (FY14: 11.3 pence). 
FY15 FY14
Profit/(loss) after tax (£m) 19 (115)
Exceptionals 120 296
Attributable to minority interest (£m) 4 (3)
Exceptional tax (11) (15)
Adjusted profit/(loss) after tax (£m) 132 163
Weighted average number of shares (m) 1,487 1,440
Earnings per share (pence) 8.9 11.3
The basic profit per share for the year was 1.6 pence, delivering 
a year-on-year improvement of 9.8 pence (FY14: loss 8.2 pence). 
Further information is included within Note 11.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE
During FY15 we continued to strengthen the Group’s financial 
position through further improvements to our capital structure 
and by increasing our access to liquidity through larger bank 
financing facilities. 
In January 2015 we gained strong support for a new 7-year, 
€400 million Eurobond to refinance a Eurobond bond of the same 
size which matured in June 2015, which further extended the debt 
profile of the business. In May 2015 we signed a new £800 million 
financing facility, which includes a £500 million revolving credit 
facility (RCF), and a £300 million committed bonding and guarantee 
facility. This agreement increased the size of the committed facilities 
available to the Group from £470 million to £800 million and further 
extended the maturity of those facilities to May 2019.
The larger RCF is better aligned to our seasonal working capital swing 
and will help to create a more efficient capital structure over time. 
The new facilities also removed certain restrictive terms from our 
previous facility documentation, and now permits the resumption 
of dividend payments. This reflects an improving trend in our credit 
standing from ‘B-‘ with a ‘negative outlook’ in July 2012 to ‘B’ with a 
‘stable outlook’ as at September 2015, which we expect to improve 
further over the medium term.  50 STRATEGIC REPORT
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
NET DEBT 
The Group sources debt and ﬁnance facilities from a combination of 
the international capital markets and its relationship banking group. 
During the year, the Group reduced net debt from £326 million to 
£139 million. 
The composition and maturity of the Group’s net debt is 
summarised below: 
30 Sept. 
2015
£m
30 Sept. 
2014
£m
Movement
£m Maturity
2015 Euro Bond – (310) 310 Jun-15
2017 GBP Bond (299) (297) (2) Jun-17
2020 Euro Bond (388) (408) 20 Jun-20
2021 Euro Bond (295) –(295) Jun-21
Commercial Paper (155) (82) (73) Various
Revolving Credit Facility – ––May-19
Finance Leases (183) (181) (2) Various
Aircraft related borrowings (99) (79) (20) Various
Other external debt (47) (13) (34) Various
Arrangement fees 26 25 1 n/a
Total debt (1,440) (1,345) (95)
Cash (net of overdraft) 1,301 1,019 282
Net debt (139) (326) 187
The Group’s £800 million Committed Facilities comprises a Revolving 
Credit Facility of £500 million, of which £46.6 million was drawn 
at 30 September 2015, and a £300 million bonding and guarantee 
facility of which £247.2 million was drawn at 30 September 2015 
(2014 £126.0 million). The Revolving Credit Facility is shown as nil in 
the above table as the drawn element (£46.6 million) relates to a 
drawdown of the ancillary facilities of the RCF, which has been used 
solely for bonding and is thus net debt neutral. These facilities mature 
in May 2019. 
Separately disclosed items
FY15
£m
FY14
£m
Prior year (paid in FY15) (40) (34)
Prior year EU261 (paid in FY15) (16) –
Current year
(i)
 (42) (9)
Total Exceptional items (98) (43)
(i) Exceptional items include net cash from disposals of £20 million in FY15 and £78 million in FY14.
The Group uses a measure of cash conversion which reﬂects the 
amount of cash ﬂow retained by the business, which can be used 
for investment in capital expenditure, debt repayment or payment of 
dividends. On this basis, cash conversion has improved to 75% in FY15 
(FY14: 55%). As part of the New Operating Model, the Group intends to 
use a revised measure of cash conversion from FY16 onwards. 
FY15 FY14
Operating Cash flow
(i)
585 445
Net Interest (125) (130)
Cash Exceptionals (98) (43)
Converted Cash 362 272
EBITDA 484 496
Cash conversion 75% 55%
(ii)
(i) Operating Cash flow defined as net cash from operating activities before net interest payments 
exceptional cash costs.
(ii) Cash conversion for FY14 has been restated to be consistent with the FY15 presentation; 
FY14 reported cash conversion was 62%
NET ASSETS
The Group’s balance sheet at 30 September 2015 is set out 
on page 119. During the year the Group’s net asset value 
increased by £83 million to £368 million at 30 September 2015 
(September 2014: £285 million), analysed as follows:
Net assets £m
170
(31)
(120)
(17)
89
(8)
368
285
Opening
net assets
Non-
recurring
items
Balance
sheet
revaluations
Issue of
shares (net
of costs)
Other Closing
net assets
Taxes PBT
pre-
exceptional FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
51 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
HEDGING OF FUEL AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE 
The objective of the Group’s hedging policy is to smooth fluctuations 
in the price of Jet Fuel and foreign currencies, in order to provide 
greater certainty for planning purposes. The proportion of our 
exposures that have been hedged are shown in the table below.
Winter 15/16 Summer 16 Winter 16/17
Euro 95% 75% 34%
US Dollar 95% 84% 50%
Jet Fuel 91% 90% 82%
As at 28 October 2015.
As Jet Fuel is priced in US Dollars, our net fuel costs are influenced 
by both the fuel price and the movements in the US Dollar against 
our base currencies. 
While net fuel costs reduced by around £100 million in FY15 compared 
to last year, these benefits were partly absorbed by higher dollar-
denominated non-fuel flying costs, and partly passed on to our 
customers through lower prices. For FY16, we currently estimate 
that our net fuel costs will fall by a further £100 million, although our 
prudent assumption is that we do not expect to retain these benefits.
The Group does not hedge the translation of overseas profits into 
Sterling, and as a result of currency movements during the year, 
reported profits in FY15 were lower by £38 million. 
The average and period end exchange rates relevant to the Group 
were as follows:
 Average rate Period end rate
FY15 FY14 FY15 FY14
 
GBP/Euro 1.35 1.22 1.35 1.29
GBP/US Dollar 1.55 1.66 1.51 1.62
GBP/SEK 12.60 10.98 12.66 11.72
 
TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The Group’s funding, liquidity and exposure to foreign currencies, 
interest rates, commodity prices and ﬁnancial credit risk are 
managed by a centralised Treasury function and are conducted 
within a framework of Board-approved policies and guidelines.
The principal aim of Treasury activities is to reduce volatility by 
hedging, which provides a degree of certainty to the operating 
segments, and to ensure a sufficient level of liquidity headroom 
at all times.
The successful execution of policy is intended to support a 
sustainable low risk growth strategy, enable the Group to meet its 
ﬁnancial commitments as they fall due, and enhance the Group’s 
credit rating over the medium term.
CREDIT RATING
The Group has maintained its ‘B’ ratings from both Standard & Poor’s 
and Fitch, who commented on the significant progress made in 
the transformation of the Group, particularly in relation to our cost 
reduction programme.
Corporate ratings 2015 2014
Rating Outlook Rating Outlook
Standard and Poor’s BStable BPositive
Fitch BStable BPositive
CASH MANAGEMENT
Due to the seasonality of the Group’s business cycle and cash 
ﬂows, a substantial amount of surplus cash accumulates during the 
Summer months. Efficient use and tight control of cash throughout 
the Group is facilitated by the use of cash pooling arrangements and 
the net surplus cash is invested by Treasury in high quality, short-
term liquid instruments consistent with Board-approved policy, which 
is designed to mitigate counterparty credit risk. Yield is maximised 
within the terms of the policy but returns in general remain low given 
the low interest rate environment in the UK, the US and Europe.
A small portion of the Group’s cash is restricted in overseas 
jurisdictions primarily due to legal or regulatory requirements. 
Such cash does not form part of the liquidity headroom calculation. 52 STRATEGIC REPORT
FY16 Hedging of fuel and foreign exchange
US Dollar
Euro
Jet fuel
84%
75%
90%
95%
95%
91%
50%
34%
82%
Winter 15/16 Summer 16 Winter 16/17
As at 31 October 2015.
Oct-14 Jan-15 Apr-15 Jul-15 Sep-15
11.72
1.29
12.66
1.35
1.62
1.51
GBP/SEK GBP/USD GBP/EURO
GBP vs EURO, US Dollar and SEK
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
TARGETS AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – 
FY13 TO FY15
Since March 2013, we have reported our progress against a set of 
targets and KPIs that were intended to measure our progress in 
implementing our strategy between FY13 and FY15. The table below 
shows our achievements over this period:
Financial year ended 30 September
Actual Target
FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY15
Targets
New product revenue N/A £94m £280m £543m >£700m
Web penetration
(i)
34% 36% 38% 40% >50%
Wave 1 cost-out/profit 
improvement (run-rate) £60m £194m £400m £510m >£500m
KPIs
Sales growth N/A N/A (2.1%) (1.2)% >3.5%
(ii)
Underlying gross margin 
improvement
(iii)
N/A 0.8% 1.5% 1.6% >1.5%
UK underlying EBIT margin 0.1% 2.2% 3.5% 4.8% >5%
Cash conversion
(iv)
11% 48% 55%
(v)
75% >70%
Notes: 
(i)  Measured on a last 12 months (LTM) departed basis. 
(ii)  Compound annual growth rate from FY13 to FY15 including new product revenue.
(iii)  Underlying gross margin, adjusted for disposals and shop closures to make all periods from FY12 – 
FY15 like-for-like.
(iv)  Cash conversion ratio is defined as free cash flow after exceptional items and before capital 
expenditure as a percentage of EBITDA.
(v)   Cash conversion for FY14 has been restated to be consistent with the FY15 presentation; FY14 
reported cash conversion was 62%. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
53 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
The table below shows our Cost Out and Profit performance, 
compared to our targets. 
FY 12
£m
FY 13
£m
FY 14
£m
FY 15
£m
FY 15 
Target
£m
UK turnaround 60 124 140 140 140
Group-wide cost-out – 70 260 370 360
– Integrated air travel strategy – 27 100 148 134
– Organisational structure – 30 91 118 111
–  Product, infrastructure, 
technology, and other – 13 69 104 115
Total targeted benefits
(i)
60 194 400 510 500
Expected costs to achieve
(ii)
– Income statement
(iii)
36 47 30 24 11
– Cash flow:
 –  Operating expenditure 30 29 33 37 24
 –  Capital expenditure – 8 21 34 31
Notes: 
(i)   Run rate.
(ii)  One-off costs.
(iii)  One-off costs in the income statement are included in separately disclosed items.
Our overarching aim over the last three years has been to put the 
Group on a more stable foundation by sustainably growing profits. 
Accordingly, we have made good progress on our profit improvement 
targets, but those targets not directly linked to profit improvement 
have not been met. 
The Group achieved its underlying gross margin improvement target 
for FY15 one year early, supported by our Cost Out programme, which 
has consistently exceeded targets. We have also made good progress 
in growing our UK EBIT margin, coming close to our 5% target for FY15, 
compared to zero in FY12. In cash conversion, we achieved 75% in FY15, 
ahead of our target of 70%. 
We made good progress in growing New Product revenues from our 
higher margin own-brand and partner hotels, generating incremental 
revenue of £543 million between FY12 and FY15 (despite the sales 
impact of Tunisia). However, we did not meet our £700 million target 
overall as a result of a strategic decision to sell fewer lower margin 
City and commodity hotels in order to focus on profits. 
Consistent with our previous disclosure, we did not meet our full year 
sales growth and web penetration targets, as we chose to remove 
certain low or nil profit business lines in order to focus on profits and 
to reduce business risk. 54
 
Read more about how we are transforming our CRM on page 32
A welcome home email, 
including a short Holiday 
Survey, gives customers 
the opportunity to tell 
us what they loved plus 
anything we could do to 
make their next trip with  
us even better.
RETURNING HOME WITH THOMAS COOK
holidays  
don’t have to  
end at home.
We inspire new holiday choices by providing tailored information  
on destinations customers might want to travel to next. 
HOLIDAY SURVEY
WELCOME HOME
Booking Departure In-destination Returning home FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
55
HOLIDAY INSPIRATION
CUSTOMER SERVICES
Our Customer 
Services team is on 
hand to respond to 
any post-holiday 
queries.
Customer feedback from the Holiday 
Survey is used across the Group, 
helping us to continuously improve 
our products and work to always  
put the customer at our heart. 
SURVEY
Y INSPIR ATION
MER SERVICES 56 STRATEGIC REPORT
RISK MANAGEMENT
TOP DOWN OVERSIGHT
The Risk Matters Group (“RMG”) and the broader risk management 
framework have been designed to ensure the scope of coverage 
includes transformational/strategic, operational, financial and legal 
risks within a single framework. Chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, 
the purpose of the RMG is to provide leadership, direction and 
oversight with regard to the Group’s overall risk framework, appetite, 
and relevant risk policies, processes and controls. The RMG meets 
on a quarterly basis, and reviews the Group Risk Dashboard, key 
risk indicators and the Group’s principal risks, All business areas 
are represented through attendance by senior executives ensuring 
an appropriate level of insight and validation. The chair of the Audit 
Committee regularly attends the meetings of the RMG. The RMG 
reports to the Audit Committee and the CEO of the Group. 
BOTTOM UP ASSESSMENTS
Our investment in risk management software ensures that risk 
registers are regularly updated and reviewed through a Group-wide 
programme of risk workshops. Each major business unit has a 
quarterly risk committee attended by the risk owners representing 
all areas of the business, as well as the Group Enterprise Risk and 
Audit Team. The risk committees analyse key business unit risks and 
ensure implementation of risk mitigation plans. Where appropriate, 
significant risks identified at business unit level are escalated and 
discussed within the RMG. 
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee considers risk exposure against risk appetite by 
profiling key risks in respect of their potential impact and likelihood 
of occurrence, after consideration of mitigating and controlling 
actions that are in place. During the year, the Audit Committee has 
reviewed both top down and bottom up risk analyses and the Board 
has undertaken a detailed exercise to consider its risk appetite. 
The aim of these activities has resulted in an Annual Audit Plan, which 
will enable a risk-based approach to the ongoing internal audit and 
assurance programme. The report of the Audit Committee can be 
found on page 79.
OUR RISK MANAGEMENT STRATEGY
The Board is responsible for maintaining the Group’s risk management 
and internal control systems, with a mandate that includes defining 
risk appetite and monitoring risk exposures and mitigations to ensure 
that the nature and extent of risks taken by the Group are aligned 
with its strategic objectives. 
RISK APPETITE
The Board has undertaken a detailed exercise to consider the risk 
appetite in a number of key areas for the business. The results of 
this review indicate the relative appetite of the Board across the risk 
factors and behaviours. It is evident that this represents a view at 
a point in time and changes in light of the economic environment, 
strategy and performance of the business will impact this evaluation. 
The Board are aligned on the relative risks and have agreed the 
appetite for risk taking for digital delivery and product risk categories 
is entrepreneurial. This position aligns with the strategic aims of the 
transformation programme and targets set for the business. 
The Board seeks to minimise all health, safety and reputational risks. 
In all other aspects, the Board takes a balanced view on risk taking.
It is the intent of the Board to use the results of this review to 
support its ongoing decision making and as the basis for a review 
annually in the light of the changes to the economic environment, 
strategic progress and performance of the business.
OUR APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT
Operating in a dynamic and continually volatile environment requires 
a flexible and responsive risk management process that can match 
the pace of change and provide management with a concise view 
of the Group’s risk profile at any point in time. We continue to 
focus on further embedding a culture of risk management that will 
contribute towards effective strategy execution, ensuring both risk 
and opportunities are identified and managed to deliver long-term 
value creation. 
During 2015, we focused on enhancing our dual track approach to risk 
management consisting of top down oversight from the Board and 
senior management, and bottom up risk management embedded in 
the day-to-day activities of the Group. 
EMBEDDING A CULTURE 
OF RISK MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
57 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
OUR PRIORITIES FOR 2016
The Group Enterprise Risk and Audit Team will continue to support 
the business through facilitation of risk workshops for all areas of 
the Group, working with risk owners to enhance risk governance 
and improving the risk culture across our organisation. We anticipate 
ongoing development and greater sophistication of bottom up risk 
data, with further focus on mitigation strategies for the Group’s 
principal risks.
VIABILITY STATEMENT
The Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company in 
accordance with provision C2.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance 
Code. The Board approved the Thomas Cook Group three-year 
business plan, which covers the period to 30 September 2018 
(the “Business Plan”). This Business Plan has been used as the basis 
for the going concern assessment, goodwill impairment reviews and 
other estimates made during the financial year. The Business Plan 
contains the most up-to-date management information and provides 
a sufficient level of detail to support these assessments. 
The Directors believe a three-year period is appropriate to consider 
viability as this is typically the longest duration the Group contracts 
with hotels and the timeframe over which the Directors believe 
they can accurately forecast the benefits arising from the New 
Operating Model. 
The Business Plan includes analysis of the Group’s income statement, 
balance sheet, cash flows, KPIs and debt covenants outlook. 
Where appropriate, this analysis is subject to sensitivity testing 
which involves flexing a number of the main assumptions underlying 
the Business Plan and evaluating the potential impact of the Group’s 
principal risks actually occurring, both individually and in unison 
and the mitigating actions available to the Group over the relevant 
timeframe if such risks did arise. 
Sensitivity testing included assessing the impact of not delivering: 
the online aspects of our strategy in the UK; competitive pricing in 
our source markets; and, the effect of reduced customer demand 
to certain destinations. 
The principal risks with a direct link to the viability statement have 
been indicated in the table overleaf. Based on the results of this 
analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group 
will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they 
fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS
The Group’s risk management system works effectively in assessing 
the Group’s risk appetite and has supported a robust assessment 
by the Directors of the principal risks facing the Group. The principal 
risks are reviewed throughout the year and these are discussed 
with the Board quarterly. This includes all relevant principal risks that 
could threaten Thomas Cook’s business model, future performance, 
solvency or liquidity.
THE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
TOP DOWN
Oversight and assessment  
of risk exposures at the  
corporate level
BOTTOM UP
Identification and assessment  
of risk exposures at Segment  
and function level
THE BOARD
Overall responsibility for the 
risk management system
Sets strategic objectives and 
defines risk appetite
Receives and reviews Audit 
Committee reports on risk 
governance
AUDIT COMMITTEE GROUP EXECUTIVE COUNCIL 
(including CEO & CFO)
 > Supports the Board in monitoring risk exposure 
against risk appetite
 > Monitors the risk management process
 > Maintains executive oversight of the Group’s key 
risks and mitigation
RISK MATTERS GROUP
 > Sets the risk management 
process
 > Considers emerging risks > Provides oversight and challenge  
for risk mitigation plans 
OPERATIONAL LEVEL
 > Group-wide risk identification, 
assessment and monitoring
 > Maintenance of risk registers
 > Risk awareness and culture 
embedded across the Group
 > Implementation of risk mitigation 
plans and controls 58 STRATEGIC REPORT
RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
Principal risks Mitigation Opportunities
1
Our New Operating Model 
(NUMO), the next phase of our 
transformation, fails to deliver 
our strategic and operational 
targets.
 > Bi-weekly status reports on each project submitted to the Senior 
Management Team. 
 > Monthly Group Transformation Review meetings attended by senior 
management including CEO and CFO, during which progress and issues 
are discussed and addressed. 
 > Financial benefits and KPIs are incorporated in the FY16 – FY18 
business plan and delivery is tracked as part of the business 
review process.
To deliver a best in class 
operating model which will 
provide a competitive advantage 
in our market.
2
Failure to align our products 
and services to customer 
preferences may have 
an adverse impact on 
our ability to improve our 
customers’ experience 
of Thomas Cook holidays*.
 > Ongoing monitoring of our hotel portfolio has allowed us to focus 
on the continuous improvement of our product offering, taking into 
account feedback from our customers. 
 > Our “One Tour Operator” initiative will harmonise processes, remove 
duplication and adopt same ways of working behind the scenes with 
suppliers and in the back-office. This will ensure that we have the right 
products and services in place to grow and improve our customers’ 
experience across all markets.
 > Our strategy includes a focus on developing best in class ancillaries 
which will improve our customers’ holiday experience. 
 > There has been significant investment into the refurbishment of 
our hotel brands. 
 > The Hotel Investment Fund will accelerate our focus on improving 
our product portfolio. 
 > We have made major investments within our Group airlines through 
cabin refurbishment, purchase of new aircraft and addition of 
new routes.
Diverse product portfolio enabling 
us to match product offerings to 
change in customer preferences 
and demand. 
3
Failure to achieve growth in our 
digital distribution channel may 
have an adverse impact on our 
market share, profitability and 
future growth*. 
 > We have made significant investment in our One Web platform, which 
has led to improvements in functionality and resulted in higher 
conversion rates and online bookings.
 > As part of our new operating model, the “Omni-channel” initiative will 
ensure a seamless digital experience for our customers both in stores 
and online.
 > Our Group Ecommerce Team has regular dialogues with management 
within our source markets to maintain oversight and provide 
digital support.
 > Our new Companion App allows our customers to obtain information 
about their holiday, manage payments, and book excursions while 
in-destination.
Flexible distribution model 
that fully meets the needs 
of our customers. 
Aligned to customer 
technology innovation. 
4
Failure to recruit or to retain 
the right people at the right 
time will lead to a lack of 
capability or capacity to enable 
the implementation of our 
business strategy.
 > Our performance management system was implemented in 2014 
and tracks the performance and potential of all our employees. 
 > Our high potential talent is identified and nurtured through an 
Executive Development programme and our Emerging Talent 
programme is currently being developed. 
 > Reward schemes are regularly evaluated to drive and reward 
performance and to ensure retention of key talent. 
 > As part of succession planning, the top 130 positions have been 
assessed and 42 critical positions have been identified.
 > Our annual engagement survey allows us to assess employee 
motivation and commitment and identify actions we need to 
implement to enable talent retention. 
Employing the best people to 
continuously develop and evolve 
strategy and ensure ongoing 
efficiency and operation of 
the business. 
5
IT architecture is unable 
to support the needs of 
the business. 
 > The first phase of our IT transformation has been successfully 
completed and the second phase is proceeding as planned. 
 > Our simplified and automated service delivery process ensures 
requests from the business are addressed in a timely manner.
 > Weekly reviews between business unit IT Heads to prevent any 
IT issues across the business. 
 > IT works closely with the business to ensure NUMO initiatives 
have the appropriate level of support. 
To develop a modern, future proof 
IT Operating Model.
OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
The table below lists the principal risks and uncertainties as determined by the Board that may affect the Group and highlights the 
mitigating actions that are being taken. The content of the table, however, is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all the risks 
and uncertainties that may arise.
* Principal risk with a direct link to the viability statement.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
59 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Principal risks Mitigation Opportunities
6
Information security and cyber 
threats are currently a priority 
across all industries and remain 
a key Government agenda item. 
The Group recognises that we 
have high risk exposure in this 
area and has added this as a 
new principal risk.
 > Our Information Security Steering Group has been established to 
provide oversight of the cyber risk framework and ensure appropriate 
mitigations are in place. 
 > Our Security Improvement programme is underway and aims to provide 
the following mitigations:
 — Group Security Policies 
 — Security Awareness Training 
 — Detect and Respond Monitoring Service for websites, data 
centres and critical systems
 — Vulnerability Management service to test website and 
system security
To become thought leaders in 
developing a strategy to combat 
emerging cyber threats.
7
A decision or a course of action 
is perceived negatively by the 
media, investors and/or general 
public, which in turn impacts 
the corporate reputation of the 
Group and its share price*.
 > As part of our risk management process, we identify all events that 
may have a potential reputational impact to the Group and ensure that 
controls are in place to manage these risks.
 > We have a clear plan in place to respond to the potential reputational 
consequences of an event which includes close cooperation between 
investor relations, public relations, HR and legal teams to identify and 
prepare responses to incidents and potential issues. The plan has 
been strengthened this year based on the lessons learnt during the 
Corfu Inquest. 
 > We monitor stakeholder and governmental reactions to ensure we 
respond to emerging political and regulatory developments. 
Promotion of the business and 
enhancement of brand value 
through positive media attention.
8
Cash generation limits the 
ability to strategically manage 
debt repayment and/or dividend 
payment*.
 > We proactively monitor our short, medium and long-term cash 
requirements and liquidity headroom. 
 > Our cost-out and profit improvement initiatives are successfully 
contributing to cash availability. 
 > We continue to monitor all opportunities to manage liquidity 
requirements and maintain an adequate level of contingency as well 
as seeking to lower the average cost of debt over the medium term.
Sufficient cash to implement 
optimal financing strategies.
9
Due to the nature of its 
business, the Group will 
always be exposed to a risk 
of a health and safety incident 
that may impact our customers 
or colleagues together with 
associated reputational 
damage. 
 > We operate a robust safety management system (SMS) to ensure the 
implementation of our Health and Safety Policies and procedures. 
 > The Group Health, Safety, and Security team implement the SMS, 
which is further supported by a reputable external specialist (SGS). 
 > The Group regularly reviews and updates its safety and security 
training programmes to ensure they continue to reflect best practice. 
 > Our Health and Safety Audit programme, which is delivered by 
external specialists, measures standards and includes a clear 
escalation and decision process. The programme also includes 
a robust follow-up process.
 > The assessment of Health and Safety risks is inbuilt into daily 
management routines and is monitored by a structure of health and 
safety committees that are in turn overseen by a corporate Health, 
Safety & Environmental Committee with Board level oversight. 
The report of the Health, Safety & Environmental Committee can 
be found on page 83.
To provide class leading health and 
safety programmes for the benefit 
of our customers and employees.
10
Increasing security threats 
and general socio/political 
uncertainties negatively impacting 
our key markets and reduce 
the demand for travel related 
products*.
 > Our flexible business model allows us to align our committed capacity 
to fluctuating demand. 
 > As part of our destination strategy, we continue to add new destinations 
to our portfolio, thereby mitigating the effect of factors which may 
negatively impact demand for travel to certain regions. 
 > We actively monitor the socio/political landscape to ensure we have 
an early indication of emerging risk and are available to respond in 
an appropriate and timely manner.
 > We have a dedicated Crisis Management Team who have the requisite 
resource and skills to ensure that adequate emergency response is 
provided to ensure the welfare of our customers.
 > All of our senior management regularly participate in crisis 
management scenarios. 
To deliver proactive capability to 
pre-emptively manage emerging 
geopolitical uncertainties.
11
Failure to comply with regulatory, 
legislative and corporate social 
responsibility requirements in the 
legal jurisdictions where Thomas 
Cook operates.
 > We have a dedicated Legal Team to ensure full compliance with formal 
regulatory requirements which monitors all current and emerging 
regulatory developments in our source markets. The team receives 
regular training to provide awareness of critical changes in relevant 
legislation or case law.
 > Our Code of Conduct is backed by a comprehensive training programme 
to ensure that it is fully embedded across the Group.
 > Our Legal Risk Database enables communication and timely analysis 
of all risks related to regulatory, legislative and corporate social 
responsibility requirements.
Instilling values and positively 
influencing all of our key 
stakeholders.
* Principal risk with a direct link to the viability statement.  60 STRATEGIC REPORT
PEOPLE
ENGAGEMENT SURVEY
Change within Thomas Cook continues at pace. During these times, 
feedback is more important than ever so each year we ask employees 
to tell us how we are performing as a company and an employer. 
In September 2015, we ran our third annual Group-wide employee 
engagement survey – Every Voice. 
More than three-quarters of our people completed the survey 
(76%) this year, a one percentage point increase on last year, 
with almost 7,500 comments shared with us and read by Peter 
Fankhauser. This volume of responses tells us that our people want 
to contribute to the development of the Company and be part of our 
positive change.
The Group’s overall Core Index score, which is a measure of employee 
engagement with the Company, improved by four percentage points 
to 72% with a positive shift in most geographical segments and 
business functions. This follows a four percentage point increase 
in 2014, so a clear pattern of year-on-year improvement. 
One of our biggest improvements this year was the understanding 
and engagement with the Company’s Strategy and Objectives, which 
improved by six percentage points to 72%. This is excellent progress 
and a clear indicator that we are taking our people with us in our 
journey and that they have a better understanding of where we’re 
going and what we need to achieve together. 
Results are cascaded throughout the organisation and action 
plans are developed collaboratively at a segment and departmental 
level to ensure that we act upon the findings and that our people 
feel involved and engaged in making a positive difference.
RECOGNISING PERFORMANCE
Improving our business performance and driving profitable growth 
requires focus, commitment and engagement from our people. 
Strategic objectives are cascaded down through the organisation 
to drive successful execution and provide focus through effective 
use of personal objectives.
Embedding a high performance culture is enabled by our 
Group-wide online performance and development system, MyPAD 
(My Performance, Aspirations, Development). During 2015, we have 
enhanced MyPAD from a user perspective and have continued to 
develop our leaders and managers to ensure effective review 
meetings take place at least twice a year.
We have continued throughout 2015 to place great emphasis on pay 
for performance through our employee incentive plans. These plans 
provide our employees with awareness on how their performance 
impacts on the success of the Company.
Having the right people, in the right roles, focused on the right 
priorities is key to the execution of our profitable growth strategy; 
both in terms of supporting our New Operating Model and to ensure 
that we keep our customers at the heart of all we do. Embedding a 
high performing and customer centric culture is pivotal to drive the 
change we need to see and remains a key focus as we aspire to be 
the world’s best-loved holiday company. 
VALUES AND WAYS OF WORKING
Our Code of Conduct expresses our core values and beliefs – what 
we do and who we are. These principles provide a solid and unified 
framework across the Group, guiding our behaviours and how 
we conduct ourselves at work. Awareness is raised through the 
induction process and as part of annual performance reviews, when 
employees are asked to remind themselves of the Code and confirm 
they have read and understood how it applies to their role and what 
we can expect of each other. 
COMMUNICATING AND ENGAGING WITH 
OUR EMPLOYEES
Regular, effective, two-way communication and collaboration is 
important at any time, but never more so than during transformation 
and change. Employee engagement is driven through understanding 
and we target different employee groups through a number of 
communication forums and channels:
 > Our Thomas Cook Leadership Council (“TCLC”) comprises our top 
150 senior leaders and is used as a forum for informing, engaging 
and involving our leaders in our transformation. The TCLC meets 
two to three times a year and the sessions, which are increasingly 
participative and collaborative, are designed around strategy 
execution, planning and calls to action as we move forward with 
our New Operating Model. Feedback tells us that these sessions 
inspire and engage members, providing a forum for alignment 
of strategic goals and sharing best practice. 
 > Regular digital communications and face-to-face all employee 
“town halls” take place across all parts of the Group, hosted by 
the local leadership, where plans and progress are discussed. 
Participation and feedback is encouraged to ensure communication 
is two-way.
 > Our collaborative intranet, “HeartBeat”, launched in 2014 and has 
been revamped during 2015 to support our changing organisation, 
and to increase and improve collaboration across the Group. 
The new attractive and vibrant site encourages our people to work 
together, collaborate and share. It provides a channel for socialising 
as well as sharing important news and information consistently 
through a variety of digital methods including news articles, blogs, 
and videos.
INSPIRING AND 
DEVELOPING OUR TALENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
61 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Our Apprenticeship programme makes brilliant career opportunities 
available to school leavers by opening doors to a hugely exciting 
industry with enough variation to fill their entire career if they 
so choose. 
Within Thomas Cook Germany we continue to invest in internships 
and apprenticeships. During the year, we gave 120 interns their first 
experiences of working in the travel industry through our university 
programme “Talent Circle”. During 2015, 26 people joined us, moving 
from our dual education programme into our travel agencies and 
our German Head Office, They will finish their apprenticeship after 
three years with a Chamber of Commerce certificate or a Bachelor’s 
degree. We are really proud of the 80 apprentices we have on 
board. This brings our total number of internships to over 200 from 
different universities, many of them remaining with Thomas Cook 
after completing their studies. For the dual education programme, we 
recruit nearly 70% into our business. All of them are well educated, 
highly motivated and committed to Thomas Cook. Both programmes 
are a valuable investment in Thomas Cook’s future.
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 
As a global organisation our focus on delivering world class customer 
service is supported by a strong customer centric, international 
culture with diverse and mobile leaders. We believe diversity can 
open up new ways of thinking, will help us reach out to be closer 
to all of our customers and will drive profitable growth. 
We continue to focus on making strategic appointments at a senior 
level to strengthen our diversity. Our Code of Conduct, Values, 
Leadership Behaviours and recruitment and selection practices 
ensure we treat people fairly and free from any discrimination.
To support this further we launched Group-wide Diversity Principles in 
2015. We are committed to creating an inclusive working environment 
in which each employee is able to fulfil their potential and maximise 
their contribution through training, career development and fair 
promotion regardless of personal characteristics.
The graphs below show the split at different levels within the 
organisation as at 30 September 2015:
We remain committed to operating a performance share plan 
for our executives and senior leaders across the Group, who can 
impact and influence results, aligning their interests with those 
of our Shareholders. 
We reward and celebrate employee successes through “From The 
Heart”, our online recognition scheme, which is underpinned by our 
Group values.
TALENT DEVELOPMENT AND 
SUCCESSION PLANNING
We continue to strengthen our leadership capability by attracting 
high-quality talent via external appointments and by developing 
our internal capability. In 2015, we conducted our first Group-wide 
Talent and Succession Review using a consistent methodology and 
approach, holding separate sessions with our Group Management 
Committee (“GMC”) and PLC Board. This process has enabled us to gain 
a better understanding of our talent pools deeper in the organisation 
and strengthen our leadership pipeline. We have delivered our second 
Executive Development programme for a further 50 senior leaders 
during 2015. 
Our Emerging Talent programme focuses on fast tracking newly 
identified talent to create a leadership pipeline for senior roles, 
and we will deliver two aspects of this programme in 2016.
APPRENTICESHIPS
In the UK, we are proud to achieve an “Outstanding” rating across 
all areas in the recent Ofsted inspection of our Retail Apprenticeship 
programme. This unprecedented result in travel apprenticeships puts 
the Company at the forefront of UK businesses recognised for an 
incredibly successful work-based learning Apprenticeship programme 
for school leavers. Each year, more than 200 new school leavers are 
introduced into the business to complete a two-year programme 
which leads to an NVQ Diploma in Travel Services; a Technical 
Certificate in Travel Geography and Functional Skills Qualification 
in Maths and English. 
 
                                    
GENDER DIVERSITY
Male
Female
Male
Female
Male
Female
Male
Female
Plc Board GMC TCLC TC Group
92
%
8
%
77 
%
23
%
31
%
69
%
63
%
38
% 62 STRATEGIC REPORT
SUSTAINABILITY AT OUR HEART
CONTINUING THE 
TRANSFORMATION
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PLANET PEOPLE OVERVIEW
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY
Thomas Cook provides boundless opportunities for people to enjoy 
new experiences, discover new cultures and create fantastic 
memories. We believe that responsible tourism is capable of 
generating positive economic and social development whilst 
minimising environmental impact. At Thomas Cook, we are committed 
to making all holidays more sustainable. 
Our vision for sustainability is simple. For us it is how we meet 
our needs today and contribute to the future of our business, the 
environment and the people and communities with whom we work. 
In this way we aim to create a strong and robust business that will 
operate responsibly, generating benefit for the communities with 
which we work over the longer term.
HOW WE MANAGE SUSTAINABILITY
We see sustainability as the responsibility of every employee and an 
activity that requires strong leadership, beginning with the Group 
CEO Peter Fankhauser. The Board retains responsibility for the long-
term success of the Group and the Health, Safety & Environmental 
Committee has oversight of the consistent policy for managing health, 
safety and environmental matters. The Committee met four times 
during the year and information on activities of the Committee during 
the year can be found on page 83.
OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
We recognise that the sustainability landscape has changed 
dramatically since our last sustainability strategy was launched 
in 2010. This, along with the changing role of the travel and tourism 
industry and social and geopolitical changes since 2010 have 
prompted us to review how we manage sustainability and our 
long-term ambitions.
In 2015, Thomas Cook undertook a materiality review, to reassess 
both what is important to the business and stakeholders, as 
well as what the main impacts and risk areas were in respect 
of sustainability. This review gave a new perspective to what the 
material impacts are for Thomas Cook as an organisation and now 
drives our efforts to deliver the most benefit to the communities 
with which we work and to reduce our environmental impact.
Sustainability at Thomas Cook is now split into three focus areas: 
People, Planet and Responsible Business. Each of these areas 
is explored over the following pages and further detail can be 
found in our 2015 Sustainability Report, which is available at 
thomascookgroup.com/sustainability.
COMMITTED TO MAKING TOURISM 
MORE SUSTAINABLE
 
View and download the full Sustainability report here: thomascookgroup.com/sustainability-report
FULL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
63 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Thomas Cook has a long tradition of social commitment and 
charitable activity. We work to create thriving communities where 
our employees live and work, as well as where our customers travel. 
By collaborating with industry partners, supporting destinations and 
investing in communities, we are ensuring a high-quality service for 
residents and visitors alike.
Our Code of Conduct covers all values material to our business, 
including how we operate sustainably by engaging with the 
communities in which we work and to which our customers travel, 
through to protecting the children who travel with us, and live in 
the destinations we operate in. The Code of Conduct represents a 
commitment we each make and a philosophy that is embedded within 
every aspect of our behaviours and fundamental to how we deliver 
holidays to our customers in a responsible way.
Child safety and protection is an important issue for our business 
and we remain fully committed to the UN Convention on the Rights of 
the Child. We believe it is our responsibility to promote and safeguard 
children’s welfare and are committed to “The Code” (an industry-
driven international code of conduct). The Thomas Cook Children’s 
Charity aims to improve children’s lives by working with partner 
organisations. Its remit gives particular emphasis to the provision 
of safe clean drinking water, improving education, well-being and 
healthcare facilities. The Thomas Cook Children’s Charity has raised 
over £5 million in the last five years through customer donations, 
payroll giving and staff fundraising initiatives. It engages staff at all 
levels and covers all activities, no matter how small or big, to create 
benefits for their local communities.
During the year, the Company also established the Safer Tourism 
Foundation, which aims to improve the safety of holiday makers 
travelling abroad with a particular focus on the dangers of carbon 
monoxide. The Company agreed to underwrite the first £1,000,000 to 
be raised for the Safer Tourism Foundation and acknowledges the 
kind donation of its former CEO, Harriet Green, of 580,375 Ordinary 
Shares in the Company to support the Safer Tourism Foundation as 
part of that initial £1,000,000 fundraising.
MANAGING HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACTS
We understand Thomas Cook’s business impacts individuals and 
communities around the world. Thomas Cook operates a Human 
Rights policy across all operations and we are working with NGOs and 
other partners within the tourism industry to better understand and 
mitigate our impacts upon individuals and communities.
Thomas Cook Group is committed to ensuring that there is no slavery 
or human trafficking in its business or supply chain. To this end, we 
will be undertaking a review of our existing supply chains and putting 
in place appropriate measures to ensure transparency in our supply 
chain in line with the Modern Slavery Act 2015. 
PEOPLE 2020 TARGETS 
» We will engage and 
support our employees 
and the communities 
where we live 
and work.«
We aim to:
Destination Communities 
 > Support at least one sustainable community project in each 
of the main regions we operate in
Home Communities 
 > Conduct at least three local community projects around key 
Head Office locations
Child Protection 
 > Implement the Group Child Protection strategy
Supply chain 
 > Get 90% of our suppliers (including central purchasing, 
hotel contracting and agency contracting) to sign up to 
and comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct
PEOPLE 64 STRATEGIC REPORT
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED
The environmental impact of the travel industry is considerable, with 
around 5% of all global carbon emissions coming from the travel and 
tourism sector.
At Thomas Cook, we run one of the most efficient airlines in the 
industry, with only 71.5g CO 2 per passenger kilometre, compared 
with an average for the five largest European airlines of 93.11g CO 2 
per passenger kilometre. We are working to make our airline more 
efficient, and collaborating with the rest of the airline industry to 
share best practice. We are also investing in the next generation 
of aircraft to provide better performance and customer experience. 
We work with and support the International Civil Aviation 
Organisation, whose aim is to produce a successor to the EU 
Emissions Trading Scheme by 2020.
In 2015, we have continued to invest in our airline fleet, with a full 
refresh of the interiors of the vast majority of our existing planes as 
well as the purchase of new aircraft. Each of our upgraded aircraft 
delivers greater comfort and a superior experience for passengers, 
whilst reducing weight to achieve greater fuel efficiency.
Our efforts to reduce our environmental impact go beyond reducing 
fuel usage and carbon emissions. We also work hard to reduce the 
use of water in our facilities around the world, to use sustainable 
products and materials wherever possible, to reduce our production 
of waste and to produce our own renewable energy, such as our 
extensive solar PV panel installation at Copenhagen airport. We work 
with colleagues across the tourism and airline industry to make the 
most of technological developments to decrease energy use and to 
share best practice.
Greenhouse gas emissions
2015  
Tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
2014  
Tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
Total Scope 1 – Direct emissions 4,013,671 3,969,957
Total Scope 2 – Indirect emissions 22,172 32,539
Total emissions 4,035,843 4,002,496
Total emissions/£million turnover 0.00054 0.00043
We have reported on all the emission sources required under 
the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic report and Directors’ reports) 
Regulations 2013. These sources fall within our consolidated financial 
statements. We only have responsibility for the emission sources that 
are included in our consolidated financial statements. 
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard (revised edition), data from EU Emission Trading Scheme and 
emission factors from the UK Government GHG Conversion Factors 
Guidance 2015. 
PLANET 2020 TARGETS 
» We will protect and 
conserve the planet’s 
natural resources.«
We aim to:
Offices/Retail 
 > Reduce electricity consumption by 60%
 > Obtain 50% of our electricity from renewable sources
 > Reduce paper usage by 60%
 > Purchase all of our paper from sustainable sources
Hotels
 > Implement a local sourcing policy for food and beverages 
at all own-brand hotels
Airlines
 > Reduce on-board waste
 > Achieve a 12% increase in fuel efficiency, as compared 
to 2008
PLANET FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
65 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Sustainability is driving and shaping our new culture and is at the 
heart of our customer-centric long-term strategy. For us this means 
having the best people, products and processes in place to create 
and sustain a thriving business.
This means we need to examine every part of our operations, 
to deliver financial, social and environmental progress. 
LOCAL ECONOMIC IMPACT
Two years ago we launched an exciting range of excursions so 
that customers could immerse themselves in the culture of a 
destination and create lasting memories of their holiday. These Local 
Label excursions are designed to bring a place, its people and their 
traditions to life: celebrating authentic food and drink, sharing 
personal stories with local people, and contributing to the protection 
of ancient sites or natural habitats. Local Label excursions are a 
key tool in helping us promote local employment and economic 
development in-destination and ensuring that the benefit of tourism 
is experienced by local communities.
ANIMAL WELFARE
Our customers demonstrate strong demand for visits to animal 
attractions and wildlife-viewing opportunities whilst on holiday. 
We recognise that these activities can have a positive socio-economic 
benefit and can help to promote biodiversity and education initiatives. 
We are also acutely aware of the welfare of animals impacted by 
tourism. Our Group Animal Welfare Policy commits us to upholding 
minimum standards of welfare for animals whose lives are impacted 
by tourism, and to protecting animals from neglect and cruelty. 
We work closely with the UK’s travel industry association, ABTA, 
other industry partners and animal welfare NGOs worldwide to 
reduce the negative impact on animals.
We continue to address animal welfare in our supply chain with 
a view to reducing the animal-related activities offered in each 
destination. By focusing on a select number of animal attractions, 
we can have greater oversight to ensure each product is more 
enjoyable for customers as well as having a positive impact on 
animal welfare and local development. 
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 2020 TARGETS 
» We will bring cost 
savings through 
resource reductions 
in order to create 
long-term value.«
We aim to:
Destinations
 > Have at least one Local Label excursion in every 
staffed destination
Hotels
 > Have at least 20% of our customers stay in accommodation 
certified with a GSTC recognised sustainability certification
 > Reduce water volumes to an average of 350 litres per guest 
per night at all Concept hotel accommodation
 > Reduce electricity consumption measured per customer 
at all Concept hotel accommodation
Customers 
 > Be recognised as green and responsible business by 
our customers
 > To measure and improve our hotel & accommodation and 
health & safety independent audit performance scores
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 67
 
governance
CREATING STRONG FOUNDATIONS 68 GOVERNANCE
CHAIRMAN’S GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
FRANK MEYSMAN  
CHAIRMAN
 »We intend to achieve 
market best practice 
standards for 
compliance across all 
areas of our business.«  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
69 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
support the Company on its transformation journey, and help to 
handle and overcome any future challenges. We held an internal 
review of our Board’s performance this year and continue to keep 
the composition of the Board under close review. 
We continue to adapt our internal governance policies and procedures 
to ensure that decision making best reflects the improvements in 
our organisational structure and ways of working, as they evolve 
and change through the execution of our strategy. The Board fully 
supports the New Operating Model being introduced by Peter and 
his Management Team. Further details of these changes are provided 
on page 78.
In recognition of our core value of keeping our customers at our heart 
in everything we do, the Board undertook a number of activities 
during the year to enhance their understanding of and exposure to 
the customer experience. The Board experienced various stages of 
the customer journey and spent more time than in any previous year 
getting to know our products and our people. I received extremely 
positive feedback from my colleagues on the Board and also many 
of our people who contributed to the experience for us. Given this 
success, we intend to hold similar activities over the course of the 
next year.
I am pleased with the progress we have made in respect of 
governance this year, but at the same time recognise that we cannot 
be complacent. I will continue to work with the Board and Group 
Company Secretary to ensure continuous improvements are made 
in this important area and a compliance culture is embedded across 
the Thomas Cook Group, reflecting the standard of behaviours and 
decision making expected of us. We intend to achieve market best 
practice standards for compliance across all areas of our business 
and to demonstrate this culture through the behaviours of each and 
every one of our employees.
FRANK MEYSMAN  
CHAIRMAN
24 November 2015
Dear Shareholder
Good corporate governance is crucial in creating a strong foundation 
from which our Company can operate and the following report sets 
out the key governance activities we have undertaken over the 
course of the last year.
The Board oversaw the successful transition to our new Group 
CEO Peter Fankhauser. As we embark on the next stage of our 
transformation and strategy execution, it is essential that we have 
a Board equipped with the right motivation, skills and experience 
to succeed and to ensure that the entire Group develops and 
delivers together. 
We identified Peter during the succession planning process as an 
extremely capable successor to Harriet Green and felt that Peter’s 
proven track record in the Thomas Cook UK business, together with 
his extensive knowledge and experience of the travel industry, made 
him the right choice to take the Company into the next stage of the 
transformation. The increased responsibilities that Peter took on in 
his role as Group COO served to prepare him for a smooth transition 
into the role of Group CEO. Peter is now leading the transformation 
and execution of our strategy, which focuses on profitable growth, 
by providing our customers with a broad range of high-quality 
differentiated and flexible holiday experiences, backed up by world-
class customer service. Recognising that the hotel and flight is key to 
any holiday experience, we are putting our own portfolio of controlled 
hotels and flights at the centre of our customer proposition, 
complemented by a broad range of products supplied by third-parties.
We recognise that succession planning is an ongoing process 
and therefore in July the Board oversaw a Group-wide talent and 
succession review, covering the most critical 130 roles in the 
Company. The review identified both talented individuals to be 
developed and any gaps in our succession planning that need to be 
addressed, which will enable us to ensure the continuation of high-
calibre senior management and Board for the Thomas Cook Group.
This year has seen additional change at the Board level, as Carl 
Symon, our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, stepped 
down at the end of the year. I am delighted that Dawn Airey has 
agreed to take on the position of Senior Independent Director and we 
have engaged an external search consultant to assist in recruiting 
a new Non-Executive Director. I am confident that we have a strong 
and diverse Board in place with a good mixture of high-profile 
personalities, with the right motivation, experience and skills to  70 GOVERNANCE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
         
BOARD COMPOSITION
Chairman
Independent Non-Executive Directors
Executive Directors
1
5
2
4
4
BOARD TENURE
0–3 years
>3 years
EXPERIENCE 
AND DIVERSITY
The Board is chaired by Non-Executive Chairman, 
Frank Meysman. In addition to the Chairman, 
the Board currently includes two Executive 
Directors and five Non-Executive Directors. 
Each of the committees of the Board is chaired 
by a Non-Executive Director.
1
4
8
2
6
3
7
5
9
         
5
3
GENDER DIVERSITY
Male
Female
         
3 2
1 1
1
NATIONALITY MIX OF BOARD MEMBERS
British Belgian
Swiss Dutch
Turkish FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
71 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
4. DAWN AIREY
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR  
AND SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
Appointment: April 2010  
Committee memberships: Member of Health, Safety & Environmental 
Committee, Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee
Skills & experience 
Dawn Airey was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 
12 April 2010 and Senior Independent Director on 1 October 2015. She has 
over 29 years of experience in the media industry and has held senior 
positions at some of the UK’s leading media companies. She previously 
held the roles of Senior Vice President of Yahoo! EMEA, and President of 
CLT-UFA UK Television Limited within the RTL Group. Prior to this, she was 
Chair and Chief Executive Officer of Five TV, after joining the company 
from her role as Managing Director, Global Content at ITV plc. Between 
2004 and 2008, she was also a Non-Executive Director of easyJet plc. 
Other appointments 
Chief Executive Officer of Getty Images and Chair of the National 
Youth Theatre.
5. ANNET ARIS
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Appointment: July 2014  
Committee memberships: Member of Health, Safety & Environmental 
Committee and Remuneration Committee
Skills & experience 
Annet Aris was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director 
on 1 July 2014. She is Adjunct Professor of Strategy at INSEAD in France, 
a position she has held since 2003, where her focus is on the digital 
transformation of industries and companies. Before that she was a 
partner of McKinsey & Company in Germany where she was one of the 
leaders of its Travel and Transportation, and later, its Media practice.
Other appointments 
Various non-executive roles in Germany, the Netherlands and Finland, 
including: Board member and Chair of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees of ASR Netherlands N.V.; Board member of Jungheinrich AG; 
Board member and member of the Audit and Compensation Committees 
of ProSiebenSat1 AG; and Board member of the Technology and Strategy 
Committee and the Remuneration Committee of ASML N.V.
1. FRANK MEYSMAN
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
Appointment: October 2011  
Committee memberships: Chairman of Nominations Committee
Skills & experience
Frank Meysman was appointed Chairman Designate of the Company on 
1 October 2011 and became Chairman on 1 December 2011. He enjoyed a 
successful executive career in dynamic global brand companies, including 
Procter & Gamble between 1977 and 1986, Douwe Egberts between 1986 
and 1990, and the Sara Lee Corporation between 1990 and 2003 where, 
from 1997, he was Executive Vice President and a member of the Board of 
Directors. Since leaving Sara Lee, Frank has been a Non-Executive Director, 
including Chairman, of a number of public and private international 
companies. In April 2014 he won, as Chairman, in the “Quoted Company – 
Official List” category at the Non-Executive Director Awards 2014. 
Other appointments
Chairman of JBC N.V. He is also an Independent Representative Director 
of Picanol N.V., Warehouses De Pauw (WDP) and Spadel S.A.
2. DR PETER FANKHAUSER
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Appointment: November 2014 
Committee memberships: Member of Health, Safety & Environmental 
Committee and Nominations Committee
Skills & experience
Peter Fankhauser has held a number of senior roles in the Thomas Cook 
Group over the last 13 years. In recognition of his success in turning 
around the UK business as CEO for UK & Continental Europe, he was 
promoted to Chief Operating Officer in November 2013. Peter has over 
twenty-five years of experience in the travel market. Before joining 
Thomas Cook he was responsible for managing and growing the European 
division and overseas business of Kuoni and successfully turned around 
LTU, the third largest Tour Operator at the time, in Germany.
3. MICHAEL HEALY
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
Appointment: July 2012
Skills & experience 
Michael Healy joined the Company on 14 May 2012 and became Chief 
Financial Officer on 1 July 2012. Prior to this, he was Group Finance Director 
of Kwik Fit Group, where he played a key role in implementing a business 
development plan to reduce risk in a highly levered business. Michael has 
considerable international experience across a broad range of industries 
and was previously Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director of 
the Hong Kong-listed First Pacific Company Limited and subsequently 
Chief Financial Officer of ebookers plc. He is a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of Scotland. In March 2014, Michael won the 
accolade of “Finance Director of the Year” at both the Business Finance 
Awards and the UK Stock Market Awards. 
9_Governance_p66_p87_v68.indd   71 06/01/2016   13:09 72 GOVERNANCE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED
6. EMRE BERKIN 
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Appointment: November 2012  
Committee memberships: Chairman of Health, Safety & Environmental 
Committee, and member of Nominations Committee and 
Remuneration Committee
Skills & experience
Emre Berkin was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director 
on 1 November 2012 and was appointed as Chairman of the Health, Safety 
& Environmental Committee on 20 February 2014. He has considerable 
experience across the technology sector and international markets 
and, being based in Turkey, he has vital knowledge of one of the key 
destinations for millions of our customers. Between 1993 and 2006, 
he held a number of senior positions at Microsoft, latterly as Chairman, 
Middle East & Africa and Vice-President, Europe, Middle East & Africa, 
where he led all aspects of Microsoft’s business in 79 countries. 
Other appointments 
Non-Executive Director to a number of companies, including Pegasus 
Airlines, Turkey’s leading low-cost carrier, listed on the Istanbul Stock 
Exchange, and a broad range of technology companies.
7. WARREN TUCKER  
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Appointment: October 2013  
Committee memberships: Chairman of Remuneration Committee, 
and member of Audit Committee and Nominations Committee
Skills & experience
Warren Tucker was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director 
on 3 October 2013 and became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
on 20 February 2014. He has significant experience in the travel industry, 
international business and strategic transformations. He was, from 2003 
until May 2013, Chief Financial Officer of Cobham plc. He is a chartered 
accountant and has previously held senior finance positions at British 
Airways plc and Cable & Wireless plc and as Non-Executive Chairman of 
PayPoint plc.
Other appointments
Non-Executive Director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc. Independent 
Non-Executive Director, Chair of the Audit Committee and member of the 
Compliance Committee of Survitec Limited. Independent Non-Executive 
Director and Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee of the UK Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office.
8. MARTINE VERLUYTEN
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Appointment: May 2011  
Committee memberships: Chairman of Audit Committee and member  
of Nominations Committee 
Skills & experience
Martine Verluyten was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive 
Director on 9 May 2011. She has significant international financial and 
IT expertise and has held a number of senior finance positions across 
the telecommunications, electronics and materials sectors. Between 
2006 and 2011, she was Chief Financial Officer of Umicore, a Brussels-
based materials technology group, and from 2000 to 2006 she was 
Group Controller and subsequently Chief Financial Officer of the mobile 
telephone operator, Mobistar. She also held the position of Chair to the 
Audit Committee of the Flemish Region in Belgium.
Other appointments 
Non-Executive Director of 3i Group plc, Supervisory Board member and 
chair of the Audit Committee of STMicroelectronics N.V. and Independent 
Director of Group Bruxelles Lambert. 
9. ALICE MARSDEN
GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY 
Appointment: September 2015 
Skills & experience 
Alice Marsden joined the Company in January 2014 as Group Senior Legal 
Counsel and has since taken on the roles of Group Company Secretary 
(from September 2015) and Head of Legal for the UK&I and Group. Prior to 
joining the Company, Alice was a senior associate at Latham & Watkins, 
a top tier global law firm. During her time at Latham & Watkins, Alice 
provided external legal support to the Thomas Cook Group and gained 
valuable business experience during a client secondment to a leading 
investment company in the UAE.
9_Governance_p66_p87_v68.indd   72 06/01/2016   13:09 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
73 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD
The Board is specifically responsible for:
 > guiding the Group’s strategic aims, leading to its approval of 
the Group’s strategy and its budgetary and business plans; 
 > approval of significant investments and capital expenditure; 
 > approval of annual, half-year, and quarterly results 
announcements, accounting policies and, subject to 
Shareholder approval, the appointment and remuneration 
of the external auditors; 
 > approval of the Group’s dividend policy and the payment of interim 
and the recommendation of final dividends; 
 > changes to the Group’s capital structure and the issue of 
any securities; 
 > establishing and maintaining the Group’s risk appetite, system 
of internal control, governance and approval authorities; 
 > monitoring executive performance and succession planning; and 
 > reviewing standards of ethics and policy in relation to health, 
safety, environment, social and community responsibilities.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE CODE 
This report sets out how the Company applied the principles of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”) and the extent to 
which the Company complied with the provisions of the Code in the 
year to 30 September 2015. Throughout the year the Company fully 
complied with the provisions of the Code, except for a period between 
1 October 2014 and 31 December 2014, in respect of Provision B.3.3, in 
relation to Executive Directors taking on more than one non-executive 
directorship in a FTSE 100 company (the Code can be read in full at 
www.frc.org.uk). 
Whist serving as Chief Executive Officer, Harriet Green also served 
as a Non-Executive Director of BAE Systems plc and Emerson Electric 
Co. Both roles were held prior to Harriet’s appointment as CEO. On her 
appointment, the Board agreed that she should continue to serve 
on both boards, being satisfied that she would devote sufficient 
time and energy to the Company and that being a Non-Executive 
Director was of mutual benefit to both Harriet and the Company. 
Following Harriet’s departure from the Board on 31 December 2014, 
the Company is now compliant in respect of this provision.
THE GROUP’S BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY 
The Group’s business model and strategy are summarised on pages 
19 to 33 of the Strategic report. 
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Group and 
for ensuring that there is a framework of effective controls, which 
enables risk to be assessed and managed. At each Board meeting, 
the CEO presents a comprehensive update on the transformation, 
strategy and business issues across the Group and the CFO presents 
a detailed analysis of the financial performance, both at Group 
and segment level. Senior executives below Board level attend 
relevant parts of Board and Committee meetings in order to make 
presentations on their areas of responsibility. This gives the Board 
access to a broader group of executives and helps the Directors make 
assessments of the Group’s succession plans.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 74 GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED
BOARD MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE 
The table below shows the attendance record of the individual 
Directors at scheduled Board meetings and relevant Committee 
meetings. In addition to the scheduled meetings set out below, the 
Directors also attended several unscheduled Board and Committee 
meetings, in respect of business matters that the Chairman and 
CEO decided should be considered by the Board or relevant Committee 
prior to the next scheduled meeting.
The Chairman and each Non-Executive Director have provided 
assurance to the Board that they remain fully committed to their 
respective roles and can dedicate sufficient time to meet what 
is expected of them.
Name Board
Nominations 
Committee 
Audit 
Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee 
Health, Safety & 
Environmental 
Committee
Current Directors
Frank Meysman  6/6 2/2 – – – 
Peter Fankhauser 5/5 1/1 – – 3/3
Michael Healy 6/6 – – – – 
Dawn Airey 6/6 – – 4/4 4/4
Annet Aris 6/6 – – 4/4 3/4
Emre Berkin 6/6 2/2 – 4/4 4/4
Warren Tucker 6/6 2/2 5/5 4/4 –
Martine Verluyten 6/6 2/2 5/5 – –
Former Directors
Harriet Green* 1/1 1/1 – – 1/1
Carl Symon* 6/6 1/2 3/5 3/4 –
Notes:
* Harriet Green and Carl Symon resigned from the Board on 31 December 2014 and 30 September 2015 respectively.
BOARD ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR
The Board, its Committees and Management continued to focus on delivering 
the Company’s strategy for the next stage of transformation, which included 
the development of the New Operating Model. In pursuit of the Company’s 
strategic goals, the Board considered and approved entering into the strategic 
partnership with Fosun and the re-financing of the Company’s banking facilities 
to create a more efficient capital structure. The Board also spent time looking 
at the Company’s IT function. 
The Board held a number of unscheduled meetings where it considered matters 
in respect of the inquest and reaction to the tragic deaths of Bobby and Christi 
Shepherd whilst staying at a hotel booked through Thomas Cook in 2006. 
In response to the issues raised, the Board oversaw the appointment of 
Justin King to conduct an independent review of the Group’s customer health, 
safety, welfare and crisis management practices. The Board also received 
a number of reports and reviews on the topics of in-resort Health and Safety 
and customer complaints.
As detailed on page 76, the Board held one of its meetings in Stockholm, 
the main offices of the Northern Europe business and another in Majorca, 
which is a key destination for our customers.
The composition of the Board  
and succession planning
Risk and mitigation matters, including a review  
of the Board’s risk appetite
The effectiveness of the Board and  
its Committees
Progress and developments in respect  
of the transformation and strategy
The revised organisational structure and delegation 
of authority
Results of our employee engagement survey
The Group’s financial plan, financial  
performance and reporting
Key corporate governance developments
Feedback from institutional investors
In addition to the matters described above, the Board also reviewed the following matters: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
75 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
requirements are monitored by the Chairman, with the support of the 
Group Company Secretary, to ensure that new and recently appointed 
Directors gain sufficient knowledge about the Group to enable them 
to contribute to the Board’s deliberations as swiftly as possible. 
New Directors also go on a destination visit during which time they 
meet with in-destination staff and are taken through every aspect 
of the customer experience. The induction content and process has 
evolved significantly as we build on the experience of inducting 
each new Director. We are now using that experience for the benefit 
of our longer-serving Directors, by giving them the opportunity to 
accompany and participate in any aspect that they feel would further 
enhance their knowledge and understanding of the Group.
During the year, Peter Fankhauser was appointed as CEO. Peter had 
previously held senior roles in the Thomas Cook Group for many 
years including COO, which meant that he came to the role with 
in-depth knowledge of the business and working relationships with 
Management and the Board. Therefore, his induction activity was 
tailored to reflect this.
At Board meetings and, where appropriate, Committee meetings, 
the Directors receive updates and presentations on developments 
and changes to the business, and to the legislative and regulatory 
environments. In addition to the benefit of the training given, these 
programmes also increase the exposure of senior talent to the Board 
and gives the Board presence across the Group. Board training, 
strategy support presentations, and major business updates given 
during the year included the following topics:
 > In-resort Health and Safety and the customer experience;
 > The IT function;
 > The Northern Europe business;
 > The Airline market; and
 > Corporate Governance developments.
BOARD COMPOSITION 
As at 25 November 2015, the Board comprised the Chairman, 
two Executive Directors and five Independent Non-Executive 
Directors. Biographical details of all Directors can be found 
on pages 71 and 72 and on the Company’s corporate website 
at www.thomascookgroup.com. 
THE CHAIRMAN 
Frank Meysman was the Chairman throughout the year. The roles of 
the Chairman and CEO are separate and distinct. There is a Board-
approved Division of Responsibilities, which clearly sets out in writing 
their respective responsibilities. This document can be found on the 
Company’s corporate website at www.thomascookgroup.com.
THE SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR 
Dawn Airey took over the role of Senior Independent Director from 
Carl Symon on 1 October 2015. The Senior Independent Director is 
available to Shareholders should they have concerns that cannot 
be resolved through the normal channels involving the Executive 
Directors or the Chairman.
CHANGES TO THE BOARD 
The following changes to the Board occurred during the year:
 > Peter Fankhauser (Chief Executive Officer) was appointed on 
26 November 2014;
 > Harriet Green (Chief Executive Officer) resigned from the position 
of CEO with effect from the 26 November 2014 and resigned 
as a Director with effect from 31 December 2014; and
 > Carl Symon (Non-Executive Director) resigned with effect 
from 30 September 2015.
CHANGES TO THE COMMITTEES
In view of the changes to the membership of the Board as 
detailed above, there were also changes to the membership of 
the Committees during the year. These are detailed in the relevant 
Committee sections on pages 79, 82 and 83.
BOARD INDUCTION AND TRAINING 
An Induction programme tailored to meet the needs of individual 
Directors is provided for each new Director. Overall, the aim of 
the Induction programme is to introduce new Directors to the 
Group’s business, its operations and its governance arrangements. 
Such inductions typically include: meetings with senior management; 
visits to the Company’s business segments where the Directors 
receive a thorough briefing on the business and meet with the 
Management Team; and, the receipt of presentations on other key 
business areas and relevant documentation. Individual induction 
Emre Berkin on a Health & Safety inspection at 
the Sunprime Waterfront Hotel in Majorca. 76 GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED
RE-APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS 
In accordance with the Code and the Company’s Articles of 
Association, all Directors are subject to election by Shareholders. 
At the AGM held in February 2015, each of the Directors was submitted 
for election/re-election. The Board has agreed that the Directors 
will continue to be subject to annual election in the future. Non-
Executive Directors are initially appointed for a three-year term, 
subject to annual re-election by Shareholders, and rigorous review by 
the Nominations Committee; each Non-Executive Director can serve 
up to a maximum of three such terms. 
OPERATION OF THE BOARD 
Throughout the year, a fully encrypted electronic portal system was 
operated, which enabled Board and Committee papers to be delivered 
securely to the Directors. This enabled fast and secure distribution 
of information that was accessed using electronic tablets. 
The CEO kept the Board updated on matters affecting the business 
between meetings. 
In accordance with its Articles, the Company has granted third-party 
indemnities, to the extent permitted by law, to each Director and the 
Group Company Secretary, which were in force during the financial 
year and up to the date of signing this report. The Company also 
maintains Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance.
GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY 
The Group Company Secretary, who is appointed by the Board, is 
responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board 
on corporate governance matters as well as ensuring that there is 
a smooth flow of information to enable effective decision making. 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group 
Company Secretary and the Group General Counsel, and through 
them, have access to independent professional advice in respect 
of their duties, at the Company’s expense. The Group Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its Committees. 
During the year, Derek Woodward stepped down as Group Company 
Secretary with effect from 5 February 2015. Carolyn Gibson was 
appointed to the position on 5 February 2015 and served until 
10 September 2015 when Alice Marsden was appointed to the position. 
Biographical details of the Group Company Secretary can be found 
on page 72.
The Board has a programme for holding some of its meetings at the 
business Segments, where, in addition to its normal business, the 
Board will focus on the strategy and operations of that Segment and 
meet with local management and staff. In March 2015, the Board held 
its meeting in Stockholm, the main offices of the Northern Europe 
Business, where it received presentations on, and met management 
and staff of, that business.
In September 2015, the Board held its meeting in one of the Group’s 
key destinations – Majorca. The Board visited a number of the Group’s 
Concept and partner hotels and received tours of the facilities. 
The Board met the local destination management team, hotel owners, 
hotel management and key individuals from the local community. 
The Chairman of the Health, Safety & Environmental Committee 
also attended a demonstration of a Health and Safety audit of one 
of the Group’s hotels conducted by our third-party expert provider, 
SGS. The visit enabled the Board to gain a deeper understanding of 
the Thomas Cook customer experience which is a key focus of the 
Company’s strategy.
DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
At its September 2015 Board meeting, the Board considered the 
independence of the Non-Executive Directors against the criteria 
specified in the Code and determined that each was independent. 
DIRECTORS’ CONFLICTS OF INTEREST 
From 1 October 2008, the Companies Act codified the Directors’ duty 
to avoid a situation in which they have, or can have, an interest that 
conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company. 
A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has 
been authorised in accordance with the Articles of Association by the 
other Directors. 
The Board has established a set of guiding principles on managing 
conflicts and has agreed a process to identify and authorise conflicts. 
As part of that process, it has also agreed that the Nominations 
Committee should review the authorised conflicts every six months, 
or more frequently if a new potential conflict arises for an existing 
Director. The Nominations Committee reviews the interests of 
candidates prior to making recommendations for the appointment 
of new Directors. The Nominations Committee and Board applied the 
above principles and process throughout the year to 30 September 
2015 and confirm that these have operated effectively.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
77 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
improvement. The Board has agreed an action plan, which is being 
monitored by the Chairman, with the support of the Group Company 
Secretary, and progress reported regularly to the Board. Progress will 
be disclosed in the 2016 Governance report. 
Separately, the Non-Executive Directors, under the leadership of 
the Senior Independent Director and with input from the Executive 
Directors, conducted an evaluation of the Chairman. The outputs 
from that evaluation were debated by the Board in the absence 
of the Chairman and feedback was given to him by the Senior 
Independent Director. 
The Company’s performance management system applies 
to management at all levels across the Group. The individual 
performance of the Executive Directors is reviewed separately 
by the Chairman and the Remuneration Committee.
Outputs from 2014 evaluation Agreed action in 2014 and delivered in 2014/15
Further develop the Induction programme for newly appointed Directors to 
create a common platform of understanding of the Company’s challenges, 
assets and key performance indicators.
The existing Induction programme was developed.
The Board should continue with its ongoing visits to the business 
segments to ensure the Board develops and maintains a good knowledge 
of the businesses, is visible to the operations and has access to a broad 
group of executives.
The Board visited the head offices of the Northern Europe Business in 
Stockholm and the key destination of Majorca in 2015. More information 
on the visit can be found on page 76.
The Board should develop the right balance between challenge and 
support for the transformation work and clarifying the long-term vision 
and strategy of the Company. The aim should be to ensure that all Board 
members fully understand the ongoing transformation and the importance 
of the successful execution of each element, leading to a sustainable 
future for the Company.
The Board agreed the balance, which was built into the Board programme 
for 2015. A number of strategy presentations and discussions were 
carried out.
Outputs from 2015 evaluation Agreed action in 2015
The Board should spend further time on succession planning 
and talent review.
A Group-wide talent and Succession review was carried out and the 
results presented at the July Board meeting. More information on 
the review is given on page 61.
 The topic will form a regular item on the agenda. 
Following the development of the Non-Executive Director induction 
process, the ongoing training of Non-Executive Directors should be 
reviewed to ensure all Non-Executive Directors continue to have the 
necessary knowledge that they need to fulfil their role.
The Chairman and Group Company Secretary will review Non-Executive 
Director requirements and address any training needs.
BOARD EVALUATION 
The Board recognises the benefit of a thorough Board and Committee 
evaluation process, leading to action to improve its effectiveness.
Following the comprehensive independent external Board evaluation 
carried out in 2014, the Chairman felt that an internal evaluation 
would be appropriate and sufficient in assessing the Board’s 
effectiveness for 2015. The evaluation was conducted by the 
Group Company Secretary and took the form of a questionnaire 
which required Directors to score certain aspects of the Board’s 
performance and provide comments. The Board was also invited to 
give feedback to the Chairman verbally where desired.
The results of the evaluation were collated and analysed and 
indicated an improvement in all areas of the Board’s operation over 
the previous year, whilst making recommendations for further  78 GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED
During the year, the governance structure of the organisation 
was revised and streamlined with the introduction of the Group 
Management Committee. The new structure is designed to enable 
swift and efficient decision making under NUMO.
The schedule of matters reserved, the terms of reference of each of 
the Board’s Committees and the Division of Responsibilities between 
the Chairman and the CEO, are available on the Company’s website at 
www.thomascookgroup.com. The powers of the Directors are set out 
in the Company’s Articles of Association (which are available on the 
Company’s website). The Directors were authorised at the 2015 
AGM to allot shares equal to approximately one-third of the Company’s 
issued share capital as at 8 January 2015 or two-thirds in respect 
of a rights issue. The Directors were also given the power to allot 
Ordinary Shares for cash (up to a limit representing approximately 
5% of the Company’s issued share capital at 8 January 2015) without 
first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their 
existing holdings.
The papers in respect of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and 
Health, Safety & Environmental Committees are circulated to all the 
Non-Executive Directors, regardless of Committee membership.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
Chairman, CEO, and three 
Independent Non-Executive 
Directors who are the Chairs  
of the Audit, Remuneration  
and HSE Committees.
FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
CEO, CFO and Group General Counsel
To facilitate swift and efficient operational Management decisions,  
the Committee has delegated authority within clearly identified parameters  
in relation to day-to-day financing and administrative matters. A schedule  
of decisions taken by the Committee is reported to the next Board Meeting.
GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Functional and Segment leaders
Meets on a monthly basis to consider and approve key business matters, including matters exceeding the delegated authority of the CEO and his  
direct reports. The GMC is also responsible for cascading information to the Thomas Cook Leadership Council (“TCLC”) and engages in Risk and Audit  
monitoring of the business. Further information of the role of TCLC can be found on page 60.
DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE
CEO, appointed as Chairman, CFO, Group General Counsel and  
Group Company Secretary. Other attendees include senior managers  
from Group Finance and Investor Relations.
The Committee meets regularly during the year to consider the Group’s 
disclosure obligations and to review all results announcements  
prior to release. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Three Independent  
Non-Executive Directors.
THE BOARD AND ITS PRIMARY COMMITTEES
BOARD
Chairman, CEO, CFO and five  
Non-Executive Directors.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval and has a formal structure of delegated authority, whereby specified 
aspects of management and control of the Group have been delegated to the CEO, and the Board’s Committees. In addition, the Board  
has agreed the terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations, Disclosure, and Health, Safety & Environmental Committees  
and the Division of Responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Four Independent  
Non-Executive Directors.
HEALTH, SAFETY  
& ENVIRONMENTAL 
COMMITTEE
CEO and three Independent  
Non-Executive Directors.
Committee report on page 79 Committee report on page 82 Committee report on page 83 Committee report on page 88 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
79 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Chairman 
Martine Verluyten*
Scheduled Meetings 
Five
Other members
Warren Tucker* 
Dawn Airey 
Directors’ biographies 
On pages 70 to 72 
Meetings also regularly attended by: 
The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors, Peter Fankhauser 
(CEO), Michael Healy (CFO), Craig Stoehr (Group General Counsel and Head 
of M&A), Lee Bradley (Chief Risk Officer), Alice Marsden (Group Company 
Secretary), Bill Scott (Group Financial Controller) and PwC. 
Composition of the Committee 
Carl Symon resigned from the Committee on 30 September 2015. Dawn 
Airey was appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 October 2015.
Committee activities
The Committee reviewed:
Financial:
 > The full and half-year results (including accounting issues and 
judgements) and the quarterly results statements issued during 
the year; and the processes underpinning the preparation of those 
documents
 > Information in support of the statements in relation to going concern, 
viability, fair, balanced and understandable presentation, and disclosure 
of information to the auditors
 > The annual work plan for each of the internal and external auditors
Governance:
 > The Committee’s own work plan for the year and a review of historic 
activity against the Committee’s terms of reference
 > The effectiveness of the Group Enterprise Risk and Audit function
 > The effectiveness of the external audit process
 > The Group’s compliance programmes
 > The Company’s internal financial controls
 > The Group’s Viability Statement
 *  Martine Verluyten and Warren Tucker are considered by the Board to have recent and relevant 
financial experience, as required by the Code. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE 
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for 
overseeing the financial reporting, internal risk management and 
control functions and for making recommendations to the Board 
in relation to the appointment of the Company’s internal and 
external auditors. 
The Committee, which reports its findings to the Board, 
is authorised to: 
 > monitor the integrity of the annual and half-year results and 
quarterly results statements, including a review of the significant 
financial reporting judgements contained in them; 
 > review the Company’s internal financial controls and internal control 
and risk management systems; 
 > monitor and review the effectiveness of the Company’s internal 
audit function; 
 > establish and oversee the Company’s relationship with its external 
auditors, including the monitoring of their independence; and
 > monitor matters raised pursuant to the Company’s 
whistleblowing arrangements.
To enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively, 
the Committee receives information and support from management 
across the business. The terms of reference of the Committee are 
available at www.thomascookgroup.com or from the Group Company 
Secretary at the registered office.  80 GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR 
The main focus of the Audit Committee during the year has been to 
support and oversee the continuing improvement, led by executive 
management, of the Group’s risk management and internal control 
arrangements. In that regard, the Committee has reviewed and 
commented on regular risk and audit reports prepared by the 
Chief Risk Officer (see below), which summarised matters for the 
Committee’s attention. In addition, the Committee received formal 
reports from Group Finance which set out the principal accounting 
and disclosure matters for the Committee’s consideration before 
approving the Group half-year and full year results announcements. 
These activities, together with regular reports from the external 
auditors, have supported the Audit Committee in providing its advice 
to the Board in respect of the effectiveness of internal control (see 
section headed “Risk management and internal control” on page 84. 
The Committee has noted enhancements in risk management 
capability supported by a greater risk awareness and culture 
embedded throughout the Group.
The Committee is supported in its work by the Risk Matters Group, 
which is comprised of relevant representatives of the Senior 
Management Team and the Chairman of the Audit Committee. At the 
end of two of its meetings during the year, the Committee (and also 
those Non-Executive Directors who are not on the Committee) met 
with the Chief Risk Officer and the external auditors in the absence 
of management.
LEE BRADLEY 
CHIEF RISK OFFICER
Responsibilities: 
Managing the Risk Management, Health and Safety, Security and Internal 
Audit functions, Lee reports to the Chair of the Audit Committee and the 
Chair of the Health and Safety Committee. 
Skills and experience: 
Lee joined Thomas Cook in 2012 and brought with him a deep knowledge 
and extensive experience of embedding the culture and practices 
of sound risk management, gained from working in numerous listed 
companies operating in multiple sectors. Lee has previously worked for 
Manchester Airport PLC, Kwik Fit Group and Thames Water PLC.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR
Non-Audit fees
The current policy requires all material non-audit work carried out 
by the external auditors to be pre-authorised by the Committee 
in order to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does 
not impair the external auditors’ independence or objectivity. 
The policy, which is appended as a schedule to the Audit Committee’s 
terms of reference, is published on the Company’s website at 
www.thomascookgroup.com. An analysis of the fees earned by 
the Group’s auditors for audit and non-audit services is disclosed 
in Note 6 to the financial statements. 
Effectiveness and Independence
PwC were appointed as the sole auditors to the Group in 2008 and 
since that date have complied with the partner rotation requirement 
set out in the Ethical Standards for auditors; Paul Cragg, a Partner 
of PwC, was appointed Senior Statutory Auditor in February 2013. 
PwC were re-appointed as the Company’s auditors by Shareholders 
at the AGM held on 23 February 2015. PwC have confirmed their 
independence as auditors of the Company in a letter addressed 
to the Directors.
In November each year, the Audit Committee reviews the 
effectiveness of the external audit process. This includes reviewing 
comprehensive papers from both Management and the external 
auditors, which set out the planning and execution of the conduct 
of the audit. The Audit Committee holds a meeting with the external 
auditors in the absence of Management to discuss further. Upon the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee, PwC will be proposed for 
re-election by Shareholders at the AGM to be held on 23 February 
2016. In reaching its decision to propose PwC for re-election, the Audit 
Committee took into account the effectiveness of the external audit 
process, the length of tenure of PwC as auditors and the objectivity 
and independence of the external auditor. The Company intends to 
carry out a formal tender process for the audit of the financial year 
ending 30 September 2017.
9_Governance_p66_p87_v68.indd   80 06/01/2016   13:09 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
81 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES
The Committee is authorised to monitor the integrity of the annual, 
half-year results and quarterly results statements, including a 
review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained 
in them. In May and November each year, the Committee reviews 
a comprehensive paper prepared by the Group Financial Controller, 
which set out the Group’s accounting policies and basis of preparation. 
In this context the Committee considers the following areas:
 > key disclosure considerations, including going concern and the 
viability statement;
 > separately disclosed items and like-for-like analysis;
 > matters arising in the preparation of the Group accounts; and
 > the impact of new accounting developments. 
The Audit Committee also reviewed a paper prepared by the external 
auditors, which included significant reporting and accounting 
matters. Both papers were reviewed and discussed by the Audit 
Committee. The Committee pays particular attention to matters that 
it considers to be important by virtue of their impact on the Group 
results and remuneration of senior management, or the level of 
complexity, judgement or estimation in their application in preparation 
of the Group’s financial statements. The significant issues considered 
by the Audit Committee are shown in the table below: 
Significant issues in relation to the financial statements 
considered by the Committee
How the issue was addressed by the Committee
Going Concern and Viability: Consideration of longer-term viability 
through assessment of ongoing solvency of liquidity.
The Committee considered papers prepared by Management and concluded 
that Management’s recommendation to prepare accounts on a going 
concern basis was appropriate.
Impairment and deferred tax: In view of the Group’s losses in recent 
years, the Committee considered whether there was a need to impair 
certain asset values, including goodwill and the reasonableness of the 
Group’s recognition of deferred tax assets. 
The Committee considered a paper presenting Management’s intended 
approach and having taken input from the auditors, agreed with 
Management’s proposals.
Separately disclosed items: The Group has an established policy of 
separately disclosing items that are either exceptional or detract from 
the reader’s understanding of the underlying performance of the Group. 
The Committee considered Management’s presentation of separately 
disclosed items and in particular items relating to the Group’s 
transformation and certain non-cash finance allocations. Having 
considered the matter, the Committee agreed to adopt Management’s 
proposed presentation.
New Operating Model (NUMO): The structural changes envisaged to the 
Group’s Tour Operator businesses by NUMO are significant, with costs 
required to implement the new model.
The Committee reviewed the principal areas impacted by NUMO and 
the related accounting treatment for costs incurred as part of the 
structural changes.
Aircraft leases and maintenance provisions: The Group has significant 
liabilities in respect of aircraft leases and related maintenance obligations. 
Accounting treatment in this area can be subjective.
The Committee considered the Group’s accounting for aircraft leases and 
maintenance provisions to ensure that the treatment is appropriate.
Control environment: The Group is currently engaged in transformation 
encompassing most aspects of its activities. The transformation requires 
evolution of several aspects of the Group’s financial reporting and control 
environment and processes. 
The Committee considered the broader risks associated with this 
transformation as well as focusing on the operation of the Group’s control 
environment during the transformation period. The Committee considered 
papers prepared by Management that highlighted the development 
requirements and plans within finance and a report by Management on 
the operation of financial and non-financial controls throughout the year.
Auditor rotation: The Group is required to comply with developing 
regulatory requirements in respect of Auditor rotation.
The Committee considered a paper prepared by Management which 
proposed a formal audit tender process commencing in December 2015. 82 GOVERNANCE
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE 
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for 
reviewing and proposing appointments to the Board and for 
recommending any other changes to the composition of the Board 
or its Committees. The principal responsibility of the Committee is 
to make recommendations to the Board on all new appointments to 
the Board, as well as Board balance and composition. The Committee 
ensures that there is clarity in respect of the role description and 
capabilities required for such appointments. The Committee is 
also responsible for reviewing, at least every six months, or more 
frequently if required, the Directors’ potential conflicts of interest and 
for making recommendations to the Board in respect of authorising 
such matters. 
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available at 
www.thomascookgroup.com or from the Group Company Secretary 
at the registered office. 
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR 
The main issue considered by the Committee was the transition to 
a new Chief Executive Officer in November 2014. Peter Fankhauser 
had previously been identified in the succession planning process 
as a suitable successor to Harriet Green. The Committee concluded 
that Peter Fankhauser had the right knowledge, skills and experience 
to take the Company through the next stage of the transformation, 
and recommended his appointment to the Board.
BOARD APPOINTMENTS POLICY 
The Board appointments policy reinforces the Board’s principle that 
appointments are made on merit, in line with its current and future 
requirements, and reflect the UK listing and international activity 
of the Group. The policy also recognises the benefits of diversity, 
including gender diversity. The appointment during the course of 
the year was in line with that policy and has reinforced the diverse 
composition of the Board. A table illustrating the diversity of the 
Board is shown on page 70. The Board endorses the aims of the 
Davies’ report entitled “Women on Boards”. The Board’s gender 
diversity at 38% female is in excess of Lord Davies’ new target of 
33%. The Chairman is a member of the 30% Club, which has the aim 
of promoting the achievement of 30% women on FTSE 100 Boards 
by the end of 2015. A copy of the Group’s Board appointments policy 
can be found on our website at www.thomascookgroup.com. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED
Chairman 
Frank Meysman 
Scheduled Meetings 
Two
Other members 
Emre Berkin, Peter Fankhauser, Warren Tucker and Martine Verluyten
Directors’ biographies 
on pages 70 to 72
Meetings also regularly attended by: 
The other Non-Executive Directors, Alice Marsden (Group Company 
Secretary) and Craig Stoehr (Group General Counsel and Head of M&A). 
Composition of the Committee 
A majority of the members of the Committee are Independent Non-
Executive Directors. Peter Fankhauser was appointed to the Committee 
on 26 November 2015. Harriet Green and Carl Symon stepped down from 
the Committee on 31 December 2014 and 30 September 2015 respectively.
Committee activities
 > Considered succession planning of Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors;
 > Considered and recommended the appointment of Peter Fankhauser 
as CEO;
 > Considered and recommended the appointment of Alice Marsden 
as Group Company Secretary;
 > Considered the re-appointment of the Directors before making a 
recommendation to the Board regarding their re-election at the 
2015 AGM;
 > Considered and recommended the re-appointment of Emre Berkin 
following completion of his initial three-year term;
 > Considered the overall composition and balance of the Board and 
engaged external search consultants to identify an individual to replace 
Carl Symon; and
 > Considered Directors’ potential conflicts of interests and independence.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
83 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE 
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility to review, 
develop and oversee consistent policy, standards and procedures 
for managing health, safety and environmental risks to the Group’s 
business. It is also responsible for the review and oversight of 
compliance with relevant legislation and regulation relating to health, 
safety and the environment across the Group. 
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available at 
www.thomascookgroup.com or from the Group Company Secretary 
at the registered office. 
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR 
During the year, customer safety was a particular focus for the 
Committee and a number of activities were undertaken to deepen the 
Committee’s knowledge and understanding in this area. In September, 
the Chairman of the Committee joined the Company’s specialist 
external third-party audit provider (“SGS”) on a Health and Safety 
inspection of one of the Group’s hotels and the Board received a 
detailed presentation on the topic. During the year, the Committee 
reviewed, monitored and oversaw a number of improvements and 
activities in this area including:
 > The evaluation of the performance of the Third-Party Audit Supplier 
(SGS) following completion of its first full year of service provision;
 > The re-organisation and continued development of the Group Health, 
Safety & Security Team to ensure the development of policy and 
procedures across the Group and provide the requisite support 
for its effective implementation;
 > The continued alignment of the Group with the technical standards 
promulgated by the Federation of Tour Operators (“FTO”);
 > The increased monitoring of transportation, accommodation and 
excursion suppliers to drive improvements in their performance 
with a view to increasing the standards customers experience; 
 > The introduction of a new electronic reporting programme 
designed to effectively report incidents and accidents enabling 
timely investigation and implementation of remedial actions 
where necessary;
 > Improving the training of the Group’s employees through the 
provision of new e-learning content; and
 > The active engagement with the FTO in responding to the European 
Commission’s Green Paper on Safety of Tourism Accommodation 
Services and making an individual submission in support of 
legislation proposed to improve safety standards across Europe.
The Committee also considered a number of matters in respect of 
employee safety and oversaw a number of developments in this 
area including the implementation of a new cloud based IT system 
to improve the monitoring of employee workplace safety.
Chairman 
Emre Berkin 
Scheduled Meetings 
Four
Other members 
Dawn Airey, Annet Aris and Peter Fankhauser
Directors’ biographies 
on pages 70 to 72
Meetings also regularly attended by: 
The other Non-Executive Directors, Lee Bradley (Chief Risk Officer), Peter 
Welsh (Group Head of Health, Safety & Security), Steve Solomon (Director, 
Group Aviation Safety, Compliance and Security), Alice Marsden (Group 
Company Secretary) and Craig Stoehr (Group General Counsel and Head 
of M&A). 
Composition of the Committee 
Harriet Green stepped down from the Committee on 31 December 2014 
and Peter Fankhauser was appointed on 26 November 2014.
Committee activities
 > Reviewed and monitored outcomes of Third-Party Audit Supplier reports
 > Reviewed customer and employee accident reports at each meeting
 > Continued development of the Group’s health and safety 
improvement plan 
 > Group Airline safety and reports from the Group Aviation Safety 
Management Board
 > Government Affairs updates
 > Sustainability updates
 > Approval of the Group’s sustainability report
HEALTH,  
SAFETY & ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE 84 GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED
SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION 
AND ENGAGEMENT 
The Board promotes open communication with shareholders. This is 
formalised within the framework of an ongoing investor relations 
programme conducted by the CEO, the CFO and the Investor Relations 
Team. The programme includes the presentation of preliminary and 
half-year results (which can be accessed on the Thomas Cook Group 
website) and a large number of meetings with existing shareholders 
and potential investors throughout the year. The Company makes 
every effort to ascertain investor perceptions of the Company and 
regular reports of investor and analyst feedback are provided to 
the Board.
During the year, both the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee had ongoing dialogue with shareholders 
in respect of Executive remuneration matters. In December 2014, 
they conducted a wide-scale engagement with a large number 
of the Company’s major institutional shareholders (representing 
approximately 64% of the Company’s share capital) and governance 
bodies to: update them in respect of matters concerning the change 
in CEO, executive remuneration and governance matters; and, to seek 
views on the Group’s proposed award to the Executive Directors 
under the Performance Share Plan in 2015. The engagement was 
supportive and constructive and the Board and the Remuneration 
Committee were briefed on the feedback from the above discussions. 
The views expressed by shareholders were taken into account 
when finalising executive remuneration arrangements. The Board 
were pleased with the overwhelming shareholder support given in 
favour of the resolutions at the 2015 AGM in respect of the Group’s 
remuneration policy and practice. 
Dawn Airey was appointed Senior Independent Director with effect 
from 1 October 2015, and will provide an additional channel through 
which shareholders can engage with the Board if they so wish.
In respect of its debt investors, the Company maintains regular 
dialogue with key relationship banks which includes bi-annual 
meetings with presentations, from the Executive Management 
Team. During the year, it also held update and review meetings 
with Standard & Poor’s and Fitch, the Company’s two credit 
rating agencies. The Company hosts a dedicated conference call 
for bondholders on a bi-annual basis and during the year the Group 
Treasurer also engaged with Bondholders both as a group, and, on a 
one-to-one basis, at several Investment-bank sponsored conferences.
Additionally, the Board responds to ad-hoc requests for information 
and all shareholders are entitled to attend the Annual General 
Meeting. Shareholders are given the opportunity to lodge their votes 
by way of proxy and/or to attend such meetings in person where 
they have the opportunity to ask questions of the Board including 
the chairs of the Board Committees, vote by way of a poll and meet 
informally with the Directors to discuss any issues they may wish 
to raise. 
In line with the authority given at its 2008 AGM, the Company uses 
its website and email as the primary means of communication with 
its shareholders. This arrangement provides significant benefits for 
shareholders and the Company in terms of timeliness of information, 
reduced environmental impact and cost. Shareholders may still opt 
to receive their communications in a paper format. The Company’s 
corporate website contains information for shareholders, including 
share price information and news releases. It can be found at 
www.thomascookgroup.com.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL 
During the year, there has been continued progress made in the 
area of risk management and internal control. This has been led 
with a distinct “tone from the top” set by the Board and the Group 
Management Committee. A highly experienced and dedicated 
team of risk and audit professionals under the leadership of Lee 
Bradley, Chief Risk Officer, has driven a significant improvement 
agenda to support Management in this important area. High-calibre 
professionals were recruited into key positions in the Group and 
Segment Finance Teams, which has enabled the Group to further 
enhance its risk management capability across the business, thereby 
enhancing the risk management and internal control environments. 
The Board recognises its ultimate accountability for maintaining 
an effective system of internal control and risk management 
that is appropriate in relation to both the scope and the nature 
of the Group’s activities, and complies with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. The Board has approved the framework and 
the standards implemented. 
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal 
risks facing the Company – including those that would threaten its 
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. This is 
fully described in the Risk management section on pages 56 to 59.
The Group’s internal control and risk management systems are 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, but 
not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
85 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
REVIEW OF SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL 
During the year, the Board, through the work of the Audit Committee, 
has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Group’s system 
of internal control. The Board is monitoring the internal control 
processes on an ongoing basis, including financial, operational and 
compliance controls, under the auspices of the Group Enterprise 
Risk and Audit function. Regular reports on control issues are 
presented to and discussed with the Audit Committee and there is 
a follow-up process in place to ensure audit recommendations are 
fully implemented by Management. This work is also complemented, 
supported and challenged by the controls assurance work carried 
out independently by the external auditors, PwC. The Board has seen 
continued improvement and has noted ongoing progress and active 
focus in the internal control processes during this year. The Board, 
in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, can 
confirm that necessary actions continue to be taken to remedy any 
significant failings or weaknesses identified from that review. 
GOING CONCERN 
Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters discussed 
in connection with the viability statement, the Directors considered 
it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in 
preparing the financial statements. 
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT IN 
RELATION TO THE FINANCIAL REPORTING PROCESS 
The Group has a thorough assurance process in place in respect of 
the preparation, verification and approval of periodic financial reports. 
This process includes:
 > the involvement of qualified, professional employees with an 
appropriate level of experience (both in Group Finance and 
throughout the business);
 > formal sign-offs from appropriate business segment managing 
directors and finance directors;
 > comprehensive review and, where appropriate, challenge from 
key internal Group functions;
 > a transparent process to ensure full disclosure of information 
to the external auditors. Engagement of a professional and 
experienced firm of external auditors;
 > oversight by the Group’s Audit Committee, involving (amongst 
other duties):
 — a detailed review of key financial reporting judgements which 
have been discussed by Management;
 — review and, where appropriate, challenge on matters including:
 — the consistency of, and any changes to, significant accounting 
policies and practices during the year;
 — significant adjustments resulting from an external audit;
 — the Company’s statement on internal control systems, prior 
to endorsement by the Board; and
 — the going concern assumption.
The above process, and the review by the Audit Committee of a 
comprehensive note that sets out the details of the preparation, 
internal verification and approval process for the Annual Report 
& Accounts, provides comfort to the Board that the Annual Report 
& Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the Company’s performance, business model and strategy.  86 GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED
CODE OF CONDUCT 
The Group’s Code of Conduct, sets out the Group’s Values, 
Leadership Behaviours and Ways of Working – how we expect our 
employees to conduct themselves in their everyday working life. 
It covers areas such as: behaviour towards our customers and our 
people; health and safety; reputation management; sustainable 
operation; supplier relationships; anti-bribery; conflicts of interest; 
competition law; risk management and controls; fraud, theft and 
false accounting; IT security; share dealing and our prohibition of 
political donations. The Code also includes guidance to employees 
about their responsibility to report problems and issues that come 
to their attention and the alternative ways of raising such issues 
in escalating order – line management, HR, and the Trustline – 
see below.
The Code of Conduct is issued to all employees in paper copy and is 
also available on the Group’s intranet and website. In addition, the 
Group Company Secretary is available for advice on any matter which 
may give rise to cause for concern. 
To ensure the progress made is fully sustainable and the Code 
remains embedded across the organisation, there is a process to 
ensure that all new employees receive training as part of their 
Induction programme. In view of its importance to the Group, training 
is measured through local HR Departments and every employee has 
to confirm they have received their training and understand the Code 
on an annual basis.
WHISTLEBLOWING 
As mentioned above, the Code includes guidance to employees 
about their responsibility to report problems and issues that come 
to their attention by way of an independently run whistleblowing 
helpline called Trustline. Details of the Trustline are published in 
the Code of Conduct booklet and also on the Group’s intranet site. 
Significant issues brought to Management’s attention through the 
Trustline are reported to the Audit Committee.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES IN 
RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT, THE DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
the Directors’ remuneration report and the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. Company law 
requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each 
financial year. Under that law, the Directors have prepared the 
Group and the Company financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by 
the European Union. The financial statements are required by law 
to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company 
and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. 
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
 > select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently; 
 > make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; and 
 > state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union. 
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above 
requirements in preparing the financial statements. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and the Group, and enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ remuneration 
report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the 
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website, and legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the Directors, who were in office at the date of this report, 
whose names and functions are listed on pages 70 to 72, confirm 
that, to the best of their knowledge: 
 > the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the 
Group; and 
 > the Strategic and Directors’ report contained on pages 16 to 65 
includes a fair review of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Group, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
87 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE
The Directors confirm that they consider the Annual Report & 
Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the 
Company’s position and performance, business model and strategy. 
In making this confirmation, the Directors took into account their 
knowledge of the business, which is kept up-to-date with regular 
reports, updates and business reviews circulated prior to and 
discussed at each Board meeting, and supplemented by a variety 
of written reports, verbal updates and presentations (including the 
training and strategy support presentations detailed on page 75) 
given at Board and Committee meetings as well as a regular flow 
of information about the business between meetings. The Directors 
then took into account the thorough preparation and verification 
process in respect of the Annual Report & Accounts, which included 
sufficient time for the Directors to review the Annual Report & 
Accounts and to feed in their comments to Management before 
approving the document.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS 
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ report confirms that: so far as he/she is aware, there is 
no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are 
unaware; and that he/she has taken all steps that he/she ought to 
have taken as a Director to make him/her aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware 
of that information. 
SHARE CAPITAL AND RELATED DISCLOSURES 
Disclosures in relation to the share capital of the Company, including 
the Company’s major Shareholders are given in the “Other disclosures” 
section on pages 105 to 107. 88 GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2015.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CHANGES
This year we saw the transition to our new Group CEO Peter 
Fankhauser, who was appointed on 26 November 2014. The Committee 
worked to formulate appropriate remuneration arrangements for 
Peter, in line with the Company’s approved Remuneration Policy, 
which it considers provides alignment of Peter’s reward with his 
delivery of the execution of the long-term strategy of the Company. 
Prior to his appointment as Group CEO, Peter was part of the Thomas 
Cook Senior Management Team (and from November 2013 served 
as Group Chief Operating Officer) and as such, has already built 
up a significant holding of 1,286,776 shares in the Company, which 
he continues to build upon. A summary of Peter’s remuneration 
arrangements is set out below and further details can be found in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report. Although Peter was appointed 
during FY15, we have included the outcome of long-term incentive 
awards vesting during the year that were granted to him prior to his 
appointment as Group CEO.
During the year, the Committee also considered departure 
arrangements for former Group CEO Harriet Green. During her 
two years and four months serving as Group CEO at Thomas Cook, 
our share price rose from 16.25p (30 July 2012) to 136p (25 November 
2014) and therefore, as previously disclosed, a proportion of her 2012 
share award vested (pro-rated for time and performance).
OUR PERFORMANCE IN FY15
The travel industry continues to face challenging external pressures 
and therefore our Remuneration Policy and performance targets 
reflect both the environment in which we operate and the Company’s 
strategic goals. As set out in the Strategic report, we have made 
progress despite the headwinds of currency exchange rates and 
regional instability.
REMUNERATION OUTCOMES IN FY15
As a result of achievements made during the year in respect of 
progress against underlying EBIT and cash conversion targets, payout 
has been made under the Group Bonus Plan in respect of these 
elements. There is still further progress to be made in respect of 
some of our other strategic KPIs, and therefore given the stretching 
targets set, the proportion of the bonus relating to web penetration 
and new product revenue targets did not payout. 
The Committee was focused on ensuring that the outcomes under 
the FY15 Group Bonus Plan provided an appropriate balance between 
the financial performance of the business and the performance of the 
Management and in order to achieve this the Committee made certain 
adjustments to the calculation of financial performance. 
ANNUAL STATEMENT BY CHAIR OF 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Chairman  
Warren Tucker 
Scheduled Meetings  
Four
Other members  
Dawn Airey, Annet Aris and Emre Berkin 
Directors’ biographies  
on pages 70 to 72
Composition of the Committee  
All members of the Committee are Independent Non-Executive Directors. 
Carl Symon stepped down from the Committee on 30 September 2015. 
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the Governance 
page of the Company’s website at www.thomascookgroup.com.
Meetings also regularly attended by:  
Frank Meysman (Chairman), Peter Fankhauser (CEO), Martine Verluyten 
(Independent Non-Executive Director), Alice Marsden (Group Company 
Secretary), Mitul Shah (Deloitte LLP), and members of the HR Leadership 
Team as required.
Committee activities:
 > Approved remuneration arrangements on the change of Group CEO
 > Considered Corporate Governance updates in determining executive 
remuneration 
 > Made recommendations to the Board on executive remuneration 
for the financial year
 > Approved outcomes for short-term and long-term incentives in line 
with the remuneration policy and incentive plans
 > Approved the granting of awards under the Company’s long-term 
incentive plans
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
89 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
The performance condition applying to the June 2012 Performance 
Share Plan (“PSP”) and Co-Investment Plan (“COIP”) awards, which 
was based on absolute share price, was met in full and 100% of the 
awarded shares vested in July 2015. The Company’s average share 
price over the 60 trading days between 12 June 2014 and 4 September 
2014 was 127.44p representing an increase of almost 800% on the 
14.3p adjusted share price on the date of the award and significant 
value created for shareholders. 
The performance period in respect of the September 2012 PSP awards 
ended on 30 September 2015 and the shares vested in accordance 
with performance achieved. The overall level of vesting for the awards 
made to current Executive Directors during FY12 was 70%.
It is considered by the Board that the targets under our Group Bonus 
Plan for FY15 remain commercially sensitive at this time and will be 
disclosed in our FY16 remuneration report. Targets for the FY14 Group 
Bonus Plan are disclosed on page 98. There was no payout under the 
FY14 Group Bonus Plan to Executive Directors and other participants 
in the Group Bonus Plan. 
The table below provides a high level summary of the outcomes for the year and the remuneration arrangements going forward for the 
Executive Directors:
Role Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
Name Peter Fankhauser Michael Healy
Annual salary £690,000  
(as at appointment in November 2014)
£520,200 
(increased from £510,000, +2% effective 1 April 2015)
FY16 max bonus opportunity (one third 
deferred into shares for two years)
150% of salary 150% of salary
FY16 PSP award (subject to performance) 150% of salary 150% of salary
FY15 bonus for period 
as Executive Director
% of maximum bonus 
opportunity earned
69% 69%
££604,582 £533,129
LTIP awards vesting  
in the year  
(June and September 
12 PSP and June 12 
COIP)
% of maximum  
award vesting
June award: 100% 
September award: 66.74%
June award: 100% 
September award: 62.50%
Number of vested 
shares (total)
2,381,198  
(granted prior to appointment as CEO)
2,018,730
REMUNERATION POLICY
During the year, we have not made any changes to our shareholder 
approved Remuneration Policy but continue to monitor market and 
regulatory developments and are comfortable that our Policy remains 
appropriate. We have re-published the approved Remuneration 
Policy on pages 90 to 95 to give context to decisions made by the 
Committee during the year. Our Remuneration Policy is due to be 
presented to shareholders again at our 2017 AGM.
REFLECTING THE VIEWS OF OUR SHAREHOLDERS
At the 2015 AGM, shareholders approved our Directors’ Remuneration 
Report, as set out in our 2014 Annual Report, with 99.76% support. 
This is an encouraging acknowledgement of the Company’s 
progress on performance and our positive, ongoing engagement 
with shareholders. 
We continue to consult with our key shareholders on remuneration 
matters and during the year have talked to shareholders about 
performance conditions attaching to our plans, and during the start 
of FY16 have been sharing our intended approach for FY16 incentives. 
Looking forward, the Committee will be reviewing the executive 
remuneration arrangements in 2016 and will be seeking shareholder 
approval in 2017 for a new Policy as well as approval for a new 
long-term incentive plan (as the current plan is due to expire in 2017). 
The Committee is mindful of external market trends and investor 
expectations on matters such as further alignment with shareholders 
(for example through the use of holding periods, deferral, shareholding 
guidelines et cetera) as well as the need to ensure that clawback 
provisions are in place for incentive plans. The Committee will 
consider these matters as part of the 2016 review and we will 
continue to engage with our shareholders as part of this process. 
We look forward to receiving your support at the 2016 AGM and 
throughout the year ahead.
Finally, I would again like to thank my fellow members of the 
Committee and all who have assisted us for their support and 
guidance during the past year.
WARREN TUCKER  
CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
24 November 2015 90 GOVERNANCE
FUTURE POLICY TABLE
Element Purpose and link to strategic objectives Operation
Base salary > Provides fixed remuneration for the role, which 
reflects the size and scope of the Executive 
Director’s responsibilities.
 > Attracts and retains the high-calibre talent 
necessary to deliver the business strategy.
 > Salaries are paid monthly and are normally reviewed annually.
 > Consideration is typically given to a range of factors including:
 — size and scope of the Executive Director’s responsibilities;
 — performance and experience; and
 — typical pay levels for comparable roles in companies of a similar size and complexity in the relevant 
market.
Retirement 
benefits
 > To provide competitive post-retirement 
benefits or cash allowance equivalent.
 > Attracts and retains the high-calibre talent 
necessary to deliver the business strategy.
 > Payment may be made either into a pension scheme (for example, a defined contribution plan) or 
delivered as a cash allowance with Company contributions set as a percentage of basic salary.
 > Level of benefit is dependent upon seniority.
Benefits > Ensures the overall package is competitive.
 > Attracts and retains the high-calibre talent 
necessary to deliver the business strategy.
 > Provision of a range of benefits by the Company. Such benefits may include those currently provided 
to Executive Directors, as disclosed on page 96. These are reviewed annually by the Committee to 
ensure that they provide a competitive package and facilitate the delivery of the business strategy.
 > The Company reserves the right to deliver benefits to Executive Directors depending on their individual 
circumstances, which may include housing, travel, education, healthcare and other allowances.
 > In the case of non-UK Executives, the Committee may consider additional allowances in line with 
standard practice.
Annual bonus > Energises and focuses management on 
rigorous execution of Thomas Cook’s strategy 
on an annual basis.
 > Rewards annual performance against 
challenging annual targets and key 
performance indicators which are critical 
to the realisation of our business strategy. 
 > Compulsory deferral into the Company’s 
shares provides a link to the creation of 
long-term sustainable value, and also a 
retention element.
 > The claw-back provision enables the Company 
to mitigate risk.
 > Measures and targets are set annually and payout levels are determined by the Committee after 
the year end based on performance against those targets.
 > The Committee has full discretion to amend the bonus payout (upwards or downwards), if in its 
judgement any formulaic output does not produce a fair result for either the individual Executive 
Director or the Company, taking account of the overall business performance or situation of the 
Company.
 > Executive Directors must defer one-third of their annual bonus into Company shares which then 
vest two years after the cash bonus payment date, subject to continued employment and claw-back 
provisions but no additional performance conditions. Regarding the claw-back provisions, unvested 
share awards lapse in certain scenarios, as described on page 92.
 > Good leaver terms are described in more detail on page 93.
 > At the Committee’s discretion, Executive Directors may receive the value of dividend equivalents 
during the holding period on the vested shares.
Long-term  
share-based 
incentive plan
 > Energises and focuses management on 
rigorous execution of Thomas Cook’s strategy 
over the longer term.
 > Rewards sustained performance against 
challenging long-term targets and key 
performance indicators which are critical 
to the realisation of our business strategy. 
 > Long-term performance targets and 
share-based remuneration support the 
creation of long-term Shareholder value. 
 > The current Performance Share Plan was approved by shareholders in 2007, and is governed by the 
rules of the plan. A summary of the key features is set out below:
 — awards may be made in the form of conditional shares or options with vesting dependent upon the 
achievement of performance conditions set by the Committee. Vesting of awards will be subject 
to a three-year performance period;
 — the Committee has full discretion to amend the number of shares that vest (upwards or downwards), 
if in its judgement any formulaic output does not produce a fair result for either the individual 
Executive Director or the Company, taking account of the overall business performance or situation 
of the Company;
 — the award will lapse if the participant leaves employment before vesting unless in specific 
“good leaver” circumstances. Good leaver terms are described in more detail on page 93;
 — the Committee may in the event of a variation of the Company’s share capital adjust or amend 
the terms of the awards in accordance with the rules of the plan; and
 — if the Company pays any dividends in respect of record dates falling in the period from the award 
date to the vesting date, the Committee may consider that the Executive should receive a payment 
following delivery of the shares in satisfaction of his award, the value of which is equivalent to the 
cash value of the dividends in respect of any shares that vest.
Chairman and 
Non-Executive 
Director fees
 > To reward individuals for fulfilling the 
relevant role.
 > Attracts and retains individuals with the skills, 
experience and knowledge to contribute to an 
effective Board.
 > The Committee is responsible for determining the fees for the Chairman of the Company. 
 > The fees for the other Non-Executive Directors are set by the Board.
 > The fee structure may include:
 — a basic fee;
 — additional fees for chairmanship of Board committees;
 — additional fees for further responsibilities (for example, Senior Independent Directorship); and
 — travel and hotel costs that are deemed to be an employment benefit by the relevant tax authority 
may also be paid.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration or loss of office payments (including the satisfaction of any outstanding awards of variable remuneration made to Executive Directors), where the 
terms of that payment were agreed:
(i) prior to the approval of this policy under their original terms – for these purposes, the terms of a share award are “agreed” at the time it is granted; or 
(ii) at a time where the individual was not a Director of the Company, and in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
91 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
The Remuneration Policy on pages 90 to 95 was approved by 
shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting held on 
20 February 2014. Accordingly, it had a binding effect on the Company 
from that date. As no changes have been made to the Policy during 
the year, it is not proposed to submit it to the Annual General Meeting 
scheduled to be held on 23 February 2016.
We have re-published the unchanged policy below for reference. 
The following sections have been updated to reflect the most 
recent position:
 > Statement of consideration of Shareholder Views (page 94)
 > Illustrative Performance Scenarios (page 95)
The full policy that was approved by Shareholders can be seen in our 
2013 Annual Report and Accounts available on our website. 
Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
 > Current salaries are disclosed on page 97.
 > Increases may be made to salary levels in certain circumstances 
as required, for example, to reflect:
 — increase in scope of role or responsibility;
 — performance in role; and
 — an Executive Director being moved to market positioning over time.
 > Ordinarily, salary increases will not exceed the average increase 
awarded to other employees in the Group.
 > Performance, through our performance management processes, is one of the key considerations 
in setting and reviewing salary.
 > Current Company contribution rates are disclosed on page 97.
 > Set at a level which the Committee considers is appropriately 
positioned against comparable roles in companies of a similar size 
and complexity in the relevant market.
 >None.
 > Benefits may include those currently provided to Executive Directors, 
as disclosed on page 96, however the Committee reserves the right to 
provide such level of benefits as it considers appropriate to support 
the ongoing strategy of the Company.
 >None.
 > For maximum performance:
 — 150% of salary.
 > The Committee will have regard to various performance metrics (which will be determined 
by the Committee) measured over the relevant financial year, when determining bonuses.
 > No less than 70% of the award is based on financial measures and up to 30% of the award may 
be based on the achievement of role-specific objectives, which may be financial or non-financial.
 > For achievement of a “threshold” performance level (the minimum level of performance that 
results in any payment), no more than 20% of the maximum for each element of the bonus 
pays out.
 > For achievement of a “mid” performance level, no more than 60% of the maximum for each 
performance metric in relation to the bonus pays out.
 > For achievement of a “maximum” performance level 100% of the maximum pays out.
 > Under the plan rules, the aggregate value of all awards made within 
any 12-month period must not exceed 200% of base salary (or 
such other period as the Committee may determine in exceptional 
circumstances).
 > The normal maximum face value of awards is 150% of salary. 
However, the Committee has a discretion to award up to the plan 
rules maximum, when it believes the situation warrants a higher 
level of award.
 > The performance measures for the Performance Share Plan will be a combination of financial 
measures and share price based measures, measured over at least a three-year performance 
period. Normally, the weightings will be as follows:
 — at least 50% will be based on financial measures;
 — at least 30% will be based on share price based measures; and
 — the remaining 20% may be based either on financial or share price based measures
 > The Committee will determine more specific performance measures for future awards as the 
Company makes progress with its transformation during 2014 and will consult with major 
Shareholders ahead of the next award.
 > The performance measures may be adjusted, following grant, by the Committee to ensure a 
consistent basis of calculation and to provide a fair reflection of the Company’s performance.
 > For achievement of a “threshold” performance level (which is the minimum level of performance 
that results in any part of an award vesting), no more than 30% of each respective element 
of the award will vest.
 > For achievement of a “maximum” performance level (which is the highest level of performance 
that results in any additional vesting), 100% of each respective element of the award will vest.
 > Normally, there will be straight-line vesting for any performance level between “threshold” 
and “maximum”.
 > The Committee may substitute, vary or waive the performance targets if an event occurs which 
causes the Committee to consider that the target is no longer appropriate.
 > Set at a level which the Committee (or the Board, as appropriate) 
considers:
 — reflects the time commitment and contribution that is expected 
from the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors; and
 — appropriately positioned against comparable roles in companies 
of a similar size and complexity in the relevant market.
 >None. 92 GOVERNANCE
EXPLANATORY DETAIL FOR FUTURE POLICY TABLE
Changes made in the year
No changes have been made to the policy during the year.
Explanation of chosen performance measures and the target 
setting process
Performance measures have been selected to reflect the targets and 
key performance indicators that are critical to the realisation of our 
business strategy.
Challenging performance targets are set by the Committee each year 
for the annual bonus plan and the PSP. When setting these targets, 
the Committee will take into account a number of different reference 
points, including the Company’s business plan and consensus analyst 
forecasts of the Company’s performance. Full vesting will only occur 
for what the Committee considers to be stretching performance. 
Claw-back
As highlighted in the policy table, a claw-back arrangement is in 
place. Under this arrangement, the unvested deferred annual bonus 
shares may lapse in whole or in part if a claw-back event occurs, 
which includes:
 > a material adverse misstatement of the Company’s 
financial statements;
 > the participant or their team having engaged in gross misconduct 
or in conduct which resulted in significant losses, as determined 
by the Committee; and/or
 > the Company having suffered serious reputational damage, as 
determined by the Committee, as a result of any action taken by the 
participant or his team.
In addition, under the PSP, the Committee has discretion to amend 
the final vesting level should any formulaic output not reflect the 
overall business performance. This discretion allows the Committee 
to decrease or increase the pay-out in the range of 0%–100% of the 
number of shares awarded.
Salary, pension and benefits are not subject to claw-back. 
Policy for the remuneration of employees generally
Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group 
based on the same principle that reward should be achieved for 
delivery of our business strategy and should be sufficient to attract 
and retain high-calibre talent, without paying more than is necessary. 
Thomas Cook has operations based in a number of different 
countries and at different levels of seniority, and though based on 
the overarching principle above, reward policies vary depending upon 
these factors. 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION 
When agreeing a remuneration package for the appointment of new 
Directors, the Committee will apply the following principles:
 > The package will be sufficient to attract and retain the high-calibre 
talent necessary to develop and deliver the business strategy.
 > The Committee will seek to ensure that no more is paid than 
is necessary.
 > In the next Annual remuneration report, the Committee will explain 
to shareholders the rationale for the relevant arrangements and if 
and when the transition to the policy described on pages 90 and 91 
will occur. 
The following elements may be considered by the Committee for 
inclusion in a recruitment package for an Executive Director, in addition 
to the policy elements set out in the table on pages 90 and 91:
Element Approach
Initial  
long-term 
incentive 
award
An initial long-term incentive award may be made, which 
may be higher than the maximum PSP opportunity, as set 
out on pages 90 and 91.
The Committee will ensure:
 > The award is linked to the achievement of appropriate 
and challenging performance targets.
 > The award will be forfeited if the performance and 
continued employment conditions are not achieved.
Initial  
annual 
bonus 
opportunity
The initial annual bonus opportunity may be set higher 
than the approved policy.
The Committee will ensure the award is linked to the 
achievement of appropriate and challenging performance 
targets.
Compensation 
for forfeited 
awards
The terms of any compensation will be determined by 
taking into account the terms of any forfeited awards, 
including:
 > Performance achieved or likely to be achieved.
 > The proportion of performance/vesting period remaining.
 > The form and timing of the original award. 
Sign on 
awards
In certain limited circumstances, for example in order to 
compensate for a loss at a previous employer other than 
for forfeited awards, the Committee may make a one-off 
sign-on award as part of the initial package. 
The Committee retains the discretion to determine, based 
on the circumstances at the time, whether this would be 
in cash or shares, whether or not performance conditions 
or an additional holding period would apply.
Notice period The initial notice period may be longer than the Company’s 
six-month policy (up to a maximum of 24 months). 
However, this will reduce by one month for every month 
served, until the Company’s policy position is reached.
Relocation 
costs
Where necessary, the Company will pay appropriate 
relocation costs, in line with standard practice. The 
Committee will seek to ensure that no more is paid than 
is necessary. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
93 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
An enhanced initial notice period, sign-on awards or increased initial 
annual bonus or long-term incentive award opportunities would only 
be made available in exceptional circumstances.
Under the reporting regulations, Thomas Cook is required to set 
out the maximum amount of variable pay which could be paid to a 
new Director in respect of their recruitment. In order to provide the 
Company with sufficient flexibility in a recruitment scenario, the 
Committee has set this figure as 500% of base salary. This covers the 
maximum annual bonus and the maximum face value of any long-term 
incentive awards.
This level of variable pay would only be available in exceptional 
circumstances, and in order to achieve such a level of variable pay, 
stretching targets would need to be met, over both one year (for 
the annual bonus) and at least three-year (for long-term incentive) 
performance periods.
For individuals becoming Executive Directors as a result of an internal 
promotion from within Thomas Cook or as a result of an acquisition, 
any awards under other arrangements which were made prior to 
joining the Board may be allowed to continue under the original 
terms, or under a revised basis (such as a roll-over into Thomas Cook 
shares) if the Committee determines appropriate.
Fee levels for a new Chairman or new Non-Executive Directors will be 
determined in accordance with the policy set out in the future policy 
table on pages 90 and 91.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND LOSS 
OF OFFICE PAYMENTS
Executive Directors
Executive Directors have Company service contracts. For Peter 
Fankhauser and Michael Healy, the service contracts provide 
for a six-month notice period, from both the Company and the 
Executive Director. 
If the Company terminates the employment of the Executive Director 
with immediate effect, a payment in lieu of notice may be made. 
This may include base salary, pension and benefits.
Outstanding awards under the performance-linked elements of the 
package will normally lapse if an executive leaves the Company before 
the payment or vesting date. However, in “good leaver” scenarios 
these may vest. 
This may include: 
 > If the participant leaves during the annual bonus performance 
year and before the payment date, a bonus payment in respect 
of the year may be made, pro-rated to reflect the portion 
of the performance year elapsed, and with reference to 
performance achieved. 
 > If the participant leaves before the end of the holding period, any 
unvested deferred bonus shares may vest.
 > Outstanding unvested awards under the PSP vest to the extent 
determined by the Committee taking into account the period of time 
the individual has held the award and performance achieved against 
any relevant performance targets. 
For reference, “good leaver” scenarios include death, disability, injury, 
ill-health, redundancy, retirement, the award holder’s employing 
company or business being sold out of the Group, or any other reason 
that the Committee determines appropriate. 
Other than in the “good leaver” scenarios described, no payouts will 
be made under performance-linked elements.
Any “good leaver” awards may vest or be paid out immediately upon 
termination or in line with the original vesting or payment date, 
depending on when the award was made.
Awards granted under the PSP shall lapse at the time of cessation of 
employment unless the Committee has used its discretion to deem 
that an individual is a “good leaver”, when the Committee has the 
discretion to determine when awards vest and, if relevant, when they 
may be exercised. Awards structured as options shall be exercisable 
for a period of six months (or 12 months in the case of death) from 
vesting unless the Committee determines any other period should 
apply. Awards may also vest early if the participant is moved to a 
country where their capacity to hold the award or deal in shares 
would be restricted or they would suffer a tax disadvantage in 
connection with the award. 
In the event of a takeover or winding-up of the Company (other 
than as part of an internal reorganisation of the Thomas Cook 
Group), PSP awards may also vest to the extent determined by the 
Committee, taking into account the period elapsed since grant 
and the performance achieved against any relevant performance 
targets. The awards may also be “rolled over” into new shares of 
an acquiring Company. 94 GOVERNANCE
Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are appointed 
pursuant to a letter of appointment. The notice period for the 
Chairman is three months, and one month for the other Non-Executive 
Directors. All Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election 
by Shareholders at the AGM. The Non-Executive Directors’ letters 
of appointment continue until the date stated in their appointment 
letter unless they are terminated for cause, or on the notice period 
stated, or if they are not re-elected at the AGM. The Directors’ service 
contracts and letters of appointment are kept for inspection by 
Shareholders at the Company’s registered office.
OUTSIDE APPOINTMENTS
The Company recognises the benefits to the individual, and to the 
Group, of Executive Directors taking on external appointments as 
Non-Executive Directors. Subject to the approval of the Committee an 
Executive Director may accept such appointments at other companies 
or other similar advisory or consultative roles. The Committee has set 
a limit of one external appointment for each Executive Director, to one 
FTSE 100 or 250 Company, or an international Company of a similar 
size, unless there is justification for a further appointment. The Board 
will review the time commitment of all outside appointments and 
ensure that it is satisfied that this will not negatively impact upon 
the Executive’s time commitment to the performance of Thomas 
Cook duties.
The Committee may allow Executive Directors to retain any 
fees payable.
STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS 
ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY
When setting the policy for Directors’ remuneration, the Committee 
has regard to the pay and employment conditions elsewhere within 
the Group. This includes consideration of: 
 > Salary increases for the general employee population
 > Overall spend on annual bonus
 > Participation levels in the annual bonus and any long-
term incentives
 > Company-wide benefit (including pension) offerings
 > Any other relevant factors as determined by the Committee
In order to take into account the views of the general employee 
population when formulating Director pay policy, the Committee may 
review information provided by the HR function and feedback from 
employee engagement surveys.
STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION 
OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS 
The Company is committed to ongoing engagement and seeks major 
shareholder views in advance of proposing significant changes to its 
remuneration policies. 
In December 2014 our key shareholders were communicated to on 
various Executive remuneration matters. Key shareholders were 
invited to comment on the FY15 Performance Share Plan including 
the level of awards to be made to our Executive Directors, the 
performance measures and specific share price and cash conversion 
targets for the award.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
95 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
ILLUSTRATIVE PERFORMANCE SCENARIOS 
This section has been updated to illustrate the levels of remuneration that may be received by the current Executive Directors. 
Their remuneration is set in accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Policy which was approved at the February 2014 AGM. 
The charts show three scenarios: (a) base salary, benefits and pension, (b) mid and (c) maximum:
CEO – Peter Fankhauser Total remuneration £’000
£927
100% 50% 28%
33%
31%
17%
41%
£1,858
£3,342
Base salary,
benefits, pension
Mid Maximum
Total fixed Annual bonus PSP
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
CFO – Michael Healy Total remuneration £’000
£675
100% 49% 27%
34%
31%
17%
42%
£1,377
£2,495
Base salary,
benefits, pension
Mid Maximum
Total fixed Annual bonus PSP
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
In developing the scenarios, the following assumptions have been made:
Base salary, 
benefits and 
pension
Based on what an Executive Director would receive if performance was in line with the following scenario:
Only total fixed pay is received, for example, base salary, benefits and pension. This is calculated as follows:
 > Base salary as at 23 November 2015. 
 > Benefits are based on the amount shown in the single figure table in this year’s Annual Report on remuneration.
 > Pension measured by applying cash in lieu rate against base salary as at the date of this report.
Base Benefits Pension Total fixed
CEO £690,000 £29,934 £207,000 £926,934
CFO £520,200 £24,429 £130,050 £674,679
Mid Based on what an Executive Director would receive if performance was in line the Company’s expectations, which would result in the 
following scenario:
 >Annual bonus pays out at 60% of maximum for mid performance.
 >A PSP award with a face value of 150% (in line with the “normal” grant policy) pays out 30% of maximum, being threshold level of vesting.
Maximum Based on what an Executive Director would receive if performance was in line with the following scenario:
 > Full pay-out of annual bonus, for example, 150% of salary.
 >A PSP award with a face value of 200% (in line with the “maximum” possible award under the plan rules) pays out at 100% of maximum.
Note: 
As required by the regulations, Performance Share Plan awards (and amounts included within the bonus which have been deferred into shares) are set out at face value, with no share price 
growth assumptions. 96 GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION
The Remuneration Committee presents its Annual Report on Directors’ 
remuneration which is set out below. Decisions taken on remuneration 
during the year are in line with our remuneration policy which was 
approved at our 2014 AGM with 98.9% of all votes cast in favour. 
CONSIDERATION BY THE DIRECTORS OF MATTERS 
RELATING TO DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The Committee invites individuals to attend meetings, as it deems 
beneficial, to assist it in reviewing matters for consideration. 
Other individuals who have provided advice to the Committee during 
the year include the Chairman of the Board, Group General Counsel, 
Group Head of Reward and Performance, the Group Company 
Secretary and a representative from Deloitte LLP, the Committee’s 
external Remuneration Committee Advisor. Warren Tucker is also 
a member of the Audit Committee and, as such, ensures there is 
coordination in respect of risk and accounting issues. No Director 
or senior executive is present at the meeting when their own 
remuneration arrangements are discussed.
EXTERNAL ADVISERS
Deloitte LLP (“Deloitte”) have continued this year as advisers to the 
Remuneration Committee providing the Committee with objective and 
independent advice on executive remuneration matters. Deloitte is one 
of the founding members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and 
adhere to their Code of Conduct in its dealings with the Committee. 
The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by Deloitte is 
objective and independent. The Committee is also comfortable that 
the Deloitte engagement partner and team, that provide remuneration 
advice to the Committee, do not have connections with Thomas Cook 
that may impair their independence. Total fees paid to Deloitte in 
relation to advice to the Committee amounted to £179,650 (charged 
on a time plus expenses basis). Other practices of Deloitte, separate 
from the executive remuneration practice, have provided consulting 
services in relation to systems and organisational design projects and 
general tax and internal audit advice to the Company during the year. 
During the year, Alithos provided assistance to the Committee 
regarding the calculation of the level of vesting in relation to the share 
price condition for the June 2012 PSP and COIP awards, and September 
2012 PSP award for which the total fees were £1,100 (based on the 
number of awards for which calculations were performed and the 
reports produced). Alithos was selected by the Company as a service 
provider, and the Committee is satisfied that the advice is independent 
and objective. Alithos provided no other services to the Company.
SINGLE FIGURE OF TOTAL REMUNERATION (AUDITED)
The following table sets out the single figure of total remuneration for Directors for the financial years ending 30 September 2014 and 2015: 
Salary/fees Benefits
4
Group Bonus Plan
5
PSP/COIP
6
Pension
7
Total
 
£’000
FY15
£’000
FY14
£’000
FY15
£’000
FY14
£’000
FY15
£’000 
FY14
£’000
FY15
£’000
FY14
£’000
FY15
£’000
FY14
£’000
FY15
£’000
FY14
Executive Directors
Peter Fankhauser
1
 585 – 30 – 605 – 2,867
8
– 175 – 4,262 –
Michael Healy 515 505 24 24 533 – 2,433 – 129 126 3,635 655
Non-Executive Directors
Frank Meysman 275 275 58 41 – – – – – – 333 316
Dawn Airey 60 60 3 3 – – – – – – 63 63
Annet Aris 60 15 5 3 – – – – – – 65 18
Emre Berkin 70 66 6 8 – – – – – – 76 74
Warren Tucker 80 72 5 7 – – – – – – 85 79
Martine Verluyten 80 80 4 5 – – – – – – 84 85
Former Executive Directors
Harriet Green
2 
 174 687 22 153 – – – – 52 206 248 1,046
Former Non-Executive 
Directors
Carl Symon
3
 70 66 3 – – – – – – – 73 66
Notes:
1 Peter Fankhauser was appointed to the Board with effect from 26 November 2014. His base salary, 
benefits, and pension are shown for the period he served as an Executive Director. His FY15 annual 
bonus shown relates to the period he served as an Executive Director. 
2 Harriet Green ceased to be Group CEO on 26 November 2014 and stepped down as Director on 
31 December 2014. Her base salary, benefits, and pension are shown for the period she served as 
an Executive Director. Details of payments made to Harriet after leaving are shown on page 99. 
As previously disclosed, a proportion of Harriet Green’s 2012 PSP award vested following her 
departure. 4,115,721 shares vested under this award.
3 Carl Symon stepped down as a Non-Executive Director on 30 September 2015.
4 Executive benefits includes car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance, income 
protection (Harriet Green only) and expenses which are chargeable to UK income tax. Non-executive 
benefits relates only to travel and accommodation expenses which are chargeable to UK income tax 
(or would be if the individual were resident in the UK).
5 One-third of the bonus will be deferred as shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
6 Reflects the value of: the June 2012 PSP and COIP awards which vested in July 2015; and, the September 
2012 PSP awards which vested in November 2015. In line with regulations, the market value of the 
September PSP awards is estimated using the three month average closing share price ending 
30 September 2015 being 1.181p. The valuation of the September 2012 PSP awards will be restated in 
next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration when the actual value will be available. No dividends were 
paid during the period and therefore no dividends or dividend equivalents were added. 
7 Peter receives a pension allowance of 30% of salary as shown in the table above. Under the 
grandfathering provisions of our remuneration and appointment policies, Peter’s German pension 
provision has been frozen at the level accrued to 26 November 2014 circa €175k per annum. Under the 
terms of the pension, this is payable from age 60 or, if terminated without good cause between the 
age of 55 to 60, from termination.
8 The value of the share award shown for Peter Fankhauser reflects the full award which was granted 
to Peter prior to his appointment as Group CEO. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
97 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES RELATING 
TO THE SINGLE FIGURE TABLE (AUDITED)
Further information in respect of the salary, benefits, pension, 
annual bonus and PSP amounts included in the previous table 
are given below:
Salary
The table below shows Peter Fankhauser and Michael Healy’s salaries 
during FY15.
 
Salary on 
appointment  
26 November 2014
Salary at  
30 September 2015
Percentage
increase*
Peter Fankhauser £690,000 £690,000 0.0%
Salary at  
30 September 2014
Michael Healy £510,000 £520,200 2.0%
* Increase effective from 1 April 2015.
The pay increase awarded to Michael Healy was in line with the 
amount awarded across the Group at the 2015 annual pay review.
Pensions (audited)
Currently, both Peter Fankhauser and Michael Healy receive their 
pension contributions as a cash allowance of an amount equivalent 
to 30% and 25% of annual base salary respectively.
Group Bonus Plan (audited)
FY15 Group Bonus Plan
For the year, the maximum Group Bonus Plan award opportunity for 
both the CEO and CFO was 150% of salary, one-third of which would be 
deferred as shares for two years, subject to malus (claw-back before 
the vesting date), as described on page 92.
As described, progress has been made against our strategic targets 
during the financial year, and to reflect achievement against these 
targets, for Executive Directors the level of payout against the plan 
will be 69% of the maximum bonus opportunity. Included within those 
targets, the Committee also set two financial hurdles which were 
both required to be met in full before pay-out could be made under 
any measure. The financial hurdles for FY15 were Group underlying 
EBIT and cash conversion, which were both satisfied. 
The Board considers the FY15 targets under the Group Bonus Plan 
to be commercially sensitive and in line with the approach taken in 
prior years, will disclose these targets retrospectively in next year’s 
report. The table below sets out details of performance measures 
and achievement against these for Executive Directors. 
Measures Weighting
Performance
achieved
Resulting level
1
of award (of 
max % 
opportunity)
Core
Group underlying EBIT 
(constant currency)
2
25% £380m 20%
Group cash 
conversion 25% 85% 25%
New product  
revenue (gross) 10% £681m 0%
Group web 
penetration 10% 40% 0%
Role-specific
Group cost out 10% >£500m
3
10%
Group gross margin 
improvement 10% 22.6% 4%
Organisation, people 
and strategy 10% Achieved 10%
Total level of award as a % of maximum opportunity: 69%
Notes:
1  The Committee was focused on ensuring that the outcomes under the FY15 Group Bonus Plan 
provided an appropriate balance between the financial performance of the business and the 
performance of Management and in order to achieve this balance the Committee made certain 
adjustments to the calculation of financial performance. 
2  As disclosed in prior years, bonus targets in relation to Group underlying EBIT are set on a fixed 
currency basis at the beginning of the performance period, therefore the achievement used for 
bonus purposes is different from the achievement stated earlier in the report. 
3 Adjusted to £510m at actual exchange rates.
  98 GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED
FY14 Group Bonus Plan
As disclosed in the FY14 remuneration report, the two Group hurdles of Group underlying EBIT and Group cash conversion were not met for the 
FY14 plan therefore no payments were made to participants including Executive Directors. Retrospective disclosure of performance against 
targets, in line with our commitments to shareholders are set out below, as the Board considers these are no longer commercially sensitive:
  Threshold (20% of maximum award) Stretch (100% of maximum award) FY14 Outcome
Group underlying EBIT £326.2m £367.5m £322.9m
Group cash conversion 45% 55% 40%
Group web penetration 40% 42% 38%
Group new products £675m £750m £373m
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) and Co-Investment Plan (“COIP”) 2012 awards 
The June 2012 PSP and COIP awards vested in full in July 2015. A subsequent award which was made in September 2012 vested in accordance 
with performance achieved as set out below. The performance conditions under the PSP awards are spread over both PSP awards made in 2012, 
taking into consideration that the June 2012 PSP award had a share price condition only. The overall weightings are detailed in the below table:
Performance condition
Group CEO 
weightings  
(% of 2012 awards)
Group CFO 
weightings  
(% of 2012 awards)
Threshold level of 
vesting (30%)
Maximum level of 
vesting (100%) Outcome
Level of  
vesting
June 2012  
PSP award
Share price (highest 60 day average 
in final year of performance period: 
12/06/14 – 12/06/15 10% 20% 26.01p 86.69p 127.44p 100%
September 2012 
PSP award
Share price (highest 60 day average 
in final year of performance period: 
28/09/14 – 28/09/15
35% 25% 26.01p 86.69p 121.39p 100%
FY15 Group underlying EBIT 30% 30% £381m £476m £310m 0%
FY15 Group cash conversion 25% 25% 55% 65% 71% 100%
100% 100% 70%
Performance condition
Group CEO 
weightings  
(% of 2012 awards)
Group CFO 
weightings  
(% of 2012 awards)
Threshold level of 
vesting (30%)
Maximum level of 
vesting (100%) Outcome
Level of  
vesting
June 2012  
COIP award
Share price (highest 60 day average 
in final year of performance period: 
12/06/14 – 12/06/15 100% n/a 26.01p 86.69p 127.44p 100%
100%
This resulted in the number of shares vesting for each Director as set out below:
Director Date of Grant Vesting Date Number of Shares Under Award Number of Shares Vested
Peter Fankhauser
PSP Award 12/06/2012 09/07/2015 283,049 283,049
COIP Award 12/06/2012 09/07/2015 362,469 362,469
PSP Award 28/09/2012 07/12/2015 2,600,850 1,735,680
Michael Healy
PSP Award 12/06/2012 09/07/2015 576,780 576,780
PSP Award 28/09/2012 07/12/2015 2,307,120 1,441,950 
Notes on Group underlying EBIT and Group Cash Conversion Outcomes:
The outcomes for Group underlying EBIT and Group cash conversion differ from those stated above in relation to the FY15 Group Bonus Plan, 
as no adjustments for currency, or other circumstances have been made for the purposes of PSP. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
99 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year (audited)
A PSP award was made to Peter Fankhauser and Michael Healy equating to a face value of 150% of salary. The award is within our approved 
Remuneration Policy and aims to align the performance of our Executive Directors with those of our shareholders. Details of the performance 
conditions can be found on page 104. The date of the awards was delayed from December 2014, due to the Company being in a close period. 
Director Type of Award Plan Date of award
Number of shares 
awarded
Face value 
of award
1
Share price used to 
calculate award
2
Number of shares received if 
minimum performance achieved
3
Peter Fankhauser Conditional Share Award PSP 12/03/2015 720,752 150% 143.6p 216,226 
Michael Healy Conditional Share Award PSP 12/03/2015 532,729 150% 143.6p 159,819 
Notes:
1 Expressed as a % of salary at the time of award.
2 The share price used to calculate the award was 143.6p being the average closing share price of the three days prior to grant.
3 Minimum performance is equal to 30% of maximum award.
Payments to past Directors
As previously disclosed, Harriet Green stepped down from the Board 
on 31 December 2014 and continued to be paid her full salary and 
contractual benefits (including the cash allowance in lieu of employer 
pension contributions) up to and including her termination date of 
30 June 2015. Payments received by Harriet during this period in 
relation to salary and cash pension allowance were £451,282.
As previously disclosed, Harriet Green’s September 2012 PSP award 
was pro-rated for time and performance and was treated in line 
with the leaver provisions of the Plan. She received 4,115,721 shares 
(representing 57.2% of the original grant after taking account of 
prorating for time (91.7%) and performance (62.4%)) on 30 June 2015 
and the value of the shares at the time of vesting was £5,630,306. 
Harriet’s September 2013 PSP award lapsed in full. 
Loss of office payments
There were no loss of office payments made to past Directors during 
the year. 
Current Executive Director service contracts
The dates of the service contracts for Peter Fankhauser and 
Michael Healy are 23 February 2015 and 8 May 2012 respectively. 
The service contracts are available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
The Chairman is paid a single, consolidated fee of £275,000. 
The Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee, plus additional 
fees for chairmanship of Board Committees. 
The annual rates of Non-Executive Director fees are shown in the 
table below: 
Position
Annual fees 
£’000
Non-Executive Director 60
Additional fee for the Chairman of the Audit Committee 20
Additional fee for the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 20
Additional fee for the Senior Independent Director 10
Additional fee for the Chairman of the Health, 
Safety & Environmental Committee 10
Each of the Non-Executive Directors has been appointed pursuant 
to a letter of appointment, which is available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office. The appointments under these letters 
continue until the expiry dates set out below unless terminated for 
cause or on the period of notice stated below: 
Director
Date of latest  
letter of 
appointment Expiry date Notice period
Frank Meysman 27 March 2013 N/A 3 months
Dawn Airey 27 March 2013 11 April 2016 1 month
Annet Aris 30 April 2014 30 June 2017 1 month
Emre Berkin 27 March 2013 30 October 2018 1 month
Warren Tucker 3 October 2013 2 October 2016 1 month
Martine Verluyten 8 May 2014 7 May 2017 1 month
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
As set out in the Policy report, the Company recognises the benefits 
of Executive Directors taking on external appointments as Non-
Executive Directors, subject to the limitations set out in the Policy 
report and to Committee approval. During Harriet Green’s time as 
a Director of the Company, she served as a Non-Executive Director 
of BAE Systems plc and Emerson Electric Co. For the period from 
1 October 2014 until 31 December 2014, she received fees of £18,750 
and $33,833 respectively which she retained. 100 GOVERNANCE
Statutory graph
The graph below shows the total shareholder return (“TSR”) for 
holders of Thomas Cook Group plc €0.10 Ordinary Shares (€0.01 
Ordinary Shares from 3 June 2013) for the seven-year period since 
30 September 2008, measured against the FTSE 250 Index and the 
FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Index. These indices were chosen as 
relevant comparators, as the Company is a member of both indices, 
with one reflecting a broad equity index and the other being specific 
to the travel sector. The calculation of TSR is in accordance with 
the relevant remuneration regulations and is broadly the change 
in market price together with reinvestment of dividend income. 
This graph shows the value of £100 invested in Thomas Cook Group 
plc on 30 September 2008 compared with the value of £100 invested 
in the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Index. 
The intermediate points are the values at the Company’s financial 
year ends.
30 Sept 08 30 Sept 09 30 Sept 10 30 Sept 11 30 Sept 12 30 Sept 15 30 Sept 14 30 Sept 13
250
200
150
100
50
0
Thomas Cook FTSE 250 FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Index
Total Shareholder return £
The graph above shows the TSR for Thomas Cook Group plc since 30 September 2008. 
The TSR for the Company from 30 September 2012 to 30 September 2013 was 966%; to 30 September 2014 was 789% and to 30 September 2015 
was 741%. The Group underlying EBIT (see page 180) for the financial year to 30 September 2012 was £126m, for 30 September 2013 was £172m, 
for 30 September 2014 was £280m, for 30 September 2015 was £310m.
The table below shows the pattern of remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer during this period. Note that the single figures for FY15 
include the full PSP and COIP awards that Peter Fankhauser received upon vesting.
CEO FY09 FY10 FY11 FY 12 FY13 FY14 FY15
CEO Single figure 
of remuneration
Peter Fankhauser
1
–––––– £4.262m
Harriet Green
2
––– £717k£2.855m£1.046m £248k
Sam Weihagen
3
–– £153k £1.171m –– –
Manny Fontenla-Novoa
4
£2.996m £2.322m £1.008m
5
––– –
Group Bonus Plan payout 
(as % maximum opportunity)
Peter Fankhauser –––––– 69%
Harriet Green –––– 100% 0% 0%
Sam Weihagen –– 0% 23%–– –
Manny Fontenla-Novoa 96% 80% 0%––– –
PSP vesting (as % of 
maximum opportunity)
Peter Fankhauser –––––– 70%
6
Harriet Green ––– –
Sam Weihagen –– 0% 0%–– –
Manny Fontenla-Novoa 68% 0% 0%––– –
The table above shows the prescribed remuneration data (as shown in the left-hand side column) for the Director(s) undertaking the role 
of Chief Executive Officer during each of the last five financial years.
Notes:
1 Peter Fankhauser was appointed CEO on 26 November 2014. 
2 Harriet Green stepped down as CEO on 26 November 2014 and remained a Director until 
31 December 2014.
3 Sam Weihagen was appointed CEO on 3 August 2011, and remained in post until the appointment 
of Harriet Green on 30 July 2012.
4 Manny Fontenla-Novoa stepped down as CEO on 2 August 2011.
5  The single figure for FY11 for Manny Fontenla-Novoa excludes his termination payment, 
which was a total of £1,166,639 (in respect of contractual entitlements to base salary, 
pension allowance and benefits, in lieu of notice).
6  Relates to the June 2012 PSP and COIP awards and the September 2012 PSP award representing 
the full value received.
ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
101 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION 
OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
The table below sets out the percentage change in the remuneration 
of the CEO. It also sets out the percentage change in the 
remuneration of other employees in the Group. A peer group of 
UK-based employees has been selected (excluding any employees 
whose pay is subject to long-term collective agreements). We have 
selected this peer group as the Chief Executive Officer is UK-based 
and therefore pay movement in this peer group is subject to similar 
external pressures. We have excluded employees subject to long-term 
collective agreements for the same reason. In order to ensure that 
the comparison is on a like-for-like basis, we have excluded any new 
hires, leavers or promotions. 
% change in remuneration from FY14 to FY15
 
% change in
base salary
1
% change in
benefits
2
% change in
annual bonus
3
CEO −0.62% −65.81% See Note 3
UK-based employees 2.64% 0% See Note 3
Notes:
1  For comparative purposes the role of the Group CEO’s pay is shown as a year-on-year basis, 
meaning that the comparison uses the salary of Harriet Green and Peter Fankhauser as at 
30 September 2014 and 2015 respectively.
2  The main taxable benefits provided to UK-based employees are private medical insurance 
and car allowance, dependent upon seniority. There has been no change in the Policy level 
of benefits provided. 
3  In order to provide the most direct comparison possible, the Committee considers a focus on all 
UK-based employees participating in the Group Bonus Plan is appropriate, as the performance 
targets have a “Group” focus similar to the performance targets in place for the CEO. Bonus levels 
for both the Group CEO and those in the Group Bonus Plan were zero for FY14. In FY15 achievement 
for the Group CEO was 69% of maximum bonus opportunity. For those who are UK based and 
in the Group Bonus Plan the average pay-out level was also 69% of maximum bonus opportunity. 
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY
The table below displays the relative expenditure of the Company 
on all employees’ pay and shareholder distributions as required 
by the Regulations. 
2014
£m
2015
£m
Year on year 
% change
Overall Expenditure on  
group employee pay 890 848 −5%
Group underlying EBIT 323 310 −4%
Shareholders distributions 0 0
Group underlying EBIT is shown above as this continues to be 
a key performance measure. The figures shown in the table are 
extracted from the Group’s financial statements. The amounts 
for Group employees’ and Directors’ pay include employer social 
security payments.  102 GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED
STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF 
REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE FOLLOWING 
FINANCIAL YEAR
Group Bonus Plan measures and weightings – FY16
Maximum opportunity for Executive Directors bonus payout will be 
150% of salary in line with our approved Remuneration Policy. For FY16, 
the measures will be as follows:
Measures
Weighting  
% overall opportunity
Core measures
Group 
underlying EBIT 40%
Group cash 30%
Improvement in 
net promoter score 20%
Role-specific objectives
Leadership 5%
Strategic progress 5%
The performance measures above were selected to align with the 
strategic objectives of the Group. Our bonus targets will be set on 
a fixed currency basis at the beginning of the performance period. 
The Committee considers that the targets are commercially sensitive, 
so these have not been disclosed. We will disclose these targets 
at such point that the Committee considers they are no longer 
commercially sensitive. 
In determining the bonus outcome, the Committee considers that 
there are circumstances in which it would not be appropriate to 
pay a bonus due to the poor financial performance of the business 
and therefore the Committee has discretion to adjust any payments 
as it considers appropriate. 
The FY16 bonus will be subject to financial hurdles for the underlying 
EBIT and cash measures.
Performance Share Plan
The Committee will grant the next award under the PSP to Executive 
Directors during the start of FY16. It is anticipated that the level of 
award will be 150% of salary for both the Group CEO and Group CFO. 
In line with the Remuneration Policy, the Committee has determined 
that these will vest to the extent stretching EPS and relative 
TSR targets (weighted equally) are achieved over a three-year 
performance period.
TSR performance will be assessed relative to the constituents of 
the FTSE 250, excluding companies in the financial services and 
commodity sectors. 
TSR performance Vesting (% of this portion)
Index +12% per annum 100%
Index + 8% per annum 60%
Index + 0% per annum 30%
Awards will vest on a straight-line basis between these points. 
For performance below that of the Index, there will be no vesting.
EPS performance will be assessed against stretching absolute 
targets for FY18. The targets are set for basic EPS and will be 
measured on a constant currency basis. Given that the targets are 
set as actual monetary amounts for a single year (and not growth 
percentages) they are considered commercially sensitive. We will 
disclose these targets at such point that the Committee considers 
they are no longer commercially sensitive.
DIRECTORS’ AND FORMER DIRECTORS’ 
SHARE INTERESTS (AUDITED)
The following table shows the beneficial interests of the Directors 
in the shares of the Company:
Beneficial holdings  
(Number of shares as at
30 September 2015)*
Current Directors
Peter Fankhauser 1,286,776
Michael Healy 402,182
Frank Meysman 470,000
Dawn Airey 42,000
Annet Aris –
Emre Berkin –
Warren Tucker 30,800
Martine Verluyten 165,000
Former Executive Director
Harriet Green* 732,700
Former Non-Executive Director
Carl Symon 45,000
*  Interest in shares for Harriet Green shown as at 31 December 2014 that is the date she stepped 
down from the Board.
Shareholding guidelines (audited)
Executive Directors are required to hold the Company’s shares to the 
value of 100% of base salary, under the Thomas Cook Shareholding 
Guidelines (the “Guidelines”). Executive Directors are allowed a 
build-up period which ends after sufficient awards under the PSP 
have vested to provide shares to the value of 100% of base salary 
(after tax has been paid on the shares). Until the shareholding 
guideline is met, after-tax proceeds of vested PSP shares cannot be 
sold. At 30 September 2015, Peter Fankhauser met the shareholding 
guidelines with a holding of 271% of salary. Michael Healy has met the 
requirement with a holding of 100%. 
In line with the Guidelines, the value of the Directors’ holding is 
calculated by taking the greater of: a) the initial financial commitment; 
and b) the market value at 30 September 2015. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
103 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Directors’ and former directors’ interests in shares under the COIP, DBP and PSP (audited)
Date of grant
Share price at 
date of grant
At  
30 September  
2014 Granted Released Lapsed
At  
30 September  
2015
Earliest vesting 
date of 
outstanding 
awards
Director
Peter Fankhauser
COIP (closed) 12/06/2012 £0.165 362,469 –362,469 – 0
PSP 12/06/2012 £0.165 283,049 –283,049 – 0
28/09/2012 £0.175 2,600,850 –––2,600,85028/09/2015
30/09/2013 £1.534 610,169 – – – 610,169 30/09/2016
12/03/2015 £1.486 – 720,752 – – 720,752 12/03/2018
DBP 31/03/2014 £1.776 150,282 –150,282 – 0
Michael Healy
PSP 12/06/2012 £0.165 576,780 –576,780 – 0
28/09/2012 £0.175 2,307,120 –––2,307,12028/09/2015
30/09/2013 £1.534 610,169 – – – 610,169 30/09/2016
12/03/2015 £1.486 – 532,729 – – 532,729 12/03/2018
DBP 31/03/2014 £1.776 101,351 –101,351 – 0
Former Director
Harriet Green
PSP 28/09/2012 £0.175 7,195,316 –4,115,721 3,079,595 0
30/09/2013 £1.534 922,033 – – 922,033 0
DBP 31/03/2014£1.776251,266 –215,266 – 0
DETAILS OF PLANS
Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP)
Under the Deferred Bonus Plan, a third of any bonus payment made 
under the Group Bonus Plan is deferred into shares for a period of 
two years on a compulsory basis. Prior to FY14, the deferral period 
was one year with 25% of bonus payments being deferred. The DBP 
awards shown above represent a quarter of the FY13 bonus. The DBP 
award was made in March 2014 and the shares were released on 
31 March 2015, the value of which was disclosed in the 2013 annual 
report, which is available on the Company’s website. 
Co-Investment Plan (COIP)
Under the (now closed) COIP the participants own funds were 
used to purchase shares on their behalf (“Lodged Shares”), which 
had to be held for three years. The participant was then awarded 
“Matching Shares” in proportion to the number of Lodged Shares they 
had purchased. 
The Plan was limited to the former Group Executive Board (GEB) 
members, which included Peter Fankhauser at the time of the 
2012 grant, and a very small number of other senior executives. 
The performance conditions in respect of the 2012 award of Matching 
Shares were the same as those for the June 2012 PSP award which 
vested in full. Full details of these are given on page 98. There are no 
outstanding awards under this scheme.
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Under the PSP, participants are awarded a contingent share award 
over shares in Thomas Cook Group plc. Shares under the awards will 
vest subject to the satisfaction of the performance target at the end 
of the performance period. Performance conditions are based 100% 
on share price performance, based on highest 60-day average share 
price 12 June 2014–12 June 2015 for the 2012 award. For subsequent 
awards made, performance conditions were based on absolute share 
price, Group underlying EBIT and Group cash conversion. 104 GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED
Performance Share Plan (PSP) Performance Conditions (audited)
The performance conditions under the FY12 PSP and COIP awards which were met in part during the year are set out on page 98.
The FY13 PSP awards made to Executive Directors are subject to performance measures set out in the table below:
Share price  
(45% of the overall award)  
Group underlying EBIT  
(30% of the overall award)
Cash conversion  
(25% of the overall award)
Performance level Share price
Vesting (% of  
this portion)   Performance level Group underlying EBIT
Vesting (% of  
this portion)   Performance level Cash conversion
Vesting (% of  
this portion)
Maximum £3.00 100%   Maximum
To be disclosed 
retrospectively 100%   Maximum 90% 100%
Threshold £2.25 30%   Threshold   30%   Threshold 70% 30%
Share price performance is measured as the 
average share price performance over the fixed 
period of 30 trading days from the release of 
the preliminary FY16 results, with the intention 
of capturing the market’s reaction to the 
financial results. 
  Group underlying EBIT performance in respect 
of FY16, which is the final year of the three-year 
performance period.
Group underlying EBIT excludes exceptional 
items.
Cash conversion performance measured in 
respect of FY16 cash conversion, which is the 
final year of the three-year performance period.
Cash conversion is defined as free cash 
flow post exceptional items, before capital 
expenditure/EBITDA.
The FY15 PSP awards made to Executive Directors are subject to performance measures set out in the table below:
Share price  
(45% of the overall award)  
Group underlying EBIT  
(30% of the overall award)
Cash conversion  
(25% of the overall award)
Performance level Share price
Vesting (% of  
this portion)   Performance level Group underlying EBIT
Vesting (% of  
this portion)   Performance level Cash conversion
Vesting (% of  
this portion)
Maximum £3.00 100%   Maximum
To be disclosed 
retrospectively 100%   Maximum 80% 100%
Threshold £2.25 30%   Threshold   30% Threshold 70% 30%
Share price performance is measured as 
the average share price performance over 
the fixed period of 30 trading days from the 
release of the preliminary FY17 results, with the 
intention of capturing the market’s reaction to 
the financial results. 
  Group underlying EBIT performance in respect 
of FY17, which is the final year of the three-year 
performance period.
Group underlying EBIT excludes exceptional 
items.
Cash conversion performance measured in 
respect of FY17 cash conversion, which is the 
final year of the three-year performance period.
Cash conversion is defined as free cash 
flow post-exceptional items, before capital 
expenditure/EBITDA.
STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING 
The table below sets out the results of the vote on the Directors’ Remuneration report at the 2015 AGM:
 
Votes for  
Number %
Votes against 
Number % Votes cast  Votes withheld 
Annual remuneration report 1,150,915,753 99.76 2,742,362 0.240.44 1,153,658,115 532,949
This Annual Report on remuneration has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
WARREN TUCKER  
CHAIRMAN, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
24 November 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
105 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
for up to an aggregate of 43,749,517 Ordinary Shares, representing 
approximately 5.0% of the issued share capital of the Company at the 
date of issue (subsequently increased by 4,440,376 Ordinary Shares 
to reflect the Company’s Rights Issue and Placing in June 2013) at 
a subscription price per share of €0.10 (subsequently adjusted to 
€0.0857282 to reflect the Company’s Rights Issue and Placing in June 
2013). In addition, the Warrants issued as part of the bank facility 
announced in November 2011 were re-priced to the same exercise 
price. During the year, the final remaining Warrantholder exercised its 
Subscription Rights in respect of 1,939,126 Warrants (exercised into 
Ordinary Shares on a one-for-one basis). Therefore, as at 20 November 
2015, there were no outstanding Warrants.
Allotments of shares during the year
On 15 December 2014, the Company issued 1,939,126 Ordinary Shares 
with an aggregate, nominal value of €19,391.26 to a Warrantholder 
for an aggregate price of €166,237.78. On 6 March 2015, the Company 
issued 73,135,777 Ordinary Shares with an aggregate, nominal value 
of €731,357.77 to Fosun International Limited for an aggregate price of 
£91.8 million. Further details in relation to the Company’s share capital 
can be found on page 159.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 
The Company’s Articles of Association (the “Articles”) may only 
be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of 
shareholders. The Articles are available on the Company’s website 
at www.thomascookgroup.com. 
AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE SHARES 
The Company currently does not have authority to purchase 
its own shares. 
SHARE TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS 
The Articles are designed to ensure that the number of the Company’s 
shares held by non-EEA nationals does not reach a level which could 
jeopardise the Company’s entitlement to continue to hold or enjoy 
the benefit of any authority, permission, licence or privilege which 
it, or any of its subsidiaries, holds or enjoys and which enables an 
air service to be operated (each an “Operating Right”). In particular, 
EC Council Regulation 1008/2008 on the licensing of air carriers 
requires that an air carrier must be majority-owned and effectively 
controlled by EEA nationals. 
The Articles allow the Directors, from time to time, to set a “Permitted 
Maximum” on the number of the Company’s shares which may 
be owned by non-EEA nationals at such level as they believe is in 
compliance with the Operating Rights, provided that the Permitted 
Maximum shall not be less than 40% of the total number of 
issued shares. 
SHARE CAPITAL 
The Company has the following three classes of shares in issue: 
Name
Number of shares  
in issue at  
30 September  
2015 
Ordinary Shares of €0.01 each 1,535,851,316
Deferred Shares of €0.09 each 934,981,938
Deferred Shares of £1 each 50,000
Ordinary Shares
The Ordinary Shares carry the right to the profits of the Company 
available for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding up 
of the Company. The Ordinary Shares carry the right to attend and 
speak at general meetings of the Company; each share holds the 
right to one vote. The Ordinary Shares are admitted to the premium 
segment of the Official List and to trading on the London Stock 
Exchange’s main market. 
Employees who hold shares under the Thomas Cook BAYE or vested 
shares under any of the Company’s executive share plans (as detailed 
on page 103), are sent a Form of Instruction by the relevant trustee 
in respect of any general meetings of the Company, so that they 
may instruct the trustee to vote on their behalf. Unvested shares 
under the Company’s executive share plans are not voted at 
general meetings.
Deferred Shares
Both classes of Deferred Shares carry no right to the profits of the 
Company. On a winding up, the holders of the Sterling-denominated 
Deferred Shares would be entitled to receive an amount equal to the 
capital paid up on each Sterling-denominated Deferred Share and the 
holders of the Euro-denominated Deferred Shares would be entitled 
to receive an amount equal to the capital paid up on each Euro-
denominated Deferred Share only after the holders of the Ordinary 
Shares and Sterling-denominated Deferred Shares have received, in 
aggregate, the amounts paid up thereon. The holders of both classes 
of Deferred Shares are not entitled to receive notice, attend, speak 
or vote (whether on a show of hands or on a poll) at general meetings 
of the Company. 
Warrants
As part of the £200 million bank facility announced on 25 November 
2011, the Company issued Warrants to certain of its lenders, giving 
holders the right, at any time until 22 May 2015, to subscribe for 
up to an aggregate of 42,914,639 Ordinary Shares (representing 
approximately 4.9% of the issued share capital of the Company at 
the date of issue) at a subscription price per share of 19.875 pence. 
On 10 May 2012, the Company issued Warrants as part of the bank 
facility amendment announced on 5 May 2012 to certain of its lenders, 
giving holders the right, at any time until 22 May 2015, to subscribe 
OTHER DISCLOSURES 106 GOVERNANCE
In deciding which shares are to be dealt with as Affected Shares, 
the Directors, in their sole opinion, will determine which Relevant 
Shares may give rise to the fact of risk of an Intervening Act occurring 
and, subject to any such determination, will have regard to the 
chronological order in which particulars of Relevant Shares have been, 
or are to be, entered in the Separate Register unless to do so would, 
in the sole opinion of the Directors, be inequitable. If there is a change 
in any applicable law or the Company or any subsidiary receives any 
direction, notice or requirement from any state or regulatory authority, 
which, in either case, necessitates such action to overcome, prevent 
or avoid an Intervening Act, then the Directors may either: 
 > lower the Permitted Maximum to the minimum extent that they 
consider necessary to overcome, prevent or avoid an Intervening 
Act; or 
 > resolve that any Relevant Shares shall be treated as Affected 
Shares. The rights of the Directors referred to above apply until 
such time as the Directors resolve that grounds for the making 
of a determination have ceased to exist, whereupon the Directors 
must withdraw such determination. The Permitted Maximum is set 
at 40%. This Permitted Maximum may be varied by the Directors. 
If the Directors resolve to vary the Permitted Maximum to deal 
with shares as Affected Shares or relax the ownership limitations, 
they shall publish in at least one national newspaper in the UK (and 
in any other country in which the shares are listed) notice of the 
determination and of any Permitted Maximum. 
The Directors shall publish, from time to time: 
 > information as to the number of shares particulars of which have 
been entered on the Separate Register; and 
 > any Permitted Maximum that has been specified. 
The Directors may not register any person as a holder of shares 
unless such person has furnished to the Directors a declaration, 
together with such evidence as the Directors may require, stating 
(a) the name and nationality of any person who has an interest in any 
such share and, if the Directors require, the nature and extent of such 
interest or (b) such other information as the Directors may from time 
to time determine. 
The Directors may decline to register any person as a shareholder 
if satisfactory evidence of information is not forthcoming. 
Existing holders of shares will be recorded on the Special Register 
unless and until they have certified, to the satisfaction of the 
Company, that they are EEA nationals. 
The Company maintains a separate register (the “Separate Register”) 
of shares in which non-EEA nationals, whether individuals, bodies 
corporate or other entities have an interest (such shares are referred 
to as “Relevant Shares” in the Articles). An interest in this context 
is widely defined (see below). The Directors may require relevant 
members or other persons to provide them with information to 
enable them to determine whether shares are, or are to be treated 
as, Relevant Shares. If such information is not provided, then the 
Directors will be able, at their discretion, to determine that shares 
to which their enquiries relate be treated as Relevant Shares. 
Registered shareholders will also be obliged to notify the Company 
if they are aware either (a) that any share they hold ought to be 
treated as a Relevant Share for this purpose or (b) that any share 
they hold which is treated as a Relevant Share should no longer be 
so treated. In this case, the Directors shall request such information 
and evidence as they require to satisfy themselves that the share 
should not be treated as a Relevant Share and, on receipt of such 
evidence, shall remove particulars of the share from the Separate 
Register. If the Directors determine that such action is necessary 
to protect any Operating Right due to the fact that an Intervening 
Act (an “Intervening Act” being the refusal, withholding, suspension 
or revocation of any Operating Right or the imposition of materially 
inhibiting conditions or limitations on any Operating Right in either 
case, by any state or regulatory authority) has taken place or is 
contemplated, threatened or intended, or the aggregate number of 
Relevant Shares is such that an Intervening Act may occur or the 
ownership or control of the Company is such that an Intervening Act 
may occur, the Directors may, among other things: 
 > identify those shares that give rise to the need to take action and 
treat such shares as affected shares (“Affected Shares”) (see below); 
or 
 > set a Permitted Maximum on the number of Relevant Shares that 
may subsist at any time (which may not, save in the circumstances 
referred to below, be lower than 40% of the total number of issued 
shares) and treat any Relevant Shares in excess of this Permitted 
Maximum as Affected Shares (see below). The Directors may serve 
a notice (an “Affected Share Notice”) in respect of any Affected 
Share. An Affected Share Notice can, if it so specifies, have the 
effect of depriving the registered holder of the right to attend, vote 
and speak at general meetings which they would otherwise have 
had as a consequence of holding such shares. Such an Affected 
Share Notice can, if it so specifies, also require the recipient to 
dispose of the Affected Shares (so that the Relevant Shares will 
then cease to be Affected Shares) within 21 days or such longer 
period as the Directors may determine. The Directors are also 
given the power to sell such Affected Shares themselves where 
there is non-compliance with an Affected Share Notice at the 
best price reasonably obtainable at the relevant time on behalf 
of the shareholder. 
OTHER DISCLOSURES CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
107 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
MAJOR SHAREHOLDINGS 
The table below shows notifications of major shareholdings received 
by the Company in accordance with rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and 
Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority:
Name 
Number of shares held 
as at 30 September 2015 
Percentage of 
issued capital (%) 
as at 30 September 2015 
Invesco Ltd 277,529,587 18.07
Standard Life Investments Ltd 138,942,805 9.05
The Capital Group 107,099,975 6.97
FPI UK Limited (Fosun) 79,789,001 5.20
Black Rock Inc. 72,899,276 5.02
Marathon Asset  
Management LLP 72,555,285 4.97
Orbis Holdings Limited 43,905,280 3.01
The Company did not receive notification of any changes to the 
above shareholdings in the period from 30 September 2015 to 
20 November 2015.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION UNDER LISTING 
RULE 9.8.4
Details in respect of allotments of equity securities are given on 
page 105. This is the only disclosure required under Listing Rule 9.8.4.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Information in respect of greenhouse gas emissions have been included 
in the Sustainability section of the Strategic report on page 64.
EMPLOYEE INFORMATION
Disclosures in respect of the employment of disabled people and 
employee evolvement can be found on pages 60 and 61 of the 
Strategic Report.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS 
PwC have expressed their willingness to be re-appointed as Auditor 
of the Company. Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, 
resolutions to re-appoint them as the Company’s Auditor and to 
authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be 
proposed to the 2016 Annual General Meeting. 
The Strategic Report and Directors’ Report comprising pages 16 to 65 
have been approved and are signed by order of the Board by: 
ALICE MARSDEN 
GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY 
24 November 2015 
Registered office  
3rd Floor, South Building  
200 Aldersgate  
London EC1A 4HD
Registered number  
6091951
A person shall be deemed to have an interest in relation to Thomas 
Cook Group plc shares if: 
 > such person has an interest that would (subject as provided below) 
be taken into account, or which they would be taken as having, in 
determining for the purposes of Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 
whether a person has a notifiable interest; or 
 > they have any such interest as is referred to in Part 22 of the 
Companies Act 2006, but shall not be deemed to have an interest 
in any shares in which their spouse or any infant, child or stepchild 
(or, in Scotland, pupil or minor) of theirs is interested by virtue of 
that relationship or which they hold as a bare or custodian trustee 
under the laws of England, or as a simple trustee under the laws 
of Scotland, and interest shall be construed accordingly. 
As at 30 September 2015, 486,987,357 Ordinary Shares (31.71%) were 
held on the Separate Register. During the year the Board increased 
the Permitted Maximum from 40% to 45% in light of the acquisition 
by Fosun International Limited of a 5% stake in the Company.
PROVISIONS OF CHANGE OF CONTROL 
The Company has a facilities agreement (the “Agreement”) in 
place which consists of £500 million revolving credit facility and 
£300 million bilateral bonding and guarantee facilities. The Agreement 
provides that, on any change of control of the Company, the lenders 
under the Agreement are obligated to negotiate (for a period not 
exceeding 30 days, unless extended by agreement for a further 
period not exceeding 30 days) terms for continuing the facilities but, 
where agreement on new terms cannot be reached, any such lender 
is entitled to: (i) receive a repayment of amounts owing to such 
lender; (ii) cancel all of its commitments under the Agreement; and/or 
(iii) under certain conditions demand immediate credit support.
The Company also has £300 million 7.75% guaranteed notes due 2017 
(upon the occurrence of certain change of control events relating to 
the Company (and then only if certain rating conditions in respect 
of the relevant notes are met), each holder has the option to require 
the Company to redeem or (at the option of the Company) to purchase 
the notes of such holder at par value plus accrued interest. 
The Company’s subsidiary, Thomas Cook Finance plc, has outstanding 
€525 million 7.75% senior notes due 2020 and €400 million 6.75% 
senior notes due 2021. On the occurrence of certain change of control 
events relating to the Company, each holder has the option to require 
Thomas Cook Finance plc (the issuer of these notes) to repurchase all 
or any part of the holder’s notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 
101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.
POLITICAL DONATIONS 
The Company did not make any political donations during the financial 
year (2014: nil).   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
109 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
DELIVERING IMPROVED FINANCIAL RESULTS
financial 
statements
11_Group_Statements_p108_p121_v64.indd   109 06/01/2016   13:08 110 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our opinion 
In our opinion:
 > Thomas Cook Group plc’s Group financial statements and Company 
financial statements (the “financial statements”) give a true and fair 
view of the state of the Group’s and of the Company’s affairs as at 
30 September 2015 and of the Group’s profit and the Group’s and the 
Company’s cash flows for the year then ended;
 > the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union; and
 > the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and 
Accounts (the “Annual Report”), comprise:
 > the Group and Company balance sheet as at 30 September 2015;
 > the Group income statement and statement of other comprehensive 
income for the year then ended;
 > the Group and Company cash flow statements for the year 
then ended;
 > the Group and Company statement of changes in equity for the year 
then ended; and
 > the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the 
Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are 
identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH
Context
Thomas Cook Group plc is a British global travel company listed on 
the London Stock Exchange. The Group operates from approximately 
15 source locations across Europe. The context for our audit has 
been set against the continued execution of the Group’s strategy 
to become more resilient and focused on profitable growth, through 
the Wave 1 programme and the launch of the New Operating Model 
project, given the effect of external factors and events which impact 
the travel industry as a whole. This was particularly relevant for the 
work performed on the carrying value of goodwill and deferred tax 
assets, the recoverability of hotel prepayments and presentation of 
separately disclosed items. 
The areas of audit focus where work performed by component teams 
was most relevant were the recoverability of hotel prepayments 
and the accounting for aircraft leases and associated maintenance 
provisions. The judgements in respect of the recoverability of goodwill 
and deferred tax assets, treasury derivatives, the Group’s defined 
benefit pension schemes and the presentation of items as separately 
disclosed are primarily taken at a Group level.
Overview
Areas of
focus
Audit scope
Materiality
 > Overall Group materiality: £15.5m which is 
based on 5% of the underlying profit from 
operations, being profit from operations 
adjusted for the impact of ‘separately 
disclosed’ items.
 > Full scope audits performed on 35 of 120 
units from across the four geographic 
operating divisions.
 > The reporting units where we performed 
audit work accounted for 70% of the 
Group’s underlying profit from operations 
and 81% of the Group’s revenue.
 > The Group team visited all three of 
the ‘Sub-Consolidation component’ 
teams (being UK, Northern Europe and 
Continental Europe) and the Airlines 
Germany component team to attend the 
clearance meetings and to discuss the 
audit findings.
 > Carrying value of goodwill and deferred 
tax assets.
 > Aircraft leases and associated 
maintenance provisions.
 > Separately disclosed items.
 > Recoverability of hotel prepayments.
 > Treasury operations and use of 
derivative instruments.
 > Defined benefit pension valuation.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE 
MEMBERS OF THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
111 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing 
the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. 
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective 
judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future 
events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits we also 
addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, 
including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the 
Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due 
to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on 
our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are 
identified as “areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set out 
how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to 
provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any 
comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read 
in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by 
our audit. 
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
CARRYING VALUE OF GOODWILL AND DEFERRED TAX ASSETS
Refer to page 124 (Accounting policies) and pages 141 and 157 (notes).
The Group holds significant goodwill and deferred tax assets on the 
balance sheet of £2,388m and £197m respectively. Determining the carrying 
value of these assets is dependent on complex and subjective judgements 
by the Directors about the future results of the business.
In particular, in respect of goodwill we focused on the value in use of 
the UK Cash Generating Unit (“CGU”) which accounts for 67% of the total 
goodwill balance. Similarly, for deferred tax we focused on the UK which 
holds a net deferred tax asset of £141m.
The value of these assets is highly dependent upon the Directors’ 
views of the future results and prospects of the business including the 
successful implementation of the ongoing UK transformation and business 
development and restructuring initiatives that form part of the New 
Operating Model.
If forecast results are not achievable, the valuation of the goodwill and 
the recognition of the deferred tax assets may not be appropriate.
We evaluated the process by which the Directors prepared their cash 
flow forecasts and confirmed that they reflected the latest Board 
approved three-year plans. We performed a critical review of the historical 
accuracy of budgets and forecasts by, for example, comparing the actual 
performance of the business in the current year against the board 
approved budgets. These procedures enabled us to determine the quality 
and accuracy of the forecasting process. 
The key assumptions within the UK forecasts are the continuing successful 
implementation of the business development and profit improvement 
initiatives which drive the resulting growth rates. In assessing the 
appropriateness of the Directors’ assumptions we benchmarked certain 
external data used in the discount rate calculation against rates used by 
comparable companies. We also considered factors such as independent 
forecast growth rates for the wider travel industry and progress against 
plans associated with the business development and profit improvement 
initiatives.
We applied sensitivity analysis to the Directors’ calculations to ascertain 
the extent to which reasonable adverse changes would, either individually 
or in aggregate, require the impairment of goodwill or the de-recognition 
of deferred tax assets.
As a result of our work, we concurred with the Directors’ conclusion that 
no goodwill impairment charges were required and that it was appropriate 
to recognise a deferred tax asset for the UK.
AIRCRAFT LEASES AND ASSOCIATED MAINTENANCE PROVISIONS
Refer to pages 125 and 131 (accounting policies) and page 158 (notes).
Significant fixed assets for aircraft of £605m and provisions of £241m 
for maintenance and contractual end of lease obligations are held on 
the balance sheet.
This was an area of focus for our audit due to the size of these balances 
and the inherent level of estimation included in the calculation of the 
maintenance provisions which are based upon forecast aircraft usage 
and maintenance costs. 
Furthermore, there is judgement needed to determine whether leases 
are operating or financing in nature. Further complexity arises in respect 
of aircraft where contractual terms have been amended, including the 
extension of lease terms. 
We examined the terms included within new or extended aircraft lease 
contracts to check that they were appropriately accounted for as operating 
or finance leases.
We examined the appropriateness of the maintenance and other 
contractual end of lease provision calculations prepared by management 
by performing an assessment of new obligations, verifying key 
assumptions such as the quantum and timing of maintenance 
expenditure to contracts, confirming flying hours to the aircraft log 
books maintained by the engineering department and understanding 
any significant provision releases.
Our procedures did not identify any aircraft that had been incorrectly 
classified or any material misstatements within the associated 
aircraft provision.  112 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
SEPARATELY DISCLOSED ITEMS
Refer to page 129 (accounting policies) and page 137 (notes).
The value of separately disclosed items which are presented within a 
separate column on the face of the income statement has reduced this 
year but remains high. These items are excluded from the Directors’ 
reporting of the underlying results of the business.
The nature and use of separately disclosed items is explained in the 
Group’s accounting policy and includes costs associated with the Group 
Transformation Programme (Wave 1) and the newly initiated New Operating 
Model programme (including redundancy, consultancy, personnel and 
other related costs). Other items within separately disclosed items include 
significant legal and onerous lease provisions, the write off fees associated 
with the Group’s refinancing and the impact of certain asset disposals.
We focused on this area because separately disclosed items are not 
defined by IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and therefore 
judgement is required by the Directors to identify such items. Consistency 
in identifying and disclosing items as separately disclosed is important to 
maintain comparability of the reporting year on year.
We challenged the Directors’ rationale for the presentation of separately 
disclosed items, assessing this against the Group’s accounting policy, 
plans for the New Operating Model and consistency of treatment with prior 
periods.
We also considered items that were recorded within underlying profit that 
we considered to be ‘exceptional’ in nature and challenged management 
as to whether they should be presented within separately disclosed items.
We assessed the appropriateness, consistency and balance of the 
Directors’ presentation of these items within the financial statements.
RECOVERABILITY OF HOTEL PREPAYMENTS
Refer to page 131 (key sources of estimation uncertainty) for further information.
Significant prepayments to hoteliers are held on the year end balance 
sheet. 
The recoverability of these balances requires the Directors’ judgement 
including consideration of current booking levels, historical trend data, 
future forecast bookings, the credit-worthiness of the hoteliers and the 
impact of external factors.
We assessed the Directors’ ability to utilise the hotel deposits and 
prepayments based on actual and forecast bookings at the hotels. 
We examined contracts to ensure that contractual agreements were 
in place to roll forward prepayments to future seasons.
We evaluated the Directors’ contingency plans regarding certain aged 
prepayments, with particular focus on those deemed to be at higher risk 
due to geographic location or the credit risk associated with the hotel 
owner together with any security held by the Group. We challenged the 
recoverability of certain deposits and whether appropriate provisions 
had been recorded.
Our work did not identify any hotel prepayments that we did not consider 
to be recoverable.
TREASURY OPERATIONS AND USE OF DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS
Refer to pages 125 and 126 (accounting policies) and 151 notes for related disclosures.
The Group uses a number of hedging structures including options to 
manage its exposure to adverse movements in fuel prices and foreign 
exchange rates.
The accounting for options and related derivatives is complex and we 
therefore focused on this area to assess whether hedge accounting 
had been properly applied and the impact of hedging had been properly 
presented.
We used our specialist treasury knowledge to test the valuation for fuel 
and foreign currency derivatives by recalculating their fair value using 
observable market data.
We evaluated the values held in the hedging reserve and tested the manual 
adjustments made to correct for timing differences between the maturity 
of the hedging instrument and the underlying exposure.
We examined the hedge documentation and the hedging structures in 
place to check whether they had been accounted for in accordance with 
the Group’s accounting policies and presented appropriately in the Annual 
Report and Accounts. Our work performed did not identify any material 
misstatements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC 
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
113 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION VALUATION
Refer to pages 127 and 131 (accounting policies) and page 163 (notes) for details of the Group defined 
benefit schemes.
The Group has defined benefit pension plans with net post-retirement 
liabilities of £279m which is significant in the context of the overall balance 
sheet of the Group.
The valuation of the pension liabilities requires significant levels of 
judgement and technical expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions. 
Changes in a number of the key assumptions (including salary increases, 
inflation, discount rates and mortality) can have a material impact on the 
calculation of the liability, particularly for the Airlines Germany pension 
schemes which are unfunded. 
There is also an element of judgement in the measurement of fair value 
of pension assets due to the nature of financial investments.
We used our pension specialists to evaluate the Directors’ assessment 
of the assumptions made in relation to the valuation of the liabilities and 
assets in the Group’s pension plans
We also focused on the valuations of pension plan liabilities and the 
pension assets as follows:
 > We agreed the discount and inflation rates used in the valuation of the 
pension liability to our internally developed benchmarks
 > We assessed salary increase and mortality rate assumptions against 
national and industry averages.
 > We obtained third-party confirmations on the ownership and valuation 
of pension assets
We checked that there was no impact of specific events, such as changes 
to schemes and redundancies that should have been incorporated into the 
Directors’ calculation.
We tested underlying inputs, such as employees in the scheme, to the 
liability valuation used by the scheme actuary. We also evaluated and 
tested management’s controls and processes over pension data such as 
leavers to the plan. The assumptions used by the Directors’ were materially 
within our independent expected ranges.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough 
work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a 
whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the 
accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the 
Group operates.
The Group is organised into four geographic operating divisions: Airlines 
Germany, Continental Europe, Northern Europe and the UK. With the 
exception of Airlines Germany, each operating division comprises 
numerous management entities which sub-consolidate at a geographic 
operating division level and then ultimately at a Group level. The Group 
financial statements are ultimately a consolidation of 120 reporting units 
representing the Group’s operating businesses within these geographic-
based divisions and the centralised functions.
The reporting units vary in size and we identified 35 reporting units, 
from across the four geographic operating divisions, which required an 
audit of their complete financial information due to their individual size. 
These 35 reporting units were audited by eleven country component 
teams and the Group engagement team. These reporting units 
accounted for 70% of the Group’s underlying profit from operations 
and 81% of the Group’s revenue.
Specified procedures and audits of financial statement line items were 
performed on certain balances in a further 19 reporting units including 
the Groups IT development company (because of internally generated 
intangible assets), the Russia operation (because of its size) and two 
Group financing companies (because of the material bonds, cash and 
derivatives held by these companies).
Our audit work at these reporting units, which included visits by the 
Group engagement team to the three ‘Sub-consolidation’ component 
teams and the Airlines Germany team and attendance at their clearance 
meetings, together with the additional procedures performed at Group 
level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group and 
Company financial statements as a whole.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. 
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together 
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of 
our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures 
on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and 
in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on 
the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality 
for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group  
materiality
£15.5m (2014: £15m).
How we 
determined it
5% of underlying profit from operations, being profit 
from operations adjusted for the impact of separately 
disclosed items.
Rationale for 
benchmark  
applied
We believe that the underlying profit from operations 
provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for 
determining materiality and is the key metric against 
which the performance of the Group is most commonly 
measured. 
Component 
materiality
For each component in our audit scope, we allocated 
a materiality that was less than our overall Group 
materiality. The range of materiality allocated across 
components was between £1m and £11m. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them 
misstatements identified during our audit above £1m (2014: £1m) as 
well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted 
reporting for qualitative reasons. 114 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ 
statement, set out on page 85, in relation to going concern. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have 
anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the 
Directors’ statement about whether they considered it appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded 
that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements. The going concern basis presumes that the 
Group and Company has adequate resources to remain in operation, 
and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from 
the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit 
we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis 
is appropriate. However, because not all future events or conditions 
can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to 
the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and 
the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
 > information in the Annual Report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the 
audited financial statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and 
Company acquired in the course of performing our audit; 
or
 – is otherwise misleading.
We have no 
exceptions 
to report.
 > the statement given by the Directors on page 87, in 
accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (“the Code”), that they consider the 
Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary 
for members to assess the Group’s and Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy is materially 
inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and 
Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no 
exceptions 
to report.
 > the section of the Annual Report on pages 79–81, as 
required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the work 
of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no 
exceptions 
to report.
The directors’ assessment of the prospects of the group 
and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency 
or liquidity of the group 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have 
anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
 > the Directors’ confirmation on page 57 of the Annual 
Report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 of the Code, 
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Group, including those that 
would threaten its business model, future performance, 
solvency or liquidity.
We have 
nothing 
material to 
add or to draw 
attention to.
 > the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe 
those risks and explain how they are being managed 
or mitigated.
We have 
nothing 
material to 
add or to draw 
attention to.
 > the Directors’ explanation on page 57 of the Annual 
Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the Code, 
as to how they have assessed the prospects of the 
Group, over what period they have done so and why 
they consider that period to be appropriate, and their 
statement as to whether they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue 
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over the period of their assessment, including any 
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary 
qualifications or assumptions.
We have 
nothing 
material to 
add or to draw 
attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement 
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks 
facing the Group and the Directors’ statement in relation to the longer-term 
viability of the Group. Our review was substantially less in scope than an 
audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors’ 
process supporting their statements; checking that the statements are 
in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering 
whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by 
us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and 
explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
 > we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
 > adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
 > the company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC 
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
115 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility. 
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions 
of the Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
set out on page 86, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for 
the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of 
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do 
not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown 
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed 
by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: 
 > whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
and Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; 
 > the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the Directors; and 
 > the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the 
Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming 
our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the 
financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing 
techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a 
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence 
through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures 
or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
PAUL CRAGG  
SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
24 November 2015 116 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year ended 30 September 2015
Re-presented*
Year ended 30 September 2014
Notes
Underlying 
results  
£m
Separately 
disclosed items 
(Note 7)  
£m
Total  
£m
Underlying 
results  
£m
Separately 
disclosed items 
(Note 7)  
£m
Total  
£m
Revenue 4 7,834 – 7,834 8,588 – 8,588
Cost of providing tourism services (6,060)  (2)  (6,062) (6,672) (50) (6,722)
Gross profit 1,774  (2) 1,772 1,916 (50) 1,866
Personnel expenses 5 (859)  (27)  (886) (913) (26) (939)
Depreciation and amortisation 12/13 (174)  (1)  (175) (173) – (173)
Net operating expenses 6 (431)  (47)  (478) (507) (126) (633)
Loss on disposal of assets – (13)  (13) – (19) (19)
Impairment of goodwill and amortisation of business 
combination intangibles 7 – (9)  (9) – (50) (50)
Profit from operations 310  (99) 211 323 (271) 52
Share of results of associates 14 1 – 1 2– 2
Profit on sale of associated undertaking 14 –7 7 –– –
Finance income 8 10 – 10 10 – 10
Finance costs 8 (151) (28) (179) (153) (25) (178)
Profit/(loss) before tax 170 (120) 50 182 (296) (114)
Tax 9 (31) (1)
Profit/(loss) for the year from operations 19 (115)
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 23 (118)
Non-controlling interests (4) 3 
19 (115)
Basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 11 1.6 (8.2)
* £2m of forward points on foreign exchange cash flow hedging contracts has been re-presented from finance costs to cost of providing tourism services within separately disclosed items.
GROUP INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
117 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Notes
Year ended  
30 September  
2015  
£m
Year ended  
30 September  
2014  
£m 
Profit/(loss) for the year 19 (115)
Other comprehensive income and expense
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension schemes 30 143 (91)
Tax on actuarial gains/(losses) 24/9 (18) 19 
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Foreign exchange translation losses (34) (103)
Fair value gains and losses
Losses deferred for the year (223) – 
Tax on losses deferred for the year 48  – 
Losses transferred to the income statement 21 88 45 
Tax on losses transferred to the income statement 24/9 (24) (10)
Total net other comprehensive expense for the year (20) (140)
Total comprehensive expense for the year (1) (255)
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 3 (258)
Non-controlling interests (4) 3 
Total comprehensive expense for the year (1) (255)
GROUP STATEMENT OF OTHER
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 118 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes
 
Year ended  
30 September 
2015  
£m
Re-presented
Year ended
30 September  
2014  
£m
Profit/(loss) before tax 50 (114)
Adjustments for:
Net finance costs 169 168
Net investment income and share of results of associates (1) (2)
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 184 233
Loss on disposal of assets 13 19
Share-based payments 1 4
Profit on sale of associated undertakings (7) –
Decrease in provisions (55) (51)
Additional pension contributions (28) (26)
Interest received 10 9
Movement in working capital:
 Inventories – (8)
 Receivables 139 86
 Payables 17 49
Cash generated from operations 492 367
Income taxes paid (18) (32)
Net cash from operating activities 474 335
Dividends received from associates – 2
Proceeds on disposal of subsidiaries (net of cash disposed) – 78
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3 2
Purchase of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired) – (4)
Purchase of tangible assets (130) (118)
Purchase of intangible assets (70) (38)
Proceeds from sale of associated undertakings 17 –
Net cash used in investing activities (180) (78)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (6) (4)
Interest paid (134) (139)
Draw down of borrowings 561 125
Repayment of borrowings (450) (208)
Payment of facility set-up fees (18) –
Shares purchased by Employee Benefit Trust – (9)
Net proceeds on the issue of ordinary shares 26 92 1
Repayment of finance lease obligations (35) (44)
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities 10 (278)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 304 (21)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,017 1,090
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (35) (52)
Cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts at end of year 1,286 1,017
GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
119 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Notes
30 September 
2015  
£m
30 September 
2014  
£m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 12 2,794 2,873 
Property, plant and equipment
 – aircraft and aircraft spares 13 605 578 
 – other 13 202 177 
Investments in associates 14 4 14 
Other investments 1 1 
Deferred tax assets 24 197 195 
Pension asset 30 50 –
Tax assets – 2 
Trade and other receivables 16 55 106 
Derivative financial instruments 21 15 19 
3,923 3,965 
Current assets
Inventories 15 32 34 
Tax assets 3 3 
Trade and other receivables 16 585 705 
Derivative financial instruments 21 114 68 
Cash and cash equivalents 17 1,301 1,019 
2,035 1,829 
Total assets 5,958 5,794 
Current liabilities
Retirement benefit obligations 30 (7) (1)
Trade and other payables 18 (1,979) (2,083)
Borrowings 19 (219) (449)
Obligations under finance leases 20 (35) (34)
Tax liabilities (22) (15)
Revenue received in advance (1,117) (999)
Short-term provisions 25 (147) (247)
Derivative financial instruments 21 (176) (66)
(3,702) (3,894)
GROUP BALANCE SHEET
AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 120 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes
30 September
2015  
£m
30 September 
2014  
£m
Non-current liabilities
Retirement benefit obligations 30 (322) (447)
Trade and other payables 18 (79) (90)
Long-term borrowings 19 (1,038) (715)
Obligations under finance leases 20 (148) (147)
Non-current tax liabilities (22) (21)
Deferred tax liabilities 24 (46) (49)
Long-term provisions 25 (210) (143)
Derivative financial instruments 21 (23) (3)
(1,888) (1,615)
Total liabilities (5,590) (5,509)
Net assets 368 285 
Equity
Called-up share capital 26 69 69 
Share premium account 524 435 
Merger reserve 1,547 1,547 
Hedging and translation reserves (12) 133 
Capital redemption reserve 8 8 
Accumulated losses (1,778) (1,907)
Investment in own shares (18) (38)
Equity attributable to equity owners of the parent 340 247 
Non-controlling interests 28 38 
Total equity 368 285 
The financial statements on pages 116 to 168 were approved by the Board of Directors on 24 November 2015.
Signed on behalf of the Board
MICHAEL HEALY  
GROUP CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
GROUP BALANCE SHEET CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
121 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GROUP STATEMENT OF 
CHANGES IN EQUITY
Share capital  
and share 
premium  
£m
Other  
reserves 
 £m
Hedging  
reserve  
£m
Translation  
 reserve  
£m
Accumulated 
losses 
£m
Attributable to 
equity owners 
of the parent 
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests  
£m
Total equity  
£m
At 30 September 2013 503 1,526 (26) 227 (1,721) 509 39 548 
Loss for the year –  –  –  – (118) (118) 3 (115)
Other comprehensive expense:  
Foreign exchange translation losses –  –  – (103) – (103) – (103)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension 
schemes (net of tax) –  –  –  – (72) (72) – (72)
Losses deferred for the year (net of tax) –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Gains transferred to the income statement 
(net of tax) –  – 35  –  – 35  – 35 
Total comprehensive expense for the year –  – 35 (103) (190) (258) 3 (255)
Equity credit in respect of share-based payments –  –  –  – 4 4  – 4 
Investment in Employee Benefit Trust – (9) –  –  – (9) – (9)
Issue of shares – exercise of warrants 1  –  –  –  – 1  – 1 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest –  –  –  –  –  – (4) (4)
At 30 September 2014 504 1,517 9 124 (1,907) 247 38 285 
Profit for the year –––– 23 23 (4) 19
Other comprehensive expense:
Foreign exchange translation losses – – – (34) – (34) – (34)
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension 
schemes (net of tax) –––– 125 125 – 125
Losses deferred for the year (net of tax) – – (175) – – (175) – (175)
Gains transferred to the income statement 
(net of tax) –– 64–– 64 – 64
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the 
year – – (111) (34) 148 3 (4) (1)
Exercise of shares – Employee Benefit Trust –20 (20) – – –
Equity credit in respect of share-based payments –––– 1 1 – 1
Issue of shares – Fosun 89–––– 89 – 89
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest –––––– (6) (6)
At 30 September 2015 593 1,537 (102) 90 (1,778) 340 28 368
Other reserves consist of the merger reserve, the capital redemption reserve and own shares held. The capital redemption reserve was 
created as a consequence of the share buyback programme during the year ended 30 September 2009.
The merger reserve arose on the reverse acquisition of Thomas Cook Group plc and MyTravel Group plc by Thomas Cook AG. In the case of 
Thomas Cook Group plc, the merger reserve represents the difference between the existing share capital and share premium of Thomas Cook 
AG and the share capital of Thomas Cook Group plc issued in exchange, and in the case of MyTravel Group plc, the merger reserve represents 
the difference between the fair value and the nominal value of the share capital issued by Thomas Cook Group plc. 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 122 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 GENERAL INFORMATION 
Thomas Cook Group plc is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 and listed 
on the London Stock Exchange. The address of the registered office is 3rd Floor, South Building, 200 Aldersgate, London EC1A 4HD. The principal 
activities of the Group are discussed in the Strategic Report on pages 15 to 33. 
These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 24 November 2015.
2 BASIS OF PREPARATION 
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and 
interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) and Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with 
Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. 
After making enquiries and taking into account the matters set out in the Risk Management section on pages 56 to 59, the Directors confirm 
that they consider it appropriate to use the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report & Accounts.
The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities 
(including derivative financial instruments) at fair value through the profit or loss, share-based payments and defined benefit 
pension obligations. 
The financial statements have been rounded to the nearest million in Great British Pounds, or in certain cases, to the nearest thousand 
pounds. Amounts in pence have been rounded to the nearest tenth of a pence.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the financial information presented in this document are set out below. 
These policies have been applied consistently to the periods presented unless otherwise stated.
3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
3A CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY AND DISCLOSURE
Adoption of new or amended standards and interpretations in the current year 
In the current year, the following new or amended standards have been adopted. 
IFRS 10   “Consolidated financial statements” standard builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining 
factor in whether an entity should be included within consolidated financial statements. The amendment did not have an effect 
on the Group financial statements. 
IFRS 11  “Joint arrangements” provides for a more realistic reflection of joint arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations of the 
arrangement, rather than its legal form. The amendment did not have an effect on the Group financial statements. 
IFRS 12  “Disclosure of interests in other entities” standard includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, 
including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles. The amendment did not 
have an effect on the Group financial statements. 
IAS 27  (Revised) “Separate financial statements” is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. This standard includes 
the provisions on separate financial statements that are left after the control provisions of IAS 27 have been included in the new 
IFRS 10. The amendment did not have an effect on the Group financial statements.
IAS 28  (Revised) “Investments in associates and joint ventures” standard includes the requirements for joint ventures, as well as associates, 
to be equity accounted following the issue of IFRS 11. The amendment did not have an effect on the Group financial statements.
IAS 32  “Offsetting financial assets and liabilities” provides clarification on the application of offsetting rules relating to financial assets 
and financial liabilities. The amendment did not have a significant effect on the Group financial statements.
IAS 36  “Impairment of assets” removes certain disclosures of the recoverable amounts of CGUs. The application of these amendments 
has no material impact on the disclosures in the Group financial statements. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
123 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 
3A CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY AND DISCLOSURE CONTINUED
IAS 39  “Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement” on the novation of derivatives and the continuation of hedge accounting. 
The application of these amendments has not had any material impact on the Group financial statements. 
IFRIC 21  “Levies”, sets out the accounting for an obligation to pay levy that is not income tax. The interpretation addresses what the 
obligating event is that gives rise to pay a levy. The Group is not currently subject to significant levies so the impact on the 
Group is not material. The application of these amendments has not had any material impact on the Group financial statements.
New or amended standard and interpretations in issue but not yet effective or EU endorsed
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Group has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs that have been 
issued but are not yet effective or EU endorsed:
IFRS 9  “Financial Instruments” is effective for annual reporting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018. The standard will eventually 
replace IAS 39 but currently only details the requirements for recognition and measurement of financial assets. The Group is 
assessing the impact of IFRS 9. 
IFRS 15  “Revenue from contracts with customers” is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The Group is assessing 
the impact of IFRS 15. 
IAS 1   “Presentation of financial statements” is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. This standard 
is not expected to have a significant impact and will only have an impact on the disclosures of the financial statements. 
There are no further IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group. 
The Directors expect that IFRS 9 will impact the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments and IFRS 15 may have an impact on 
revenue recognition and related disclosures. 
3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of consolidation
The Group’s financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings. Subsidiaries are all entities (including 
structured entities) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable 
returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are 
fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. 
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Interpretation guidance included within SIC Interpretation 12 “Consolidation – special purpose entities”, indicates that certain special purpose 
entities (SPEs), which are involved in aircraft leasing arrangements with the Group, should be interpreted as being controlled by the Group, 
and therefore subject to consolidation, even though the Group has no direct or indirect equity interest in those entities. As a consequence, 
the Group has consolidated six (2014: six) SPEs that own five (2014: five) aircraft operated by the Group on operating leases. 
Business combination
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. 
The cost of an acquisition is measured at fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued, contingent consideration arrangements 
entered into, and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. Directly attributable transaction costs are expensed as incurred. 
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair 
values at the acquisition date. These values are finalised within 12 months of the date of acquisition.
When the ownership of an acquired company is less than 100%, the non-controlling interest is measured at either the proportion of the 
recognised net assets attributable to the non-controlling interest or at the fair value of the acquired company at date of acquisition. 
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. 124 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 124
3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 
3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Associates
Entities, other than subsidiaries, over which the Group exerts significant influence, but not control or joint control, are associates. Entities 
which the Group jointly controls with one or more other party under a contractual arrangement are joint ventures. 
The Group’s investments in its associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised at cost. The carrying amount of the 
investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint venture since the acquisition date. 
Goodwill relating to the associate or joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is neither amortised nor individually 
tested for impairment.
Foreign currency 
The presentation currency of the Group is Sterling. 
Average exchange rates are used to translate the results of all subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures that have a functional currency other 
than sterling. The balance sheets of such entities are translated at period end exchange rates. The resulting exchange differences are recorded 
through a separate component of equity. 
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of an entity are translated at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. 
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities held at the year end are translated at period end exchange rates. The resulting exchange gain 
or loss is recorded in the income statement. When a foreign entity is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded 
in equity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Intangible assets – goodwill 
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Group’s 
income statement and is not subsequently reversed. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the 
Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the 
acquiree are assigned to those units. 
On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss 
on disposal. 
Intangible assets – other 
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, are carried on the Group’s balance sheet at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Other than capitalised development costs, internally generated intangible assets are not capitalised and expenditure is reflected in the income 
statement in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over the intangible asset’s useful life, when finite, as follows:
Brands  9 years to indefinite life 
Customer relationships  1 to 15 years 
Computer software  3 to 10 years 
Indefinite-lived intangible assets principally comprise those trademarks for which there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which they 
are expected to generate net cash inflows. These are considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of our brands 
and the level of marketing support. The nature of the industry we operate in is such that brand obsolescence is not common, if appropriately 
supported by advertising and marketing spend. 
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment at least annually at the CGU level by comparing their carrying amount 
to their recoverable amount. All other intangible assets are assessed at each reporting date for indications of impairment. If such indications 
exist, the recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying amount. If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount, 
the carrying amount is reduced to the recoverable amount and the impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
125 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 
3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of straight-line depreciation and any provision for impairment. Where costs are incurred 
as part of the start-up or commissioning of an item of property, plant or equipment, and that item is available for use but incapable of operating 
in the manner intended by management without such a start-up or commissioning period, then such costs are included within the cost of 
the item. Costs that are not directly attributable to bringing an asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating 
in the manner intended by management are charged to the income statement as incurred. 
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land, upon which no depreciation is provided, is calculated on a straight-line 
basis and aims to write down their cost to their estimated residual value over their expected useful lives as follows: 
Freehold buildings  40 to 50 years 
Leasehold properties  Shorter of remaining lease period and 40 years 
Aircraft  23 years (or remaining lease period if shorter) 
Aircraft spares  5 to 15 years (or remaining lease period if shorter) 
Other fixed assets  3 to 15 years 
Estimated residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually. 
Aircraft overhaul and maintenance costs 
Major overhaul expenditure, including replacement spares and labour costs, is capitalised and amortised over the average expected life 
between major overhauls. All other replacement spares and other costs relating to maintenance of fleet assets (including maintenance 
provided under “pay-as-you-go” contracts) are charged to the income statement on consumption or as incurred respectively.
Provision is made for the future costs of major overhauls of operating leased engines, auxiliary power units and airframes by making 
appropriate charges to the income statement, calculated by reference to hours flown and/or the expired lease period, as a consequence 
of obligations placed upon the Group under the terms of certain operating leases.
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost represents purchase price. Net realisable value represents the 
estimated selling price less all costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. 
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange and fuel price risks arising from 
operational, financing and investment activities. In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial 
instruments for trading purposes. However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at fair value. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging 
instrument and if so the nature of the item being hedged.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value, on derivatives not designated as a hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the 
income statement.
Derivatives are presented on the balance sheet on a gross basis. A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset 
whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a financial liability. A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or 
a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled 
within 12 months. 126 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 126
3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 
3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Hedge accounting
For fair value hedges, changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated as fair value hedges are recognised in 
the income statement as part of finance income or cost line, where they offset the changes in fair value on the hedged item. Where the hedged 
item is designated in a fair value hedge relationship of a financial liability held at amortised cost, the change in fair value in respect to the 
hedged risk is recorded as a fair value adjustment within finance income or cost.
Fair value hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. At that point in time the changes in fair value on the hedging instrument will continue to be recognised immediately into 
the income statement, while the hedged item will no longer be adjusted for fair value changes.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value on derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges of 
future cash flows is recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income 
statement within net operating expenses. 
Forward points on foreign exchange forward contracts and time value of options are not designated as part of the hedging relationship and 
therefore, are recorded in the income statement within costs of providing tourism.
Changes in fair value deferred through the hedge reserve, are recognised in the income statement in the same period, or periods, in which 
the hedged highly probable forecast transactions are recognised in the income statement.
Cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for 
hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gains or losses on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive income 
are retained until the forecast transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss 
recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement for the period.
Non-derivative financial instruments 
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. 
Financial assets are derecognised when the Group transfers substantially all the risks (and rewards) relating to the financial asset or when 
the contractual rights to the cash flows associated with the financial asset expire. Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation 
is discharged, cancelled or expires. The measurement of particular financial assets and liabilities is set out below.
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and term deposits which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which 
are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less. Where the Group operates centrally 
pooled accounts and has the intention and ability to pool account balances, the net cash or overdraft position is disclosed. Where the intention 
or ability to pool balances together is absent, the cash and overdraft are disclosed on a gross basis in the consolidated balance sheet and the 
overdraft is excluded from cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are recognised at their fair value and subsequently recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method 
as reduced by allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. An allowance for irrecoverable amounts is established when there is objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of allowance is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.
Available-for-sale financial assets 
Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised and subsequently recorded at their fair value. Gains or losses (except for impairment losses 
and foreign exchange gains and losses) are recognised directly in equity until the financial asset is derecognised. At this point, the cumulative 
gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement. Any impairment losses, foreign exchange gains or losses 
or dividends receivable are recognised in the income statement.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
127 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 
3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Held for trading investments 
Short-term investments and derivatives that are not designated in a hedge relationship such as natural hedges of a balance sheet exposure 
are classified as held for trading and are recognised and subsequently measured at their fair value. Gains or losses are recognised in the 
income statement.
Other non-current asset investments 
The fair value of investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market are measured using an 
appropriate valuation technique. Where a fair value cannot be reliably measured, the investment is measured at cost. Loans and receivables 
are initially recognised at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method. Any impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at their fair value and subsequently recorded at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
Borrowings 
Interest bearing borrowings are initially recognised at their fair value net of any directly attributable transaction costs. They are subsequently 
recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings that are designated as hedged items in a fair value hedge relationship are adjusted for changes in their fair value in respect of the 
hedged risk. The adjustment will be amortised to the income statement at the time when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted for changes 
in its fair value attributable to the hedged risk.
Provisions 
The Group recognises a provision when there is a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Provisions are recognised at the Director’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date. 
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision is discounted to its present value.
Pensions 
The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes. The pension liabilities recognised on the balance sheet in respect of these schemes 
represent the difference between the present value of the Group’s obligations under the schemes (calculated using the projected unit credit 
method) and the fair value of those schemes’ assets. Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in the period in which they arise within the 
statement of comprehensive income and expense. The current service cost, representing benefits accruing over the year, is included in 
the income statement as a personnel expense. The unwinding of the discount rate on the scheme liabilities and the expected return on 
scheme assets are presented as finance costs and finance income respectively. Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income 
statement in personnel expenses.
Pension costs charged against profits in respect of the Group’s defined contribution schemes represent the amount of the contributions 
payable to the schemes in respect of the accounting period.
Share capital 
Ordinary Shares including share premium are classified as equity.  128 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 128
3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 
3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Leases 
Leases under which substantially all of the risk and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group are finance leases. All other leases 
are operating leases. 
Assets held under finance leases are recognised at the lower of the fair value of the asset and the present value of the minimum lease 
payments within property, plant and equipment on the balance sheet and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their expected 
useful lives. The interest element of finance lease payments represents a constant proportion of the capital balance outstanding and is 
charged to the income statement over the period of the lease. 
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Income arising from operating leases where the Group acts as lessor is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term and included 
in operating income due to its operating nature. 
Share-based payments 
The Group issues equity-settled share options to certain employees as part of their total remuneration. The fair values of the share options 
are calculated at the date of grant, using an appropriate option pricing model. These fair values are charged to the income statement on 
a straight-line basis over the expected vesting period of the options, with a corresponding increase in equity.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as 
a capital contribution. The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over 
the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity. 
The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the 
date at which they are granted. 
Insurance contracts and reinsurance contracts 
Premiums written relate to business incepted during the year, together with any differences between the booked premiums for prior years 
and those previously accrued, less cancellations. Premiums are recognised as revenue (earned premiums) proportionally over the period of 
coverage. The portion of premium received on in-force contracts that relates to unexpired risks at the balance sheet date is reported as a 
provision for unearned premium. Premiums are shown after the deduction of commission and premium taxes where relevant.
Claims and loss adjustment expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred based on the estimated liability for compensation 
owed to policyholders or third-parties damaged by policyholders. They include best estimate direct and indirect claims settlement costs 
arising from events that have occurred up to the balance sheet date even if they have not yet been reported to the Company. Where applicable, 
deductions are made for salvage and other recoveries. The Company does not discount its liabilities for unpaid claims. 
Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated using the input of assessments for individual cases reported to the Company and statistical 
analysis for the claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). It is assumed that the development pattern of the current claims will be informed 
by previous experience. 
The expected claims are calculated having regard to events that have occurred prior to the balance sheet date. 
Contracts entered into by the Group with reinsurers, under which the Group is compensated for losses on one or more contracts issued by 
the Group, and that meet the classification requirements for insurance contracts, are classified as reinsurance contracts held. The benefits 
to which the Group is entitled under its reinsurance contracts held are recognised as receivables from reinsurers. The Group assesses its 
reinsurance assets for impairment on an annual basis. 
Receivables and payables are recognised when due. These include amounts due to and from insurance policyholders. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
129 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 
3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Revenue recognition
The Group’s revenue is measured as the aggregate amount of gross revenue receivable from inclusive tours, airline travel services, hotel 
services, travel agency commission and other travel services supplied to customers in the ordinary course of business. The Group records 
revenue on a net basis after deducting trade discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and compensation vouchers granted to customers. 
Revenue relating to travel services arranged by the Group’s leisure and airline travel providers, including travel agency commission and other 
services, are taken to the income statement on the date of holiday and flight departure. Revenue relating to other services provided by the 
Group is taken to the income statement as earned. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when all the significant risks and rewards 
of ownership is transferred to the customer, usually on delivery of the goods. Monies received by the balance sheet date relating to holidays 
commencing and flights departing after the period end are included within current liabilities as revenue received in advance.
Expenses 
Direct expenses relating to inclusive tours arranged by the Group’s leisure travel providers are taken to the income statement on holiday 
departure or over the period to which they relate as appropriate. Indirect expenses are recognised in the income statement over the period 
to which goods and services are received by the Group.
Separately disclosed items 
The Group separately discloses in the income statement: non-recurring items, impairment of goodwill and amortisation of business 
combination intangibles; and IAS 39 fair value remeasurement.
Separately disclosed items, namely items that are material either because of their size or their nature, and which are non-recurring, 
are presented within their relevant income statement category, but highlighted through separate disclosure. The separate reporting helps 
provide a full understanding of the Group’s underlying performance.
Items which are included within the separately disclosed category include:
 > profits/(losses) on disposal of assets or businesses and costs of acquisitions;
 > costs of integration of significant acquisitions and other major restructuring programmes;
 > significant goodwill or other asset impairments;
 > material write-down of assets/reassessment of accruals, reflecting a more cautious evaluation in light of current trading and economic 
conditions (excluding errors or prior year items); and
 > other individually material items that are unusual because of their size, nature or incidence.
Material business combination intangible assets were acquired as a result of the merger between Thomas Cook AG and MyTravel Group 
plc and other business combinations made in subsequent years. The amortisation of these intangible assets is significant and the Group’s 
management consider that it should be disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the Group’s results.
IAS 39 fair value remeasurement includes movements in forward points related to foreign exchange forward contracts and time value of 
options in cash flow hedging relationships. Both items are subject to market fluctuations and unwind when the options or forward contracts 
mature and therefore are not considered to be part of the Group’s underlying performance. Interest income and charges arising on the 
Group’s defined benefit pension schemes and interest charges arising on the unwind of discount on exceptional provisions and contingent 
consideration are not considered to be part of the Group’s underlying performance.
The Group’s management consider that these items should be disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the Group’s results. 130 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 130
3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 
3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Finance income and costs 
Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested, expected return on pension plan assets, changes in the fair value of held 
for trading interest-related derivatives, and fair value adjustments to hedged items in a designated fair value hedge. 
Finance costs comprise interest costs on borrowings and finance leases, unwind of the discount on non-current liabilities, interest cost on 
pension plan liabilities, changes in the fair value of held for trading interest-related derivatives, movement in forward points on outstanding 
foreign exchange forward contracts in cash flow hedging relationships and changes in fair value of derivatives designated in a fair value 
hedge relationship.
The changes in fair value on derivatives designated in a fair value hedge relationship and the fair value adjustment on hedged items 
in a fair value hedge relationship are separately disclosed in Note 7 under the description “IAS 39 fair value remeasurement”.
Tax
Current tax
Current tax is the amount of income taxes payable (recoverable) in respect of the taxable profit (tax loss) for a period.
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based 
on tax rates and laws that are substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising from differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability and 
its tax base, with the following exceptions: 
 > Where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill, or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction 
that is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects neither the accounting or taxable profit or loss; 
 > In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements, where the 
timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in 
the foreseeable future; and 
 > Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences, tax losses or credits carried forward can be utilised. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset 
is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Allocation of tax charge or credit between income statement, other comprehensive income and equity 
Tax is recognised in the income statement unless it relates to an item recognised directly in equity, in which case the associated tax 
is recognised directly in other comprehensive income or equity respectively.
Earnings per share 
The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) data for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or 
loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. 
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the effects of all dilutive potential 
ordinary shares. EPS measures for continuing operations have been presented in accordance with IAS 33. The Group also presents a basic and 
diluted underlying EPS measure based on underlying profit before tax as defined in separately disclosed items section above. Further details 
of the EPS calculation are presented in Note 11. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
131 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 
3C CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS 
In applying its accounting policies, the Group has made estimates and assumptions concerning the future, which may differ from the related 
actual outcomes. Those estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Revenue recognition 
A key judgement in recognising revenue is to distinguish where the Group’s businesses act in the capacity of principal or agent so to determine 
the accounting as either gross or net respectively, in line with IAS 18 Revenue Recognition. The Group exercises judgement to assess principal 
or agency by considering if it is the prime obligor in all the revenue arrangements, has pricing discretion and is exposed to inventory and credit 
risk, in which case the Group will be principal to the arrangement. 
Residual values of tangible fixed assets 
Judgements have been made in respect of the residual values and useful economic lives of aircraft included in property, plant and equipment 
(see Note 13). Those judgements determine the amount of depreciation charged in the income statement. 
Impairment of goodwill 
Judgements have been made in respect of the amounts of future operating cash flows to be generated by certain of the Group’s businesses 
in order to assess whether there has been any impairment of the amounts included in the balance sheet for goodwill or intangible assets 
with an indefinite life in relation to those businesses. 
Special purpose entities 
The nature of the relationship with certain special purpose entities involved in leasing aircraft to the Group shows that they should be 
interpreted as controlled by the Group, and therefore consolidated, even though the Group has no direct or indirect equity interest in 
those entities. 
Recoverable amounts of deposits and prepayments 
Estimates have been made in respect of the volumes of future trading with hoteliers and the credit-worthiness of those hoteliers in order 
to assess the recoverable amounts of deposits and prepayments made to those hoteliers. 
Aircraft maintenance provisions 
Provisions for the cost of maintaining leased aircraft and spares are based on forecast aircraft utilisation, estimates of future maintenance 
costs and planned rollover and renewal of the aircraft fleet. 
Tax 
The Group operates in many tax regimes and the tax implications of its operations are complex. It can take several years for tax liabilities to 
be agreed with the relevant authorities. Tax assets and liabilities represent management’s estimates of tax that will be payable or recoverable 
in the future and may be dependent on estimates of future profitability. 
In addition, estimates have been made in respect of the probable future utilisation of tax losses, and deferred tax assets have been recognised 
as a result. The recoverability of these assets is dependent on the agreement of the losses with the relevant authorities and the estimates of 
future profitability. 
Retirement benefits 
The consolidated financial statements include costs in relation to, and provision for, retirement benefit obligations. The costs and the present 
value of any related pension assets and liabilities depend on such factors as life expectancy of the members, the salary progression of current 
employees, the returns that plan assets generate and the discount rate used to calculate the present value of the liabilities. The Group uses 
previous experience and impartial actuarial advice to select the values of critical estimates. The estimates, and the effect of variances in key 
estimates, are disclosed in Note 30.  132 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 132
4 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION 
For management purposes, the Group is organised into four geographic based operating divisions: UK, Continental Europe, Northern Europe, 
and Airlines Germany. These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information. Certain residual businesses 
and corporate functions are not allocated to these divisions and are shown separately as Corporate. 
These reportable segments are consistent with how information is presented to the Group Chief Executive (chief operating decision maker) 
for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of performance.
The primary business of all these operating divisions is the provision of leisure travel services and, accordingly, no separate secondary 
segmental information is provided.
Segmental information for these activities is presented below:
Year ended 30 September 2015
UK  
£m
Continental 
Europe  
£m
Northern  
Europe  
£m
Airlines  
Germany 
 £m
Corporate  
£m
Total  
£m
Continuing Operations
Revenue
Segment sales 2,457 3,449 1,057 1,257  – 8,220 
Inter-segment sales (54) (31) (16) (285) – (386)
Total revenue 2,403 3,418 1,041 972  – 7,834 
Revenue by product
Tour Operations 5,789
Airlines 2,806 
Other 577 
Inter-segment sales (1,338)
Total revenue 7,834 
Result
Underlying profit/(loss) from operations 119 71 96 56 (32) 310 
Separately disclosed items (41) (30) (1) (2) (16) (90)
Impairment of goodwill and amortisation of business combination 
intangibles (7) (2) –  –  – (9)
Segment result 71 39 95 54 (48) 211 
Share of results of associates 1 
Profit on sale of associated undertaking 7 
Finance income 10 
Finance costs (179)
Profit before tax 50 
Tax (31)
Profit for the year 19 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
133 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
4 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED
UK  
£m
Continental 
Europe 
 £m
Northern  
Europe 
 £m
Airlines 
Germany  
£m
Corporate 
 £m
Total  
£m
Other information
Capital additions 86 26 84 68 37 301 
Depreciation 49 6 18 72  – 145 
Amortisation of intangible assets 10 11 1  – 8 30 
Amortisation of business combination intangibles 7 2  –  –  – 9 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment – 1  –  –  – 1 
Balance sheet
Assets
Segment assets 3,134 3,770 1,486 1,226 8,115 17,731 
Inter-segment eliminations (11,977)
 5,754 
Investments in associates and joint ventures 4 
Tax and deferred tax assets 200 
Total assets 5,958 
Liabilities
Segment liabilities (3,333) (2,299) (864) (916) (8,160) (15,572)
Inter-segment eliminations 11,512 
(4,060)
Tax and deferred tax liabilities (90)
Borrowings and obligations under finance leases (1,440)
Total liabilities (5,590)
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices. Segment assets consist primarily of goodwill, other intangible assets, property, 
plant and equipment, trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables, revenue received in advance and provisions.
Capital additions comprise additions to other intangible assets (note 12) and property, plant and equipment (note 13).
The entity is domiciled in the UK. Revenue from external customers in the UK was £2,355m (2014: £2,539m) which is derived from the ‘UK’ 
segmental revenue shown above but excluding external revenue in Ireland and Spain-domiciled companies, which would otherwise be included 
in the UK segment. Revenue from external customers in Germany was £2,918m (2014: £3,747m). 
The total non-current assets, other than financial instruments and deferred tax (there are no employment benefits assets or rights arising 
under insurance contracts), located in the UK was £1,944m (2014: £1,720m). 134 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 134
4 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED
Year ended 30 September 2014
UK  
£m
Continental 
Europe  
£m
Northern  
Europe  
£m
Airlines  
Germany 
 £m
Corporate  
£m
Total  
£m
Continuing Operations
Revenue
Segment sales 2,585 3,958 1,153 1,299  – 8,995 
Inter-segment sales (56) (26) (8) (317) – (407)
Total revenue 2,529 3,932 1,145 982  – 8,588 
Revenue by product
Tour Operations 7,096 
Airlines 2,912 
Other 589 
Intercompany sales (2,009)
Total revenue 8,588 
Result
Underlying profit/(loss) from operations 89 102 101 50 (19) 323 
Separately disclosed items (95) (41) – (16) (69) (221)
Impairment of goodwill and amortisation of business combination 
intangibles (48) (2) – – – (50)
Segment result (54) 59 101 34 (88) 52 
Share of results of associates 2
Finance income 10 
Finance costs (178)
Loss before tax (114)
Tax (1)
Loss for the year (115)
Other information
Capital additions 54 20 15 82 13 184 
Depreciation 43 7 17 78 1 146 
Amortisation of intangible assets 11 11 1  – 4 27 
Amortisation of business combination intangibles 6 3  –  –  – 9 
Impairment of other intangible assets 1 1  –  –  – 2 
Impairment of goodwill 41  –  –  –  – 41 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
135 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
4 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED
UK  
£m
Continental 
Europe 
 £m
Northern  
Europe 
 £m
Airlines 
Germany  
£m
Corporate 
 £m
Total  
£m
Balance sheet
Assets
Segment assets 2,638 3,665 1,523 1,145 7,249 16,220 
Inter-segment eliminations (10,640)
5,580 
Investments in associates and joint ventures 14 
Tax and deferred tax assets 200 
Total assets 5,794 
Liabilities
Segment liabilities (2,833) (2,322) (919) (776) (7,487) (14,337)
Inter-segment eliminations 10,258 
(4,079)
Tax and deferred tax liabilities (85)
Borrowings and obligations under finance leases (1,345)
Total liabilities (5,509)
5 PERSONNEL EXPENSES
2015 
 £m
2014  
£m
Wages and salaries 740 792 
Social security costs 91 98 
Share-based payments – equity settled (see note 29) 1 4 
Defined benefit pension costs (see note 30) 13 3 
Defined contribution pension costs (see note 30) 41 42 
  886 939 
The monthly average number of employees of the Group during the year was:
2015  
Number
2014  
Number
UK 8,985 9,720 
Continental Europe 6,473 6,568 
Northern Europe 3,089 3,120 
Airlines Germany 2,989 2,997 
Corporate 277 267 
 21,813 22,672 
Disclosures of Directors’ remuneration, share options, long-term incentive schemes, pension contributions and pension entitlements required 
by the Companies Act 2006 and those specified for audit by the Financial Conduct Authority are on pages 96 to 104 within the Remuneration 
report and form part of these audited financial statements. 
Disclosures in respect of remuneration of key management personnel are included in note 31.  136 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 136
6 OPERATING EXPENSES
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Advertising expenses 121 144 
Rents and expenses for building maintenance 101 110 
Information technology and telecommunication costs 138 161 
Travel expenses and ancillary personnel expenses 49 54 
Legal and consultancy fees 35 81 
Impairment of current and non-current assets, excluding goodwill 19 32 
Insurance 11 12 
Auditor’s remuneration 4 5 
Other operating expenses – 34 
478 633 
A more detailed analysis of auditors’ remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below:
Auditors’ remuneration
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Fees payable to Company’s auditor and its associates for the audit  
of parent company and consolidated financial statements 1 1 
Fees payable to Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
Audit of subsidiaries 2 3 
Total audit fees 3 4 
Other non-audit services 1 1 
Total non-audit services 1 1 
Total fees 4 5 
Included within ‘Audit of subsidiaries’, £0.1m (2014: £0.1m) has been incurred in respect of the audits of the Group pension schemes.
Total non-audit services is inclusive of £0.2m in relation to tax services.
Fees paid to the Company’s auditors and their associates for services other than the statutory audit of the Company are not disclosed in 
subsidiaries’ accounts since the consolidated accounts of the subsidiaries’ parent, Thomas Cook Group plc, are required to disclose non-audit 
fees on a consolidated basis.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance report on page 79 and includes an explanation of how 
auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
137 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
7 SEPARATELY DISCLOSED ITEMS
2015  
£m
Re-presented*
2014 
 £m
Affecting profit from operations
Reorganisation and restructuring costs (52) (110)
Reassessment of contingent consideration 18 –
Impairment of goodwill and asset valuation reviews – (57)
Onerous contracts and legal disputes (35) (79)
Amortisation of business combination intangibles (9) (9)
Provision for tax dispute resolution – 2 
Other (21) (18)
(99) (271)
Affecting income from associates
Profit on disposal of associates 7 –
7  – 
Affecting finance income and costs
Write off of unamortised bank facility set-up and related costs (7) –
Net interest cost on defined benefit obligation (12) (15)
Unwind of discount on non-current liabilities (9) (10)
 (28) (25)
Total separately disclosed items (120) (296)
*  £2m of forward points on foreign exchange cash flow hedging contracts has been re-presented from finance costs to cost of providing tourism services and £14m of loss on disposal of assets has been 
reclassified from restructuring costs to other. 
Restructuring costs 
Restructuring costs of £52 million include £25m in relation to implementation costs associated with delivering the New Operating Model 
(NUMO). In addition, there have been Group-wide restructuring costs of £27m. 
Reassessment of contingent consideration
In line with IFRS, the Group reassessed the carrying value of a contingent obligation to acquire from the Co-operative Group and 
Central England Co-operative their shares in the UK retail joint venture. The reassessment resulted in a reduction of £18m to the liability. 
Goodwill impairment and asset valuation reviews 
The prior year balance principally relates to pre-disposal goodwill impairment of £41m.
Onerous contracts and legal disputes 
During the year the Group has assessed its position in respect of certain onerous contracts and made appropriate adjustments to assets on 
the balance sheet and made provision for future losses under these contracts. The charge primarily comprises an onerous lease of £9 million. 
In relation to onerous contracts identified in prior years, the Group has recognised a final £24 million non-cash charge in respect of a UK 
outsourcing contract that concluded in June 2015.
Amortisation of business combination intangibles 
Material business combination intangible assets were acquired as a result of the merger between Thomas Cook AG and MyTravel Group plc 
and other business combinations made in subsequent years. The amortisation of these intangible assets is significant and the Group’s 
management consider that it should be disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the Group’s results. 
Provision for tax dispute resolution 
In FY14 there was a release of £2m to a provision held on a sales tax judgement.  138 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 138
7 SEPARATELY DISCLOSED ITEMS CONTINUED 
Other 
This amount includes loss on the disposal of assets as well as £6m gain from the movement in forward points related to foreign exchange 
forward contracts and time value of options in cash flow hedging relationships. Both items are subject to market fluctuations and unwind 
when the options or forward contracts mature and therefore are not considered to be part of the Group’s underlying performance. 
Finance related charges
The Group has provisions for future liabilities arising from separately disclosed circumstances, primarily deferred acquisition consideration. 
A notional interest charge of £9m on the discounted value of such liabilities is recognised within separately disclosed finance related charges.
During the year £7m of facility fees have been written off.
Interest income and charges arising on the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes is £12m.
8 FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS
2015  
£m
Re-presented
2014  
£m
Underlying finance income 
Income from loans included in financial assets 1 1 
Other interest and similar income 9 9 
10 10 
Underlying finance costs
Bank and Bond interest (95) (89)
Fee amortisation (8) (9)
Letters of Credit (15) (17)
Other interest payable (16) (17)
(134) (132)
Underlying aircraft related finance costs
Interest payable (3) (4)
Finance costs in respect of finance leases (14) (17)
 (17) (21)
Underlying finance cost (151) (153)
Net underlying Interest (141) (143)
Separately disclosed finance costs
Write off of unamortised bank facility set-up and related costs (7) –
Net interest cost on defined benefit obligation (note 30) (12) (15)
Unwind of discount on non-current liabilities (9) (10)
(28) (25)
Total net interest (169) (168)
Other interest payable includes fair value gain of £1m (2014: £14m gain) on hedging instruments and fair value loss of £1m (2014: £12m loss) on 
hedged items in fair value hedges.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
139 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
9 TAX
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Analysis of tax charge 
Current tax 
Overseas corporation tax charge for the year 29 23 
 adjustments in respect of prior periods (2) (6)
Total current tax 27 17 
Deferred tax 
 tax charge/ (credit) 4 (16)
Total deferred tax  4 (16)
Total tax charge 31 1 
The tax on the Group’s profit/(loss) before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the UK standard corporation tax rate 
applicable to profits of the company as follows:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Tax reconciliation
Profit/ (loss) before tax 50 (114)
Expected tax charge at the UK corporation tax rate of 20.5% (2014: 22%) 10 (25)
Income not liable for tax (15) (6)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 13 30 
Impairment for which no tax relief is due – 9 
Losses and other timing differences for which tax relief is not available 21 31 
Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised – (4)
Recognition of losses not previously recognised (41) (56)
Derecognition of deferred tax previously recognised 10 18 
Difference in rates of tax suffered on overseas earnings 9 7 
Impact of changes in tax rates 1 5 
Other 2 1 
Income tax charge in respect of prior periods 21 (9)
Tax charge 31 1 
In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, deferred tax relating to actuarial losses on pension schemes and the fair value 
of derivative financial instruments of £6m has been credited directly to equity (2014: credit of £9m). UK corporation tax is calculated at 20.5% 
(2014: 22%) of the estimated assessable profit/(loss) for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the 
respective jurisdictions. 
Surplus losses not recognised in deferred tax of £1,935m (2014: £2,340m) are available predominantly in the UK, France and Spain for offset 
against future profits. 140 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 140
10 DIVIDENDS 
No dividends were declared during the year ended 30 September 2015 (2014: nil). 
11 EARNINGS PER SHARE 
The calculations for earnings per share, based on the weighted average number of shares, are shown in the table below. The weighted average 
number of shares shown excludes 9 million shares held by the employee share ownership trusts (2014: 21m).
Basic and diluted loss earnings/(loss) share
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Net profit attributable to the owners of the parent 23 (118)
2015  
millions
2014  
millions 
Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings/(loss) per share 1,487 1,440
Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings/(loss) per share* 1,487 1,464
2015  
pence
2014  
pence 
Basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per share 1.6 (8.2)
Underlying basic and diluted earnings per share
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Underlying net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent** 132 163
2015  
pence
2014  
pence 
Underlying basic earnings per share 8.9 11.3
Underlying diluted earnings per share 8.9 11.1
* Awards of shares under the Thomas Cook Performance Share Plan, Buy As You Earn Scheme, Restricted Share Scheme and Co-Investment Plan will be satisfied by shares held in trust and therefore are 
potentially dilutive. The remainder of the share schemes will be satisfied by the purchase of existing shares in the market and will therefore not result in any dilution of earnings per share.
** Underlying net profit attributable to owners of the parent is derived from the continuing pre-exceptional profit before tax for the year ended 30 September 2015 of £170m (2014: 182m) and then deducting 
a notional tax charge of £42m (2014: £16m), and taking into account non-controlling interests.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
141 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill
Computer software and 
concessions
£m
Purchased  
£m 
Internally  
generated  
£m
Brands and  
customer  
relationships  
£m
Order  
backlog  
£m 
Other  
Purchased  
£m
Total  
£m
Cost
At 1 October 2013 3,035 136 254 481 44 21 3,971
Additions – 5 34–– 1 40
Disposals (89) (4) (9) (52) (2) (14) (170)
Exchange differences (158) (10) (13) (19) (1) (2) (203)
At 30 September 2014 2,788 127 266 410 41 6 3,638
Additions 3 9 60––– 72
Disposals –(9) (13) (2) – (3) (27)
Reclassification to plant, property and equipment –– (3) ––– (3)
Exchange differences (96) (6) (5) (25) – – (132)
At 30 September 2015 2,695 121 305 383 41 3 3,548
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 October 2013 344 111 147 155 44 15 816
Impairment loss –1 –1 – – 2
Charge for the year – 5 22 9 – – 36
Disposals (12) (3) (8) (23) (2) (14) (62)
Exchange differences (13) (9) (3) – (1) (1) (27)
At 30 September 2014 319 105 158 142 41 – 765
Charge for the year – 4 26 9–– 39
Disposals –(11) (1) (1) – – (13)
Exchange differences (12) (5) (4) (16) – – (37)
At 30 September 2015 307 93 179 134 41 – 754
Carrying amount
At 30 September 2015 2,388 28 125 249 – 32,794
At 30 September 2014 2,469 22 108 268 – 6 2,873
12_Notes_1_16_p122_p146_v60.indd   141 06/01/2016   13:07 142 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 142
12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED 
The carrying value of goodwill is analysed by business segment as follows:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
UK 1,602 1,631
Continental Europe 155 159
Northern Europe 613 659
Airlines Germany 18 20
2,388 2,469
Goodwill Impairment Testing 
In accordance with accounting standards, the Group tests the carrying value of goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or 
circumstances change.
Impairment testing is performed by comparing the carrying value of each cash-generating unit (CGU) to the recoverable amount, determined 
on the basis of the CGU’s value in use. The value in use is based on the net present value of future cash flow projections discounted at 
pre-tax rates appropriate for each CGU. The Group’s CGUs are determined by geographical market and consist of: UK, Continental Europe, 
Northern Europe and Airlines Germany.
The future cash flow projections used to determine the value in use are based on the most recent annual budgets and three-year plans for 
each of the CGUs. The key assumptions used to determine the business’ budget and three-year plans relate to capacity and the pricing of 
accommodation and fuel inputs. Capacity is based on management’s view of market demand and the constraints to managing capacity such 
as aircraft lease commitments. The accommodation pricing is primarily driven by the underlying bed rate and the foreign exchange hedges 
in place. The former is based on the businesses’ ongoing dialogue with bed suppliers and local cost inflation. The fuel pricing assumption 
is primarily driven by the fuel hedges in place and the forward fuel curve at the time that the budget is set. The key assumptions used to 
determine the Independent business’ budget and three-year plans relate to passenger volumes and commission rates, and are based on 
the individual businesses’ view of the market conditions.
Cash flow forecasts for years beyond the three-year plan are extrapolated at an estimated average long-term nominal growth rate of 2%.
A pre-tax discount rate of between 10.4% – 10.9% reflecting the specific risks of each CGU is used to calculate the value in use for each 
of the CGUs. 
Sensitivity analysis has not been disclosed as management believe that any reasonable change in assumptions would not cause the 
carrying value of the CGUs to exceed their recoverable amount.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
143 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Other property, plant and equipment
Aircraft and  
aircraft spares  
£m
Freehold land  
and buildings  
£m
Short  
leaseholds  
£m
Other  
fixed assets 
£m
Other  
Total  
£m
Cost
At 1 October 2013 1,227 153 145 197 495
Additions 117 1 7 19 27
Reclassification (2) (2) 15 (7) 6
Disposals (60) – (32) (40) (72)
Exchange differences (154) (11) (4) (6) (21)
At 30 September 2014 1,128 141 131 163 435
Additions 193 18 7 14 39
Reclassification (4) 4 (4) 7 7
Disposals (87) (5) (6) 2 (9)
Exchange differences (55) (6) (3) (9) (18)
At 30 September 2015 1,175 152 125 177 454
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 October 2013 624 55 104 138 297
Charge for the year 123 4 8 11 23
Reclassifications (13) – 3 3 6
Disposals (58) – (23) (32) (55)
Exchange differences (126) (6) (3) (4) (13)
At 30 September 2014 550 53 89 116 258
Charge for the year 125 2 7 11 20
Provision for impairment –– 1– 1
Reclassifications 9– (11) 2 (9)
Disposals (81) (5) (5) 4 (6)
Exchange differences (33) (3) (2) (7) (12)
At 30 September 2015 570 47 79 126 252
Carrying amount
At 30 September 2015 605 105 46 51 202
At 30 September 2014 578 88 42 47 177
12_Notes_1_16_p122_p146_v60.indd   143 06/01/2016   13:07 144 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 144
13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED
Freehold land with a cost of £30m (2014: £24m) has not been depreciated.
The net book value of aircraft and aircraft spares includes £300m (2014: £270m) in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The net book value of other property, plant and equipment includes £23m (2014: £10m) in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The depreciation of the owned assets during the year was £74m (2014: £85m). Depreciation for property, plant and equipment held under 
finance lease was £70m (2014: £61m).
Capital commitments
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Capital expenditure contracted but not provided for in the accounts 15 28
The Group is contractually committed to the acquisition of four new Airbus A321 aircraft as at 30 September 2015, which had a list price of 
$96m each at the time of commitment, before escalations and discounts. All are intended to be financed by sale and leaseback at the point 
of delivery in 2016. Leases for all of the aircraft were signed as at 30 September 2015, subject to the purchase taking place, and the operating 
lease commitment included in Note 27.
14 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Cost
At 1 October 2014 36 38 
Disposals (10) – 
Group’s share of associates’ profit for the year 1 2 
Dividend received from associate – (2)
Exchange differences (2) (2)
At 30 September 2014 25 36 
Amounts written off or provided
At 1 October 2014 22 24 
Exchange differences (1) (2)
At 30 September 2015 21 22 
Carrying amount 4 14 
Associated undertakings
Investments in associates at 30 September 2015 included a 40% interest in Activos Turisticos S.A, an incoming agency and hotel company 
based in Palma de Mallorca, Spain.
Hotelera Adeje S.L., a hotel company based in Santa Cruz, Tenerife was disposed of during the year generating a profit on sale of £7m. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
12_Notes_1_16_p122_p146_v60.indd   144 06/01/2016   13:07 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
145 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
14 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES CONTINUED
Summarised financial information in respect of the associated undertakings is as follows:
2015  
Associates 
£m
2014 
Associates  
£m
Total assets 76 80 
Total liabilities (18) (22) 
Net assets 58 58 
Group’s share of net assets 4 16 
Revenue 39 43 
Profit for the year 4 4 
Group’s share of associates’ profit for the year 1 2 
The financial statements of the associated undertakings are made up at different times to that of the Group. For the purposes of applying 
the equity method of accounting the most recent financial statements of these undertakings and the management accounts are used to 
draw up the financial position and performance of each associate.
15 INVENTORIES
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Goods held for resale 9 10
Airline spares and other operating inventories 23 24
32 34
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense was £130m (2014: £185m). 146 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 146
16 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Non-current assets
Trade receivables 1 –
Other receivables 6 13
Deposits and prepayments 46 91
Loans 2 2
55 106
Current assets
Trade receivables 201 252
Other receivables 47 44
Deposits and prepayments 317 390
Loans 4 4
Other taxes 16 14
Amounts owed by associates and participations – 1
585 705
The average credit period taken on invoicing of leisure travel services is 10 days (2014: 11 days). No interest is charged on the receivables. 
The credit risk in respect of direct receivables from customers is limited as payment is required in full before the services are provided. In the 
case of travel services sold by third-party agents, the credit risk depends on the creditworthiness of those third-parties, but this risk is also 
limited because of the relatively short period of credit.
Deposits and prepayments include amounts paid in advance to suppliers of hotel and other services in order to guarantee the provision of 
those supplies. The Group’s current policy is that deposits and prepayments will normally be made for periods of up to two years in advance. 
There is a credit risk in respect of the continued operation of those suppliers during those periods. Deposits and prepayments also include 
£36m (2014: £53m) of deposits on aircraft lease arrangements.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables. An allowance for impairment is made where there 
is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.
Allowances for doubtful debts in respect of trade receivable balances are managed in the business units where the debts arise and are based 
on local management experience. Factors that are considered include the age of the debt, previous experience with the counterparty and local 
trading conditions. Trade receivables arise from individual customers as well as businesses in the travel sector. The Directors do not consider 
there to be significant concentration of credit risk relating to trade and other receivables.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
147 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
16 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED
Movement in allowances for doubtful receivables
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
At beginning of year 38 44
Additional provisions 9 14
Exchange differences (1) –
Receivables written off (9) (12)
Unused amounts released (8) (8)
At end of year 29 38
At the year end, trade and other receivables of £88m (2014: £69m) were past due but not impaired.
The analysis of the age of these financial assets is set out below:
Ageing analysis of overdue trade and other receivables
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Less than one month overdue 42 42
Between one and three months overdue 15 15
Between three and 12 months overdue 21 10
More than 12 months overdue 10 2
88 69
Trade and other receivables are not subject to restrictions on title and no collateral is held as security. 
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair values. 
17 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 573 403
Term deposits with a maturity of less than three months 728 616
1,301 1,019
Cash and cash equivalents largely comprise bank balances denominated in Sterling, Euro and other currencies for the purpose of settling 
current liabilities as well as balances arising from agency collection on behalf of the Group’s travel agencies.
Included within the above balance are the following amounts considered to be restricted:
 > £7m (2014: £38m) held within escrow accounts in respect of local regulatory requirements;
 > £18m (2014: £18m) of cash held by White Horse Insurance Ireland Limited, and Voyager Android Insurance Services the Group’s captive 
insurance companies; and
 > £1m (2014: £1m) of cash held in countries where exchange control restrictions are in force.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of these assets approximate to their fair value. 148 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 148
18 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Current liabilities
Trade payables 1,401 1,268
Amounts owed to associates and participations 1 2
Social security and other taxes 46 56
Accruals and deferred income 400 613
Other payables 131 144
1,979 2,083
Non-current liabilities
Accruals and deferred income 1 2
Other payables 78 88
79 90
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 83 days (2014: 72 days).
Included within the other payables (non-current liabilities) of £78m is £73m (2014: £82m) that represents the carrying value of the 
contingent obligation to acquire from The Co-operative Group and Midlands Co-operative (now Central England Co-operative) their shares 
(representing a 33.5% ownership interest), formed by the merger of the three companies’ high street retail stores in 2012. The discounted 
obligation was recognised at the time of the merger and its fair value is subsequently reassessed at each period end as the minority 
shareholders have the right, after 30 September 2016, to require the Company to acquire their shares, (see note 21).
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other payables approximate to their fair value.
19 BORROWINGS
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Short-term borrowings
Unsecured bank loans and other borrowings 171 82
Unsecured bank overdrafts 14 2
 185 84
Current portion of long-term borrowings 34 365
 219 449
Long-term borrowings
Bank loans and bonds
– repayable within one year  34 365
– repayable between one and five years  734 308
– repayable after five years  304 407
1,072 1,080
Less: amount due for settlement within one year shown under current liabilities (34) (365)
Amount due for settlement after one year 1,038 715
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
149 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
19 BORROWINGS CONTINUED
Borrowings by class
2015 2014
Current  
£m
Non-current  
£m
Current  
£m
Non-current  
£m
Group committed credit facility (including transaction costs) –(8) –(12)
Aircraft-related bank loans (including transaction costs) 50  49 53 11
Commercial paper 155 – 82 –
Other bank borrowings 14  21 412
Issued bonds (including transaction costs) –  976 310 704
219 1,038 449 715
The Directors consider that the fair value of the Group’s borrowings with a carrying value of £1,257m is £1,307m (2014: carrying value £1,164m; 
fair value £1,227m). £1,032m (2014: £1,077m) of the fair value which relates to issued bonds has been calculated using quoted market prices.
For all other borrowings, the Directors consider that the fair value of £275m (2014: £150m) is approximate to the carrying amount. In 2015, 
the Group has £101m as security to aircraft (2014: £63m) and £21m as a security to property (2014:£14m).
During the year £8m (2014: £9m) of the capitalised transaction costs relating to banking facilities have been recognised within finance costs 
in the income statement and £7m relating to the write off of old facility fees is included within separately disclosed items. 
The Group has completed three major financing transactions during the year, including:
 > the issue of a €400m Eurobond in January 2015 with a coupon of 6.75% which matures in June 2021;
 > a tender offer in February 2015 in respect of our €400m 6.75% June 2015 notes, of which 29% were purchased ahead (with the balance 
redeemed in full at the maturity date); and
 > a new £800m four year banking facility in May 2015 maturing in May 2019 to replace prior facilities.
Borrowing facilities
As at 30 September 2015, the Group had undrawn committed debt facilities of £453m (2014: £297m) and undrawn committed debt facilities 
plus cash available to repay revolving credit facility of £1,682m (2014: £1,168m). Whilst these facilities have certain financial covenants they are 
not expected to prevent full utilisation of the facilities if required. The Group has complied with its financial covenants throughout the year.
Covenant measures
The covenant measures are tested on a quarterly rolling 12 month basis and consist of a leverage covenant and a fixed charge covenant. 
The leverage covenant is a measure of pre-exceptional earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and aircraft operating 
lease rentals compared to net debt. The fixed charge covenant is a measure of pre-exceptional earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, 
amortisation and operating lease charges compared to net interest and operating lease charges. The leverage and fixed charge covenant 
hurdles vary depending on the period that they relate to and range between 1.21x to 3.46x and 1.78x to 2.16x respectively. 150 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 150
20 OBLIGATIONS UNDER FINANCE LEASES
Minimum lease payments
Present value of
 minimum lease payments
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Amounts payable under finance leases:
Within one year 48 47 35 34
Between one and five years 145 148 121 119
After five years 32 35 27 28
225 230 183 181
Less: future finance charges (42) (49) – –
Present value of lease obligations 183 181 183 181
Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months (shown under current liabilities) (35) (34)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 148 147
The currency analysis of amounts payable under finance leases is:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Euro 11 13
US dollar 172 168
183 181
Finance leases principally relate to aircraft and aircraft spares.
No arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The Directors consider that the fair value of the Group’s finance lease obligations with a carrying value of £183m was £191m at 30 September 
2015 (2014: carrying value £181m; fair value £181m). The fair values quoted were determined on the basis of the interest rates for the 
corresponding terms to repayment as at the year end.
The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ rights over the leased assets.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
151 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
Carrying values of financial assets and liabilities
The carrying values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities as at 30 September 2015 and 30 September 2014 are as set out below:
2015 2014
At 30 September 2015
Fair value 
through profit 
or loss  
£m
Derivative  
instruments  
in designated  
hedging  
relationships  
£m
Loans &  
receivables  
£m
Financial  
liabilities at  
amortised 
cost  
£m
Fair value 
through profit 
or loss  
£m
Derivative  
instruments  
in designated  
hedging  
relationships  
£m
Loans &  
receivables  
£m
Financial  
liabilities at  
amortised  
cost  
£m
Trade and other receivables –  –  323  –  –  – 397 – 
Cash and cash equivalents –  –  1,301  – – – 1,019 –
Trade and other payables (73)  –  –  (1,846) (82)  –  –  (1,816)
Borrowings –  –  –  (1,257) –  –  –  (1,164)
Obligations under finance leases –  –  –  (183) –  –  –  (181)
Provisions arising from contractual obligations –  –  –  (345) – – –  (371)
Derivative financial instruments 5 (75) –  –  (5) 23 –  – 
 (68) (75) 1,624 (3,631) (87) 23 1,416 (3,532)
Derivative financial instruments 
The fair values of derivative financial instruments were:
Interest rate  
swaps  
£m
Currency  
contracts  
£m
Fuel  
contracts  
£m
Total  
£m
At 1 October 2013 (5) (38) 1 (42)
Movement in fair value during the year 16 80 (36) 60 
At 1 October 2014 11 42 (35) 18 
Movement in fair value during the year – 42 (130) (88)
At 30 September 2015 11 84 (165) (70)
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Non-current assets 15 19 
Current assets 114 68 
Current liabilities (176) (66)
Non-current liabilities (23) (3)
(70) 18  152 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 152
21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Fair value hierarchy 
The fair value of the Group’s financial instruments are disclosed in hierarchy levels depending on the valuation method applied. 
The different methods are defined as follows:
Level 1:  valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments 
Level 2:  valued using techniques based on information that can be obtained from observable market data
Level 3:   valued using techniques incorporating information other than observable market data as at least one input to the valuation 
cannot be based on observable market data.
The fair value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are set out below:
2015 2014
Level 1  
£m
Level 2  
£m
Level 3  
£m
Total  
£m
Level 1  
£m
Level 2  
£m
Level 3  
£m
Total  
£m
Financial assets
Currency contracts –106 –106 –72 – 72
Fuel contracts –12 – 12 –4 – 4
Interest rate swaps –11 – 11 –11 – 11
Financial liabilities
Currency contracts –(22) – (22) –(30) – (30)
Fuel contracts –(176) –(176) –(39) – (39)
Contingent consideration –  (73) (73) –  – (82)  (82)
At 30 September  –  (70) (73) (143) – 18 (82) (64)
The fair values of financial instruments have been calculated using discounted cash flow analysis.
The contingent consideration represents the carrying value of the contingent obligation to acquire from The Co-operative Group and Midlands 
Co-operative (now Central England Co-operative) their shares and is included in Other payables (refer to Note 18 – Trade and Other payables). 
The carrying value reported is the fair value of the consideration calculated at each year end using the Financial Dividend model. The fair value 
is the net present value of the Group’s forecasted cash outflows arising from final dividend and exit payment of 4 x EBITDA, discounted at the 
Group’s weighted average cost of capital.
The cash outflows are dependent on EBITDA for financial year 2015-16 and a 5% change in EBITDA will result in a £0.3m change in fair value 
(decrease in fair value liability and corresponding gain in profit before tax arising from increase in EBITDA) of this level 3 financial instrument. 
Similarly a 1% change in discount rate will result in £1.1m change in fair value (decrease in fair value liability and corresponding gain in profit 
before tax arising from increase in discount rate).
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge material future transactions and cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. 
The Group enters into foreign currency forward contracts, swaps and options in the management of its exchange rate exposures. 
The fair value of currency contracts designated in a cash flow hedge as at 30 September 2015 was an asset of £78m (2014: £47m asset).
Currency hedges are entered into up to a maximum of 18 months in advance of the forecasted requirement. As at 30 September 2015, 
the Group had in place currency hedging derivative financial instruments with a maximum maturity of February 2017 (2014: February 2016)
The Group also uses derivative financial instruments to mitigate the risk of adverse changes in the price of fuel. The Group enters into 
fixed price contracts (swaps) and net purchased options in the management of its fuel price exposures. All fuel hedges are designated 
as cash flow hedges.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
153 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 
Fuel price hedges are entered into up to a maximum of 18 months in advance of forecasted consumption of fuel. Trades with maturities 
longer than 18 months need additional approval in line with treasury policy. As at 30 September 2015, the Group had in place fuel price hedging 
derivative financial instruments with a maximum maturity of March 2017 (2014: April 2016). 
In addition, the Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its interest rate exposures. The Group enters into interest rate swaps 
to hedge against interest rate movements in connection with the financing of aircraft and other assets and to hedge against interest rate 
exposures on fixed rate debt. The Group also enters into cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge the interest rate and the currency 
exposure on foreign currency external borrowings. The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency contracts in designated fair 
value hedge relationships at 30 September 2015 was an asset of £11m (2014: £11m asset).
As at 30 September 2015, the maximum maturity of interest rate derivatives was June 2020 (2014: June 2020).
The fair values of the Group’s derivative financial instruments have been calculated using underlying market prices available on 
30 September 2015.
During the year, a loss of £88m (2014: £45m loss) was transferred from the hedge reserve to the income statement following recognition of the 
hedged transactions. The amount included in each line item in the income statement is shown below. In addition, a gain of £1m was recognised 
in the income statement in respect of the forward points on foreign exchange cash flow hedging contracts (2014: £2m loss) and a gain of £5m 
in respect of the movement in the time value of options in cash flow hedging relationships (2014: £2m loss).
2015  
£m
Re-presented
2014  
£m
Cost of providing tourism services:
 – release from hedge reserve  (88) (45)
 – time value on options 5 (2)
 – forward points on foreign exchange cash flow hedging contracts 1 (2)
Finance income/(costs):
 – fair value movements on derivatives in designated fair value hedge 1 11
During the year a gain of £nil (2014: £27m loss) was taken directly to the income statement in respect of held for trading derivatives that are 
used to hedge Group balance sheet exposure. 
The closing hedging reserve, excluding the impact of tax, was a loss of £122m (2014: £13m gain). The periods in which the cash flows are 
expected to occur and when they are expected to impact the income statement are a loss of £103m (2014: £7m gain) within one year and 
a loss of £19m (2014: £6m gain) between one and five years. 154 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 154
21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 
The following financial assets and liabilities are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements:
Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet
Net Amount  
£m As at 30 September 2015
Gross amounts of  
recognised financial  
assets  
£m
Gross amounts of 
recognised financial 
liabilities set off in 
the balance sheet  
£m
Net amounts of 
recognised financial 
assets presented in 
the balance sheet  
£m
Financial  
Instruments  
£m
Cash collateral  
received  
£m
Derivatives financial assets 129 – 129 (85) – 44
Derivatives financial liabilities (199) –  (199) 85 –  (114)
Cash and cash equivalents 1,305 (4) 1,301 –  – 1,301
Bank overdrafts (18) 4 (14) –  –  (14)
Total 1,217  –  1,217  –  –  1,217 
Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet
Net Amount  
£m As at 30 September 2014
Gross amounts of 
recognised financial 
assets  
£m
Gross amounts of 
recognised financial 
liabilities set off in 
the balance sheet  
£m
Net amounts of 
recognised financial 
assets presented in 
the balance sheet  
£m
Financial  
Instruments  
£m
Cash collateral  
received  
£m
Derivatives financial assets 87 – 87 (47) – 40
Derivatives financial liabilities (69) – (69) 47 – (22)
Cash and cash equivalents 1,665  (646) 1,019 – – 1,019
Bank overdrafts (648) 646 (2) – – (2)
Total 1,035 – 1,035 – – 1,035 
For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netting arrangements or similar arrangements above, each agreement 
between the Group and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both elect to settle on a 
net basis. In the absence of such an election, financial assets and liabilities will be settled on a gross basis, however, each party to the master 
netting agreement or similar agreement will have the option to settle all such amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
22 FINANCIAL RISK 
The Group is subject to risks related to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, fuel prices, liquidity and counterparty credit within the 
framework of its business operations. 
Interest rate risk
The Group is subject to risks arising from interest rate movements in connection with the issue of Eurobonds, bank debt, aircraft financing 
and cash investments. Interest rate swaps are used to manage these risks and are designated as both cash flow and fair value hedges.
Foreign exchange rate risk
The Group has activities in a large number of countries and is therefore subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. These risks arise 
in connection with the procurement of services in destinations outside the source market. For example, US Dollar exposure arises on the 
procurement of fuel and operating supplies for aircraft, as well as investments in aircraft.
The Group requires segments to identify and appropriately hedge all exposures in line with approved treasury policies designed to reflect 
the commercial risk of each underlying business. Each segmental hedging policy includes the hedging build up and permitted instruments. 
The maximum hedge tenor is 18 months and each segment should achieve at least an 80% hedge ratio prior to the start of the season. 
The Group uses currency forwards, currency swaps and currency options to manage transactional currency risks and these are usually 
designated as cash flow hedges.
The Group does not hedge translation exposures arising from profits generated outside the UK.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
155 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
22 FINANCIAL RISK CONTINUED
Fuel price risk
Exposure to fuel price risk arises due to flying costs incurred by the Group’s aircraft.
The Group requires segments to identify and appropriately hedge all exposures in line with approved treasury policies designed to reflect 
the commercial risk of each underlying business. Each segmental hedging policy includes the hedging build up and permitted instruments. 
The maximum hedge tenor is 18 months and in general each segment should achieve at least an 80% hedge ratio prior to the start of 
the season.
The Group uses commodity derivative contracts, including fixed price contracts (swaps) and net purchased options to manage fuel price 
risk and these are usually designated as cash flow hedges.
The market risks that the Group is subject to have been identified as interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and fuel price risk. 
The impact of reasonably possible changes in these risk variables on the Group, based on the period end holdings of financial instruments 
have been calculated and are set out in the tables below. In each case it has been assumed that all other variables remain constant. 
As at 30 September 2015, the sensitivity of these risks to the defined scenario changes are set out below:
Interest rate risk
2015 2014
Impact  
on profit  
before tax  
£m
Impact  
on equity  
£m
Impact  
on profit  
before tax  
£m
Impact  
on equity  
£m
1% (2014: 1%) increase in interest rates 8– 6–
0.25% (2014: 0.25%) decrease in interest rates (2) – (1) –
Foreign exchange rate risk
2015 2014
Impact  
on profit  
before tax  
£m
Impact  
on equity 
 £m
Impact  
on profit  
before tax  
£m
Impact  
on equity  
£m
5% (2014: 5%) strengthening of Euro (6) 28 (1) 17 
5% (2014: 5%) weakening of Euro 6(27) – (16)
5% (2014: 5%) strengthening of US Dollar (7) 77 (5) 70 
5% (2014: 5%) weakening of US Dollar 6(74) 4(65)
Fuel price risk
2015 2014
Impact  
on profit  
before tax  
£m
Impact  
on equity  
£m
Impact  
on profit  
before tax  
£m
Impact  
on equity  
£m
10% (2014: 10%) increase in fuel price – 56 352
10% (2014: 10%) decrease in fuel price  – (56) (3) (52)
Given recent historical movements in fuel prices management believe a 10% shift is a reasonable possibility. 156 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 156
22 FINANCIAL RISK CONTINUED
Liquidity risk 
The liquidity position of the Group is significantly influenced by the booking and payment pattern of customers. As a result, liquidity is at its 
lowest in the winter months and at its highest in the summer months. The Group manages the seasonal nature of its liquidity by making use 
of its bank facility, the terms of which, including the covenant measures, are detailed in the borrowings Note (refer to note 19). The Group also 
uses liquidity swaps to manage short-term currency positions. These liquidity swaps are presented as held-for-trading financial instruments
The undrawn committed debt facility plus the cash available ranged between £200m and £1,682m during the current financial year 
(2014: £169m – £1,168m).
Surplus short-term liquidity is invested in accordance with approved treasury policy.
Financial liabilities are analysed below based on the time between the period end and their contractual maturity. The amounts shown are 
estimates of the undiscounted future cash flows and will differ from both carrying value and fair value. 
Amount due – 2015 Amount due – 2014
At 30 September 2015
in less than  
3 months  
£m
 between  
3 and 12  
months  
£m
between  
1 and 5 years  
£m
in more than  
5 years  
£m
Total  
£m
in less than  
3 months  
£m
between  
3 and 12 
months  
£m
between  
1 and 5 years  
£m
in more than  
5 years  
£m
Total  
£m
Trade and other payables 1,549 287 81 2 1,919 1,576 230 88 4 1,898
Borrowings 194 29 931 428 1,582 95 380 365 587 1,427
Obligations under finance 
leases 12 36 145 32 225 12 34 148 35 229
Derivative financial 
instruments:
 – payable 699 1,724 541  – 2,964 681 1,311 388 – 2,380
 – receivable (703) (1,646) (532) – (2,881) (686) (1,311) (401) – (2,398)
Provisions arising from 
contractual obligations 59 63 121 102 345 72 157 77 65 371
1,810 493 1,287 564 4,154 1,750 801 665 691 3,907
For all gross settled derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency forward contracts and swaps, the pay and receive leg has been 
disclosed in the table above. For net settled derivative financial instruments, such as fuel swaps and options, the fair value as at the year end 
of those instruments in a liability position has been disclosed in the table above. Trade and other payables include non-financial liabilities of 
£142m (2014: £277m) which have not been analysed above.
Counterparty credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit risk in relation to deposits, outstanding derivatives and trade and other receivables. The maximum exposure 
in respect of each of these items at the balance sheet date is the carrying value. The Group assesses its counterparty credit risk exposure in 
relation to the investment of surplus cash, fuel contracts, foreign exchange and interest rate hedging contracts and undrawn credit facilities. 
The Group primarily uses published credit ratings to assess counterparty strength and to define the credit limit for each counterparty in 
accordance with approved treasury policies.
The Group’s approach to credit risk in respect of trade and other receivables is explained in note 16.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
157 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
23 INSURANCE 
Management of insurance risk
Incidental to its main business, the Group, through its subsidiary White Horse Insurance Ireland Limited, issues contracts that transfer 
significant insurance risk and that are classified as insurance contracts. As a general guideline, the Group defines as significant insurance 
risk the possibility of having to compensate the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event adversely affects the policyholder.
Business written includes standard commercial risks for the Group and travel insurance for both Group and non-Group customers.
The principal nature of travel insurance risks is one of short-term, low value and high volume. Underwriting performance is monitored on an 
ongoing basis and pricing reviewed annually for each individual contract. Exposure is capped by specific limits within the insurance policy 
and by using reinsurance contracts for any claims in excess of these retention limits. Commercial policies have been fully commuted at the 
year end.
Insurance risk is spread across several European countries where the Group operates including the UK, Ireland and Continental Europe.
When estimating the cost of claims outstanding at the year end, the principal assumption underlying the estimates is the Group’s past 
development pattern. This includes assumptions in respect of historic claims costs, average claims handling expenses and market 
developments. The Group also uses an independent actuary to review its liabilities to ensure that the carrying values are adequate. 
Any changes to these variables are not expected to have a material effect on the Group financial statements.
The Group operates a reinsurance policy approved by the White Horse Insurance Ireland Ltd Board of Directors which ensures that reinsurers 
have a financial stability rating of A (S&P). The Group has assessed these credit ratings as being satisfactory in diminishing the Group’s 
exposure to the credit risk of its insurance receivables.
24 DEFERRED TAX 
The following are the deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current reporting year:
Aircraft  
finance  
leases  
£m 
Retirement  
benefit  
obligations  
£m 
Fair value  
of financial  
instruments  
£m 
Other  
temporary  
differences  
£m 
Tax losses  
£m 
Total  
£m 
At 1 October 2014 (62) 56 (4) (23) 179 146
Credit/ (charge) to income 4 3 (6) (39) 34 (4)
Credit to equity – (20) 24 – 2 6
Reclassifications (1) (2) 2 2 – 1
Exchange differences 4 (2) – 3 (3) 2
At 30 September 2015 (55) 35 16 (57) 212 151
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances for financial 
reporting purposes:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Deferred tax assets 197 195
Deferred tax liabilities (46) (49)
151 146 158 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 158
24 DEFERRED TAX CONTINUED
At the balance sheet date, the Group had unused tax losses of £2,844m (2014: £3,150m) available for offset against future profits. Deferred tax 
assets have only been recognised to the extent that business plans evidence future taxable profits against which the assets may be 
recovered. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of tax losses of £1,935m (2014: £2,340m) due to the unpredictability of future 
profit streams.
Other temporary differences on which deferred tax has been provided primarily relate to the difference in book to tax value on qualifying tax 
assets, provisions for which tax relief was not originally available, and fair value accounting on assets acquired.
In addition, the Group had unused other temporary differences amounting to £339m (2014: £295m) for which no deferred tax asset has been 
recognised due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
Deferred tax liabilities were offset against the corresponding deferred tax assets as appropriate within territories.
Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 20% (effective from 1 April 2015) to 19% (effective from 1 April 2017) and to 18% (effective 1 April 
2020) were substantively enacted on 26 October 2015. This will reduce the group’s UK deferred tax asset at 30 September 2015 (which has been 
calculated based on the rate of 20% substantively enacted at the balance sheet date) by £5m.
25 PROVISIONS 
Aircraft  
maintenance  
provisions  
£m
Off-market  
leases  
£m
Insurance and  
litigation  
£m
Reorganisation  
and restructuring  
plans  
£m
Other  
provisions  
£m
Total  
£m
At 1 October 2014 234 15 90 23 28 390 
Additional provisions  
in the year 125 6 62 8 10 211
Unused amounts released  
in the year (30) 2 (3) (7) (2) (40)
Unwinding of discount 4 1––– 5
Utilisation of provisions (87) (13) (73) (17) (12) (202)
Exchange differences (5) – (1) (1) – (7)
At 30 September 2015 241 11 75 6 24 357
Included in current liabilities 147
Included in non-current liabilities 210
At 30 September 2015 357
Included in current liabilities 247 
Included in non-current liabilities 143 
At 30 September 2014 390 
The aircraft maintenance provisions relate to maintenance on leased aircraft and spares used by the Group’s airlines in respect of leases which 
include contractual return conditions. This expenditure arises at different times over the life of the aircraft with major overhauls typically 
occurring between two and ten years. The aircraft maintenance provisions are re-assessed at least annually in the normal course of business 
with a corresponding adjustment made to either non-current assets (aircraft and aircraft spares) or aircraft costs.
Off-market leases relate to leases acquired through the Resorts Mallorca Hotels International S.L.U (Hi!Hotels) acquisition and certain office 
locations which have commitments in excess of the market rate at the time of the transaction. 
Insurance and litigation represents costs related to legal disputes, customer compensation claims (including EU261) and estimated costs 
arising through insurance contracts in the Group’s subsidiary, White Horse Insurance Ireland Limited. Reorganisation and restructuring plans 
predominantly represent committed restructuring costs in the UK and Continental segments.
“Other” represents liabilities where there is uncertainty of the timing or amount of the future expenditure required in settlement and includes 
such items as onerous contracts, dilapidations and emissions trading liabilities. This grouping contains no single amount larger than £6m. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
159 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
26 CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL 
Ordinary Shares  
of €0.01 each
Deferred Shares  
of €0.09 each
Ordinary Shares  
of €0.01 each
£m
Deferred Shares  
of €0.09 each
£m
Deferred Shares  
of £1 each, 25p paid
£m
At 1 October 2013 1,453,403,227  934,981,938  11  58  50,000 
Exercise of Warrants 7,373,186  –  –  –  – 
At 30 September 2014 1,460,776,413  934,981,938  11  58  50,000 
Exercise of Warrants 1,939,126  –  –  –  – 
Issue of shares 73,135,777  –  –  –  – 
At 30 September 2015 1,535,851,316  934,981,938  11  58  50,000 
The Ordinary Shares carry the right to the profits of the Company available for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding up of the 
Company. The Ordinary Shares carry the right to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company; each share holds the right to one vote. 
The Ordinary Shares are admitted to the premium segment of the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchange’s main market. 
Both classes of Deferred Shares carry no right to the profits of the Company. On a winding up, the holders of the sterling-denominated Deferred 
Shares would be entitled to receive an amount equal to the capital paid up on each sterling-denominated Deferred Share and the holders of 
the euro-denominated Deferred Shares would be entitled to receive an amount equal to the capital paid up on each euro-denominated Deferred 
Share only after the holders of the Ordinary Shares and sterling-denominated Deferred Shares have received, in aggregate, the amounts paid 
up thereon. The holders of both classes of Deferred Shares are not entitled to receive notice, attend, speak or vote (whether on a show of 
hands or on a poll) at general meetings of the Company.
Contingent rights to the allotment of shares
As at 30 September 2015, options to subscribe for ordinary shares were outstanding with respect to the Thomas Cook Group plc 2007 
Performance Share Plan and the Thomas Cook Restricted Share Plan. For further details refer to Note 29. On exercise, the awards of shares 
under the plan will be satisfied by either purchases in the market of existing shares or, subject to institutional guidelines, issuing new shares.
A new financing facility consisting of £500 million revolving credit facility and £300 million bilateral bonding and guarantee facility was agreed 
on 19 May 2015.
Under the old financing agreement there remained unexercised Warrants in issue to certain lenders giving holders the right, at any time until 
22 May 2015, to subscribe to an aggregate of 1,939,126 Ordinary Shares. All remaining Warrants in issue under the old financing agreement were 
exercised during the year. For further information on the financing facilities please refer to the “Governance – other disclosures section” of the 
annual report on pages 105 to 107.
Own shares held in trust
Shares of the Company are held under trust by EES Trustees International Limited in respect of the Thomas Cook Group plc 2007 Performance 
Share Plan and the Thomas Cook Restricted Share Plan. Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited hold shares in connection with the Thomas Cook 
Group plc Buy As You Earn Scheme. In accordance with IFRS, these are treated as Treasury Shares and are included in “other reserves” in the 
balance sheet.
The number of shares held at 30 September 2015 by EES Trustees International Limited and Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited was 9,103,314 
(2014: 20,865,104) and 350,328 (2014: 381,015) respectively. The cumulative cost of acquisition of these shares was £14m (2014: £30m) and the 
market value at 30 September 2015 was £11m (2014: £25m). Shares held by the trust have been excluded from the weighted average number 
of shares used in the calculation of earnings per share.
Capital management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns 
for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 
(as shown in the Group balance sheet). At the balance sheet date the Group had total capital of £479m (2014: £573m). 160 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 160
27 OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS 
The Group as lessee 
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases, which fall due as follows: 
Property  
and other  
2015  
£m 
Aircraft and  
aircraft spares  
2015  
£m 
Total  
2015  
£m 
Property  
and other  
2014  
£m 
Aircraft and  
aircraft spares  
2014  
£m 
Total  
2014  
£m 
Within one year 58 125 183 72 96 168 
Later than one and less than five years 143 563 706 178 357 535 
After five years 140 467 607 146 473 619 
 341 1,155 1,496 396 926 1,322 
Operating lease rentals payable charged to the income statement for hire of aircraft and aircraft spares was £135m (2014: £106m) and other 
£90m (2014: £102m). Operating lease payments principally relate to rentals payable for the Group’s retail shop and hotel properties and for 
aircraft and spares used by the Group’s airlines. Shop leases are typically negotiated for an average term of 5 years. Leases for new aircraft 
are typically negotiated for an average term of 12 years, leases for second hand aircraft and extensions are typically considerably shorter.
28 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Contingent liabilities 114 102
Contingent liabilities primarily comprise guarantees, letters of credit and other contingent liabilities, including contingent liabilities related 
to structured aircraft leases, all of which arise in the ordinary course of business. The amounts disclosed above represent the Group’s 
contractual exposure.
The Group complies with all the standards relevant to consumer protection and formal requirements in respect of package tour contracts and 
has all the necessary licences for the various sales markets. The customers’ right to reimbursement of the return travel costs and amounts 
paid in case of insolvency or bankruptcy on the part of the tour operator or travel agency is guaranteed in all Thomas Cook sales markets 
in line with local legislation and within the various guarantee systems applied. In the United Kingdom, there is a fund mechanism whereby 
travel companies are required to collect and remit a small charge for each protected customer upon booking. Customer rights in relation to 
Thomas Cook Group in Germany, Belgium and Austria are guaranteed via an insolvency insurance system, in Ireland, Scandinavia and France 
via guarantees provided by banks and insurance companies, and in the Netherlands via a guaranteed fund.
In the ordinary course of its business, the Group is subject to commercial disputes and litigation including customer claims, employee disputes, 
taxes and other kinds of lawsuits. These matters are inherently difficult to quantify. In appropriate cases, a provision is recognised based on 
best estimates and management judgement but there can be no guarantee that these provisions will result in an accurate prediction of the 
actual costs and liabilities that may be incurred. There are also contingent liabilities in respect of litigation for which no provisions are made.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
161 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
29 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Company operates equity-settled share-based payment schemes, as outlined below. The total charge recognised during the year in respect 
of equity-settled share-based payment transactions was £1m (2014: £4m charge).
The Thomas Cook Group plc 2007 Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Executive Directors and senior executives of the Company and its subsidiaries are granted options to acquire, or contingent share awards of, 
the ordinary shares of the Company. The awards will vest if performance targets are met during the three years following the date of grant. 
The Thomas Cook Group plc 2008 Co-Investment Plan (COIP) 
Executive Directors and senior executives may be required to purchase the Company’s shares using a proportion of their net bonus (Lodged 
Shares). For each Lodged Share purchased, participants may receive Matching Shares if performance targets are met during the three years 
following the date of grant. 
The Thomas Cook Group plc 2008 HM Revenue & Customs Approved Buy As You Earn Scheme (BAYE) 
Eligible UK tax-paying employees are offered the opportunity to purchase shares in the Company by deduction from their monthly gross pay. 
For every 10 shares an employee buys, the Company will purchase one matching share on their behalf.
The Thomas Cook Group plc 2011 Restricted Share Plan (RSP)
Senior management of the Company and its subsidiaries are granted options to acquire, or contingent share awards of, the ordinary shares of 
the Company. Executive Directors are excluded from receiving awards under the RSP. The Company will determine at the date of award whether 
the award will be subject to a performance target and the date of vesting. 
The Thomas Cook 2014 Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP) 
Executive Directors and a small number of senior Executives of the Company and its subsidiaries are granted contingent share awards of the 
ordinary shares of the Company, relating to a proportion of their annual bonus. Awards are subject to forfeiture if a clawback event occurs 
during the period that the award is held. 
The movements in options and awards during the year in relation to the PSP and the other awards were:    
PSP 
2015  
Other
At 1 October 2014 30,487,662  4,307,753 
Granted 11,163,840  679,417 
Exercised (8,961,220) (2,945,360)
Lapsed (7,224,426) (330,318)
Outstanding at 30 September 2015 25,465,856 1,711,492 
Exercisable at end of year 5,018,980 23,240 
Exercise price (£) nil nil
Average remaining contractual life (years) 1.4 1.5  162 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 162
29 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised during the year ended 30 September 2015 was £1.33. 
  
PSP 
2014 
Other
At 1 October 2013 31,899,162  5,440,212 
Granted 3,451,942  2,267,869 
Exercised (807,281) (688,342)
Lapsed (2,851,735) (1,929,368)
Cancelled –(244,642)
Forfeited (1,204,426) (537,976)
Outstanding at 30 September 2014 30,487,662 4,307,753 
Exercisable at end of year 95,653 58,260 
Exercise price (£) nil 1.77
Average remaining contractual life (years) 1.3 2.2 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised during the year ended 30 September 2014 was £1.64 
The fair value of options and awards subject to Group EBIT and cash conversion targets was determined by the use of Black-Scholes models 
and the fair value of options subject to TSR performance targets was determined by the use of Monte Carlo simulations. For options and 
awards granted during the year the key inputs to the models were: 
2015  
PSP
2014  
PSP
Weighted average share price at measurement date £1.49 £1.45
Weighted average exercise price nil nil
Expected volatility 43% 40%
Weighted average option life (years) 3 3
Weighted average risk-free rate 0.9% 1.30%
Expected dividend yield nil 0
Weighted average fair value at date of grant £1.04 £1.02
Expected volatility has been based on the historic volatility of the Company’s shares and the shares of other companies in the same 
or related sectors.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
163 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
30 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS 
Pension schemes for the employees of the Thomas Cook Group consist of defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans, with the 
defined benefit plans being both funded and unfunded. The obligations arising from defined contribution  plans are satisfied by contribution 
payments to both private and state-run insurance providers.
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Present value of funded obligations 1,063 1,119 
Fair value of plan assets (1,104) (1,001)
(Surplus)/deficit of funded plans (41) 118 
Present value of unfunded obligations 320 329 
Total deficit of defined benefit pension plans 279 447 
Unfunded defined benefit pension obligations
Unfunded defined benefit pension obligations primarily relate to the Group’s employees in the German businesses of Thomas Cook AG and the 
Condor Group. Provisions are established on the basis of commitments made to those employees for old-age and transitional pensions based 
on the legal, tax and economic circumstances of the individual countries and on the period of employment and level of remuneration of the 
respective employees.
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations totalling £270m (2014: £277m) were attributable to the pension commitments of the Condor 
Group (Condor Flugdienst GmbH, Condor Berlin GmbH and CF GmbH). For employees who joined a Condor Group company prior to 1995, the total 
pension commitment of the pensions authority of the German federal government and regional states was adjusted and maintained in the 
form of a company pension scheme.
The flight crews were additionally entitled to a transitional provision for the period between the termination of their in-flight employment and 
the time they became eligible for a state-run or company pension. In both cases, the benefit commitment depended on the final salaries of the 
employees concerned prior to the termination of their in-flight employment (final salary plan).
Employees who joined a Condor Group company from 1995 onwards participate in a company pension scheme under which the pension 
entitlements are based on the average salaries of those employees (average salary plan). The Condor Group also has retirement obligations 
arising from individual commitments and transitional provisions. In accordance with IAS 19, all these commitments are classified as unfunded 
defined benefit obligations and classified as such in these financial statements.
The Condor Group defined benefit plans have been closed to new entrants (with the exception of pilots) since 2004.
There are additional unfunded defined benefit obligations comprising individual commitments to executive staff at Thomas Cook Group and 
obligations in respect of past service for employees in the Northern Europe and Continental Europe segments.
The unfunded pension schemes are accounted for as part of liabilities for retirement benefit obligations in the balance sheet.
The following weighted average actuarial assumptions were made for the purpose of determining the unfunded defined benefit obligations:
2015  
% 
2014  
%
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 2.68% 2.71%
Expected rate of salary increases 2.56% 2.54%
Future pension increases 1.52% 1.53%
The mortality tables 2005 G drawn up by Prof. Dr. Klaus Heubeck were used, for the German pension schemes, as the basis for the mortality 
assumptions used in arriving at the present value of the pension obligations at 30 September 2015. These assume a life expectancy for 
members currently aged 65 of 19 years for men and 23 years for women.  164 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 164
30 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED
Changes in the present value of unfunded pension obligations were as follows:
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m
At beginning of year 329 296 
Current service cost* 11 10 
Past service cost* – (6)
Interest expense* 8 10 
Benefits paid (7) (7)
Settlements* (1) (5)
Effect of experience adjustments and demographic assumptions (5) (2)
Effect of financial assumptions 2 62 
Business combinations – (5)
Exchange difference (17) (24)
At end of year 320 329 
* These amounts have been recognised in the income statement. 
Service costs, gains on settlement and curtailment gains have been included in personnel expenses in the income statement and the 
unwinding of the discount rate of the expected retirement benefit obligations has been included in finance costs. Actuarial gains and losses 
have been reported in the statement of comprehensive income.
Funded defined benefit pension obligation
The pension entitlements of employees of Thomas Cook UK and employees in Norway and the Netherlands are provided through funded defined 
benefit schemes, where pension contributions are paid over to the schemes and the assets of the schemes are held separately from those 
of the Group in funds under the control of trustees. These schemes are closed to new entrants and continue to accrue future benefits for 
existing active members. 
The plans are final salary pension plans, which provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life. 
The level of benefits provided depends on a member’s length of service and their salary in the final years of active membership. In the UK plans, 
pensions in payment are generally updated in line with retail price index, pensions in deferment are generally updated in line with consumer 
price index.
Pension costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries in each country. The fair value of the pension assets in each 
scheme at the year end is compared with the present value of the retirement benefit obligations and the net difference reported as a pension 
asset or retirement benefit obligation as appropriate. Pension assets are only recognised to the extent that they will result in reimbursements 
being made or future payments being reduced.
The funded defined benefit obligation primarily relates to the Thomas Cook UK Pension Plan. The assumptions used in arriving at the present 
value of the obligations at 30 September 2015 have been updated following the 2014 triennial actuarial funding valuation. The mortality 
assumptions used in arriving at the present value of those obligations at 30 September 2015 are based on the S1PA pensioner tables with 
2012 CMI projection model with a long term trend rate of 1.5% for males and 1.25% for females. The mortality assumptions adopted for the plan 
liabilities indicate a further life expectancy for members currently aged 65 of 23.6 years for men and 25.6 years for women. The Company 
and Board of trustees are responsible for governance of the plans and ensuring it is sufficiently funded to meet current and future benefits. 
The trustees appoint advisers to carry out the administration, actuarial work and investment advice.
Following the 2014 actuarial valuation of the Thomas Cook UK pension plan, the Recovery Plan agreed with the pension trustees to fund the 
actuarial deficit was extended. In line with that agreement, during the year ended 30 September 2015 Thomas Cook UK paid instalments 
totalling £26m in line with the recovery plan. 
The valuation of the Thomas Cook UK pension plan at 30 September 2015 resulted in a surplus of £50m, this is included within the net Group 
pension deficit of £279m. The £50m has been disclosed as a pension asset in the statement of financial position.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
165 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
30 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED
The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year is as follows: 
Present value of obligation
2015
£m
2014
£m
At beginning of year 1,119 998 
Current service cost* – 1 
Past service cost* – (2)
Interest expense* 44 45 
44 44 
Remeasurements: 
 – Loss from change in demographic assumptions 16 –
 – (Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions (28) 104 
 – Experience (gains)/losses (63) 2 
(75) 106 
Exchange differences 3 (2)
Payments from plans: 
 – Settlement payments – (6)
 – Benefit payments (28) (21)
At end of year 1,063 1,119 
Fair value of plan assets
2015
£m
2014
£m
At beginning of year (1,001) (889)
Interest income* (40) (40)
(40) (40)
Remeasurements: 
 – Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income (65) (75)
(65) (75)
Exchange differences (1) 3 
Expenses paid* 3 2 
Contributions: 
 – Employers (28) (29)
Payments from plans: 
 – Settlement payments – 6 
 – Benefit payments 28 21 
At end of year (1,104) (1,001)
(Surplus)/deficit of funded plan (41)  118 
* These amounts have been recognised in the income statement. 166 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 166
30 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED
The weighted average actuarial assumptions were as follows: 
2015 
 % 
2014  
%
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 3.86% 3.89%
Inflation rate (RPI) 2.96% 3.15%
The average mortality assumptions adopted for the plan liabilities indicate a further life expectancy for members currently aged 65 
of 22.2 years for men and 24.7 years for women.
2015 2014
Quoted
£m 
Non-quoted
£m
Total
£m %
Quoted
£m 
Non-quoted
£m
Total
£m %
Plan assets are comprised as follows:
Cash and cash equivalents 9 – 9 1 12 – 12 1
Equity instruments 83 – 83 8 280 – 280 28
Debt instruments 330 – 330 30 249 – 249 25
Real estate 57 – 57 5 86 – 86 9
Derivatives 451 – 451 41 117 – 117 12
Investment funds 146 – 146 13 230 – 230 23
Assets held by insurance company 325 28 2 324 27 2
Total 1,07925 1,104100 977 24 1,001 100
The scheme assets do not include any of the Group’s own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by the 
Group. The Scheme currently has part of its assets invested in a liability driven investment portfolio. These assets, in combination with the 
other protection assets in the portfolio, provide interest rate and inflation rate protection.
Sensitivities of the defined benefit obligation
The group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: 
Asset volatility
The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; if plan assets underperform this yield, 
this will create a deficit. However, the group believes that due to the long-term nature of the plan liabilities and the strength of the supporting 
group, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of the Group’s long-term strategy to manage the plans efficiently.
Changes in bond yields 
A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans’ 
bond holdings.
Inflation risk
Some of the group pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities (although, in most cases, caps 
on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation). The majority of the plan’s assets are either 
unaffected by (fixed interest bonds) or loosely correlated with (equities) inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase 
the deficit.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
167 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
30 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED
Life expectancy 
The majority of the plans’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase 
in the plans’ liabilities. 
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is: 
Impact on defined benefit obligation:
Change in  
assumption
Increase in 
assumption
Decrease in 
assumption 
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 0.25% -5% 5%
Inflation rate 0.25% 3% -3%
Mortality 1 year 3%
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. When calculating the 
sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method has been applied as when calculating the 
pension liability recognised within the statement of financial position. 
The expected future benefit payments are detailed below;
At 30 September 2015
Less than a year 
£m
Between 1–2 years 
£m
Between 2–5 years 
£m
Over 5 years
£m 
Pension benefit payments 29 10 33 65
Defined contribution schemes 
There are a number of defined contribution schemes in the Group, the principal scheme being the Thomas Cook UK DC Pension Scheme, which 
is open to all UK employees. Cash contributions paid into the defined benefit schemes are accounted for as an income statement expense 
as they are incurred. The total charge for the year in respect of this and other defined contribution schemes, including liabilities in respect 
of insured benefits relating to workers’ compensation arrangements, amounted to £23m (2014: £42m).
The assets of these schemes are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees.
31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed 
in this note. Transactions between the Group and its associates are disclosed below. Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries 
and associates are disclosed in the Company’s separate financial statements. Interest in subsidiaries are set out in Note 19 in the Company’s 
separate financial statements. 
Trading transactions
During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group:
Associates and participations*
2015 
 £m 
2014  
£m
Sale of goods and services 6 8 
Purchases of goods and services (7) (11) 
Other income 1 3 
Amounts owed by related parties 1 1 
Amounts owed to related parties (1) (2)
* Participations are equity investments where the Group has a significant equity participation but which are not considered to be associates.
All transactions are considered to have been made at market prices. Outstanding amounts will normally be settled by cash payment. 168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 168
31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS CONTINUED
Remuneration of key management personnel
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration report 
on pages 88 to 104.
2015 
 £m 
2014 
 £m
Short-term employee benefits 5 5 
Share-based payments 11 –
16 5 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
169 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
Notes
30 September  
2015 
 £m
30 September  
2014  
£m
Non-current assets  
Intangible assets 6 25 5
Property, plant and equipment 2 2
Investments in subsidiaries 7 1,873 1,990
Trade and other receivables 8 554 583
 2,454 2,580
Current assets 
Trade and other receivables 8 1,060 911
Cash and cash equivalents 9 1 35
 1,061 946
Total assets 3,515 3,526
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 10 (518) (154)
Borrowings 13 – (310)
Short-term provisions  12 (3) (3)
  (521) (467)
Non-current liabilities 
Borrowings 13 (298) (297)
Total liabilities (819) (764)
Net assets 2,696 2,762
Equity 
Share capital 14 69 69
Share premium account 524 436
Merger reserve 1,429 1,429
Hedging and translation reserves 382 529
Capital redemption reserve 8 8
Retained earnings 302 329
Investment in own shares (18) (38)
Total equity 2,696 2,762
The financial statements on pages 169 to 179 were approved by the Board of Directors on 24 November 2015. 
Signed on behalf of the Board 
MICHAEL HEALY  
GROUP CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
Notes 1 to 19 form part of these financial statements. 
AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2015
14_Company_Statements_p169_p179_v46.indd   169 06/01/2016   13:16 170 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT
Year ended  
30 September  
2015  
£m
Year ended  
30 September  
2014 
 £m
Cash flows from operating activities  
Loss before tax (8) (88)
Adjustments for: 
Interest expense 44 48
Amortisation 1 –
Share-based payments 1 2
Increase in provisions – 2 
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (155) 104
Increase/(decrease) in payables 346 (17)
Net cash from operating activities 229 51
Investing activities 
Purchase of tangible and intangible assets (23) (5)
Net cash used in investing activities (23) (5)
Financing activities 
Net outflow from borrowings (281) –
Interest paid (46) (48)
Share issue – 1
Net proceeds on the issue of ordinary shares 92 1
Investment in own shares – (8)
Net cash used in financing activities (235) (54)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (29) (8)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 35 46
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (5) (3)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 1 35
YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
171 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
COMPANY STATEMENT OF 
CHANGES IN EQUITY
Share  
capital  
£m
Share  
premium  
£m
Merger  
reserve  
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
 £m 
Translation 
reserve  
£m 
Retained 
earnings  
£m 
Own  
shares  
£m
Total  
£m 
At 1 October 2013 68 434 1,429 9 769 415 (30) 3,094
Loss for the year ––––– (88) – (88)
Other comprehensive income – – – (1) (240) (2) – (243)
Total comprehensive expense for the year – – – (1) (240) (90) – (331)
Equity debit in respect of share-based payments ––––– 4– 4
Issue of shares-exercise of warrants 1–––––– 1
Share premium – 2 ––––– 2
Purchase of own shares –––––– (8) (8)
At 30 September 2014 69 436 1,429 8 529 329 (38) 2,762
Loss for the year ––––– (8) – (8)
Other comprehensive expense –––– (147) – – (147)
Total comprehensive expense for the year –––– (147) (8) – (155)
Equity credit in respect of share-based payments ––––– 1– 1
Issue of shares – Fosun – 88––––– 88
Exercise of own shares ––––– (20) 20 –
At 30 September 2015 69 524 1,429 8 382 302 (18) 2,696
Other comprehensive income and expense relates to translation of the balance sheet. 
The merger reserve arose on the issue of shares of the Company in connection with the acquisition of the entire share capital of Thomas Cook 
AG and MyTravel Group plc on 19 June 2007 and represents the difference between the nominal value and the fair value of the shares acquired. 
The share premium arose in connection with the issue of Ordinary Shares of the Company following the issuance of shares to Fosun in 
March 15. 
At 30 September 2015, the Company had distributable reserves of £302m (2014: £329m). 
Details of the own shares held are set out in Note 26 to the Group financial statements. 
YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 172 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE 
COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
The accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Company financial statements are the same as those set out in Note 2 and 3 
to the Group financial statements with the addition of the following: 
Investments 
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment. 
These policies have been applied consistently to the periods presented. 
The functional currency of the Company is Euro, however, the Directors have decided to adopt Sterling as the presentation currency to be 
in line with the consolidated accounts. 
2 LOSS FOR THE YEAR 
As permitted by section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its own income statement and statement 
of comprehensive income for the year. The loss after tax of the Company amounted to £8m (2014: £88m). 
The auditors’ remuneration for audit services to the Company was £0.1m (2014: £0.2m). 
3 PERSONNEL EXPENSES 
2015  
£m
2014 
£m 
Wages and salaries 23 17
Social security costs – 2
Share-based payments – –
23 19
2015 
 Number
2014 
Number
Average number of employees of the Company during the year 165 137
Employees are based in the United Kingdom and Germany. 
Disclosures of individual Directors’ remuneration, share options, long-term incentive schemes, pension contributions and pension entitlements 
required by the Companies Act 2006 and specified for audit by the Financial Conduct Authority are on pages 96 to 104 within the Remuneration 
report and form part of these audited accounts. 
The employees of the Company are members of the Group pension schemes as detailed in Note 30 of the Group financial statements. 
4 TAX 
At the balance sheet date, the Company had unused tax losses of £209m (2014: £281m) and other deductible short-term temporary differences 
of £5m (2014: £4m) available for offset against future profits. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of unused tax losses and 
other deductible short-term timing differences.
5 DIVIDENDS 
The details of the Company’s dividend are disclosed in Note 10 to the Group financial statements.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
173 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
6 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Other intangible assets £m 
Cost 
At 1 October 2013 –
Additions 4
Transfer of assets 1
At 30 September 2014 5
Additions 21
At 30 September 2015 26
Accumulated depreciation and impairment 
At 1 October 2013 –
Charge for the year –
At 30 September 2014 –
Charge for the year 1
At 30 September 2015 1
Carrying amount at 30 September 2015 25
Carrying amount at 30 September 2014 5
7 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
£m 
Cost and net book value 
At 1 October 2013 2,167
Adjustment in respect of share-based payments 2
Additions –
Exchange difference (179)
At 30 September 2014 1,990
Adjustment in respect of share-based payments 2
Additions –
Exchange difference (119)
At 30 September 2015 1,873
A list of the Company’s related undertakings is shown in Note 19 to the financial statements.  17 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
8 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2015 
£m
2014  
£m 
Current 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 1,057 879
Other receivables 1 3
Deposits and prepayments 2 29
 1,060 911
Non-current 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 554 583
 554 583
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings are repayable on demand. The average interest on overdue amounts owed by subsidiary 
undertakings is 4% (2014: 0.5%). The Directors consider the fair value to be equal to the book value.
9 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2015  
£m
2014  
£m 
Cash at bank and in hand 1 35
1 35
Cash and cash equivalents includes balances which are considered to be restricted. £0.1m (2014: £35m) is held within escrow accounts 
in Denmark and Norway in respect of local regulatory requirements. The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of these assets 
approximate their fair value. 
10 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 
2015  
£m
2014  
£m 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 485 106
Social security and other taxes 1 2
Other payables 11 19
Accruals 21 27
518 154
The average interest on overdue amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings is 1.8% (2014: 0.8%). 
Amounts owing to subsidiary undertakings are repayable on demand, with the exception of £43m due in 2023. The Directors consider the fair 
value to be equal to the book value.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
175 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
11 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Company’s financial instruments comprise investment in subsidiary undertakings, amounts due to/from subsidiary undertakings, 
cash and cash equivalents, and other payables and receivables. The Company’s approach to the management of financial risks is discussed 
on pages 154 to 156. The Company believes the value of its financial assets to be fully recoverable.
The carrying value of the Company’s financial instruments is exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates (primarily Sterling). 
The Company estimates that a 5% strengthening in Sterling would increase loss before tax by £7m (2014: increase loss before tax by £5m), 
while a 5% weakening in Sterling would decrease loss before tax by £7m (2014: decrease loss before tax by £5m). 
The carrying value of the Company’s financial instruments is exposed to movements in interest rates. The Company estimates that a 1% 
increase in interest rates would increase loss before tax by nil (2014: 1% increase in interest rates increase loss before tax by £1m), while a 
0.25% decrease in interest rates would decrease loss before tax by nil (2014: 0.25% decrease in interest rates decrease loss before tax by £nil).
Carrying value of financial assets and liabilities
The carrying values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities as at 30 September 2015 and 30 September 2014, are set out below:
At 30 September 2015
Loans & 
receivables
 £m 
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised cost 
£m 
Total  
£m 
Trade and other receivables 1,612 – 1,612
Cash and cash equivalents 1– 1
Trade and other payables – (518) (518)
Borrowings –(298) (298)
Provisions arising from contractual obligations –(3) (3)
1,613 (819) 794
At 30 September 2014
Loans & 
receivables
 £m 
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised cost 
£m 
Total  
£m 
Trade and other receivables 1,494 – 1,494
Cash and cash equivalents 35 – 35
Trade and other payables –(154) (154)
Borrowings –(607) (607)
Provisions arising from contractual obligations – (3) (3)
1,529 (764) 765 176 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
11 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Financial liabilities are analysed below based on the time between the year end and their contractual maturity. The amounts shown are 
estimates of the undiscounted future cash flows and will differ from both carrying value and fair value. Any cash flows based on a floating 
rate are calculated using interest rates as set at the date of the last rate reset.
Amount due
At 30 September 2015
In less than  
3 months  
£m
Between 3 and 
12 months 
 £m
Between 1 and  
5 years  
£m £m
Trade and other payables (505) (26) – (531)
Borrowings –– (327) (327)
Provisions arising from contractual obligations – (3) – (3)
(505) (29) (327) (861)
Amount due
At 30 September 2014
In less than  
3 months  
£m
Between 3 and 
12 months 
 £m
Between 1 and  
5 years  
£m £m
Trade and other payables (29) (121) – (150)
Borrowings –(348) (341) (689)
Provisions arising from contractual obligations – (3) – (3)
(29) (472) (341) (842)
The Company is exposed to credit risk in relation to cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, and amounts due from subsidiary 
undertakings. The maximum exposure in respect of each of these items at the balance sheet date is their carrying value. The Company 
assesses its counterparty exposure in relation to surplus cash using credit limits based on counterparty credit ratings. 
For amounts due from subsidiary undertakings and receivables, future operating cash flows are assessed for any indication of impairment. 
In the opinion of the Directors, the fair value of the Company’s investments is not less than the carrying value as stated in the balance sheet. 
As of 30 September 2015, Company receivables from Group undertakings were not past due and were expected to be recovered in full.
The Company’s approach to credit risk in respect of trade and other receivables is explained in Note 8.
12 PROVISIONS
2015  
£m
2014  
£m 
At 1 October (3) (1)
Additional provision in the year – (3)
Release of provision – 1
At 30 September (3) (3)
13 BORROWINGS 
Borrowings comprise a £300m bond with an annual coupon of 7.75% maturing in June 2017.
14 CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL 
The details of the Company’s share capital are the same as those of the Group, and are disclosed in Note 26 to the Group financial statements 
in this report. 
Details of share options granted by the Company are set out in Note 29 to the Group financial statements.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
177 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
15 OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS 
At the balance sheet date, the Company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments related to property, under 
non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 
2015  
£m
2014  
£m 
Within one year 1 1
Later than one year and less than five years 3 3
After five years 2 3
6 7
16 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 
At 30 September 2015, the Company had contingent liabilities in respect of counter-guarantees for bank funding, letters of credit and 
guarantees of amounts owed by subsidiaries amounting to £727m (2014: £710m). This predominately relates to a guarantee on the drawndown 
portion of the Group banking facility (detailed in Note 19 to the Group financial statements). 
Also included are guarantees related to aircraft finance lease commitments, estimated based on the current book value of the finance lease 
liabilities of £183m (2014: £180m). 
The Company complies with all the standards relevant to consumer protection and formal requirements in respect of package tour contracts 
and has all the necessary licences. In the UK the customer’s right to reimbursement of the return travel costs and amounts paid in case of 
insolvency or bankruptcy on the part of the tour operator or travel agency is guaranteed in line with legislation in the UK via a fund mechanism, 
whereby travel companies are required to collect and remit a small charge for each protected customer upon booking. 
17 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
Subsidiaries 
The Company transacts and has outstanding balances with its subsidiaries. The Company enters into loans with its subsidiaries, at both fixed 
and floating rates of interest, on a commercial basis. Hence, the Company incurs interest expense and earns interest income on these loans. 
The Company also received dividend income from its subsidiaries during the year.
2015  
£m
2014  
£m 
Transactions with subsidiaries
Interest receivable – 1
Interest payable (4) (1)
Management fees and other expenses 31 28
Dividend income received 45 45
Year-end balances arising on transactions with subsidiaries
Loans receivable 914 731
Other receivables 697 147
Loans payable (428) (59)
Other payables (57) (43)
Remuneration of key management personnel 
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Company, is set out in Note 31 of the Group 
financial statements.  178 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 
The employees of the Company, including the Directors, collectively participate in all of the Group’s equity-settled share-based payment 
schemes. The details relating to these schemes in respect of the Company are identical to those disclosed in Note 29 to the Group financial 
statements and have therefore not been re-presented here. 
The share-based payment charge of £1m (2014: £2m) is stated net of amounts recharged to subsidiary undertakings.
19 SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
Name
Country of 
Incorporation
Proportion 
held % Class of shares 
List of all subsidiaries
AB 9807 Beteiligungsverwaltungs GmbH Germany 40 ordinary
Activos Turisticos, S.A. Spain 99.964 ordinary
Airtours Channel Islands Limited Jersey 99.815 ordinary
Airtours Finance Limited Guernsey 100 ordinary
Airtours Holidays Transport Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Airtours Insurance Services Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Airtours Resort Ownership Espana S.L. Spain 100 ordinary
Airtrack Services Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Algarve Tours – Agencia de Viagens E 
Turismo LDA
Portugal 50 ordinary
Alpha Reiseburo Partner GmbH Germany 100 ordinary
Anfinpan S.L. Spain 100 ordinary A & B
Astral (Cyprus) Holdings Limited Cyprus 100 ordinary
Astral Hellas SA Greece 100 ordinary
Astral Spain Incoming S.A. Spain 100 ordinary
Astral Tours (Cyprus) Limited Cyprus 50 ordinary
Belgian Travel Network CVBA Belgium 100 ordinary
Blue Sea Overseas Investments Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Bucher Reisen GmbH Germany 100 ordinary
Buzzard Leisure Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Capitol Holdings Limited Ireland 100 ordinary
Carousel Holidays Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Carousel Resorts International Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Close Number 1 Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Close Number 16 Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Close Number 19 Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary & 5%  
redeemable preference
Close Number 25 Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Close Number 29 Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Close Number 3 Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Close Number 30 Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Close Number 31 Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Close Number 32 Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Close Number 33 Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Close Number 34 Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Close Number 35 Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Close Number 36 Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Close Number 37 Limited Jersey 88.889 ordinary
Close Number 38 Limited Jersey 100 ordinary
Close Number 6 Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Close Number 7 Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Close Number 8 Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary & C fixed preference 
Close Number 9 plc United Kingdom 100 ordinary & C fixed preference 
Compass Travel Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary & 6% preference
Condor Berlin GmbH Germany 50.0023 ordinary
Condor Flugdienst GmbH Germany 50.0023 ordinary
Condor Technik GmbH Germany 100 ordinary
Co-op Group Travel 2 Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Cooperatieve Parkway U.A. Netherlands 100 class A, initial preferred 
class B and preferred class B
Delight Information Systems CVBA Belgium 79.997 ordinary
Name
Country of 
Incorporation
Proportion 
held % Class of shares 
Eurocenter Beteiligungs-und Reisevermittlung 
GmbH
Germany 100 ordinary
Future Travel Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary and preference
Gesellschaft für Reisevertriebssysteme mbH Germany 100 ordinary
Gigatour Scrl Belgium 28 ordinary
Happy Camp S.P.A. Italy 40 ordinary
Helios Palace SA Greece 100 ordinary
Hix Express, S.L. Spain 100 ordinary
Hotel Investments Sarigerme Turizm Ticaret L.S. Turkey 100 ordinary
Hoteles Sunwing SA Spain 100 ordinary
Hotels4u.com Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Inspirations Group Pension Trustees Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Inspirations Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Intourist Russia 100 ordinary
Intourist Overseas Company Limited Russia 100 ordinary
ITC Enterprises Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
ITC Travel Investments S.L. Spain 75 ordinary
Jeropatur-Viagens e Turismo Limitada Portugal 100 ordinary
Jet Eldo Maroc Morocco 100 ordinary
Jet Eldo Tunisie Tunisia 100 ordinary
Jet Marques S.A. France 100 ordinary
JMCH Services Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Kuyi International Travel Agency (Shanghai) 
Co., Ltd
China 49 ordinary
Kelly Holdings Limited Gibraltar 100 ordinary
Kestrel Leisure Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Leon y Castillo Management, S.L. Spain 100 ordinary
LLG Nord GmbH & Co. Delta OHG Germany 100 ordinary
Maretours NV Belgium 48.57 ordinary
MTG (UK) Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
MyTravel 330 Leasing Ltd Cayman Islands 100 cumulative A, B, C, D 
preference and ordinary
MyTravel Deutschland GmbH Germany 100 ordinary
MyTravel Group Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Mytravel IPR Ireland Limited Ireland 100 ordinary
MyTravel Licensing S.a.r.l. Luxembourg 100 ordinary
MyTravel Luxembourg S.a.r.l Luxembourg 100 ordinary
MyTravel Luxembourg UK Unlimited* United Kingdom 100 ordinary
MyTravel North America Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
MyTravel Pioneer Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
NALG Holdings Ireland 100 ordinary
NALG Ireland Ireland 100 ordinary
Neckermann Polska BP SP. z.o.o. Poland 100 ordinary
Neckermann Slovakia s.r.o. Slovakia 60 ordinary
Neckermann Urlaubswelt GmbH Germany 100 ordinary
NTC Intourist Russia 100 ordinary
N-U-R Neckermann-utazás Szolgáltató Kft. Hungary 100 ordinary
Öger Tours GmbH Germany 100 ordinary
Orlando (ABC) Limited Jersey 100 ordinary
OY Tjaereborg AB Finland 100 ordinary
Park Hotel SNC France 50 ordinary
Parkway Australia Holdings Pty Limited Australia 100 ordinary FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
179 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Name
Country of 
Incorporation
Proportion 
held % Class of shares 
Parkway Auto Realisations (Germany) 
Vermögensverwaltungs GmbH
Germany 100 ordinary
Parkway GP Sarl Luxembourg 100 ordinary
Parkway Hellas Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Parkway Holdings GmbH Germany 100 ordinary
Parkway Holdings UK BV Netherlands 100 ordinary
Parkway International S.a.r.l. Luxembourg 100 ordinary
Parkway IPR (Cyprus) Limited Cyprus 100 ordinary
Parkway IPR Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Parkway Limited Guernsey 100 ordinary
Parkway Nederland BV Netherlands 100 ordinary
Parkway Northern Europe Holding A/S Denmark 100 ordinary
Peregrine Leisure Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Plotin Travel S.A. Greece 45 ordinary
Porto Bay Hotels e-Resorts, S.A. Portugal 15 ordinary
Resorts Mallorca Hotels International S.L. Spain 100 ordinary
Retail Travel Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
ROSATA Grundstücksvermietungs mbH & Co. 
Objekt am Hammergarten KG
Germany 15 ordinary
Sandbrook Overseas Investments Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Sandbrook UK Investments Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
SATEE GmbH Germany 100 ordinary
Sentido Hotels & Resorts GmbH Germany 100 ordinary
Servicios Bluepar, S.B., S.A. Costa Rica 100 ordinary
Servicios de Administracion y Operacion de 
Hoteles S.A de C.V. 
Mexico 100 ordinary
Shipping and Aviation Industries Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Societe Touristique et Hoteliere du Senegal 
SOTHOU_SE S.A.
Senegal 100 ordinary
Spies A/S Denmark 100 ordinary
Style Holidays Limited United Kingdom 100 A ordinary, B ordinary 
and preference
Sumango (Proprietary) Limited South Africa 100 ordinary
Sun International (UK) Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Sunair N.V. Belgium 99.987 deferred and ordinary
Sunscan Hotel Sociedad Limitada Spain 100 ordinary
Sunwing Hellas AB Sweden 100 ordinary
Sunwing Hotels (Cyprus) Limited Cyprus 100 ordinary
Sunwing Hotels Hellas SA Greece 100 ordinary
TC Delta GmbH Germany 100 ordinary
TCCT Holdings Limited Jersey 100 ordinary
TCCT Holdings UK Limited United Kingdom 66.5 ordinary A
TCCT Retail Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
TCGH Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
TCIM Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
TCNE Aircraft Leasing AB Sweden 100 ordinary
Tedgold Limited Gibraltar 100 ordinary
The Airline Group Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
The Freedom Travel Group Limited United Kingdom 91 ordinary
The Travelworld Group Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
THG Touristik GmbH Germany 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook (CIS) AB Sweden 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook AG Germany 100 bearer shares
Thomas Cook Air Kereskedelmi és Szolgáltató Kft. Hungary 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Aircraft Engineering (Mexico) 
S.A. de C.V.
Mexico 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Aircraft Engineering Inc. United States 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Aircraft Engineering Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Aircraft Engineering 
Services Limited
Guernsey 99.9 ordinary
Thomas Cook Airlines Belgium NV Belgium 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Airlines Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Airlines Scandinavia A/S Denmark 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Airline Services Limited Guernsey 99.9 ordinary
Name
Country of 
Incorporation
Proportion 
held % Class of shares 
Thomas Cook Airport Service GmbH Germany 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Austria AG Austria 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Belgium NV Belgium 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Brok Air Services France 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Cabin Crews GmbH Germany 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Continental Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Destination Services Inc United States 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Destinations GmbH Germany 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Finance (2) Limited** United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Finance (Jersey) Limited** Jersey 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Finance plc** United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Financial Activities GmbH Germany 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Financial Services Belgium Belgium 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook France Hotellerie Holding S.A.R.L. France 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook France S.A.S. France 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Group Hedging Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Group Management  
Services Limited**
United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Group Treasury Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Group UK Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Indian IP Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook International AG Switzerland 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Investments (2) Limited** United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Nederland BV Netherlands 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Nordic Holdings AB Sweden 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Northern Europe A/S Denmark 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Northern Europe AB Sweden 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Online Limited Guernsey 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Pension Trust Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Retail Belgium NV. Belgium 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Retail Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Retail NV Belgium 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook s.r.o. Czech Republic 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook SAS France 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Service AG Switzerland 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Services Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Tour Operations Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Touristik GmbH Germany 49.99 ordinary
Thomas Cook Travel Pension Trustees Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Treasury Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook UK Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook UK Travel Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook Vertriebs GmbH Germany 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook West Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Thomas Cook West Investments Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Tour Vital Touristik GmbH Germany 100 ordinary
Tourmajor Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Travel Alliance a.s. Czech Republic 40 ordinary
Travel and Financial Services Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Travel Technology Initiative Limited United Kingdom 100 ordinary
Univers Holidays S.A. Morocco 15 ordinary
VA Insurance Services Limited Isle of Man 100 ordinary
Viajes Iberoservice Espana, S.L. Spain 65.00 ordinary
Ving Norge A/S Norway 100 ordinary
Ving Sverige AB Sweden 100 ordinary
Vingresor Espana SA Spain 100 ordinary
Wavell Holdings BV Netherlands 100 ordinary
WELG Aviation NV Belgium 99.99 ordinary
White Horse Administration Services Limited Ireland 100 ordinary
White Horse Insurance Ireland Limited Ireland 100 ordinary
*  Registered office: The Thomas Cook Business Park, Coningsby Road, Peterborough, Cambs, PE3 8SB, England.
** Shares held directly by Thomas Cook Group plc. 180 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 180
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Income Statement 
Statutory (£m)
Revenue (£m) 7,834 8,588  9,315  9,195  9,809 
Gross profit (£m) 1,772 1,866  2,020  2,031  2,098 
Gross profit margin (%) 22.6% 21.7% 21.7% 22.1% 21.4%
Profit/(loss) from operations (£m) 211 52 13 (170) (267) 
Interest (£m) (169) (168) (177) (168) (135)
Profit/(loss) before tax (£m) 50 (114) (163) (337) (398)
Profit/(loss) for the financial year (£m) 19 (115) (213) (441) (518)
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 1,487 1,440  1,196  872  858 
Basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per ordinary share 1.6 (8.2) (17.1) (67.2) (60.7)
Underlying 
Revenue (£m) 7,834  8,588  9,315  9,195  9,809 
Gross Profit (£m) 1,774 1916 2,059  2,026  2,160 
Gross profit margin (%) 22.6% 22.3% 22.1% 22.0% 22.0%
Profit from operations (£m) 310 323 263  177  304 
EBIT margin (%) 4.0% 3.8% 2.8% 1.9% 3.1%
Separately disclosed items (£m) (120) (296) (281) (393) (573)
Profit before tax (£m) 170 182 118  56  175 
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 1,487 1,440  1,196  872  858 
Underlying basic earnings per share 8.9 11.3 5.0 0.6 10.2 
Like-for-like 
Revenue (£m) 7,834 7,748 8,030 8,062 7,920 
Gross profit (£m) 1,774 1,754 1,759 1,728 1,725 
Gross profit margin (%) 22.6% 22.6% 21.9% 21.0% 21.8%
Underlying profit from operations (£m) 310 280 172 126 208 
EBIT margin (%) 4.0% 3.6% 2.1% 1.6% 2.6%
Interest (£m) (141) (143) (146) (142) (130)
Separately disclosed items (£m) (120) (296) (263) (272) (489)
Profit before tax (£m) 50 (157) (236) (286) (417)
Profit/(loss) for the financial year (£m) 19 (158) (283) (379) (531)
*FY12 Gross margin includes notional adjustments in relation to UK store closures totalling 0.4%
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FIVE YEAR RECORD 181 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Statement of financial position (£m)
Total assets 5,958 5,794 6,285 5,907 6,690 
Current assets 2,035 1,829 1,933 1,524 1,646 
Current liabilities (3,702) (3,894) (3,688) (3,540) (3,749)
Net pension deficit (279) (448) (404) (331) (331)
Net Assets 368 285 548 458 1,183 
Net debt (139) (326) (421) (788) (891)
Statement of cash flows (£m)
Operating cash flow 474 335 339 152 289 
Investing activities (180) (78) (182) 53 (178)
Financing activities 10 (278) 476 (74) (82)
Exchange (losses)/ gains (35) (52) 2 (19) (3)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents 304 (21) 633 131 28 
Capex 200 156 151 138 187 
Average number of employees 21,813 22,672  26,448  32,250  31,097
  182 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (“AGM”) 
The AGM will be held at 1st Floor, North Building, 200 Aldersgate, 
London EC1A 4HD on Tuesday 23 February 2016 at 10.30am. The last 
date for AGM proxy votes to be received by the Registrar is 10.30am 
Sunday 21 February 2016.
All Shareholders can submit their proxy vote for the AGM electronically 
at www.sharevote.co.uk. To register their vote, Shareholders will need 
the numbers detailed on their form of proxy. 
Alternatively, Shareholders who have already registered 
with Shareview can submit their proxy vote by logging on to 
www.shareview.co.uk and clicking on the link to vote underneath 
their Thomas Cook Group plc holding. 
SHARE REGISTER AND SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES 
The Company’s share register is maintained by Equiniti. 
Queries relating to Thomas Cook Group plc shares should 
be addressed to:
The Registrar  
Equiniti  
Aspect House  
Spencer Road  
Lancing  
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
Tel: 0371 384 2154*  
(International telephone number: +44 (0)121 415 0182)
* Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm (London time), Monday to Friday (excluding UK public holidays). 
Shareholders should quote the Company reference number 3174 and 
their Shareholder reference number (which can be found on their 
share certificates), when contacting the Registrar. 
SHAREVIEW 
To be able to access information about their shares and other 
investments online, Shareholders can register with Shareview 
(www.shareview.co.uk). Registration is free; Shareholders will 
need their Shareholder reference number which is shown on their 
form of proxy and share certificate. By registering for this service, 
Shareholders will: 
 > help reduce paper, print and postage costs; 
 > help the environment; 
 > be able to submit their queries by email; and 
 > be able to manage their shareholding easily and securely online. 
Once registered, whenever Shareholder documents are available, 
Shareholders will be sent a link to the appropriate website, 
where the documents will be available to view or download. 
Receiving documents online does not affect Shareholders’ rights 
in any way. 
WEBSITE 
The Company’s corporate website, www.thomascookgroup.com, 
provides information including:
 > news, updates, press releases and regulatory announcements; 
 > investor information, including the Annual Report, financial results, 
financial calendar and share price information; 
 > details of Shareholder meetings and poll results; 
 > biographies of the Board of Directors; 
 > the Company’s Articles of Association, the terms of reference for the 
Committees of the Board and the Board Appointments Policy; and 
 > sustainability reporting. 
MULTIPLE ACCOUNTS ON THE SHARE REGISTER 
If a Shareholder receives two or more sets of the documents 
concerning the AGM, this means that there is more than one account 
in their name on the Shareholder register, perhaps because either the 
name or the address appears on each account in a slightly different 
way. For security reasons, Equiniti will not amalgamate the accounts 
without the Shareholder’s written consent. Therefore, if a Shareholder 
would like their multiple accounts to be combined, they should write 
to Equiniti, detailing the different Shareholder reference numbers, 
and request that they be combined into one account. 
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS 
At the AGM on 10 April 2008, the Company passed a resolution 
allowing the Company’s corporate website to be used as the primary 
means of communication with its Shareholders. A consultation card 
was sent to Shareholders enabling them to choose either to: 
 > receive notification by email when Shareholder documentation 
is available on the website; or 
 > continue to receive Shareholder documentation in hard copy. 
Shareholders who did not respond were deemed, in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006, to have agreed to receive 
Shareholder documentation via the Company’s corporate website. 
These arrangements for electronic Shareholder communications 
provide Shareholders with the opportunity to access information 
in a timely manner and help the Company to reduce both its costs 
and its environmental impact. 
DIVIDENDS 
No dividends have been paid or declared since the interim dividend 
for the financial year ended 30 September 2011, paid on 7 October 2011. 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 183 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
THOMAS COOK AG/MYTRAVEL GROUP PLC MERGER
Thomas Cook Group plc was formed in June 2007 upon the merger 
of Thomas Cook AG and MyTravel Group plc. 
MyTravel Group plc Shareholders received one Thomas Cook Group plc 
Ordinary Share for every one MyTravel Group plc share previously held. 
MyTravel Group plc share certificates are no longer valid and can be 
destroyed. Replacement Thomas Cook Group plc share certificates 
were sent to Shareholders, who held shares in certificated form, 
on or around 19 June 2007. If you have any queries relating to this, 
please contact the Registrar. 
WARNING TO SHAREHOLDERS ABOUT SHARE FRAUD 
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors 
into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or 
non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an 
upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way 
you will probably lose your money.
5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct Authority about share 
fraud each year, with victims losing an average of £20,000. 
How to avoid share fraud 
If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, 
a premium price for shares you own, or free company or research 
reports, you should take these steps before handing over any money: 
1.  Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to 
contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares.
2.  Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person and 
firm contacting you and then end the call.
3.  Check the Financial Services Register from www.fca.org.uk to 
see if the person and firm contacting you is authorised by the FCA. 
4.  Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, 
copying its website or giving you false contact details.
5.  Use the firm’s contact details listed on the Register if you want 
to call it back.
6.  Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have contact 
details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
7.  Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at  
www.fca.org.uk/scams.
8.  Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm 
you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
9.  Think about getting independent financial and professional advice 
before you hand over any money.
10. Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
REPORT A SCAM 
If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FCA 
using the share fraud reporting form at www.fca.gov.uk/scams, 
where you can find out about the latest investment scams. You can 
also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768. If you have 
already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action 
Fraud on 0300 123 2040. 
SHAREGIFT 
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which 
make it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them 
to the charity ShareGift (Registered Charity Number 1052686), which 
specialises in using such holdings for charitable benefit. Find out 
more about ShareGift at www.sharegift.org or by telephoning 
+44 (0)20 7930 3737. 
SHAREVIEW DEALING 
A telephone and internet dealing service has been arranged through 
the Registrar to provide a simple way of buying and selling Thomas 
Cook Group plc shares for existing and prospective UK-based 
Shareholders. For telephone dealing call 08456 037 037 (international 
telephone number: +44 (0)121 415 7560) between 8.00am and 4.30pm 
(London time), Monday to Friday (excluding UK public holidays), or visit 
the website: www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. Shareholders will need 
the Shareholder reference number shown on their share certificate(s).  184 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDERS AS AT 
30 SEPTEMBER 2015
Distribution of shares by  
the type of Shareholder
Number of 
holdings
Number of  
shares
Nominees and institutional investors 15,169 15,868,808 
Individuals 1,098 1,519,982,508
Total 16,267 1,535,851,316
 
Size of Shareholding
Number of 
holdings
Number of  
shares
1–100 9,291 292,660
101–500 3,137 737,916
501–1,000 963 725,754
1,001–10,000 2,040 7,267,475
10,001–100,000 516 15,772,206
100,001–500,000 141 32,959,517
500,001–1,000,000 48 35,236,698
1,000,001 and above 131 1,442,859,090
Total 16,267 1,535,851,316
Registered office 
3rd Floor, South Building, 200 Aldersgate, London EC1A 4HD 
Registered Number: 6091951 
SHAREHOLDER CONTACTS 
Shareholder Helpline: 0871 384 2154*  
(International telephone number: +44 (0)121 415 0182) 
Website: www.thomascookgroup.com 
Registrar’s website: www.shareview.co.uk
*  Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras. Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm 
(London time), Monday to Friday (excluding UK public holidays).
FINANCIAL CALENDAR
Date Event
11 February 2016 Q1 2016 Quarterly Results 
23 February 2016 Annual General Meeting
19 May 2016 Interim results for six months ended 31 March 2016
28 July 2016 Q3 2016 Quarterly Results  This report is printed on Edixion Offset, produced at a mill certified 
to the ISO14001 and EMAS environmental management standards.
Manufactured using responsible sources and is FSC
®
 certified.
This report is fully recyclable and biodegradable.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar.
Printed by Park Communications.
www.thomascookgroup.com
The Thomas Cook Group website provides news  
and details of the Group’s activities, plus links to our 
customer sites and up-to-date information, including:
 > corporate news
 > presentations
 > share price data
 > historic Annual and Sustainability Reports
 > half-year results and interim management statements
 >news alerts
 > career opportunities WWW.THOMASCOOKGROUP.COM
