 ANNUAL REPORT 
& ACCOUNTS 2015 05 ANNUAL REPORTS & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
CONTENTS.
STRATEGIC REPORT HIGHLIGHTS
02 05 93
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERA TION
06  Group at a glance
12  Chairman ’ s statement
14 How we create value
40  CEO’ s statement 
42 Performance review
56 Financial review
65  Statement of principal risks 
& uncertainties
70  Capturing the way things are 
done around here
78  Stay Safe report
84  En vir onmental r epor t
94 The Board, Committees 
 and advisers
98  Corporate governance report
104 Audit Committee report
110 Directors’ remuneration report
126   Nominations Committee report 
128 Directors’ report
132 Statement of Directors’  
 responsibilities CONTENTS.
135 207
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
208 Five-year summary
210 Other shareholder information
137 Independent auditor’s report
140 Financial statements
147 Notes to the financial  
 statements
Travis Perkins plc is a leading company in the builders’ 
merchanting and home improvement markets.  
Born out of the merger in 1988 between Travis & Arnold and 
Sandell Perkins, the Group can trace its roots back over 200 
years and continues to grow today by following a successful 
strategy of acquisition and organic growth.
1 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 HIGHLIGHTS
For the year ended 31 December 2015
GOOD PROFIT GROWTH IN A YEAR OF SIGNIFICANT CHANGE AND INVESTMENT
£m 2015 2014 Change
Revenue 5,942 5,581 6.5%
Like-for-like revenue
(1)
3.8% 7.3% -
Adjusted operating profit
(2)
413 384 7.6%
Adjusted operating profit excluding property profits
(2)
389 358 8.7%
Adjusted profit before taxation
(2)
382 362 5.5%
Adjusted profit after taxation
(2)
307 291 5.5%
Adjusted earnings per share
(3) 
(pence) 124.1 119.0 4.3%
Dividend per share 44.0p 38.0p 15.8%
Lease adjusted ROCE 10.5% 10.4% 0.1ppt
Free cash flow 317 255 24.3%
Operating profit
(4)
254 343 (25.9)%
Property profits 24 26 (7.7)%
Operating profit excluding property profits 230 317 (27.4)%
Profit before taxation 224 321 (30.2)%
Profit after taxation 168 259 (35.1)%
Basic earnings per share (pence) 67.8p 105.9p (36.0)%
Cash generated from operations 350 310 12.9%
(1)
Details of non-GAAP measures can be found in notes 5, 11, 12, 35, 36 and 37. 
(2)
The term “adjusted” is used to signify that the effects of exceptional items, 
impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, amortisation of intangible assets and the associated tax impacts have been excluded from the disclosure 
being made.
 (3)
Share count in 2015 was 247,302,865. 
(4)
Including non-cash impairment charge of £141m recognised against goodwill and other intangible 
assets in PTS and F & P.
•  Revenue increased by 6.5%, with like-for-like revenue up  
3.7% (11.4% two-year like-for-like).
•  Adjusted operating profit, excluding property profits,  
increased by 8.7% to £389m.
•   Adjusted EPS increased by 4.3% to 124.1p, lower than  
the 7.6% growth in adjusted operating profit due to lower  
property profits and non-cash charges relating to 
foreign exchange contracts.
•  Full-year dividend increased 15.8% to 44.0p per share,  
reflecting confidence in future growth.
•  Network expansion continued, with net 53 new branches  
and stores opened, including implants.
•  Significant progress on major strategic fronts, including 
supply chain investments in General Merchanting and 
completion of the re-segmentation in Plumbing & Heating.
•  Free cash flow of £317m (note 35) generated at a cash 
conversion rate of 77% (2014: 66%) used to fund £134m 
of growth capital expenditure.
•  Lease adjusted return on capital employed (note 37) 
increased to 10.5% reflecting higher earnings offset by  
the increase in capital employed including £104m  
invested in freehold property.
•  Non-cash impairment charge of £141m recognised  
against goodwill and other intangible assets of PTS and  
F & P given the challenging market conditions.
2 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Highlights LIKE-FOR-LIKE REVENUE
-1.4 2012
5.0 2013
7.3 2014
3.8 2015
3 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Total
Like- 
for-like
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
General Merchanting 5.3% 3.9% 10.1% 9.8% 9.2% 9.0% 16% 16%
Plumbing & Heating 1.3% (1.4)% 3.3% 4.8% 3.3% 3.5% 6% 9%
Contracts 13.2% 8.5% 6.9% 6.7% 6.4% 6.6% 14% 13%
Consumer 8.0% 5.3% 6.8% 6.0% 6.7% 6.0% 7% 7%
Group 6.5% 3.8% 6.9% 6.9% 6.5% 6.4% 10.5% 10.4%
Revenue Growth Adjusted Operating Margin LAROCE
Inc. Property Profits Exc. Property Profits
General Merchanting
•  General Merchanting revenue increased by 5.3%, 3.9% on 
a like-for-like basis, outperforming the market with strong 
growth in heavyside categories and tool hire.
•  Adjusted operating margins, excluding property profits, 
improved by 20 basis points. Despite a weaker and more 
competitive RMI market in the second half gross margins 
over the year improved by 10 bps. Higher operating costs 
from additional heavyside range centres through significant 
efficiencies delivered in the second half of the year.
•  Twelve new or relocated Travis Perkins branches were 
opened in 2015 in addition to 38 new Benchmarx branches. 
Plumbing & Heating
•  Plumbing & Heating revenue grew by 1.3%, a decline of 
1.4% on a like-for-like basis.
•  Adjusted operating margins, excluding property profits 
and a number of one-off short term contracts and 
associated sourcing benefits, reduced by 20 basis 
points, primarily due to the sales disruption from the 
re-segmentation programme.
•  The re-segmentation programme was accelerated 
through 2015 with the majority of branch conversions and 
closures completed six-months ahead of plan.
•  Lease adjusted return on capital employed reduced by 
3 ppts, driven by the benefits of property profits and the 
Government back ECO scheme in 2014, not repeating 
in 2015, and disruption from the re-segmentation 
programme.
Contracts
•  Strong sales growth of 13.2%, 8.5% on a like-for-like basis 
was driven by Keyline and CCF, with both businesses 
continuing to take market share.
•  Adjusted operating margins, excluding property profits, 
reduced by 10 bps. Gross margin reduction was driven by 
the shift in sales mix towards the lower margin CCF and 
Keyline businesses whilst operating efficiency improved 
with the increased volumes.
•  Lease adjusted return on capital increased by 1 ppt 
owing to significant growth in profits more than offsetting 
additional capital employed. 
Consumer
•  Revenue growth of 8.0% and like-for-like growth of 5.3% 
demonstrates continued market share gains. 
•  Adjusted operating margin, excluding property profits and 
the year-on-year improvement arising from the reversal 
of impairments on loans to Toolstation Europe of £6m, 
improved by 30 basis points.
•  A further 40 Toolstation stores were opened in 2015, with 
additional openings committed in 2016.
326 2012
348 2013
384 2014
413 2015
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT
9.8 2012
10.0 2013
10.4 2014
10.5 2015
LAROCE
Divisional Performance SECTION HEAD
4 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Travis Perkins plc - Warrington STRATEGIC 
REPORT
The Directors of the Company have prepared a 
Strategic Report for the year ended 31 December 2015, 
which is set out on pages 5 to 91. It encompasses the 
following information:
06 Group at a glance
12 Chairman’s statement
14 How we create value
40  CEO’s statement 
42 Performance review
56 Financial review
65 Statement of principal risks and uncertainties
70 Capturing the way things are done around here
78 Stay Safe report
84 Environmental report
Strategic Report Approval
The Strategic Report on pages 5 to 91 was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
John Carter Tony Buffin 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 
18 March 2016
5 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 6 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
GROUP AT A GLANCE
Travis Perkins plc (the Group) is the UK’s largest product supplier to the 
building, construction, and home improvement markets. Having grown 
primarily through large acquisitions in the last decade, the Group is 
now focussed on extracting value from those acquisitions by growing  
organically though investing in more compelling customer propositions, 
optimising its network and using its scale advantage to improve returns for 
shareholders. These investments should enable the Group to outperform 
the market on a sustainable basis, increasing market share and increasing 
returns. This will ensure the Group continues with its mission to become 
the first choice distributor of building materials in the UK.
The Group has built an inclusive working environment 
where everyone can contribute because everyone is listened 
to, valued and respected. It is founded on five Cornerstones:
Keeping people safe – safety will always be at the top 
of the agenda
Upholding family values – a way of working and 
treating people
Making decent returns – creating value for 
shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers
Supporting our customers – the Group’s business is based 
on strong relationships
Being the best – setting the bar high and making 
employees and customers feel special
THE CORNERSTONES OF HOW THE GROUP DOES BUSINESS STRATEGIC REPORT
7 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
DIVISIONAL STRUCTURE
More than 28,000 individual colleagues serving trade customers and 
retail customers from over 2,000 trading outlets throughout the UK.
The Group’s 20 businesses, across over 2,000 sites, are organised 
and managed through 4 divisions.
Performance target setting is managed at a Group level with each business responsible for developing strategic plans to meet 
those ambitions. As the Group grows, operational decision making is increasingly being devolved to strengthened management 
teams in each business, allowing every business to better respond to its customers’ needs, manage its costs and capital better 
and meet the challenges of each market. The business management teams draw on a number of centrally based support 
teams including property, supply chain, IT, HR, legal and finance.
Leading distributor to domestic installers
Leading distributor to domestic installers
Leading wholeseller to trade distributors
Leading distributor to domestic installers
Plumbing & Heating 
£1.4bn sales, 433 branches
General Merchanting 
£2.0bn sales, 813 branches
Market leading general merchant 
to trade customers
Kitchen distributor to trade 
Fastest growing 
national DIY retailer
Tile retailer Integrated multi-channel
trade counter
Consumer 
£1.4bn sales, 571 stores
Contracts 
£1.2bn sales, 181 branches
Fastest growing 
specialist 
distributor of 
ceilings, insulation 
and drywall
Leading specialist 
distributor of 
pipeline and 
heating solutions
Leading specialist distributor of 
civils, heavy building materials 
and drainage 8 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
GENERAL MERCHANTING
The Group’s core business supplies products for all types 
of repair, maintenance and improvement projects (“RMI”) 
as well as new residential and commercial construction. 
The customer base is largely made up of professional 
tradesmen, ranging from sole traders to national 
housebuilders whose key requirements are locally stocked 
product ranges (immediately available for collection or 
delivery), acccess to extended ranges (often delivered direct 
to site), competitive pricing, credit services and expertise in 
problem solving.
Distributor of kitchens to specialist joiners, kitchen installers, 
local authorities and national house builders. Branches: 157 
branches around the UK
PLUMBING & HEATING
Plumbing Trade Supplies and City Plumbing Supplies are 
the main brands in the Division. They supply a wide range 
of customers including domestic plumbers, independent 
plumbing merchants, large contractors and local authorities. 
As well as selling branded products, the Division has 
developed successful own brand products including a 
comprehensive range of plumbing and bathroom products 
under the iflo brand.
The Plumbing & Heating Division has four 
principal business streams. 
 
1. DOMESTIC INSTALLER BUSINESS
A leading ‘pure-play’ online supplier of plumbing and 
heating products. Distribution centre: 1 distribution centre 
which distributes around the UK
Market leading merchant for trade customers - supplying 
more than 100,000 product lines to trade professionals and 
self-builders. Branches: 656 branches around the UK
A nationwide merchant serving the locally based domestic 
plumbing and heating trades and bathroom installers. 
Branches: 344 branches around the UK
A leading distributor of domestic heating spares in the UK. 
Branches: 1 trading unit which distributes around the UK
THE GROUP’S BUSINESSES STRATEGIC REPORT
9 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
4. RENEWABLE HEATING BUSINESSES
An online ‘pure-play’ distributor of underfloor heating systems
Provider of integrated solutions for low carbon construction, 
energy efficient building and renewable energy projects
A leading wholesaler of power tools, hand tools and site 
equipment. BPT develops products and brands which are sold both 
within the Group and through independent merchants and national 
DIY chains. Location: 3 locations which distribute around the UK
3. INDEPENDENT WHOLESALERS
The combined leading distributor of heating, plumbing and 
bathroom products to the independent merchant sector  
and retailers of fires and bathrooms. Distribution centres:  
12 across the UK
A distributor of solar renewable technology 
Supplies a wide range of heating, plumbing and bathroom 
products serving private sector plumbing installation 
contracts, national house builders and the public sector. 
Branches: 102 branches around the UK and Ireland
2. CONTRACT INSTALLER BUSINESS 10 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
THE GROUP’S BUSINESSES (continued)
CONTRACTS
The customers of the three contracts businesses, Keyline, 
BSS and CCF, are typically large developers, main 
contractors and commercial sub-contractors. The products 
supplied from the three businesses the Division operates 
are generally used in large construction projects ranging 
from new road and rail infrastructure, power generation 
construction, public service infrastructure such as hospitals 
and schools, through to commercial and high rise residential 
construction and refurbishment
CONSUMER
The consumer division supplies domestic building and 
decorative materials through its store network to DIY and 
trade customers. It differentiates itself by providing the best 
value in each of its respective channels through operating 
lean and efficient business models, superior online 
propositions, high levels of availability of the brands and 
products customers demand and fit-for-purpose customer 
shopping environments
Market leading supplier of civils, heavy building materials 
and drainage solutions in the UK for trade professionals and 
specialist contractors. Branches: 80 branches around the 
UK (including Rudridge which was acquired in 2015)
Market leader in the distribution of pipeline, heating and 
mechanical services equipment in the UK. 
Branches: 61 branches around the UK
A fast growing distributor of interior building products to 
the construction industry in the UK. Branches: 40 branches 
around the UK
Fastest growing national DIY retailer, with 236 stores 
throughout the UK and the market leading online 
DIY proposition 
A rapidly growing retailer of lightside building materials 
with a current network of 224 branches. Its fully integrated 
multichannel operating model is class leading and enables 
the business to offer the lowest prices and best availability 
One of the UK’s fastest growing suppliers of ceramic tiles 
available to both retail and trade customers through 111 
stores around the UK with a rapidly expanding 
online presence  Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
11 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Paul Parker – Travis Perkins, Shrewsbury Dear Fellow Shareholders,
I am pleased to introduce the 
Company’s Annual Report for the year 
ended December 2015, a year of good 
progress on a number of fronts. 
Group sales grew by 6.5% to just 
under £6 billion. On a like-for-like 
basis, sales grew 3.8%. As a result, 
adjusted operating profit, excluding 
property profits, increased by 8.7% 
to £389m and adjusted earnings per 
share increased by 4.3% to 124.1p. 
Among the Group’s various businesses, 
I would highlight particularly strong 
performances from Wickes, Toolstation, 
Keyline, CCF and Benchmarx.
Most of the Group’s businesses 
continued to outperform their major 
competitors. This continues the pattern 
of recent years and attests to the 
energy, commitment and hard work by 
colleagues throughout the Group. 
2015 was the second year of 
implementing the Group’s corporate plan 
that was announced in December 2013. 
The plan focuses on innovating our 
customer propositions, offering better 
value, improved product ranges and 
more convenience for our customers; 
expanding and optimising our branch 
networks; building scale advantage 
across our supply chains, procurement 
and technology; and finally, ensuring we 
manage our portfolio carefully. We are 
increasingly devolving management 
responsibility to our businesses as we 
grow whilst streamlining our central 
functions and ensuring disciplined 
deployment of capital.
In launching our corporate plan, we 
also committed to keep the Group’s 
investors apprised of progress. During 
the year, we held two investor days to 
present our supply chain and property 
strategies in more detail. We will 
continue to keep our investors informed, 
with further events planned for 2016.
Of particular note was the rationalisation 
and re-segmentation of the branch 
networks of our City Plumbing and PTS 
businesses; a complex transformation 
of both businesses, designed to better 
serve the needs of their different 
customers. With this transformation now 
substantially complete, our plumbing and 
heating businesses are better positioned 
to compete in what is a rapidly evolving, 
yet challenging marketplace.
The Company continues to deploy 
capital expenditure in line with its 
clearly stated priorities and financial 
return objectives. No sensible corporate 
plan is carved in stone, and I am 
pleased that management has been 
flexible in executing the plan, taking 
advantage of opportunities as they 
have arisen during the year. Our 
commitment is to grow shareholder 
value consistently and for the long 
term. Flexibility around execution is key 
to achieving this aim.
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
Many of my 
colleagues have 
dedicated much 
of their lives to our 
business and this 
year celebrated as 
many as 30, 40 
and even 45 years 
of service. During 
2015, the already 
successful team was 
joined by a number 
of new colleagues 
bringing skills to 
support the growth 
and development of 
the business.
12 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT
Dividend
The strong performance of the Group in 2015 combined 
with the Board’s confidence that the Group’s growth strategy 
and underlying market indicators will result in sustainable 
earnings growth, has enabled the Board to propose a 15.8% 
increase in the full year dividend. 
A final dividend of 29.25p, payable on 27 May 2016 to 
shareholders on the register on 29 April 2016, will give a full 
year dividend of 44p (2014: 38p). This dividend is covered 
2.8 times by adjusted earnings per share, with dividend 
cover comfortably inside the Board’s target range 
of 2.5x to 3.25x.
Employees
As mentioned in my introduction above, the successful 
implementation of the Group’s strategy is wholly dependent 
upon the quality of the entire Travis Perkins team. Many 
of my colleagues have dedicated much of their lives to 
our business and this year celebrated as many as 30, 40 
and even 45 years of service. During 2015, the already 
successful team was joined by a number of new colleagues 
bringing skills to support the growth and development of 
the business. The Board would like to welcome all of those 
new colleagues to the Group and thank everyone who has 
contributed to what has been yet another successful year 
for the Group. 
Board of Directors
The Group now has a settled board of directors, following 
the executive changes in 2013 and the appointment of four 
new non-executive directors since 2013. Coline McConville 
joined the Board as a non-executive director on 1 February 
2015, completing our line up for the near future. 
Andrew Simon retired from the Board on 31 October 2015 
following nine years of service with distinction. Among his 
many contributions was his chairmanship of the Company’s 
Stay Safe Committee, an initiative started by Andrew in 
2007 and which he chaired until his retirement, overseeing 
significant improvements in the Group’s health and safety 
awareness. The Board would like to express its thanks to 
Andrew and wish him well for the future. Andrew’s role 
as Senior Independent Director was assumed by Chris 
Rogers in November; Coline McConville succeeded Andrew 
as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Pete 
Redfern has taken over as Chairman of the Stay Safe 
Committee (both in November). Ruth Anderson continues 
to Chair our Audit Committee. 
We are fortunate in having such a strong Board that 
balances current and previous executive experience with 
skills in retailing and merchanting, alongside marketing, 
manufacturing and construction industry knowledge.
Outlook
The market in 2015, particularly in the second half of the 
year, was weaker than we expected, owing to a number 
of short-term factors. However, the core foundations and 
growth trajectory of the markets in which our businesses 
compete in remain solid. Average annual demand for new 
homes remains strong at around 225,000 per annum, 
with current supply being just over 160,000 new homes 
per annum. This shortage must be fulfilled by building new 
homes to add to the existing housing stock of 28 million 
homes. A large proportion of these homes are not in a 
satisfactory condition and require significant repair and 
maintenance as well as improvement works. Interest rates 
and inflation remain low, real wage growth has improved 
and the employment environment is largely positive 
resulting in consumer confidence at levels we have not 
seen for over a decade.
Given the investment our Group has been making I am 
confident that we will continue to outperform the markets 
we compete in, continue to grow operating profits, improve 
the return on capital employed in our businesses and 
ultimately further grow the return to our shareholders.
Robert Walker 
Chairman 
18 March 2016
13 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information HOW WE CREA TE VALUE
Whilst the Group is the largest distributor of building materials in the UK, 
its businesses are not always the first choice for many of its customers, 
presenting a compelling opportunity to improve and grow. The Group 
will remain committed to its core expertise as a distributor of building 
materials. Whilst there are other markets in Europe the Group could 
enter, the Group has significant opportunity to grow in the UK and this will 
remain its principal focus in the near term.
First Choice
The Group is the largest distributor of 
building materials, but not the first choice 
for the majority of customers
Distributor
With the exception of some minority 
investments the Group is a distribution 
business with complementary 
supply chains
Building Materials
The products the Group sells are used in 
the repair, maintenance or improvement of 
existing buildings and the construction of 
new buildings and infrastructure projects
UK
The advantages the Group and its 
businesses enjoy are generally not 
scalable outside the UK
Be the first choice distributor of building 
materials in the UK
14 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
THE UK’s LARGEST DISTRIBUTOR OF BUILDING MA TERIALS  
WITH ROOM TO GROW Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
15 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Brendan Cowlam - BSS, Leeds BUSINESS MODEL
The core of all of the Group’s businesses is distribution, meaning they are 
engaged in buying, moving and selling building materials. 
Small tradesperson / Consumer
Fixed
35% 50% 85%
Mandated
Variable by customer to
templates / uided
Tendered /
framework
areements
Medium -  lare trade
Customers
Pricin
Ranin
Delivery
Variable
Source products from over 
50 countries and over 
9,000 suppliers
buy Distribute 400,000 product 
lines from over 4m ft
2
 
distribution space using 4,000 
delivery vehicles
move sell Sell goods and services to over 
280,000 account customers 
and millions of cash customers 
from more than 2,000 branches
However, the markets each of the Group’s businesses operate within 
have distinct characteristics based on the type of customers they serve, 
what products they sell, the basis of pricing and the fulfilment channel. 
Therefore, the Group is organised into divisions and business units to 
cater for this spectrum of needs.
Wickes Toolstation
Travis Perkins
Keyline, 
BSS, CCF
Consumer Merchants Contracts
PTS, CPS
F & P, 
Connections, 
Primaflow
Sales = £1.4bn Sales = 2.0bn Sales = 1.4bn Sales = £1.2bn
16 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
17 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information 18 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
THE GROUP’S MARKETS
The total UK construction and home improvement materials market is 
worth approximately £70bn. The Group’s addressable market is around 
£37bn, which excludes certain trade and DIY categories and direct from 
manufacturer to end-user supplies, which are not currently served by the 
Group’s businesses.
Many of the Group’s businesses hold market leading 
positions by value of sales, and those that do not are 
generally the number two in their respective market. 
Therefore the Group is well-positioned to benefit from the 
UK’s continuing economic recovery and so further enhance 
shareholder returns.  
 
The Group’s largest nationwide competitors account for less 
than half the turnover in the Group’s addressable markets. 
Independent and regional, largely private companies 
make up the remainder of the market. There are product 
categories with an addressable market of approximately 
£16bn, in which the Group does not currently operate.  
These categories provide potential opportunities for the 
Group to extend its reach. 
 
The UK has a long history of significantly under-investing 
in its housing stock. According to a survey by the Office 
for National Statistics, there are approximately 28 million 
homes in the UK and only 60% of these are maintained 
to a satisfactory standard. A trend towards smaller family 
units results in around 225,000 new households being 
formed each year. The combination of under-investment in 
existing dwellings and new household formation provides a 
reasonable expectation of sustainable medium to long term 
growth in both the new build housing market and the repair, 
maintenance and improvement (“RMI”) of existing 
homes market.
SMALLER FAMILIES DRIVING 
225, 000 NEW HOUSEHOLDS 
PER YEAR
ONL Y 60% MAINTAINED 
TO A SATISFACTORY LEVEL
27.8M HOMES ACROSS 
THE COUNTRY
Total Direct =
£17.1b
Total Retail = £18.1b
Addressable = £7.5b
Total Trade = £35.1b
Addressable = £29.6b
Direct trade
£17.1b
Specialist retail
£11.5b
DIY retail
£6.6b
Specialist trade
£16.8b
Merchants
£12.1b
Other trade / ﬁxed
price / online
£6.1b
Not addressable
Not addressable
Not addressable
Direct from manufacturer
Addressable £14.3b
Addressable £11.9b
Addressable £3.4b
Addressable £4.9b
Not addressable
Addressable £2.6b STRATEGIC REPORT
19 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Housin
Retail
Construction
Site 
visitors
+27 pt
Site 
reservations
+14 pt
Mortae 
approvals
+17%
Housin 
transactions
+ 10%
Housin
prices
+4%
Architect 
workload
(16%)
Construction 
output
+ 3%
Expected 
workload
(16) pt
Trade 
conﬁdence
10 pt
New 
construction 
orders
0%
Retail sales 
rowth
+2.6%
Equity 
withdrawal
+10 pt
Climate for       
purchases
+9 pt
Consumer
conﬁdence
+3 pt
RECENT MARKET TRENDS
The Group’s businesses supply greater volumes of product 
to the more resilient RMI market, albeit with a small, but 
important component of turnover coming from the supply 
of material to the new build market. 
The Group tracks several market indicators from the 
housing, retail and construction sectors in order to 
determine levels of investment and inform the Group’s 
trading stance. Secondary housing transactions and 
consumer confidence remain the key indicators that most 
closely correlate to future performance. Traditionally there 
has been a lag of around six to nine months between a 
change in those key indicators and a corresponding uplift in 
demand volumes. 
There was a significant improvement in the key lead 
indicators the Group monitors as the UK recovery took 
hold in 2013, which moderated throughout 2014 and 2015. 
Whilst it is still relatively early in the recovery of the UK 
construction industry, these key indicators are now at levels 
consistent with those needed to support sustained medium-
term growth in RMI spend, new housing construction and 
new commercial and industrial development. 
The following chart shows some of the key lead indicators 
the Group tracks: 20 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
0
10
(10)
(20)
20
30
40
50
Percentae
2014
Sep
2014
Oct
2014
Nov
2014
Dec
2015
Jan
2015
Feb
2015
Mar
2015
Apr
2015
May
2015
Jun
2015
Jul
2015
Au
2015
Sep
2015
Oct
2015
Nov
2015
Dec
2016
Jan
2016
Feb
2016
Mar
  2016
Apr  
Mortae approvals (laed by 9 months)
Housin transactions (laed by 6 months)
ONS Repair & Maintenance expenditure
Source: HM Revenue & Customs / Bank of England / Oce of National Statistics
The chart below demonstrates the correlation between these indicators. There is an approximate three month lag between 
the approval of a mortgage and subsequent housing transaction. Following the completion of a housing transaction there is a 
further lag of approximately six months to when expenditure on home improvement occurs.
CUSTOMER BEHAVIOUR TRENDS
Following the last three years of economic recovery and a relatively stable economic outlook which have been characterised by 
lower inflation, rising employment, low and steady interest rates and rising real wages, consumer confidence became positive 
on the GFK index for the first time in almost 20 years.
0
10
(10)
(20)
(30)
(40)
(50)
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 20112012 2013 20142015 2016
Index (%)
Index ﬁure
Index annual movin averae
Source: GFK
THE GROUP’S AMBITION
Whilst demand in markets the Group’s businesses operate in is a very important factor in the Group’s continued success, the 
Group’s growth is not constrained by the market. The Group has a relatively low market share, which presents an excellent 
opportunity for the majority of the Group’s businesses to gain market share. These businesses are well positioned to take 
advantage of this opportunity to gain share because of the significant structural advantages the Group enjoys, which include 
the scale of its purchases, its distribution infrastructure and the breadth of its property portfolio, enabling operating businesses 
to access good quality sites quickly and cost effectively. In addition, each operating business is challenged to create superior 
customer propositions through ranging, value for money, convenience and advantaged delivery and service expertise.
RECENT MARKET TRENDS (continued) STRATEGIC REPORT
21 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Based on the Group’s ability to grow sales ahead of the market, its financial ambitions of the Group can be summarised as:
• Outperform the market sales growth in each of its markets
•  Grow operating margins in Plumbing & Heating, Contracts and Consumer and sustain sector leading margins in 
General Merchanting
• Deliver low double digit growth in EBITA per annum
• Increase LAROCE by 200-300 basis points over the medium term
• Deliver strong and consistent growth in shareholder returns
As a result, the Group continues to strive to grow revenue ahead of the market on a sustainable basis.
Market 
fragmentation
l	 Majority of the markets the Group competes in are highly fragmented 
l	 Proliferation of small family-owned businesses 
l	 The Group’s businesses are No. 1 or No. 2 in each of its markets, but with relatively low market shares
1
Structural 
advantages
l	 Sourcing & supply chain: sourcing terms, range, stocking and distribution efficiency 
l	 Branch network: 2,000 locations in UK with strong financial position underpinning tight yields & site access 
l	 IT: selective sharing of software platforms and volume hardware purchasing
2
Superior 
propositions
l	 Range & value: improved promotions & KVI pricing range extension, own label development, availability 
l	 Space: new branch & store opening programme with implants intensifying space 
l	 Channel, format & customer service: investment in online channels, new formats and better service
3
Fragmented markets + structural advantage + superior propostion = sustainable market share gains
2-3%
0-2%
1-2%
1-2%
0
2
4
6
8
Sales rowth p.a. (%)
Market
 volume
Inﬂation
Out-
performance
New
space 22 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
In addition to the levers of value creation noted above, 
the Group has focused its efforts in three key 
areas to improve performance: 
 
1. Modernising the Travis Perkins builders merchant
2. Transforming Wickes
3. Re-segmenting Plumbing & Heating branches to 
 better meet customer needs
LEVERS OF VALUE CREA TION
In order to deliver its ambitions, the Group developed a strategy in 
2013 which was subsequently refined in 2014 and 2015. The chart 
below sets out the levers the Group is using to create value for 
its shareholders.
Customer 
Innovation
• Improved value
• Extended range
• Product development
• Format renewal
• Technology enabled
• Multi-channel
Optimising 
Network
• TP expansion & 
modernisation
• Wickes national footprint
• Plumbing & Heating 
format clarity
• Implants intensify 
returns
• Trade parks
Scale  
Advantage
• Supply chain investment
• Leverage property 
capability
• Group sourcing benefits
• Shared technology 
investment
Portfolio 
Management
• Streamlined central 
functions
• Devolved management 
responsibility
• Disciplined planning & 
capital allocation
• Regular market updates
Enabled through people & evolution of unique culture Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
23 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Ian Sharkey – Travis Perkins, Warrington 24 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
John Fergson – Travis Perkins, Shrewsbury Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
Expand 
the
network
Managed 
services
development
Toolhire
expansion
Category 
management
and pricing
Sales and Proﬁt Drivers
Modernising
formats
Enhanced
CRM
Multi-channel
development
Enhanced 
IT
capability
Invest 
in safety 
and develop 
our people
Regional
distribution
Enablers
Measure Current Medium-term 
ambition
Network expansion 656 TP 
157 Bmx
5-15 TP p.a. 
20-30 Bmx p.a.
Like-for-like sales 
outperformance
3-5% 1-4% p.a.
Operating margin 
improvement prospects
Sector leading Sustain
Capital expenditure £50-60m £40-60m p.a.
LAROCE 16% Add 200-300bps
There is significant scope for network expansion and 
relocation. Travis Perkins is targeting 5-15 net new branches 
per annum and plans to increase the number of tool-hire 
equipment implants within existing branches. In addition 
Benchmarx, is targeting to open a total of 30 new branches 
per annum, which will be a mix of new standalone branches 
and implants within existing Travis Perkins sites.
The modernisation programme for the Travis Perkins 
business is underway with a focus on improving range, 
better use of space and ensuring that the value proposition 
remains competitive. This programme coupled with the 
development of sales to local authorities through the 
managed services business, expanding the tool-hire 
category and improving Travis Perkins’ multi-channel 
proposition, offers significant opportunities for growth.
The Group is confident that Travis Perkins can extend its 
market leading position and further drive improvements 
to the customer proposition, which over the long term 
will improve returns for shareholders. The targets for 
improvement are set out on the right:
25 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
INNOVATION IN CUSTOMER PROPOSITIONS AND OPTIMISING  
THE BRANCH NETWORK
Travis Perkins is, and for the foreseeable future will continue 
to be, the Group’s core business. It is the Group’s largest 
business by sales, profitability and one of the highest 
returning businesses operated within the Group. 
The business benefits from national coverage with over 650 
branches, an efficient lightside central distribution network, 
an expanding heavyside network, access to a product range 
few competitors can match, a modern vehicle delivery 
fleet and branch managers who have built an unparalleled 
relationship with customers. Branch manager incentives, 
which are based on return on capital performance, set 
the business apart from its competitors, and are a key 
component of Travis Perkins’ market outperformance.
The following chart sets out the key components of the plan 
to improve Travis Perkins, combining both sales and profit 
drivers and investments in enabling infrastructure.
GENERAL MERCHANTING DIVISION 26 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
Pete Groucott – City Plumbing Supplies, Shrewsbury Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
1.  Providing local plumbers, 
heating engineers and bathroom 
installers with a dedicated 
network of over 350 branches 
through the City Plumbing 
Suppliers business.  
The majority of branches contain a bathroom  
showroom showcasing the best branded and  
own label ranges, operated by a design consultant,  
helping local tradesmen deliver a complete offer to  
their customers faster and more efficiently.
  In addition, City Heating Spares concessions within  
City Plumbing branches enable an extension to the  
range of spares available to customers at short notice.  
City Plumbing offers a range of renewable heating  
products and intends to extend this range further in 
the future.
2.  Providing large, value and 
service focused contract 
customers with a dedicated 
nationwide network of over  
90 branches through PTS. 
With fewer larger branches, PTS is able to offer 
broader ranges of products in quantities designed to 
complete large contracts for same or next day delivery. 
Further improvements are planned to PTS’ account 
management capability to provide transparency of 
products ordered, despatched and awaiting delivery 
and improved billing services.
3.  Building scale in the P&H 
division’s focused customer 
proposition through:
Graphically 
represented 
overleaf
27 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
The strategy for the Plumbing & Heating division has three  
key elements: 
• F & P, Primaflow & Connections – expanding the range  
 of products offered through the reconfigured distribution  
 infrastructure to local independent merchants
• PlumbNation online – providing local heating engineers  
 with a fixed price, online ordered only boiler and spares  
 delivery service 
• Solfex – providing solar, thermal, photo-voltaic and  
 under-floor heating packages to specialist installers
• Underfloor Heating Store – providing both trade and  
 retail customers with an extensive range of water and  
 electricity based under-floor heating systems
PLUMBING & HEATING DIVISION 28 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
PTS /
City Plumbing
reconﬁguration
Develop
contract
business
Leverage high
ROCE
F & P model
Roll-out 
of bathroom 
showroom 
and spares
Sales and Proﬁt Drivers
More standalone
City Plumbing
branches
Supply
chain
e ciencies
Tailored
multi-channel
capability
Stay
safe
Excellent
IT
Talent to lead
UK’s No. 1
P&H business
Enablers STRATEGIC REPORT
29 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Measure Current Medium-term 
ambition
Network expansion 463 
branches
5-10 net new 
branches p.a.
Like-for-like sales 
outperformance
Flat 0-3% p.a.
Operating margin 
improvement prospects
3.3% Good
Capital expenditure £15-20m £10-20m p.a.
LAROCE 6% Add >250bps
To achieve its ambitions the Plumbing & Heating Division 
has undergone a significant change programme in 2014 and 
2015 to ensure that business models, branches and customer 
service teams are matched to customer needs. This change 
programme, “Building the Best”, involved the conversion of 
more than 160 PTS branches to the City Plumbing format, 
the closure of more than 60 branches and training of 
almost 1,000 colleagues. This programme commenced in 
mid-2014 and completed in February 2016. 
 
The Division intends to further extend the penetration of its 
own label range and enhance its online routes to market to 
ensure it meets its customers’ changing needs.
The targets for the Division are shown in the following table 
alongside how the Plumbing & Heating Division intends to 
outperform other operators in its markets.
Simona Platekova - Travis Perkins plc, Warrington  30 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
Mark Jackson and Grahame Williams – Keyline, Lincoln Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
Measure Current Medium-term 
ambition
Network expansion 181 branches 1-2% net space 
growth p.a.
Like-for-like sales 
outperformance
3-5% 1-3% p.a.
Operating margin 
improvement prospects
6.9% Good
Capital expenditure £30-40m £20-30m p.a.
LAROCE 14% Add 200-300bps
BSS is further developing its industrial product offer and 
improving its logistics efficiency in order to offer continuous 
improvements in range, service and technical support to 
its customers.
In CCF , the strategy is focused on providing national coverage 
through its branch network, expanding the range of products 
offered to customers not previously served by the Group 
and developing a significant presence in commercial interior 
partitions through its Sektor brand.
Keyline has a strong nationwide network supplying civils, 
drainage and heavyside building materials. Keyline is 
reconfiguring its estate to operate from lower cost sites, 
with excellent access to the road network, given the high 
proportion of its customers demanding delivery of products.
As with the other divisions, the Group has clear performance 
targets for the division including increasing the level of capital 
investment with the ambition of outperforming market peers.
31 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
The Contracts Division was formed on 1 January 2014, bringing 
together the three businesses within the Group that supply 
products to large construction companies, their contractors and 
sub-contractors. These businesses all track major commercial 
and infrastructure projects and by bringing them together into 
one division, it is enabling the Group to offer a comprehensive 
range of products to customers, and assist them with technical 
issues in design, specification and installation. 
The key components of the strategy for the division are set 
out below.
Growth
in
insulation
Develop BSS
industrial oer
Category
expansion
Deepen 
sector and 
category
specialism
Sales and Proﬁt Drivers
Major
presence in
partitions
Contract pricing
and project
management
Branch
network
optimisation
Excellent
IT
Market-leading
customer
service
Multi-channel
capability
Enablers
Whole Contracts
Division
Emma Walmsley – BSS, Leeds
CONTRACTS DIVISION 32 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
The Consumer division’s three businesses, Wickes, Toolstation and 
Tile Giant have distinct strategies. The strategies for Wickes and 
Toolstation are set out on the right and page 35 respectively. 
Darren Hawksworth - Wickes, Rugby STRATEGIC REPORT
VALUE FOR MONEY VALUE FOR MONEY WE ALWAYS DELIVER WE ALWAYS DELIVER QUICK, SIMPLE & EASY QUICK, SIMPLE & EASY
• Build on multi-channel stren€ths
• National estate covera€e
• Improve in-store infrastructure
   & experience
• Become a €reat place to work,
   always
• Develop a diverse workforce to
   match our customer base
• Refocus product oŠerin€ based on
   clear customer needs
• Maintain structural price 
   advanta€e with authority
• Extend to broader
   customer base
• Levera€e €roup scale in 
   buyin€ & distribution
• Leaner service model 
• Enable €reater e‹ciency 
   throu€h IT
A WICKES PROJECT IN EVERY HOME!
Wickes offers a focused range of high quality products at 
great value combined with best in class availability. Range 
reviews have been conducted throughout the year to provide 
the right mix of products for customers. The business 
continues to expand its appeal to a broader customer base, 
whilst remaining a great value, reliable and convenient place 
to shop for a loyal base of trade and expert DIY consumers. 
The Wickes business is structurally advantaged over its 
competitors. The majority of stores operate from 25,000 – 
30,000 ft
2
 and there are no plans to significantly modify the 
average store size. There are over 60 potential new locations 
in the UK where the Wickes model has already proved that 
the business would be able to gain a profitable share of the 
market. The focused Wickes in-store range and excellent 
availability enable customers to shop for a DIY project 
confident that they will be able to find all the materials they 
need to complete the project. Wickes investment in its multi-
channel capability means customers can access an extended 
range of products which can be delivered to their home or 
business and collected in-store.
With a focused range and access to buying scale through 
the Travis Perkins Group, Wickes is able to offer DIY sector 
leading prices and intends to maintain this advantage.
Wickes plans to continue to expand its network by between 
10 and 15 new stores per year and continue to grow sales and 
gain market share over the medium term.
The strategy is to transform Wickes into the UK’s strongest 
serious DIY retailer with the ambition of having a Wickes 
project in every home. This will be achieved by leveraging 
Wickes’ advantaged position in the market and building on:
• Wickes’ small store footprint
• Modest range extensions to the focussed in-store range
• Reinforcing Wickes value price position
•  Investing in further improvements in the online proposition
• Selectively opening new stores in underserved catchments
The Wickes plan is graphically represented below:
33 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
CONSUMER DIVISION 34 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
Ben Farler - Toolstation Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
35 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Toolstation operates from over 200 stores across the UK offering the 
same range in-store, online and through its catalogue. It aims to provide 
the lowest price lightside building materials to tradesmen and serious 
DIY customers and to always be in stock in the project quantities its 
customers require. If for any reason products are not available it offers 
next day delivery of those products free of charge.
Toolstation plans to continue to open new shops across the 
UK to meet growing demand from tradesmen for transparent, 
fixed price products. Further investments are planned to 
improve customers’ online experience, provide enhanced click 
and collect services and modestly extend the range offered 
to customers.
The performance targets for the Consumer Division are set 
out on the right:
Measure Current Medium-term 
ambition
Network expansion 236 Wickes 
111 TileGiant 
224 Toolstation
10-15 Wickes p.a. 
30+ Toolstation 
p.a.
Like-for-like sales 
outperformance
Above market Above market
Operating margin 
improvement prospects
6.8% Good
Capital expenditure £40-50m £40-50m p.a.
LAROCE 7.4% Add 150-250bps
Emma Thomas - Toolstation, Longwell Green branch One of the key value creation levers is using the Group’s 
scale to move products more efficiently through its supply 
chain, leverage its property portfolio, buy better and 
selectively share technology.
The Group’s supply chain ambition is to provide branches 
and customers with easy access to the broadest range of 
products, reliably, efficiently, safely and delivered on time 
through a number of programmes of work:
•  Simplified ordering for branches with improved range  
management tools and automated stock 
replenishment systems
•  Providing better availability through an increased range  
of lightside and heavyside distribution centres, stocking a  
broader range of products
•  Vehicle route planning reducing the cost of, and enhancing,  
the local delivery proposition
36 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
• Full multi-channel proposition
for transaction and fulﬁlment
• Deliver on-time in-full 
every time
• Make proﬁtable customer 
promises
• Oer market-leadin customer 
propositions
• Hold an extended rane of 
products closer to the customer
• Optimise rane architecture 
includin increased own-label
• Improve product availability, 
in-branch and next-day
• Auto replenishment improves 
in-branch availability and 
reduces stockholdin
• A sinle view of stock for 
colleaues and customers
• Access to broader rane 
with faster availability
• Invest in centralised 
distribution infrastructure
• Drive e�ciency by exploitin 
scale and improvin systems
Customer fulﬁlment
Availability & visibility
Infrastructure & eciency
Customer proposition
Stayin safe, all 
the time, at every
location
The Group’s scale enables improved efficiency and the 
ability to offer a stronger proposition. Customers increasingly 
want certainty of product availability and access to broader 
product ranges.
The Group’s strategy of Easy Supply of Product (ESP) offers 
continuous access for customers to more products quickly,  
reliably and efficiently. The strategy will deliver a sustainable  
structural advantage in the form of: 
 
•  Next day availability on 24,000 lightside 
products - nationwide
• Next day availability on 3,000 heavyside – to 90% of the UK
•  Next week availability on a further 3,000 heavyside  
products - to 90% of the UK
• Lower in-branch stock holding
• Reduced inter-branch transfers
• Fewer empty trucks, travelling fewer miles, more frequently
The strength of the Group’s balance sheet enables businesses 
within the Group to occupy properties they would otherwise 
find it difficult to access. Furthermore, by developing 
multi-fascia sites, the Group is able to provide opportunities 
for the Group’s smaller operating businesses to co-locate 
with the Group’s larger businesses and benefit from greater 
foot traffic.
The Group is also focused on using its buying scale to source 
products directly from manufacturers at lower cost and to 
create more commonality in product ranges such that it can 
consolidate volumes so reducing unit costs still further.
For many years, the Group has benefited from efficient, 
low-cost IT systems. These systems are approaching the end 
of their useful lives and, therefore, a clear four point strategy 
has been developed to ensure better IT systems capacity and 
flexibility in the future:
•  Delivering a common, shared trading platform across the  
Group’s merchanting businesses
•  Delivering an appropriate multi-channel presence for each  
brand making it easier for customers to order, buy and  
receive products
•  Simplifying back office systems to enable decoupling of  
businesses, enhancing efficiency and cost accountability
•  Increasing system usability and the experience for  
colleagues and customers so that it is easier to do business  
with the Group
EXPLOITING THE GROUP’S SCALE ADVANT AGE Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
ENHANCE THE MANAGEMENT OF THE PORTFOLIO
The Group has a robust planning approach enabling it to 
allocate capital to the opportunities which are expected to 
deliver the most material value for shareholders. Aligned with 
this approach to managing capital allocation is a selection of 
key metrics upon which the Group is managed. In particular 
lease-adjusted return on capital employed is an important 
measure of success as the Board believes it best aligns 
investment decisions with the ultimate goal of shareholders; 
their return on equity. 
In order to improve lease adjusted return on capital, 
management responsibility for both earnings and capital 
employed is devolved down through the business. This 
greater accountability and autonomy is managed and 
monitored through strong governance processes. As 
management in each of the businesses are taking more 
control for managing returns, central functions are being 
streamlined to ensure all teams are closer to the businesses 
they support and ultimately customers. This approach to 
capital allocation is creating more competition for capital with 
management allocating capital to those investments with 
demonstrably the highest returns. 
The Group is taking advantage of investment opportunities 
through increasing its capital expenditure and, consistent with 
its strategy to strengthen the balance sheet, by also investing 
in freehold property. Capital expenditure is tiered based upon 
the risk and return profiles of the investment opportunities 
identified under four broad categories:
1.  Extending the Group’s leadership: investment in proven  
businesses and opportunities delivering attractive returns
2.  Investing to grow: investment in customer propositions  
to adapt to changing customer needs and strengthen the  
Group’s market leading positions
3.  Infrastructure investment: investment to enable future  
outperformance including IT and supply chain infrastructure
4.  Divest: where there are better uses for capital either to  
grow the business or where it is sensible for it to be  
returned to shareholders
In addition the Group is better utilising the property portfolio 
through more active asset management as outlined below.
37 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
• A ccess strateic requirements for hold / sell
• Release capital throuh sale or 
sale & leaseback
• Reinvest capital back into the business
• S uccessful property process requires 
stron underlyin businesses
• Business requirements always 
come ﬁrst
• Identify optimal locations usin 
data / local expertise
• Assess Group site usae or acquisitions 
needed
• Secure sites throuh freehold / leasehold
• Enhance existin site usae throuh 
implants / trade parks
• Develop freehold sites (plannin, 
DA, construction)
Recycle / reinvest
Acquire / select
Develop / transform
Successful business
Sophie Haynes – Wickes, Rugby 38 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
The Group is committed to achieving growth through organic expansion, but that does not preclude taking advantage of 
suitable opportunities that arise to support growth through small bolt on acquisitions. During 2014 and 2015 the Group 
has completed a number of these smaller strategic acquisitions and investments including Rudridge, Primaflow, Staircraft, 
Bathrooms.com and the Underfloor Heating Store.
COMPARING PERFORMANCE WITH STRATEGY
The Group’s ambition is to deliver long term, sustainable value to shareholders. There are a series of financial and non-financial 
measures which the Group tracks to monitor performance. Operationally, success is measured through a comprehensive set of 
key performance indicators. All of these indicators are aligned to achieving the Group’s strategic ambition. The Group’s actual 
performance for 2015 is shown in the performance review section on pages 42 to 56. Executive Director remuneration is linked 
to strategy and performance, which is explained further in the Director’s remuneration report on pages 110 to 135. 
 
Risks
The Statement of Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 65 to 69 sets out the key risk factors that are considered by the 
Directors to be material to the business and may impact upon the successful delivery of this strategy. 
GROWTH THROUGH ACQUISITION
• Strateic investments to protect supply chain
• Share in cateories which bypass distribution
• Not a focus
Georaphy
•  Taretin under-served catchments
 with existin business models
• International only in exceptional
 circumstances
On-line
• Accelerate expansion into new   
   channels for key product areas
• Buy or Build trade-o� where
   valuations prohibitive
Installation
Manufacturin
Product
anufacturin
nstallation
Product
New cateories
• A ccess specialist markets & 
 a djacent cateories
• F ocus on product areas attractive
 to existin customers
• Buy or Build trade-o� where valuations  
 prohibitive or lack of tarets
• Demonstrable IP / innovation key
 taret areas
Channel Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
39 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Kevin Johnston – Primaflow, Lancashire Introduction
In December 2013 we set out a new 
strategy, which included a wide-ranging 
investment programme designed to 
deliver better customer propositions in 
each of our businesses building upon the 
scale advantages we had developed over 
the previous decade. This programme 
commenced in 2014 and accelerated 
throughout 2015. We invested close 
to £300 million in capital expenditure 
during the year, the highest amount we 
have committed during my privileged 
37 years with the Group, demonstrating 
our ambition and confidence in driving 
sustainable growth for our shareholders 
over the long term. 
Investments have been made in 
extending our reach and increasing 
convenience for our customers by 
opening more than 120 new branches, 
stores and implants throughout the UK. 
We have continued both to improve 
the branch and store experience for 
customers in many of our businesses 
with new formats and we have improved 
and extended our online presence. 
We further invested our sector leading 
supply chain capabilities with the 
completion of a heavyside range 
centre in Tilbury and the full operation 
of our Omega lightside distribution 
centre in Warrington. Improving our IT 
infrastructure to ensure we remain at the 
forefront of meeting customer demands 
remains a significant focus. 
 
To this end we invested further capital 
of £28 million in new technology and 
initiatives, although much remains to be 
done in the years ahead.
This scale of change and investment 
undoubtedly required enhancements to 
our business unit management teams 
supported by improvements in our 
planning and capital allocation approach. 
Of our 20 colleagues in the most senior 
management positions, 12 are new to 
the Group or the position in the last 30 
months. These changes have ensured 
we continue to have, what I believe to be, 
the strongest management team in 
our industry. 
 
Our Markets
The majority of our businesses 
distribute building materials to repair, 
maintain and improve existing homes 
and commercial, industrial and public 
buildings. Our markets are connected to 
the level of secondary market housing 
transactions, to consumer confidence 
and to the property investment cycle 
more generally.
CEO’S 
STATEMENT
My colleagues 
around the Group 
are undoubtedly the 
backbone of our 
organisation and 
do a tremendous 
job every day by 
serving thousands of 
customers, moving 
millions of tonnes 
of products around 
the country and 
ensuring that the 
right products are 
available, at the 
right time and at a 
competitive price.
40 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
41 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
In 2012 the Financial Conduct Authority completed a 
comprehensive review of the mortgage market, the Mortgage 
Market Review (MMR). Significant legislative changes were 
implemented in April 2014 to strengthen the mortgage 
market, principally relating to how lenders assess the credit 
worthiness of borrowers. This had a short-term impact on 
the level of mortgage approvals, which lead to a reduction in 
the number of secondary market housing transactions in late 
2014 and early 2015. As a result of this change, uncertainty at 
the time of the election and what we believe were temporary 
changes in the nature of consumer spending in the late 
summer and end of 2015, there was significantly more 
volatility in our markets in 2015, including weaker demand in 
the second half of the year.
Despite predicting a more challenging year compared to 
2014, the markets our businesses compete in were tougher 
than we expected. That said, we performed well against this 
more difficult backdrop and outperformed in the majority of 
the markets our businesses compete in.
Our Performance
Against this more challenging market backdrop, I am very 
pleased with the overall performance of our businesses. 
There will inevitably be ups and downs for each of our 
businesses as we continue with our active investment 
programme to improve their customer propositions. Wickes, 
Benchmarx, CCF , Keyline and Toolstation in particular have 
performed well during the year with strong market share 
gains and good growth in operating profits.
We continued with the significant undertaking to modernise 
our core Travis Perkins business. This is a broad programme 
that impacts all of the colleagues, customers and branches in 
the business. This year we implemented electronic proof of 
delivery to capture information in a more effective manner for 
both our business and our customers. We have also extended 
the trials of new format branches which provide an overall 
better experience to our customers and commenced work to 
provide our teams with better guidance to help our customers 
derive better value from the products they buy from us.
Our Wickes transformation plan progressed at pace 
throughout the year. The team refurbished seven stores into 
our new format and opened nine new or relocated stores. 
Our price investment programme continued and we made 
substantial changes to our product ranges, including in our 
‘to order’ kitchen offer. We substantially improved our online 
experience for customers by introducing a one hour ‘click and 
collect’ service. I am most pleased, however, in the quality of 
the senior team we have assembled to develop and lead the 
transformation programme and the loyalty our store teams 
have afforded us through difficult times in recent years. 
Together we look forward to further transforming 
our business.
Our Plumbing & Heating Division substantially completed 
the re-segmentation programme we began in 2014. This 
programme has been the largest of its type in the sector and 
I am delighted with the progress that has been made, coming 
in ahead of time and within the budget set. This programme 
was designed to ensure we had the right proposition available 
to very different customers groups served by PTS and 
City Plumbing. Over 18 months the team converted more 
than 160 branches, closed 60 branches and trained almost 
1,000 former PTS colleagues in the City Plumbing business 
model. There remains much work still to do, but we are now 
operating businesses which are much more closely aligned 
to the needs of their respective customers, providing us with 
stronger platforms for growth.
Our People
My colleagues around the Group are undoubtedly the 
backbone of our organisation and do a tremendous job every 
day by serving thousands of customers, moving millions of 
tonnes of products around the country and ensuring that 
the right products are available, at the right time and at a 
competitive price. They manage to perform this service all in 
keeping with the cornerstones of how we do business and I’d 
like to thank each and every one of them. You will read in this 
report about the continuous improvements we have made in 
making our Group of businesses a more attractive place to 
work for a more diverse pool of colleagues than we had in 
the past. 
During 2015 we extended the use of social media technology 
throughout our businesses, allowing colleagues across the 
country to collaborate on customer facing themes and solve 
problems in a more productive and efficient manner. We also 
made further progress in creating a more diverse colleague 
group that is becoming more fit-for-purpose when serving 
a modern and multi-cultural UK customer base. We now 
have more women in senior positions in the Group than 
ever before and saw our first graduates from the ‘Fast Track’ 
programme we developed in 2014. We still have much work 
to do in this area, but I am pleased that the foundations we 
have put in place over the last two years will continue to 
deliver meaningful improvements for our colleagues and the 
customers they serve.
The Years Ahead
We have made some significant progress over the last two 
years, but much of the plan we initially set out remains to 
be completed during the next three years. Despite recent 
volatility in financial and energy markets, the UK continues to 
present an attractive opportunity for further investment in the 
building materials distribution sectors in which we compete.
 
John Carter
Chief Executive
18 March 2016 42 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
Adjusted earnings per share* 124.1 (Note 11b)
Lease adjusted return on capital employed* 10.5% 
(Note 37) 
OPERATING 
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
FINANCIAL 
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Key Performance Indicators (‘KPIs’)
The Group tracks its performance using two operating KPIs, three financial KPIs and four funding targets that the Board believes are 
key indicators of its progress against its strategic and financial targets. In addition the Group has a number of guidance measures at 
a group, divisional and business level, details of which are set out in this section and in the finance review on pages 56 to 63.
KPIs marked * are measurements used in determining elements of directors’ remuneration, details of which are set out on pages 110 to 125.
Definition
Revenue growth adjusted for new 
branches, branch closures and 
trading day differences. Revenue 
included in like-for-like is for the 
equivalent periods in both years 
under comparison. Branches are 
included in like-for-like sales once 
they have traded for more than 
12 months. When branches close, 
revenue is excluded from the 
prior year figures for the number 
of months equivalent to the post 
closure period in the current year.
Reason
Calculating like-for-like sales 
enables management to monitor the 
performance trend of the underlying 
business year-on-year. It also gives 
management a good indication of 
the health of the business compared 
to competitors. 
Definition
Profit before tax, financing charges 
and income, amortisation and 
exceptional items.
Reason
This is the profit earned from the 
Group’s trading activities.
Definition
Adjusted operating profit after 
adding back 50% of annual 
property lease rentals, divided by 
the combined value of balance 
sheet debt, equity and eight times 
annual property rental expense. 
Reason
This ratio allows management to 
measure how effectively capital is 
used in the business to generate 
returns for shareholders. It takes 
into account both balance sheet 
debt and off-balance sheet long 
term obligations, being principally 
property leases.
Definition
Profit after tax, adjusted to exclude 
the effects of amortisation and 
exceptional items, divided by the 
weighted average number of shares 
in issue during the period.
Reason
Adjusted earnings per share is an 
indicator of the Group’s underlying 
profitability , which is important 
in understanding the earnings 
attributable to each shareholder and 
determining the earnings available  
for distribution via the dividend.
Like-for-like sales growth 3.8% (Note 4)
Adjusted operating profit £413m (Note 5a)
2012
-1.4
5.0
3.8
7.3
2014 2015 2013 2012
9.8 10.0
10.5 10.4
2014 2015 2013
2012
326
348
413
384
2014 2015 2013 2012
90.6
103.6
124.1
119.0
2014 2015 2013
Performance Trend
Performance Trend
Performance Trend
Performance Trend
PERFORMANCE REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
43 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Free cash flow £317m (Note 35)
Definition 
Net cash flow before dividends, 
growth capital expenditure, pension 
deficit repair contributions and 
financing cash flows.
Reason
The Group needs to generate 
strong free cash flows to enable it 
to invest and expand its operations, 
settle financing charges from 
debt providers, pay dividends to 
shareholders and access the best 
property locations.
Definition
The ratio of adjusted earnings per 
share to dividends per share.
Reason
Dividends are the primary 
method for returning capital to 
shareholders. The Board aims to 
balance retaining profits in the 
business for future investment with 
giving shareholders an acceptable 
return on their investment. The 
Group’s target range for its dividend 
cover ratio is 2.5x to 3.25x.
Definition
The ratio of earnings after adding 
back property lease rentals, but 
before interest, tax, depreciation, 
amortisation and exceptional items, 
to finance charges plus property 
lease rentals.
Reason
Fixed charge cover is used by 
management, lenders and debt 
rating agencies when determining 
the ability of the Group to pay fixed 
financing charges. The Group is 
targeting a ratio of 3.5x.
FUNDING TARGETS
Dividend cover 2.8 times (Note 12) Fixed charge cover 3.3 times (Note 36)
Leverage ratio 2.8 times (Note 36)
Definition
The ratio of lease adjusted net debt 
to earnings before tax, interest, 
depreciation, amortisation property 
lease rentals and exceptional items.
Reason
The leverage ratio is an indicator  
for management, and lenders, of 
the Group’s ability to support its 
debt. The Group has a target of 
below 2.5x.
Net debt £447m (Note 33)
Definition
The amounts owed to lenders of 
finance less cash held by the Group.
Reason
The value of debt in the balance 
sheet is an indication of financial 
efficiency. In general, the return 
paid to lenders is below the return 
demanded by equity investors.  
The Group has not set a debt target.
2012
242 240
317
255
2014 2015 2013
2012
3.6x
3.3x
2.8x
3.1x
2014 2015 2013
2012
3.3x
3.0x
2.8x 2.8x
2014 2015 2013
2012
452
344
447
358
2014 2015 2013
2012
2.8x
2.9x
3.3x 3.2x
2014 2015 2013
Performance Trend
Performance Trend
Performance Trend
Performance Trend
Performance Trend
FINANCIAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (continued) During 2015 the Group made good progress in executing the plan set 
out in December 2013. Improvements continue to be made in each of 
the four areas of value creation: customer innovation; optimising the 
network; building and maintaining structural advantage; and 
portfolio management.
Innovation in Customer Propositions
•  Wickes continued to offer better value to customers 
through price investments and focused promotional offers.
•  Improvements in pricing, and pricing guidance to 
branches, were trialled in Travis Perkins during the year 
and will be extended further in 2016.
•  Significant range reviews were completed in Wickes in 
2015 providing customers with more clearly defined 
value, good quality and premium ranges. 
•  Further investment in the distribution network enabled 
Travis Perkins to extended ranges of up to 16,000 
products for delivery within 72 hours.
•  The online propositions of both Wickes and Toolstation 
were enhanced, with both now offering a one-hour click 
and collect service.
•  Investment continued in new formats for both Travis 
Perkins and Wickes, with further roll out in the bathroom 
showroom concessions in City Plumbing. Investments 
in new store formats are demonstrating returns above 
the Group’s internal threshold and customer feedback 
continues to be positive. 
Optimising the Group’s Network
•  In line with the Group strategy, 53 net new branches,  
stores and implants were added to the network in 2015,  
with openings and acquisitions adding 2.8% to revenue  
growth in the year (2014: 1.1%). Network expansion was 
focused on businesses that have good long term growth 
characteristics, are growing strongly and providing 
improving returns; Toolstation (40), Benchmarx (38) and 
CCF (8). New format branches were also opened in Travis 
Perkins, Keyline and Wickes. 
•  The programme to co-locate businesses continued with  
eleven trade parks now open across the UK, and further  
Benchmarx implants, Tool Hire and Managed Services 
concessions opened within Travis Perkins branches, 
increasing sales densities from additional footfall. 
•  The re-segmentation programme in the Plumbing &  
Heating division was substantially completed in 2015,  
six months ahead of schedule. 114 PTS branches were  
converted to City Plumbing, with a further 46 branches  
closed which do not meet the Group’s requirements.  
The PTS and City Plumbing networks are now in position 
to operate without further disruption in 2016.
•  Five PTS distribution centres were consolidated 
into the lightside distribution facilities in Warrington 
and Northampton.
Leveraging the Group’s Structural Advantage
•  Investments in the supply chain network have further  
improved the Group’s competitive advantage resulting in a  
broader range of products able to be supplied to  
customers more quickly. 
•  The third heavyside range centre opened in Tilbury in July  
to serve Travis Perkins branches in London and the South  
East, providing customers with an extended range of  
3,000 heavyside products available next-day, with a  
further 3,000 available within two days. 
•  The three range centres in Warrington, Cardiff and Tilbury  
now support around two thirds of Travis Perkins branches.  
Heavyside product specialists in the range centres are  
able to provide knowledge and advice to customers and  
colleagues in all branches within their catchment.
•  The Group continued to focus on sourcing improvements, 
with further increases in direct purchasing through the 
Group’s Asian sourcing team.
•  Investment in technology improvement programmes  
also continued, including better network connectivity,  
supply chain systems improvements and  
multichannel applications. 
44 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
MANAGING THE PORTFOLIO
•  The Group continues to focus on return on capital as a  
critical measure of performance, ensuring that capital is  
employed across the business in the most effective and  
efficient manner. 
•  Deployment of new capital was focused on those  
businesses with significant opportunities to grow and  
improve returns, such as Travis Perkins, Wickes, CCF,  
Toolstation and Benchmarx. 
•  In businesses with fewer opportunities for growth,  
capital continued to be re-allocated, for example the 
re-segmentation of the Plumbing & Heating division.
•  The property portfolio is managed to provide the best 
operating locations for each business while maximising 
the returns from each site. The Group invested £104m in 
freehold property to benefit from flexibility of site use, ensure 
control of strategically important sites and add value to the 
property asset through development. A sale and lease back 
deal was completed in November, recycling capital from 19 
non-strategic sites, realising disposal proceeds of £33m and 
releasing cash for investment elsewhere.
•  During 2015 further decision making control was devolved 
to the businesses. Travis Perkins and the Plumbing & 
Heating division took additional responsibilities for supply 
chain and commercial negotiations and property and 
finance teams during the year. This is enabling businesses 
to develop more robust plans and execute them at pace.
45 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Richard Wallace – CCF, Leeds 46 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
Following a strong recovery in the first half of 2014, the 
number of mortgage approvals dipped in the third quarter 
of 2014 following the Mortgage Market Review (MMR) 
leading to a reduction in the number of secondary housing 
transactions in the first half of 2015. The RMI market 
traditionally lags transactions by six to nine months which 
translated to weaker building material supply volumes in the 
second half. 
Mortgage approval rates have since recovered to above the 
pre-MMR level, in turn driving more housing transactions. 
Although recovery of the RMI market has been slightly later 
than expected these lead indicators give confidence that 
there will be further growth in the RMI market during 2016, 
evidenced by encouraging sales in January and February.
GUIDANCE
Guidance for 2016:
•  There is expected to be no discernable inflation in the 
Group’s markets in 2016.
•  Market volume growth is expected to be around 2 to 3%. 
The Group expects to outperform the markets by around 
1 ppt and add around 2 ppts of new space, resulting in 
headline sales growth for 2016 of 5 to 6%. 
•  The Group’s medium term EBITA growth ambition 
remains consistent at around 10%. 
• Property profits are expected to be around £20m.
•  Capital expenditure, excluding investment in freehold 
property, is expected to be £170m - £190m in 2016 
(2015: £189m). 
•  Investment in freehold property will continue in 2016, 
though at a reduced level, the timing and number of which 
will be dependent on market opportunities. 
• The Group expects an effective tax rate of around 20%.
•  Dividend cover will continue in the targeted medium-term 
cover range of 2.5x to 3.25x.
UK population growth trends, immigration and smaller family units 
continue to create demand for housing, with the formation of around 
225,000 new households per year. In 2015, around 160,000 new 
homes were built. This shortfall in supply, combined with historic under-
investment in the existing 28 million dwellings in the UK means the 
Group expects continued growth in both new house building and, 
importantly, in the repair, maintenance and improvement (RMI) market. 
MARKET DRIVERS
Jack Pickles- BSS, Leeds Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
47 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
£m 2015 2014 Change
Revenue 5,942 5,581 6.5%
Like-for-like revenue 3.8% 7.3%
Operating profit 254 343 (25.9)%
Property profits 24 26 (7.7)%
Operating profit excluding property profits 230 317 (27.4)%
Profit before tax 224 321 (30.2)%
Profit after taxation 168 259 (35.1)%
Basic earnings per share (pence) 67.8p 105.9p (36.0)%
Income Statement
The key income statement metrics, stated after the exclusion of £141m (2014: £nil) of impairment charges, £18m (2014: £18m) 
of amortisation, £9m (2014: £nil) of exceptional tax credits and for 2014 £23m of exceptional costs and £5m of tax credits are 
included in the table below:
Throughout this annual report, consistent with the approach in prior years, the term “adjusted” has been used to signify that the 
effects of exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets have been excluded from the disclosures being made.
£m 2015 2014 Change
Adjusted operating profit 413 384 7.6%
Adjusted operating profit excluding property profits 389 358 8.7%
Adjusted profit before taxation 382 362 5.5%
Adjusted profit after taxation
 
307 291 5.5%
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 124.1 119.0 4.3%
Dividend per share 44.0p 38.0p 15.8%
Lease adjusted ROCE 10.5% 10.4% 0.1ppts
Free cash flow 317 255 24.3%
Group revenue increased by £361m, or 6.5%, to £5,942m. Like-for-like sales grew by 3.8% with additional growth through the 
opening of new branches and the inclusion of Primaflow and Rudridge into the Group’s results. There was no change in the 
number of trading days in 2015 when compared with the prior year. 
Adjusted operating profits increased by 7.6% to £413m. Excluding property profits, adjusted operating profit increased by 8.7%. 
At a divisional level, adjusted operating profits grew in General Merchanting, Contracts and Consumer, partially offset by a 
decline in Plumbing & Heating.
Adjusted earnings per share (EPS) increased by 5.1 pence to 124.1 pence. This 4.3% improvement was driven by a 5.5% 
increase in adjusted profit after tax, partly diluted by an increase in the weighted average number of shares in issue due to the 
exercise of share options and other share related incentives. 
The proposed dividend for the year is 44 pence (2014: 38 pence), a 16% increase, and reflects the Board’s confidence in the 
future growth prospects and cash generating ability of the Group. Dividend cover reduces to 2.8 times (2014: 3.1 times), 
and is just below the mid-point of the Group’s target cover range of between 2.5x and 3.25x.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 48 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
Revenue
Total group revenue increased by 6.5%, with growth of 3.8% on a like-for-like basis.
Like-for-Like Revenue Growth General 
Merchanting
Plumbing & 
Heating
Contracts Consumer Group
% % % % %
Quarter one 2015 8.1 (6.1) 15.1 6.0 5.1
Quarter two 2015 5.3 1.0 12.9 6.9 6.3
Quarter three 2015 1.7 1.7 5.5 2.3 2.6
Quarter four 2015 1.0 (1.9) 1.5 6.1 1.4
First half 6.7 (2.9) 13.9 6.5 5.7
Second half 1.4 (0.3) 3.6 4.2 2.0
Full year 3.9 (1.4) 8.5 5.3 3.8
Group like-for-like sales growth slowed significantly in the second half of 2015, driven by weakness in the RMI market. As 
previously mentioned, the link between the RMI market and the level of secondary housing transactions shows a strong correlation. 
The impact of the Mortgage Market Review on the availability of mortgages, and therefore the number of secondary housing 
transactions, along with uncertainty at the time of the election, had a negative impact on the RMI market in the second half of 
2015. Whilst the summer months, especially August, were particularly weak, the significant recovery in RMI spend in October was 
not sustained consistently through November and December. 
Consequently, weaker fourth quarter trading was experienced across all of our trade businesses, with lower like-for-like sales 
growth in General Merchanting, Contracts and Plumbing & Heating leading to more competitive market pricing. The Group’s 
consumer businesses, however,  performed well during the final quarter of the year, further extending their outperformance of 
the market.
The start to 2016 has been encouraging. 
The six to nine month lagged growth in housing transactions suggested RMI demand would improve in Q4 2015 or early in 
Q1 2016. The Group has seen these improvements in demand take a firmer hold in January and February of 2016.
The following table sets out volume, like-for-like and expansionary sales growth by division through 2015.
Total revenue General 
Merchanting
Plumbing & 
Heating
Contracts Consumer Group
% % % % %
Volume 2.8 (0.1) 7.4 8.5 4.3
Price and mix 1.1 (1.3) 1.1 (3.2) (0.5)
Like-for-like revenue growth 3.9 (1.4) 8.5 5.3 3.8
Network expansion & acquisitions 1.4 2.7 4.7 2.7 2.7
Total revenue growth 5.3 1.3 13.2 8.0 6.5
General Merchanting volumes grew by 2.8%. There was continued inflation in heavyside products, although this slowed in the 
second half of the year. Lightside products continued to experience price deflation as commodity prices weakened further through 
the second half of 2015, and direct sourcing of products continued to drive lower costs passed through to customers in more 
competitive pricing.
Plumbing & Heating sales were broadly flat, with the 2014 benefits from the Government incentive scheme being not repeated 
in 2015, the disruption from the branch re-segmentation programme and continued market weakness. These factors were 
compounded by deflation in copper and plastic prices. Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
49 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Price inflation in heavyside products in the Contracts division was partially offset by more competitive pricing in the industrial 
plumbing market and copper and steel price deflation. Keyline and CCF volume growth was strong, and contributed significantly to 
8.5% like-for-like revenue growth in the Contracts division as a whole.
Further investment in value and more focused promotions generated significant growth in sales in Wickes. Toolstation continued to 
grow strongly as it invested in lower prices, opened new stores and delivered an enhanced 60 minute click and collect proposition. 
New branch openings and acquisitions added 2.7% to Group sales in 2015. Acquisitions included Rudridge, which added 
four branches to the Keyline heavy civils network and The Underfloor Heating Store and Bathrooms.com in the Plumbing & 
Heating division. Expansion of the branch network continued through the development of new sites and additional implants into 
existing locations.
Adjusted Operating Profit
In 2015 the Group was required to impair the goodwill and other intangible assets of the PTS and F & P businesses by £141m. 
This impairment is a non-cash, exceptional charge, and is explained in the Plumbing & Heating business review section.
Reported adjusted operating margins were broadly stable in 2015 and improved by 10 bps excluding the effects of changes in 
property profits. Improvement in gross margin across the Group was broadly offset by higher operating costs and the recognition 
of slightly lower property profits, £24m in 2015 (2014: £26m).
General 
Merchanting
Plumbing & 
Heating
Contracts Consumer Group
% % % % %
2014 adjusted operating margin 9.8 4.8 6.7 6.0 6.9
Change in gross margin 0.1 0.1 (0.8) 1.0 0.2
Margin impact of change in 
operating costs
0.1 (0.8) 0.6 (0.3) (0.1)
Adjusted operating margin excluding 
change in property profits
10.0 4.1 6.5 6.7 7.0
Margin impact of change in 
property profits
0.1 (0.8) 0.4 0.1 (0.1)
2015 adjusted operating margin 10.1 3.3 6.9 6.8 6.9
Group gross margins improved by 20bps, with good gains in the Consumer division despite the significant range change 
programme, offset by deterioration in the Contracts division of 80 bps largely because of a change in the mix of business. 
Strong sales growth in Keyline and CCF combined with higher volumes of direct to customer sales were the principal drivers of 
the lower gross margin. In General Merchanting, the strong gross margin performance in the first half of 2015 reversed in the 
second half as price competition due to lower volumes in the market intensified. 
Group operating costs increased by 10 bps in 2015, with lower operating costs in the Contracts division owing to good cost 
control, more than offset by higher costs in the Plumbing & Heating and Consumer divisions. In Plumbing & Heating, operating 
costs increased following the re-segmentation programme, with City Plumbing branches having a higher cost to serve than PTS 
branches. Operating costs in the Consumer division as a function of sales increased owing to the relative immaturity of new 
Toolstation branches, the labour costs associated with range changes in Wickes and additional marketing and online costs.
In 2014 Plumbing & Heating benefited from property profits realised from the sale and leaseback of the Warrington primary 
distribution centre. The Contracts division included £5m of property profits (2014: nil), which added 40bps to the adjusted 
operating margin. 50 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
General Merchanting revenue increased by 5.3%, 3.9% on a 
like-for-like basis, demonstrating continued outperformance 
compared to the market. Growth was particularly strong in 
heavyside materials, supported by the heavyside range centre 
network, and Tool Hire. Growth in heavyside categories has 
led to an increase in the proportion of sales delivered (53.4% 
versus 51.8% in 2014). Sales growth slowed considerably in 
the second half of the year as the RMI market slowed owing 
to fewer secondary housing transactions in late 2014 and 
early 2015.
Despite the strong start to the fourth quarter in October, 
the expected pick-up in volumes occurred in January and 
February 2016, rather than as anticipated in November and 
December 2015. The growth in nine month lagged housing 
transactions provides increased confidence that the market 
growth is likely to be sustained through the first half of 2016.
Adjusted operating profits, excluding property profits, grew by 
7.7% to £182m. Gross margins improved by 10 bps in 2015.
An improvement in gross margins in the first half, driven by 
improved sourcing, and better management of cost price 
inflation pass through was offset in the second half of the 
year by increased competitive pricing in the weaker market. 
The operating cost base of the business was controlled 
carefully across the year, with additional cost invested in 
the range centre network, new store formats and customer 
service offset by improvements in efficiency.  
Property profits were £3m higher in 2015 at £17m (2014: 
£14m), with the majority of these profits recognised towards 
the end of the year, from the sale and lease back of 12 
Travis Perkins sites, as part of the group-wide sale and 
leaseback transaction.
Lease adjusted return on capital employed was flat at 16% 
compared with 2014, with growth in operating profits broadly 
offset by the increase in capital employed following the 
investments made in new branch openings, the distribution 
network, store formats, and the growth in net working capital 
as credit sales grew. These investments are expected to drive 
improvements to shareholder returns in 2016 and beyond.
T welve new Travis Perkins branches were opened or resited 
in 2015, either entering under-served catchments, or moving 
existing businesses to alternative sites that will locate them 
more conveniently for customers and optimise their operations.
The benefits of supplying an extended heavyside product 
range more quickly to customers through the heavyside 
range centre network were evidenced by the growth in 
heavyside categories. In July 2015 the Tilbury range centre 
was opened to cover branches in London and the South 
East, and combined with the range centres in Warrington and 
Cardiff, over two thirds of Travis Perkins branches are now 
serviced with next day and day-plus-one deliveries.  
The heavyside range centres are also able to support the 
growing Tool Hire proposition. Assets can be held centrally, 
and supplied to branches next-day or as required by 
customers. This extends the number of branches able to 
offer tool hire, where previously only branches large enough 
to stock a credible range of hire assets could provide this 
additional service. Any branch now served by a range centre 
can offer a broad tool hire solution to customers driving 
superior profit density for existing branches and efficient 
returns on highly utilised hire assets. The range centres 
improve tool hire operational efficiency, as less equipment is 
required to cover the network, asset utilisation is increased, 
and maintenance activity is centralised requiring fewer 
resources in-branch.
The programme to modernise Travis Perkins branch formats 
continued, with twenty branches now operating with the new 
shop and yard layouts. Initial signs from these branches 
are encouraging with strong sales growth and positive 
customer feedback. 
Benchmarx continues to grow through a combination of 
organic growth, and network expansion. New branches were 
opened in 38 sites across the UK, including 26 standalone 
showrooms and 12 implants within Travis Perkins branches. 
Benchmarx continues to outperform the market, increasing 
its market share in trade kitchens and building relationships 
directly with end-users on behalf of the business’s trade 
customers through the application of the kitchen selection 
centre model. In 2015 the Benchmarx product range was 
refreshed, reducing the number of SKUs and the complexity 
of the range. This allowed greater operational efficiency 
and improved the on-time in-full delivery to customers, 
and provides the business with a strong platform for 
further growth.
2015 2014 Change
Total revenue £1,972m £1,873m 5.3%
Like-for-like growth 3.9%
Adjusted operating profit £199m £183m 8.7%
Adjusted operating profit excluding property and one-offs £182m £169m 7.7%
Adjusted operating margin 10.1% 9.8% 30bps
LAROCE 16% 16% -
Branch network 813 772 41
General Merchanting Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
51 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Plumbing & Heating revenue grew by 1.3% in 2015, although 
this represented a decline of 1.4% on a like-for-like basis. 
The heating market continued to be highly competitive, 
leading to intense pricing pressure, particularly in the supply 
of products to larger contractors and through the wholesale 
channel. Combined with the continued weakness in commodity 
prices such as copper and plastic, this impacted the sales of 
both PTS and F & P . There were signs of recovery in the local 
bathroom installer market which is more closely correlated with 
consumer confidence and improvements in the RMI market.
The like-for-like revenue decrease in Plumbing & Heating 
of 1.4% was due to two main factors. The positive impact on 
boiler sales from the government backed ECO scheme in 
2014 not repeated in 2015. The re-segmentation programme 
to convert PTS branches to City Plumbing was accelerated in 
the second half of the year, with the programme substantially 
complete by the end of 2015, six months ahead of the original 
schedule. This increase in activity caused higher levels 
of disruption than previously anticipated, impacting sales 
negatively, however, it leaves the Plumbing & Heating division 
in a strong position to focus on the growth of the newly 
structured businesses from the beginning of 2016.
Adjusted operating profit for the division reduced by £19m 
to £46m (2014: £65m). In 2014 the Plumbing & Heating 
division recognised £11m of property profits from its share of 
the sale and leaseback of the Warrington primary distribution 
centre. In 2014 Plumbing & Heating also benefited from the 
Government backed ECO scheme, which created both a 
boost in sales and sourcing benefits. Neither of these factors 
repeated in 2015.
Adjusted operating profit excluding property profits and a 
number of one-off short term contracts and associated  
sourcing benefits reduced by £2m, to £46m from £48m 
in 2014. This was primarily driven by the like-for-like sales 
deterioration including the disruptive impact of the  
resegmentation programme. Operating costs in City Plumbing 
branches converted from PTS, were also higher, given the 
higher cost-to-serve of the City Plumbing business, but as yet 
have not benefitted fully from the additional sales expected 
following conversion.
The re-segmentation programme accelerated in the second 
half of the year, with 114 branches converted from PTS to City 
Plumbing in 2015. In addition, 30 unsuitable PTS sites were 
closed with a further three relocated, and seven City Plumbing 
sites were relocated with a further six closed. 
Following the annual impairment review a charge of £141m 
has been recognised against the goodwill and other intangible 
assets of PTS and F & P. The impairment is a non-cash, 
exceptional charge, and is necessary due to changes in 
the plumbing & heating market relating to contract and 
wholesale customers which has been highlighted following 
the completion of the re-segmentation programme.
The PTS network now comprises 95 branches with a 
considerably lower capital base with work continuing 
to improve the operating efficiency and working capital 
management of the branches to enhance returns. 
There is increasing confidence in the expanded City Plumbing 
network, now totalling 344 branches, following strong 
customer response to the improved bathroom proposition, 
renewables and spares offers. City Plumbing branches that 
have been unaffected by the resegmentation programme 
and those converted early in 2014 have seen encouraging 
like-for-like growth, and it is expected that those branches 
converted in 2015 will mature through 2016 and 2017.
2015 2014 Change
Total revenue £1,371m £1,353m 1.3%
Like-for-like growth (1.4)%
Adjusted operating profit £46m £65m (29.2)%
Adjusted operating profit excluding property and one-offs £46m £48m (4.2)%
Adjusted operating margin 3.3% 4.8% (150)bps
LAROCE 6% 9% 3ppts
Network expansion (no. branches) 463 505 (42)
Plumbing & Heating 52 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
In the wholesale distribution channel served by F & P there 
has been increased competition in 2015. The F & P business 
will continue to fully integrate Primaflow, which will improve 
operational and capital efficiency across the combined F & P, 
Primaflow and Connections business.
As part of the Group’s plan to leverage its scale in the UK, 
and to simplify and consolidate distribution networks, the 
PTS supply chain has been fully integrated into the Group’s 
lightside facilities in Warrington and Northampton. The 
remaining PTS distribution centres were closed in 2015. 
Lease adjusted returns reduced, as lower adjusted operating 
profits more than offset the reduction in capital employed 
through the closure of branches and strong debtor 
management.  After the impairment of goodwill and other 
intangible assets LAROCE was 7%.
Sales in the Contracts division grew strongly in 2015, with 
total sales up 13.2%, 8.5% on a like-for-like basis. Throughout 
the year growth was concentrated in the Keyline and 
CCF businesses which are focused on the commercial 
construction and new house building markets, although 
growth in these markets slowed in the second half of the 
year. BSS sales are more weighted to public sector RMI and 
construction. This market has been more difficult in 2015, 
resulting in BSS sales marginally lower on a like-for-like basis. 
BSS maintained its market-leading position in this more 
difficult market by focusing on providing the best customer 
solutions, and investing to operate more cost-effectively. 
Adjusted operating margins, excluding property profits, 
reduced by 20 bps, with gross margins reducing by 80 
bps, offset by a 60 bps improvement from operating costs. 
The reduction in gross margin was driven by the shift in sales 
mix towards the lower margin CCF and Keyline businesses. 
Whilst the products sold in these businesses attract a lower 
gross margin the businesses themselves generate strong 
returns. At a business level, adjusted operating margins 
improved in CCF and Keyline as higher volumes enabled 
greater efficiencies and further sourcing improvements. 
The Contracts division recognised £5m of property profits in 
2015 (2014: nil) through the sale and leaseback of six sites as 
capital was recycled for further investment. 
Lease adjusted return on capital increased to 14% (2014: 
13%), a function of increased sales, operating leverage and 
only modest increases to the capital base.
The Keyline business continued to increase its focus on the 
delivery of civil, drainage and heavyside materials to large, 
commercial customers. In 2015 a new format Keyline branch 
was opened in Lincoln, which was specifically designed to 
operate at reduced cost, so improving operational efficiency, 
whilst enhancing the range of specialist heavyside products 
available to the customer. The acquisition of Rudridge added a 
further four heavyside civils branches to the Keyline network 
in the South East. 
2015 2014 Change
Total revenue £1,214m £1,072m 13.2%
Like-for-like growth 8.5%
Adjusted operating profit £83m £72m 15.3%
Adjusted operating profit excluding property £78m £71m 9.9%
Adjusted operating margin 6.9% 6.7% 20bps
LAROCE 14% 13% 1ppt
Network expansion (no. branches) 181 171 10
Contracts STRATEGIC REPORT
53 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
The CCF network was expanded with the addition of eight 
new branches, six of which were opened in December 2015. 
This additional capacity should improve national coverage, 
with faster delivery to both local customers and those on 
framework agreements. CCF continues to build strong 
customer relationships, deliver a superior customer service, 
more extensive ranges with strong availability, all resulting in 
significant share gains.
BSS is the largest operator in the industrial plumbing market. 
Throughout 2015 difficult market conditions, with both lower 
spending in the public sector and increasing competition 
from new entrants to the market, led to reduced volumes 
and margins. BSS maintained its advantaged market position 
through investments in pricing, continued market-leading 
customer service and product knowledge, and by improving 
the efficiency of the business. Three BSS branches were 
closed and two were relocated to reduce costs and improve 
customer accessibility.
In 2016 it is planned to convert 13 Keyline branches into 
the Travis Perkins format. These conversions will occur 
where it is felt the existing branch would better serve the 
General Merchant market and fill a previously underserved 
catchment. 54 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
The Consumer division made continued market share gains 
in 2015, with revenue growth of 8.0% and like-for-like growth 
of 5.3%, well ahead of the DIY market which was broadly 
flat. This outperformance demonstrates the continued 
improvement of the Wickes business as it progresses 
through the transformation programme, the market-leading 
customer proposition in Toolstation and the growth of the 
Tile Giant business.
After a period of market weakness in the third quarter of 
the year, the Consumer division returned to good growth in 
the fourth quarter. This was predominantly driven by strong 
kitchen and bathroom sales in Wickes and continued like-for-
like growth and network expansion in Toolstation.
In 2015 previous impairments to loans made to the 
Toolstation Europe business were reversed, recognising 
confidence in the future plans and viability of the business. 
This reversal resulted in a year-on-year improvement of £6m 
to operating profits. 
Adjusted operating profit, excluding property profits and 
a one-off credit for impairment reversals in Toolstation 
Europe, increased by 11.7% to £87m, driven by the significant 
improvements made to the customer propositions across the 
division during the year. 
Property profits of £2m were recognised in 2015 (2014: £nil), 
relating to the disposal of the former Wickes support centre 
in Harrow, resulting in adjusted operating profits of £95m in 
2015 (2014: £77m), and growth of 23.4%. 
The businesses in the Consumer division continue to invest in 
their value propositions in order to maintain market-leading 
prices and drive continued growth in market share. Wickes 
undertook significant range review activity in 2015, incurring 
costs of around £10m as old ranges were discounted for 
clearance. The majority of range changes have now been 
completed, with 36 ranges reviewed, including take-away 
kitchens, adhesives and sealants, paint, tiles, flooring and 
timber. Further reviews are planned across 32 smaller or 
similar categories in 2016 including bricks and blocks, take-
away bathrooms and garden maintenance.
Wickes now has eight stores operating in the new format, 
with four being refurbishments, and four new stores. The new 
store formats allow both trade and retail customers to shop 
the stores efficiently, whilst also increasing range breadth and 
availability. Combined with the range review activity, the new 
store layouts maximise product adjacencies, give more focus 
to seasonal and promotional activities and segregate a more 
inviting Kitchen and Bathroom design centre. Initial customer 
feedback has been positive, returns are encouraging and 
plans to continue the refurbishment of existing stores and the 
opening of new stores continue.
The Wickes online offer was enhanced, with the launch of a 
one-hour click and collect service. Online sales now make 
up over 8% of Wickes sales, with half of the growth in online 
transactions in 2015 coming through click and collect. 
The growth of the Toolstation business continued with a 
strong revenue performance throughout 2015, driven by both 
the growth in like-for-like sales from existing stores, and the 
addition of 40 new branches. Toolstation also benefitted from 
the introduction of a new one-hour click and collect service. 
Tile Giant performed well in 2015 with good like-for-like sales 
growth. The performance exceeded the growth of the tile 
market with Tile Giant gaining market share.
2015 2014 Change
Total revenue £1,386m £1,283m 8.0%
Like-for-like growth 5.3%
Adjusted operating profit £95m £77m 23.4%
Adjusted operating profit excluding property and one-offs £93m £77m 20.8%
Adjusted operating margin 6.8% 6.0% 80bps
LAROCE 7% 7% -
Network expansion (no. branches) 571 527 44
Consumer Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
55 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Christopher Cheetham – Tile Giant, Shrewsbury ??. SECTION continued
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Finance Costs
Net finance costs, shown in note 9, were £31m 
(2014: £22m). Interest costs on borrowings increased 
by £5m to £25m (2014; £20m) largely owing to higher 
average borrowings during the year.
The impact of marking-to-market currency forward 
contracts used to hedge commercial transactions, which 
remained outstanding at the year-end lowered profits by 
£5m when compared with 2014. In 2015 £1m of losses 
were recorded (2014: £4m gain). Other financing type costs 
were broadly similar to last year at £6m (2014: £6m).
The average interest rate on the Group’s borrowings during 
the year was 3.6% (2014: 3.7%).
Impairment and Amortisation 
As a result of undertaking its annual review of the carrying 
value of goodwill and other intangible assets the Group has 
recognised an impairment charge of £141m in respect of PTS 
and F & P. Trading conditions in the wholesale and contract-
led Plumbing and Heating market have been challenging, with 
the current structure of the market, not expected to materially 
change in the foreseeable future. This has caused the Board 
to reduce its expectations of future performance by PTS and 
F & P. As discussed in notes 13 and 14 and noted in the Audit 
Committee report on page 106, after consideration by the 
Audit Committee and the Board, the Directors concluded that 
the expected future cash flows of all other businesses in the 
Group will be sufficient to support the balance sheet carrying 
value of goodwill and other intangible assets. The annual 
amortisation charge was £18m (2014: £18m).
56 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
Taxation
After reflecting a £9m (2014: £nil) credit arising from 
a change in the statutory rate of corporation tax and an 
exceptional £8m credit arising from the impairment of 
goodwill and other intangible assets in respect of PTS and  
F & P, the statutory tax charge for the year was £56m  
(2014: £63m).
The underlying tax charge, excluding the benefit of the rate 
change and the effect of exceptional items and in 2014 the 
effect of exceptional items, was £72m (2014: £68m), which 
represents an effective rate of 19.7% (2014: 19.7%). This is 
slightly below the standard rate of corporation tax of 20.25% 
(2014: 21.5%) applicable to profits in the United Kingdom. The 
difference is mainly due to the value of non-taxable property 
profits exceeding the value of expenses not deductible for tax 
purposes. A full reconciliation of the actual to standard tax 
rates is included in note 10 of the financial statements.
The Group’s balance sheet tax provision includes £71m 
relating to uncertain tax positions currently under discussion 
with H. M. Revenue and Customs (“HMRC”), which arose 
in prior periods. Based on legal and tax technical advice 
the Group claimed tax benefits in its tax returns for several 
years and reduced its tax payments accordingly. HMRC have 
disputed the Group’s interpretation of the tax legislation. The 
Group has provided HMRC with all information requested and 
discussions continue in order to reach a conclusion on the 
differing interpretations. It cannot currently be estimated how 
long it will take to reach an agreed interpretation and litigation 
is a likely outcome if agreement cannot be reached. 
The Group is determined to pursue the cases because of 
the amounts involved, but given the lack of agreement with 
HMRC at this stage in the interpretation of key areas, coupled 
with the current tax litigation environment and HMRC’s 
policy for pursuing such a route the Group has continued to 
recognise a provision for the disputed amounts claimed by 
HMRC. This is considered appropriate given the uncertainty 
involved in this process and meets the requirements of IAS 
12.46 for recognition of such a provision.
Following legislative changes that enable HMRC to demand 
payment of amounts previously withheld in respect of 
disputed items, the Group has received notices to pay £24m 
in February 2016. The Group expects to receive notices to 
pay a further £28m during the second quarter of 2016. 
Should the Group’s filed tax positions be agreed by HMRC 
or the Group prevail in the litigation process then the tax 
charge in the group income statement in a future period 
will be reduced by the repayment of the £52m referred to 
above and the release of £19m of tax provisions for which 
payment cannot be demanded under current legislation 
unless HMRC are successful. If after concluding all possible 
avenues available to the Group, it becomes necessary to 
amend the Group’s filed tax position then there should 
be no significant impact on the tax charge in the group 
income statement.
Earnings per Share
Basic EPS decreased by 36.0% in 2015, principally due to the 
effect of the non-cash impairment. Adjusted EPS increased by 
4.3% with the reconciliation between Basic and Adjusted EPS 
noted below.
2015 2014
Earnings EPS Earnings EPS
Basic earnings and EPS £168m 67.8p £259m 105.9p
Exceptional items:
Wickes store closures - - £(10)m (4.1)p
Plumbing & Heating 
network configuration
- - £29m 11.9p
Rinus roofing disposal - - £4m 1.6p
Impairment of  
acquired intangibles
£141m 57.0p - -
Amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets
£18m 7.3p £18m 7.4p
Tax on amortisation  
of acquired  
intangible assets
£(3)m (1.2)p £(3)m (1.2)p
Tax on  
exceptional items
£(8)m (3.2)p £(5)m (2.1)p
Deferred tax  
rate change 
(1)
£(9)m (3.6)p - -
Other - - £(1)m (0.4)p
Adjusted earnings £307m 124.1p £291m 119.0p
(1)  At a statutory level a deferred tax benefit of £9m was recognised due to the 
expected tax rate reductions between 2017 and 2020.
Profit after taxation decreased by 35.1% to £168m 
(2014: £259m) resulting in basic earnings per share 
decreasing by 35.9% to 67.8 pence (2014: 105.9 pence). 
There is no significant difference between basic and diluted 
basic earnings per share. 
Adjusted profit after tax was 5.5% higher than 2014 at 
£307m (2014: £291m) resulting in adjusted earnings per 
share increasing by 4.3% to 124.1 pence (2014: 119.0 pence). 
There is no significant difference between adjusted basic 
and adjusted diluted earnings per share.
57 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Balance Sheet and Cash Flow
The Group continued to make good progress towards the 
targeted financial metrics laid out in 2013.
Medium 
Term 
Guidance
2015 2014 
Restated*
Net debt £447m £358m
Lease debt £1,443m £1,423m
Lease adjusted 
net debt
 
£1,891m
 
£1,781m
Lease adjusted 
gearing
 
44.6%
 
43.4%
Fixed charge cover 3.5x 3.3x 3.2x
LA net debt : 
EBITDAR
 
2.5x
 
2.8x
 
2.8x
*  2014 lease related numbers were restated to reflect the refinement to the calculation 
to include £5.7m of rental income receivable on leased property that is sublet
The increase in on-balance sheet debt of £89m relates 
largely to the investments made in freehold property. Lease 
debt increased modestly from the position at 31 December 
2014. Whilst a number of PTS leases were exited as 
branches were closed this was offset by a significant sale 
and lease back transaction and additional new leases. The 
gross lease charge for the year was broadly flat at £185m. 
Overall lease adjusted net debt increased by £110m, largely 
owing to additional on balance sheet debt funding freehold 
property purchases. The increase in on-balance sheet 
debt is consistent with the Group’s plans to increase the 
proportion of freehold property in the estate.
Lease adjusted gearing increased by 120 basis points in 
2015 to 44.6%. Fixed charge cover increased by 0.1x to 3.3x, 
owing to improvements in profitability. The lease adjusted 
net debt to EBITDAR ratio was flat, representing higher 
earnings from the Group offset by increasing on-balance 
sheet debt used to fund freehold property purchases.
Free Cash Flow 
The Group continued to generate strong free cash flows.
(£m) 2015 2014
EBITA 413 384
Depreciation of PPE and other 
non-cash movements
98 89
Proceeds in excess of property 
profits
25 4
Change in working capital (96) (107)
Maintenance capital expenditure (55) (50)
Interest (20) (15)
Tax paid (48) (50)
Free Cash Flow 317 255
Cash conversion rate 77% 66%
The Group generated £317m of free cash flow in 2015, with 
a conversion rate of 77% to EBITA (2014: 66%). Net working 
capital increased by £96m in 2015 (2014: £107m) net 
working capital days were broadly flat. Inventories increased 
by £14m as the stock levels held in the lightside distribution 
centre in Warrington, and heavyside range centres in Cardiff 
and Tilbury were increased. This was partially offset by 
the use of better stock management systems and more 
rigorous management of stock in the branch network.
Trade receivables grew by £43m, owing to the growth in trade 
sales by the Group. Payables decreased by £39m as the 
instances that suppliers were paid on time improved, due to 
a focus on resolving disputes more promptly and efficiently. 
Maintenance capex spend rose to £55m as the Group 
continued to maintain the expanding branch network to a 
standard that is safe and secure for colleagues, suppliers and 
customers. Interest costs increased by £5m due to a full year 
of interest payments on the public bond issued in September 
2014, and the increase in on-balance sheet debt.
Net Debt, Funding and Liquidity
Net debt rose in 2015 and finished the year at £447m (2014: 
£358m), an increase of £89m (2014: £14m increase).
At 31 December 2015 the Group’s committed funding 
comprised:
•   £250m guaranteed notes due 2021, listed on the London 
Stock Exchange.
•   A revolving credit facility of £550m, refinanced in 
December 2015, which runs until December 2020, 
advanced by a syndicate of 8 banks.
In addition:
•    Five bilateral revolving credit facilities totalling £221m 
with tenors of 18 to 24 months, signed in January and 
February 2016.
58 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
•   $200m of unsecured guaranteed $US senior notes, which 
were fully repaid at their maturity on 26 January 2016 
and not replaced.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had undrawn committed 
facilities of £440m (2014: £550m) and available cash 
and short term borrowings of £84m (2014: £108m). The 
Group’s rating was maintained at BB+ stable during 2015. 
The next review is due in the spring of 2016.
Capital Investments
In 2015 the Group completed four small, bolt-on 
acquisitions, totalling £26m. Rudridge, a four branch 
network of heavy builders’ merchants in the South East, 
was added to the Contracts Division in February. In July 
the Group invested in Bathrooms.com to expand channel 
capability in the bathrooms market. The Underfloor Heating 
Store was acquired in August 2015. Garratt Timber Supplies 
was acquired in July 2015.
Investments to provide best-in-class customer propositions 
and drive continued outperformance continued throughout 
2015, with £134m invested in growth capex, and a further 
£104m invested in freehold property sites to sustain the 
future pipeline of network expansion.
The expansion of the Group’s branch network continued 
with new branches opened in Travis Perkins, Benchmarx, 
CCF, Wickes and Toolstation.
As noted earlier, significant capital investments were also 
made through the completion of the Group’s second primary 
lightside distribution centre, Omega, and in new heavyside 
range centres in Cardiff and Tilbury. Under the Group’s 
‘Investing to grow’ plans, further work was completed in 
opening new formats in Wickes and Travis Perkins. 
Improving the IT infrastructure of the Group remained a 
key area of investment in 2015. Online investment in the 
Consumer division continued, with the development of 
Click & Collect services in Wickes and Toolstation now 
offering a one hour service. Travis Perkins developed 
a fully transactional website, with customers able to 
purchase products from the current ‘trade offers’ range 
online. Travis Perkins also adopted a new electronic proof 
of delivery (EPOD) system, reducing the administrative 
burden on colleagues and improving delivery traceability 
for customers.
£m 2015 2014
Extending leadership New TP / Wickes / Toolstation /  
CCF / Benchmarx branches
49 34
Benchmarx implants / showrooms / Tool hire implants
Investing to grow New Wickes / TP formats 57 17
Distribution centres
Plumbing & Heating branch conversions
Re-engineering and 
infrastructure build
Multi-channel development  
IT infrastructure upgrades
28 29
Growth capital investment 134 80
Freehold property 104 35
Maintenance 55 50
Total capital investment 293 165
Property
The Group acquired 25 (2014: 19) freehold properties for 
£77m (2014: £35m) and undertook a further £27m of 
building work to develop new branches and distribution 
assets. The investment was partially financed through free 
cash flow, with the majority through the £89m increase 
in on-balance sheet debt. Increasing the level of freehold 
property assets enables the Group to secure very attractive 
operating sites that might otherwise not be available, gives 
operating flexibility, and allows the Group to benefit from 
capital appreciation and development gains. Many of these 
assets are not yet in operation, but provide the Group with 
the opportunity to grow earnings and returns when they are 
brought into use.
The value of leasehold properties based on applying a 
valuation of 8 times the annual lease charge was £1,443m 
(2014: £1,423m).
The Group continues to realise value from its property 
assets once developments have been completed, there is 
limited strategic value in holding the site where returns on 
capital can be improved by investing elsewhere. During the 
year property disposal proceeds were £45m (2014 £27m) 
realising gains on disposal of £24m (2014: £26m). The 
primary contributor was the sale and leaseback of 19 
properties which the Group did not consider to be strategic 
sites or to have further development potential, which 
realised proceeds of £33m and profits of £19m.
59 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Dividend
Dividend costs increased in line with the Group’s target to maintain a progressive dividend policy, with £100m paid out to 
shareholders in 2015. The proposed dividend for the year of 44 pence (2014: 38 pence) results in a 16% increase compared to 
2014 (2014: 23% increase). An interim dividend of 14.75 pence was paid to shareholders in November 2015 at a cost of £37m. If it 
is approved, the proposed final dividend of 29.25 pence will be paid on 27 May 2016, the cash cost of which will be approximately 
£73m.
A 44.0 pence full year dividend would reduce dividend cover to 2.8 times (2014: 3.1 times) adjusted earnings per share, just 
below the mid-point of the Board’s target cover range of between 2.5x and 3.25x. 
Return on Capital
Net assets at the end of 2015 were £2,796m (2014: £2,678m), which contributed to capital employed of  
£3,518m (2014: £3,207m). 
Increased adjusted pre-tax profits in 2015 have resulted in the Group’s adjusted return on capital employed (ROCE) for the year 
being 0.1% lower than 2014 at 12.3%, (2014: 12.4%). After adjusting for property leases at a rate of 8 times the annual lease 
charge, the lease adjusted return on lease adjusted capital employed was 10.5%, (2014: 10.4%). On both a reported and lease 
adjusted basis returns are well above the Group’s post tax weighted average cost of capital of approximately 8%. 
Including the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets in the PTS and F & P businesses, the ROCE was 12.9% (2014: 
12.7%) and LAROCE (note 37) was 10.8% (2014: 10.7%) after adjusting for property leases at rate of 8 times the annual charge.
Share Price Movements
During the year, the daily closing share price ranged between 1,767p (2014: 1,574p) and 2,260p (2014: 1,982p). The shares 
closed the year at a price of 1,973p (2014: 1,857p), making the Group’s market capitalisation at the year-end £4.93bn (2014 
£4.62bn). This represented 1.8 times shareholders’ funds (31 December 2014: 1.7 times).
The capital structure of the Group at 31 December 2015 comprised: 2015* 2014
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents (84) (108)
UK listed bond 256 258
US private placement notes at fair value 137 133
Loan notes and revolving credit facility 110 41
Finance leases 19 21
Liability to pension scheme 35 36
Pension fund deficits 42 78
Goodwill and other intangibles written off 233 93
Mark-to-market adjustments on borrowings (20) (17)
Finance charges netted off debt (6) (6)
Equity attributable to shareholders 2,796 2,678
Total balance sheet capital employed 3,518 3,207
Property operating leases (8x rentals) 1,443 1,423
Total lease adjusted capital employed 4,961 4,630
*Capital structure compiled on the same basis as 2014, not including the impact of the impairment of goodwill on PTS and F & P, or the exclusion of previous goodwill written off
60 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
61 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Pensions
The Group made £40m (2014: £35m) of contributions to 
its defined benefit schemes and £14m (2014: £12m) to its 
defined contribution pension scheme during the year. At 
31 December 2015 the combined gross accounting deficit 
for the Group’s two final salary pension schemes was £52m 
(2014: £98m), which equated to a net deficit after tax of 
£42m (2014: £78m). The gross deficit for the BSS scheme, 
based upon the net present value of the agreed minimum 
funding contributions was £52m (2014: £57m). The TP 
scheme had a £34m surplus, which on the application of 
IFRIC 14 was reduced to nil. 
During the year the Trustees of both schemes finalised the 
30 September 2014 actuarial valuations. These resulted in 
the Group being obliged to pay recovery plan contributions 
of £10m p.a (2014: £25m) until September 2021, and 
voluntarily agreeing to pay additional contributions of  
£2m (2014: £nil). 
Supplier Income
Fixed price discounts, volume rebates, customer sales 
support and similar promotional arrangements (“Supplier 
Income”) are a common component of trading agreements 
in the building product supply industry.   As part of its 
on-going business activities, the Travis Perkins group has 
entered into such arrangements with a significant number of 
its goods for resale suppliers.  
Only two of the Group’s Supplier Income arrangements are 
not co-terminus with the Group’s year end, which reduces 
the level of judgement required when determining the value 
of income to be recognised in any year.
The overwhelming majority of Supplier Income, in excess of 
85% by value, is determined by reference to fixed supplier 
price discounts on actual purchases, with approximately 3% 
being volume rebates that are subject to stepped targets 
for actual purchases, the net rebate percentage increasing 
as values or volumes purchased reach pre-agreed targets.  
However, by the year-end the Group knows whether those 
targets were reached.
Fixed price discounts and rebates on purchases that remain 
in stock are deducted from the cost of inventory, so reducing 
cost of sales in the income statement in the period in which 
the inventory is expensed.  Due to the complexity of the 
terms of some supplier arrangements and the number of 
products affected, some judgement is required to determine 
the amount of fixed price discount and rebate applicable 
to each product that is due from the supplier at the year-
end and the value that should be deducted from the gross 
value of inventory held at the balance sheet date.  The 
methodologies applied by the Group are well established 
and consistently applied from year-to-year.
The Group also receives customer sales support which 
equates to approximately 10% of total Supplier Income 
(i.e. payments that are made entirely at the supplier’s 
option, that are requested by the Group when a specific 
product is about to be sold to a specific customer and for 
which payment is only received after the sale has been 
completed).  These are recognised as a deduction from cost 
of sales when the sale to the third party takes place and do 
not require any judgement to be made. 
Effective Financial Risk Management
The overall aim of the Group’s financial risk management 
policies is to minimise potential adverse effects on financial 
performance and net assets. The Group manages the 
principal financial and treasury risks within a framework of 
policies and operating parameters reviewed and approved 
annually by the Board of Directors. The Group does not 
enter into speculative transactions. 
The Group’s policy is to enter into derivative contracts only 
with members of its bank facility syndicate, provided such 
counterparties meet the minimum rating set out in the 
Board approved derivative policy.
The Group again reviewed its interest rate hedging policy 
during the year and reaffirmed its preference for a 100% 
variable rate borrowing profile, subject to an annual review 
that this meets acceptable uncertainty levels for the Group’s 
interest costs, covenants and credit ratios. Currently the 
Board believes that a fully variable rate borrowing profile 
provides acceptable uncertainty levels and so wherever it is 
cost effective to do so the Group’s borrowings are to be held 
at floating rates, with interest rate swaps being used to swap 
fixed rate borrowings into floating rate borrowings.
At the year-end, the Group had £302m (2014: £312m) 
notional value of interest rate derivatives resulting in 
interest rates floating on approximately 77% (2014: 72%) 
of the Group’s cleared gross debt (before cash and 
cash equivalents). 
The Group has previously entered into two cross currency 
swaps and four forward currency contracts in respect of its 
$200m of $US private placement notes. These contracts 
expired in January 2016 when the Group’s loan notes fell 
due for repayment.
Supplier income 2015 2014
£m £m
Other receivables 244 201
Inventory (179) (162)
Trade payables 51 64
Net balance sheet position 116 103 62 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
The Group settles its currency denominated purchases 
using a combination of currency purchased at spot rates 
and currency bought in advance on forward contracts. It 
purchases forward contracts for approximately 90% of its 
committed requirements six months forward based on the 
firm placement of forward stock purchases. At 31 December 
2015 the nominal value of currency forward contracts, all of 
which were $US denominated, was $72m (2014: $75m). 
The Group is a substantial provider of credit to a large 
portfolio of small and medium size businesses throughout 
the UK together with some of the country’s largest 
construction companies. It manages its exposure to credit 
risk through a strong credit control function that works 
closely with the business and its customers to ensure 
the Group offers credit sufficient for the needs of those 
customers without exposing the Group to excessive risk.  
The bad debt charge in 2015 was approximately 0.4% 
(2014: 0.3%) of credit sales, which is at the lower end of 
results previously achieved by the Group.
In summary, the key aspects of the Group’s financial risk 
management strategy are to: 
• Run the business to investment grade credit parameters
•  Reduce the Group’s reliance on the bank market for its 
funding by having a diverse mix of funding sources with a 
spread of maturities
• Seek to maintain a strong balance sheet
•  Place a high priority on effective cash and working 
capital management
•  Maintain liquidity headroom of over £250m and build 
and maintain good relationships with the Group’s banking 
syndicate
•  Manage counterparty risk by raising funds from a 
syndicate of lenders, the members of which maintain 
investment grade credit ratings
•  Operate banking covenants attached to the Group’s 
revolving credit facilities within comfortable margins:
 •  The ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA (earnings 
before interest, tax depreciation and amortisation) has to 
be lower than 3.0x; it was 0.8x (2014: 0.7x) at the year-
end (note 36)
 •  The number of times operating profit covers interest 
charges has to be a least 3.5x and it was approximately 
21x at 31 December 2015 (31 December 2014: 22x)
•  Have a conservative hedging policy that reduces the 
Group’s exposure to currency fluctuations, whilst allowing it 
to benefit from low interest rates
Tax Strategy and Tax Risk Management
The Group’s objectives in managing and controlling its tax 
affairs and related tax risks are as follows:
•  Ensuring compliance with all applicable rules, legislation 
and regulations under which it operates
•  Maintaining an open and co-operative relationship with the 
UK Tax Authorities to reduce its risk profile
•  Paying the correct amount of tax as it falls due
Tax policies and risks are assessed as part of the formal 
governance process and are reviewed by the Chief Financial 
Officer and reported to the Group’s Audit Committee on a 
regular basis.
Significant tax risks, implications arising from these risks 
and potential mitigating actions are considered by the Board 
when strategic decisions are taken:
•  The tax risks of proposed transactions or new areas of 
business are fully considered before proceeding
The Group employs professional tax specialists to manage 
tax risks and takes appropriate tax advice from reputable 
professional firms where it is considered to be necessary.
STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
Viability Assessment
In accordance with provision c2.2 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting 
Council in September 2014, the Board of Directors has 
undertaken an assessment of the viability of the Group.
As part of its deliberations the Board undertook a robust 
review of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties facing the 
Group, how they are managed and the actions that could 
be taken to mitigate their effect or avoid them altogether. 
The resulting disclosures, which include those risks that 
could threaten the Group’s business model, performance, 
solvency and liquidity are shown on pages 65 to 69 of the 
Annual report.  The Board believes the Group is well placed 
to manage those risks successfully
The Board has decided that it is appropriate to assess the 
performance of the Group over a three year period from 
28 February 2016, the month end date closest to the approval 
of the 2015 annual results. Three years has been chosen 
because the Board believes that is the period of the Group’s 
approved Corporate Plan that it is reasonably possible to 
forecast forward with a degree of accuracy and because the 
Group is subject to the vagaries of the economic cycle and 
property market which cannot reasonably be forecast with 
certainty further than three years forward. 
Whilst the Board has no reason to believe the Group not will 
remain viable over a longer period, the inherent uncertainty 
involved means three years is the appropriate period over 
which to give users of the Annual Report a reasonable 
degree of confidence. 
The Corporate Plan which is prepared annually on a rolling 
basis considers the Group’s future profitability, cash flows, 
liquidity headroom, availability of funds and covenant 
compliance. For the purposes of the viability review, the 
Board has performed a robust sensitivity analysis to stress 
test the downside scenario based upon the 2008/2009 
financial crisis and the mitigating actions that were adopted 
at that time to protect the Group’s viability, which it is 
assumed would again be available to it. Those actions 
include reducing costs, capital and revenue investment and 
payments to shareholders.
Based upon the assessment undertaken, the Directors 
confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the 
Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of 
their assessment.
63 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Simon Lister – Keyline, Lincoln
64 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL 
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
The Group operates in markets and an industry which by their nature 
are subject to a number of inherent gross risks. The Group is able to 
mitigate those risks by adopting different strategies and by maintaining 
a strong system of internal control. However, regardless of the approach 
that is taken, the Group has to accept a certain level of risk in order to 
generate suitable returns for shareholders and for that reason the risk 
management process is closely aligned to the Group’s strategy.
The Board has a risk reporting framework that ensures it 
has visibility of the Group’s key risks, the potential impacts 
on the Group and how and to what extent those risks 
are mitigated. As part of its risk management process, 
the principal risks stated in the Group’s risk register are 
reviewed, challenged and updated by the Board and 
monitored throughout the year. Each operating business 
within the Group monitors a separate risk register. This 
risk register is used to determine strategies adopted by the 
Group’s various businesses to mitigate the identified risks 
and are embedded in their operating plans.
Details of the Group’s risk management processes are given 
in the Corporate Governance report on page 102. The risk 
environment in which the Group operates does not remain 
static. The nature of risk is that its scope and potential 
impact will change over time. As such the list below 
should not be regarded as a comprehensive statement 
of all potential risks and uncertainties that may manifest 
themselves in the future. Additional risks and uncertainties 
that are not presently known to the Directors, or which they 
currently deem immaterial, could also have an adverse 
effect on the Group’s future operating results, financial 
condition or prospects.
The table on the following pages sets out, in no particular 
order, the current principal risks that are considered by the 
Board to be material, their potential impacts and the factors 
that mitigate them. The inherent risk (before the operation 
of control) is stated for each risk area together with an 
indication of the current trend for that risk.
65 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Inherent Risk and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation
Market Conditions
Inherent Risk: 
•••
Trend: 
The Group’s products are sold to businesses, tradesmen and retail customers for a broad range of 
end uses in the built environment. The Group’s markets are cyclical in nature and the performance 
of those markets is affected by general economic conditions and a number of specific drivers of 
construction, RMI and DIY activity, including mortgage availability and affordability, housing transactions 
and the timing and nature of government activity to stimulate activity, net disposable income, house 
price inflation, consumer confidence, interest rates and unemployment.
A significant downturn in economic conditions or alternatively major uncertainty about the future 
outlook could affect the Group’s markets, levels of construction activity and the confidence levels of 
the Group’s customers, which could reduce their propensity to purchase products and services from 
the Group’s businesses.
Adverse effect on financial results. The Board conducts an annual review of strategy, which includes an assessment of likely competitor activity, 
market forecasts and possible future trends in products, channels of distribution and customer behaviour.
The Group maintains a comprehensive tracking system for lead indicators that influence the market for the 
consumption of building materials in the UK.
Significant events including those in the supply chain that may affect the Group are monitored by the 
Executive Committee and reported to the Board monthly by the Group CEO. 
Should market conditions deteriorate then the Board has a range of options dependent upon the severity 
of the change. Historically these have included amending the Group’s trading stance, cost reduction, lowering 
capital investment and cutting the dividend.
Competitive pressures place pressure on 
prices, margins and profitability
Inherent Risk: 
•••
Trend: 
Market trends, particularly in respect of customers’ preferences for purchasing materials through 
a range of supply channels and not just through the Group’s traditional competitors may affect the 
Group’s performance so making traditional branch based operations less relevant or profitable.
Increased price transparency could cause customers to perceive that the Group is less competitive 
than some other competitors.
Public sector buying groups could reduce sales if public bodies chose to buy direct from manufacturers. 
Disintermediation may become more of a threat if manufacturers decide to deal directly with end users.
The Group faces the risk of new entrants to any of its markets, including from businesses currently 
operating outside its industry or only in overseas markets. 
Adverse effect on financial results. Changes to market practice are tracked on an on-going basis and reported to the Board each month.
The Group is building multi-channel capabilities that complement its existing operations and provide its 
customers with the opportunity to transact with the Group through channels that best suit their needs.
Pricing strategies across the Group are regularly reviewed and where necessary refined to ensure they 
remain competitive.
The development of new, innovative and competitive supply solutions is a key strength of the Group. It works 
closely with customers and suppliers on a programme of continuous improvement designed to improve its 
customer proposition.
The Group’s strategy allows it to use sites flexibly. Alternative space utilisation models are possible,  
including maintaining smaller stores and implanting additional services into existing branches.
Information technology capabilities impact 
the Group’s ability to trade profitably
Inherent Risk: 
••
Trend:  
The Group depends on a wide range of complex IT systems, both in terms of the availability of 
hardware and the efficient and effective operation of software.
The rapid expansion of the Group together with an increasing demand for IT services, particularly as 
the Group embraces modern platforms such as multi-channel, updates its point of sale systems and 
develops its supply chain capabilities, could result in development programmes being delayed or new 
IT systems and change management systems not being successfully implemented.
Should a system become unavailable for an extended period either through deliberate act or through 
accidental failure it could impact the business’ ability to trade.
Incidents of sophisticated cyber-crime represent a significant and increasing threat to all businesses 
including the Group. A major breach of system security could result in disruption to systems and / 
or the theft and misuse of confidential data with consequential impacts on the Group’s reputation or 
ability to trade.
Adverse effect on financial results.
Adverse effect on the Company’s 
reputation.
The strategic demands of the business, the resources available to IT, the performance levels of key systems 
and IT security are kept under review by the Executive Committee. 
Plans that require continual investment in the IT infrastructure have been approved and are being 
implemented. Maintenance is undertaken on an on-going basis to ensure the resilience of group systems, 
with escalation procedures operating to ensure any performance issues are resolved at an early stage. 
The Group’s two data centres mirror each other with data processing capable of being switched from one site 
to the other. An IT disaster recovery plan exists together with a business continuity plan. Arrangements are in 
place for alternative data sites for both trade and consumer businesses. Off-site back-up routines are in place.
The Group has a data security committee responsible for monitoring and maintaining cyber security. 
In addition a programme of risk oriented reviews is undertaken to ensure the level of control around IT 
systems remains robust.
The Group has reacted to the increasing cyber threat by increasing the size of its team to deliver a 
comprehensive security architecture. Investments in best of breed solutions have been made that continually 
adapt to mitigate the risk associated with the most advanced threats. Furthermore, the Information Security 
team has the full support of senior management acting as an important gateway to ensure the development 
of new systems is performed according to industry standard security practices.
Colleague recruitment, retention and 
succession plans do not deliver the required 
skills and experience
Inherent Risk:  
•
Trend:
The ability to recruit, retain and motivate suitably qualified staff is an important driver of the Group’s 
overall performance.
The strength of the Group’s customer proposition is underpinned by the quality of people working 
throughout the Group. Many of them have worked for Travis Perkins for some considerable time, 
during which they have gained valuable knowledge and expertise.
The Group faces competition for the best people from other organisations. Ensuring the retention, 
proper development of employees and the succession for key positions is important if the Group is not 
to suffer an adverse effect on future prospects. 
Inability to develop and execute 
development and succession plans.
Competitive disadvantage.
The Group’s employment policies and practices are kept under regular review.
Staff engagement and turnover by job type is reported to the Executive Committee regularly and to the 
Board. Succession plans are established for the most senior positions within the Group and these are 
reviewed annually.
The Group’s reward and recognition systems are actively managed to ensure high levels of 
employee engagement.
A wide-range of training programmes are in place to encourage staff development, whilst management 
development programmes are available to those identified for more senior positions. 
Salaries and other benefits are benchmarked regularly to ensure that the Group remains competitive and 
the Group operates incentive structures to ensure that high performing colleagues are adequately rewarded 
and retained.
Inherent risk: High 
•••
 Medium 
••
 Low 
•
 Trend: Increasing  Static  Reducing 
66 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
Inherent Risk and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation
Market Conditions
Inherent Risk: 
•••
Trend: 
The Group’s products are sold to businesses, tradesmen and retail customers for a broad range of 
end uses in the built environment. The Group’s markets are cyclical in nature and the performance 
of those markets is affected by general economic conditions and a number of specific drivers of 
construction, RMI and DIY activity, including mortgage availability and affordability, housing transactions 
and the timing and nature of government activity to stimulate activity, net disposable income, house 
price inflation, consumer confidence, interest rates and unemployment.
A significant downturn in economic conditions or alternatively major uncertainty about the future 
outlook could affect the Group’s markets, levels of construction activity and the confidence levels of 
the Group’s customers, which could reduce their propensity to purchase products and services from 
the Group’s businesses.
Adverse effect on financial results. The Board conducts an annual review of strategy, which includes an assessment of likely competitor activity, 
market forecasts and possible future trends in products, channels of distribution and customer behaviour.
The Group maintains a comprehensive tracking system for lead indicators that influence the market for the 
consumption of building materials in the UK.
Significant events including those in the supply chain that may affect the Group are monitored by the 
Executive Committee and reported to the Board monthly by the Group CEO. 
Should market conditions deteriorate then the Board has a range of options dependent upon the severity 
of the change. Historically these have included amending the Group’s trading stance, cost reduction, lowering 
capital investment and cutting the dividend.
Competitive pressures place pressure on 
prices, margins and profitability
Inherent Risk: 
•••
Trend: 
Market trends, particularly in respect of customers’ preferences for purchasing materials through 
a range of supply channels and not just through the Group’s traditional competitors may affect the 
Group’s performance so making traditional branch based operations less relevant or profitable.
Increased price transparency could cause customers to perceive that the Group is less competitive 
than some other competitors.
Public sector buying groups could reduce sales if public bodies chose to buy direct from manufacturers. 
Disintermediation may become more of a threat if manufacturers decide to deal directly with end users.
The Group faces the risk of new entrants to any of its markets, including from businesses currently 
operating outside its industry or only in overseas markets. 
Adverse effect on financial results. Changes to market practice are tracked on an on-going basis and reported to the Board each month.
The Group is building multi-channel capabilities that complement its existing operations and provide its 
customers with the opportunity to transact with the Group through channels that best suit their needs.
Pricing strategies across the Group are regularly reviewed and where necessary refined to ensure they 
remain competitive.
The development of new, innovative and competitive supply solutions is a key strength of the Group. It works 
closely with customers and suppliers on a programme of continuous improvement designed to improve its 
customer proposition.
The Group’s strategy allows it to use sites flexibly. Alternative space utilisation models are possible,  
including maintaining smaller stores and implanting additional services into existing branches.
Information technology capabilities impact 
the Group’s ability to trade profitably
Inherent Risk: 
••
Trend:  
The Group depends on a wide range of complex IT systems, both in terms of the availability of 
hardware and the efficient and effective operation of software.
The rapid expansion of the Group together with an increasing demand for IT services, particularly as 
the Group embraces modern platforms such as multi-channel, updates its point of sale systems and 
develops its supply chain capabilities, could result in development programmes being delayed or new 
IT systems and change management systems not being successfully implemented.
Should a system become unavailable for an extended period either through deliberate act or through 
accidental failure it could impact the business’ ability to trade.
Incidents of sophisticated cyber-crime represent a significant and increasing threat to all businesses 
including the Group. A major breach of system security could result in disruption to systems and / 
or the theft and misuse of confidential data with consequential impacts on the Group’s reputation or 
ability to trade.
Adverse effect on financial results.
Adverse effect on the Company’s 
reputation.
The strategic demands of the business, the resources available to IT, the performance levels of key systems 
and IT security are kept under review by the Executive Committee. 
Plans that require continual investment in the IT infrastructure have been approved and are being 
implemented. Maintenance is undertaken on an on-going basis to ensure the resilience of group systems, 
with escalation procedures operating to ensure any performance issues are resolved at an early stage. 
The Group’s two data centres mirror each other with data processing capable of being switched from one site 
to the other. An IT disaster recovery plan exists together with a business continuity plan. Arrangements are in 
place for alternative data sites for both trade and consumer businesses. Off-site back-up routines are in place.
The Group has a data security committee responsible for monitoring and maintaining cyber security. 
In addition a programme of risk oriented reviews is undertaken to ensure the level of control around IT 
systems remains robust.
The Group has reacted to the increasing cyber threat by increasing the size of its team to deliver a 
comprehensive security architecture. Investments in best of breed solutions have been made that continually 
adapt to mitigate the risk associated with the most advanced threats. Furthermore, the Information Security 
team has the full support of senior management acting as an important gateway to ensure the development 
of new systems is performed according to industry standard security practices.
Colleague recruitment, retention and 
succession plans do not deliver the required 
skills and experience
Inherent Risk:  
•
Trend:
The ability to recruit, retain and motivate suitably qualified staff is an important driver of the Group’s 
overall performance.
The strength of the Group’s customer proposition is underpinned by the quality of people working 
throughout the Group. Many of them have worked for Travis Perkins for some considerable time, 
during which they have gained valuable knowledge and expertise.
The Group faces competition for the best people from other organisations. Ensuring the retention, 
proper development of employees and the succession for key positions is important if the Group is not 
to suffer an adverse effect on future prospects. 
Inability to develop and execute 
development and succession plans.
Competitive disadvantage.
The Group’s employment policies and practices are kept under regular review.
Staff engagement and turnover by job type is reported to the Executive Committee regularly and to the 
Board. Succession plans are established for the most senior positions within the Group and these are 
reviewed annually.
The Group’s reward and recognition systems are actively managed to ensure high levels of 
employee engagement.
A wide-range of training programmes are in place to encourage staff development, whilst management 
development programmes are available to those identified for more senior positions. 
Salaries and other benefits are benchmarked regularly to ensure that the Group remains competitive and 
the Group operates incentive structures to ensure that high performing colleagues are adequately rewarded 
and retained.
67 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Inherent Risk and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation
Supplier dependency could result in 
shortages of product
Inherent Risk: 
••
Trend: 
The Group is the largest customer to many of its suppliers. In some cases, those suppliers are large 
enough to cause significant supply difficulties to the Group if they are unable to meet their supply 
obligations due to either economic or operational factors. 
Alternative sourcing may be available, but the volumes required and the time it may take those 
suppliers to increase production could result in significant stock-outs for some considerable time.
The Group has become more reliant on overseas factories producing products as the Group has 
rapidly expanded its direct sourcing capabilities. This has increased the Group’s exposure to sourcing, 
quality, trading, warranty and currency issues.
There is a potential for European anti-dumping legislation to be extended to encompass further Asian 
countries which could increase the cost of some imported products.
Adverse effect on financial results.
Adverse effect on reputation.
The commercial and financial teams have established strong relationships with the Group’s key suppliers 
and work closely with them to ensure the continuity of quality materials.
To spread the risk where possible contracts exist with more than one supplier for key products. 
The Group has made a significant investment in its Far East infrastructure to support its direct sourcing 
operation which allows the development of own brand products, thereby reducing the reliance on 
branded suppliers.
Comprehensive checks are undertaken on the factories producing products and the quality and the 
suitability of that product before it is shipped to the UK.
Defined benefit pension scheme funding 
could increase significantly
Inherent Risk: 
••
Trend: 
The Group is required by law to maintain a minimum funding level in relation to its on-going 
obligations to provide current and future pensions for members of its two defined benefit 
pension schemes. 
The level of contributions required from the Group to meet the benefits promised in the final salary 
schemes will vary depending upon the funding position of those schemes.
The funding of pension obligations could increase due to a number of factors including poor 
performance of the pension fund investments, falling corporate bond and gilt yields and increasing 
longevity of pension scheme members.
Adverse effect on financial condition. All of the Group’s final salary pension schemes are closed to new members.
For the Travis Perkins scheme, pensionable salary inflation has been capped at 3% per annum.
The schemes’ investment policies are kept under regular review by the trustees in conjunction with the 
Group to ensure asset portfolios produce the desired level of return within an acceptable risk profile.
The Group has agreed deficit reduction payment plans for each of its defined benefit pension schemes 
with the Trustees of the schemes. The repayment plans will remain in place until the next actuarial 
valuation when, in conjunction with the Scheme Trustees, they will be reassessed to take into account the 
circumstances at the time. 
In 2015 the Group agreed with the Trustees to align future member contributions more closely to the cost of 
the accrual and in so doing capping the current service contribution of the Group. Notwithstanding this the 
Group remains exposed to movements in member longevity, the value of pension scheme investments and 
falling corporate bond and gilt rates.
Future expansion plans are not 
implemented or do not achieve the desired 
sales and profit improvements and funding 
liquidity is unavailable
Inherent Risk:  
•
Trend:
The Group’s strategic plans are predicated on the continued expansion of its UK branch network and 
the development of its supply chain capabilities. 
Large scale acquisitions in existing UK markets are unlikely due to the Group’s size and the resulting 
concerns of the competition authorities to ensure competitive markets. Therefore the Group will rely 
on developing smaller scale opportunities, in new catchment areas or in new formats within existing 
sites or on expanding into adjacent markets in which it does not have a presence.
The Group also needs to ensure that funding is available to support its plans. The Group has been 
reliant on the banking market for funding, a market that has contracted in recent years and which may 
continue to contract in the future. It established a bond issuance capability in 2014, but the availability 
of funds from that market at a sensible cost may depend upon the Group’s rating which can be 
affected by its trading performance.
Adverse effect on financial results. Responsibility for identifying and implementing opportunities to expand the Group’s operations rests with 
each of the divisional boards, with capital being deployed to those projects giving the best return on capital.
The Group has identified a significant number of opportunities for expansion throughout the United Kingdom 
and continues to develop alternative trading formats that will open up additional opportunities in future.
The Group continues to invest in its leading supply chain infrastructure. Its capabilities in this area allow it 
to source directly from manufacturers, offer superior availability to customers and operate cost efficient 
mechanisms to deliver products to customers when they most need them.
It is the responsibility of the treasury function to manage the Group’s liquidity, funding availability and 
treasury risk by reference to the policies and plans set out in the board approved funding strategy.
Regular reporting of a series of key metrics is designed to monitor treasury activities and maintain 
opportunities to diversify sources and access suitable funding.
Business transformation projects fail to 
deliver the expected benefits, cost more or 
take longer to implement than expected
Inherent Risk: 
••
Trend: 
The Group is undertaking a large number of strategic projects throughout its business. These projects 
are intended to transform the Group’s infrastructure and its information technology systems and to 
develop its supply chain operations and its branch and store networks.
By their nature, strategic projects are often complicated, interlinked and require considerable resource 
to deliver them. As a result the expected benefits and the costs of implementation of each project 
may deviate from those anticipated at their outset.
Adverse effect on financial results. All potentially significant projects are subject to detailed investigation, assessment and approval prior 
to commencement.
Dedicated teams are allocated to each project, with additional expertise being brought into the Group 
to supplement existing resource when necessary.
All strategic projects are closely monitored by the Executive Committee with regular reporting to 
the Board.
Plumbing and Heating business performance 
adversely affects Group returns
Inherent Risk: 
•••
Trend:  
The market supplying boilers to large contract customers, served by the PTS business, is  
highly competitive, offers low margins and certain manufacturers exercise a degree of control 
through disintermediation.  
Competition in the plumbing and heating (“P&H”) markets remains intense, with margins being 
adversely affected and is likely to continue to be so for the foreseeable future.
The provision of plumbing and heating product to the secondary P&H market, which is 
undertaken by F & P, is becoming increasingly competitive. 
Low margins, pressure on sales and a high fixed cost base mean the Plumbing & Heating 
business profit could be more muted than some of the Group’s other businesses.
Adverse effect on financial results The re-segmentation of the P&H business has been completed and has established CPS as a business 
serving the needs of the jobbing plumber, with PTS business focussing on the contract customer. 
Projects are underway to tailor branch processes in the PTS business to better meet the needs of 
contracting customers and improve the customer offer which should drive an increase in sales.  
The branch network of the F & P/Primaflow business is going through a major rationalisation programme 
to better meet the needs of customers, whilst reducing costs.
Greater focus is being placed on cost control and the introduction of improved systems.  In addition 
further capital investment is being made in showrooms to boost sales in the more profitable 
CPS business.
Inherent risk: High 
•••
 Medium 
••
 Low 
•
 Trend: Increasing  Static  Reducing 
68 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
Inherent Risk and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation
Supplier dependency could result in 
shortages of product
Inherent Risk: 
••
Trend: 
The Group is the largest customer to many of its suppliers. In some cases, those suppliers are large 
enough to cause significant supply difficulties to the Group if they are unable to meet their supply 
obligations due to either economic or operational factors. 
Alternative sourcing may be available, but the volumes required and the time it may take those 
suppliers to increase production could result in significant stock-outs for some considerable time.
The Group has become more reliant on overseas factories producing products as the Group has 
rapidly expanded its direct sourcing capabilities. This has increased the Group’s exposure to sourcing, 
quality, trading, warranty and currency issues.
There is a potential for European anti-dumping legislation to be extended to encompass further Asian 
countries which could increase the cost of some imported products.
Adverse effect on financial results.
Adverse effect on reputation.
The commercial and financial teams have established strong relationships with the Group’s key suppliers 
and work closely with them to ensure the continuity of quality materials.
To spread the risk where possible contracts exist with more than one supplier for key products. 
The Group has made a significant investment in its Far East infrastructure to support its direct sourcing 
operation which allows the development of own brand products, thereby reducing the reliance on 
branded suppliers.
Comprehensive checks are undertaken on the factories producing products and the quality and the 
suitability of that product before it is shipped to the UK.
Defined benefit pension scheme funding 
could increase significantly
Inherent Risk: 
••
Trend: 
The Group is required by law to maintain a minimum funding level in relation to its on-going 
obligations to provide current and future pensions for members of its two defined benefit 
pension schemes. 
The level of contributions required from the Group to meet the benefits promised in the final salary 
schemes will vary depending upon the funding position of those schemes.
The funding of pension obligations could increase due to a number of factors including poor 
performance of the pension fund investments, falling corporate bond and gilt yields and increasing 
longevity of pension scheme members.
Adverse effect on financial condition. All of the Group’s final salary pension schemes are closed to new members.
For the Travis Perkins scheme, pensionable salary inflation has been capped at 3% per annum.
The schemes’ investment policies are kept under regular review by the trustees in conjunction with the 
Group to ensure asset portfolios produce the desired level of return within an acceptable risk profile.
The Group has agreed deficit reduction payment plans for each of its defined benefit pension schemes 
with the Trustees of the schemes. The repayment plans will remain in place until the next actuarial 
valuation when, in conjunction with the Scheme Trustees, they will be reassessed to take into account the 
circumstances at the time. 
In 2015 the Group agreed with the Trustees to align future member contributions more closely to the cost of 
the accrual and in so doing capping the current service contribution of the Group. Notwithstanding this the 
Group remains exposed to movements in member longevity, the value of pension scheme investments and 
falling corporate bond and gilt rates.
Future expansion plans are not 
implemented or do not achieve the desired 
sales and profit improvements and funding 
liquidity is unavailable
Inherent Risk:  
•
Trend:
The Group’s strategic plans are predicated on the continued expansion of its UK branch network and 
the development of its supply chain capabilities. 
Large scale acquisitions in existing UK markets are unlikely due to the Group’s size and the resulting 
concerns of the competition authorities to ensure competitive markets. Therefore the Group will rely 
on developing smaller scale opportunities, in new catchment areas or in new formats within existing 
sites or on expanding into adjacent markets in which it does not have a presence.
The Group also needs to ensure that funding is available to support its plans. The Group has been 
reliant on the banking market for funding, a market that has contracted in recent years and which may 
continue to contract in the future. It established a bond issuance capability in 2014, but the availability 
of funds from that market at a sensible cost may depend upon the Group’s rating which can be 
affected by its trading performance.
Adverse effect on financial results. Responsibility for identifying and implementing opportunities to expand the Group’s operations rests with 
each of the divisional boards, with capital being deployed to those projects giving the best return on capital.
The Group has identified a significant number of opportunities for expansion throughout the United Kingdom 
and continues to develop alternative trading formats that will open up additional opportunities in future.
The Group continues to invest in its leading supply chain infrastructure. Its capabilities in this area allow it 
to source directly from manufacturers, offer superior availability to customers and operate cost efficient 
mechanisms to deliver products to customers when they most need them.
It is the responsibility of the treasury function to manage the Group’s liquidity, funding availability and 
treasury risk by reference to the policies and plans set out in the board approved funding strategy.
Regular reporting of a series of key metrics is designed to monitor treasury activities and maintain 
opportunities to diversify sources and access suitable funding.
Business transformation projects fail to 
deliver the expected benefits, cost more or 
take longer to implement than expected
Inherent Risk: 
••
Trend: 
The Group is undertaking a large number of strategic projects throughout its business. These projects 
are intended to transform the Group’s infrastructure and its information technology systems and to 
develop its supply chain operations and its branch and store networks.
By their nature, strategic projects are often complicated, interlinked and require considerable resource 
to deliver them. As a result the expected benefits and the costs of implementation of each project 
may deviate from those anticipated at their outset.
Adverse effect on financial results. All potentially significant projects are subject to detailed investigation, assessment and approval prior 
to commencement.
Dedicated teams are allocated to each project, with additional expertise being brought into the Group 
to supplement existing resource when necessary.
All strategic projects are closely monitored by the Executive Committee with regular reporting to 
the Board.
Plumbing and Heating business performance 
adversely affects Group returns
Inherent Risk: 
•••
Trend:  
The market supplying boilers to large contract customers, served by the PTS business, is  
highly competitive, offers low margins and certain manufacturers exercise a degree of control 
through disintermediation.  
Competition in the plumbing and heating (“P&H”) markets remains intense, with margins being 
adversely affected and is likely to continue to be so for the foreseeable future.
The provision of plumbing and heating product to the secondary P&H market, which is 
undertaken by F & P, is becoming increasingly competitive. 
Low margins, pressure on sales and a high fixed cost base mean the Plumbing & Heating 
business profit could be more muted than some of the Group’s other businesses.
Adverse effect on financial results The re-segmentation of the P&H business has been completed and has established CPS as a business 
serving the needs of the jobbing plumber, with PTS business focussing on the contract customer. 
Projects are underway to tailor branch processes in the PTS business to better meet the needs of 
contracting customers and improve the customer offer which should drive an increase in sales.  
The branch network of the F & P/Primaflow business is going through a major rationalisation programme 
to better meet the needs of customers, whilst reducing costs.
Greater focus is being placed on cost control and the introduction of improved systems.  In addition 
further capital investment is being made in showrooms to boost sales in the more profitable 
CPS business.
69 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 SECTION HEAD
70 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
CAPTURING THE WAY 
THINGS ARE DONE 
AROUND HERE
The power of the Group delivers great benefits. 
The multiple businesses within Travis Perkins plc 
capitalise on the abundance of different skills, knowledge 
and expertise and are the foundation for success.
STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
71 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Collaboration and Innovation
Together, the Group’s companies make up the largest 
distributor of building materials in the UK. Through greater 
collaboration and innovation, significant benefits have 
been achieved by creating new and better ways of serving 
customers in 2015. This will continue into 2016.
With great people and great brands, the Group will continue 
to look for ways to maximise these attributes to improve 
what it offers to customers.
This year has seen some exciting customer innovations 
across the Group. For example, the click and collect 
programme offered by Wickes and the service from 
Toolstation which now provides a sector-leading one hour 
turn-around.
The General Merchanting business launched its trade  
offers site and has extended the range available to 
customers through supply chain investments and the 
launch of the Benchmarx ‘selection’ centres has set it apart 
from its competitors.
Technology - Connecting People  
across the Group
Technology is increasingly influential within the businesses, 
helping colleagues to achieve the Group’s strategic 
objectives, as well as enabling the activities and successes 
outlined in this report.
Since the launch of Google within the Group, collaborative 
working has grown considerably through the different 
digital communication channels. In particular, Google+ 
communities are a great tool to enable colleagues to engage 
with each other, build their own content, have discussions, 
share information and learnings. Communities exist across 
many businesses and functions, as well as topic areas - 
just a few of these communities include ‘Eye on the Ball’, 
‘Fit for the Future’, ‘Women’s Community’, ‘Management 
Apprenticeship’ and ‘Omega ESP’ (Easy Supply of Product).
The ‘Eye on the Ball’ community gives colleagues the 
opportunity to connect with CEO, John Carter, sharing 
knowledge and successes from across the Group. 
Innovation is high on the Group’s strategic agenda and the 
‘Fit for the Future’ community provides a perfect channel for 
sharing new technologies from across the businesses that 
have improved efficiency, profitability and competitiveness. 
The ‘Omega ESP’ community provides branch colleagues 
with instant answers on product availability within the  
supply chain.
The ‘Management Apprenticeship’ community is open 
to all existing apprentices in the Group and helps those 
new to the business to integrate and settle in. There 
is also an externally focused community which has 
contributed to attracting double the number of applicants to 
apprenticeship schemes compared to previous years.
Technology - Helping to Source the  
Best People
The reach and influence of the Group’s in-house sourcing 
function has grown considerably over the course of the  
year. The multi-channel approach to sourcing and recruiting 
new talent has expanded, shaping the resourcing strategy 
and making the Group a market-leader. Social media 
channels now work alongside traditional recruitment 
advertising campaigns, recruitment fairs, school leaver 
and graduate events.
LinkedIn followers have increased by 114% over the last 
12 months and the number of times posts were viewed over 
the same period was 5.9m.
Candidates are also engaged through Twitter and  
Facebook, as these channels are used to source different 
pools of talent.
WeRecruit is the new recruitment system that has been 
developed in 2015, becoming live to the branch network in 
February 2016. This makes talent recruitment more efficient 
and easier to use for the management population and better 
enables internal candidates to connect with opportunities 
across the Group.
Investing in Early Career and  
Talent Pipelines
Investing in early career talent is integral to the success 
of the Group. Therefore the Group has focused its efforts 
in 2015 on delivering diverse, talented, early-potential 
colleagues into the recruitment pipeline, for all businesses 
and functions. This increase in investment supports  
the Group’s long standing passion for helping young 
people into work. The programmes operated include 
apprenticeships, traineeships, graduate and MBA 
programmes, the Duke of Edinburgh scheme, ‘young 
grafters’ and ‘fast track’ programmes.
A range of apprenticeship schemes is offered which leads 
to NVQ level 2/3 equivalent qualifications. In 2015 the 
first apprenticeships in HGV driving and in information 
technology were introduced. This year has seen the 
largest induction ever into a well-established management 
apprenticeship scheme, with 140 starters signing up to 
the latest programme and more than 50 graduating at a 
ceremony at Silverstone motor-racing circuit. These young 
people are the new, up-and-coming branch managers 
and leaders of the future. In September, there was an 
induction and graduation event for over 150 management 
apprentices - an event that was filled with energy, pace and 
determination to contribute to the success of the  
Group’s businesses. 72 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
All 15 entrants on to the 2014 FastTrack (high-calibre,  
high-potential) scheme successfully graduated during the 
year with all securing key roles in the Group’s businesses.  
This was the first ever group management training 
scheme of its type where the trainees work right across 
the businesses and, in view of its success, new groups of 
entrants were inducted onto the scheme in 2015.
The Group received a regional highly commended award in 
the 2015 BT Awards for Macro Employer of the Year. The 
2015 awards recognise excellence in businesses that grow 
their own apprentice talent and apprentices who have made 
a significant contribution to their workplace.  
The 200 regional finalists fought off competition from  
over 1,000 other entries made to the National 
Apprenticeship Service.
The creative use of social media (Twitter) by the group 
recruitment team to promote group apprenticeship 
schemes during the year was picked up by the Prime 
Minister’s Office Twitter feed and re-tweeted to its  
3m followers.
During the year the Group has forged links with agencies 
focused on supporting the employment of ex-military 
personnel and it is anticipated activity will increase in this 
area in 2016.
Workforce with a Difference
What does difference mean to the Group? It means 
sourcing and engaging people from different cultures, 
countries and backgrounds, with different educations, 
experiences, skills, genders, ethnicities, ages or religions.  
The Company’s view is that the more diversity there is, the 
better it is for business. 
The drive to build a ‘Workforce with a Difference’ 
started in July 2014 and since then this vision has been 
communicated widely to colleagues in internal magazines 
and at business conferences, head office events, MD Forums 
and the Group’s leadership conference in November. 
Each group business is now driving their specific plans, 
supported centrally with attraction campaigns, social media 
communities and development initiatives. 
In 2015, achieving a ‘Workforce with a Difference’ has 
remained high on the Group’s diversity agenda. The 
‘Women’s Community’ on Google+ was launched in 2014 as 
a hub for knowledge sharing, challenging existing practices 
and highlighting successful initiatives across the Group. It 
engages both male and female colleagues, with over 1,200 
members, and has instigated some very healthy debates 
as well as being a key influencer in some big changes in 
the Group. This has included changes to workwear for 
female colleagues through to improvements to working 
environment and employment policies. The ‘Women’s 
Community’ has been embraced by all the Managing 
Directors and over the course of the year they have shared 
their achievements and what the community means to each 
of their businesses.
During the year the Group is pleased to have appointed its 
first three female Managing Directors and its first female 
Operations Director, all of whom have contributed to the 
incremental, positive shift in the number of women in the 
Group’s senior management team.
Women in Senior Management
The Company’s first, all-female Duke of Edinburgh Award 
scheme was sponsored by the Group during the year with 
15 women successfully completing the programme.
After winning first place out of 70 commercial floats in 
2014, Wickes continued its commitment to diversity in 2015 
when colleagues in this business, again, organised a float for 
the August Manchester Pride carnival.
While gender diversity has been a focus of attention in 
the past two years, 2016 will see more focus on the wider 
diversity agenda.
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
Women in Senior Manaement
2014 2015
Year
23.2%
20%
STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Helping People Develop Themselves 
and Each Other
Over the past year there have been significant advances 
in people development. The Group’s online learning and 
development platform, iLearn, has been re-launched with 
a fresh, new look that gives colleagues the best chance 
to develop their own skills, at a time that suits them. 
iLearn houses over 500 courses and more than 1,000 
new development opportunities, and each of the Group’s 
businesses has their own home page that is tailored to their 
requirements.
From inductions to mandatory training and development 
programmes, iLearn is a one-stop shop for colleagues’ 
development needs. The Group received two awards at 
the e-Learning Awards 2015 in London - Best e-Learning 
Project in the Private Sector and e-Learning Team of  
the Year.
Rewarding Our People - Providing More 
Choice and Driving Engagement
The introduction of the Group’s online benefits hubs, 
myPerks Flex and myPerks Plus, in 2014 has enhanced 
the approach to compensation and benefits by providing 
more options and choice for colleagues. Throughout 2015, 
the range of benefits continued to grow and now includes 
discounted phones, childcare vouchers, healthcare plans, 
flexible life assurance and a wide range of special offers. 
In addition to the growth in benefits offered, colleague 
engagement with myPerks has also increased with 18,000 
now using the hubs. Not just a success internally, but 
also achieving recognition externally, myPerks received 
engagement excellence awards for Best Smarthub® 
Relaunch and Most Innovative Company Benefits at the 
Engagement Excellence Awards which aim to celebrate the 
best in employee engagement.
Further affirmation of the people practices within the Group 
was recognised at this year’s CRF Institute Top Employers 
awards. For the sixth consecutive year the Group was 
awarded the certification by the Institute, and this year 
achieved a ‘Top Ten’ recognition by the award organisers for 
the first time.
Individuals across the Group continue to be rewarded for a 
variety of reasons such as embodying the cornerstones and 
leadership framework, and continued loyalty through the 
award of long service milestones.
Developing Our Leaders
Senior leadership effectiveness is assured through a 
continuous review process that considers the long-term 
vision and direction of the Group and businesses, whether 
there are any new future requirements (eg product, 
customer routes to market, technology) and the specific 
business objectives that need to be delivered to achieve 
the Corporate plan. The twice-yearly reviews with each 
divisional CEO follows the framework outlined below;
Leaders’ performance and business results are reviewed 
formally by their line managers twice a year. The frameworks 
used to measure the performance of leaders at all levels 
and identify leadership potential, ensures a good balance 
on the ‘what’ (lifecycle stage of their business) and the ‘how’ 
(behaviours) that are required. Alignment of all leaders to 
the key leadership characteristics and group cornerstones is 
also critical for the future success of the Group.
During the year a number of forums were run for senior 
leaders, where guest speakers stimulated debate and 
learning on key, current business issues.
There is also a full range of well-established programmes 
for developing branch managers and senior leaders that run 
regularly throughout the year.
Corporate Plan Destination
Business Growth and 
Development Cycle Position
Leadership Demand 
Summary =
73 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 SECTION HEAD
74 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
In addition to developing and growing existing leaders a 
further 43 new leaders joined the Group from external 
businesses during 2015, each one bringing a wealth of 
different experiences to share and add value. 
Each was selected because of what they can do to help 
grow the Group’s businesses but, most importantly, because 
they will go about their work in the right Travis Perkins 
Group way because they fit with the Group’s leadership 
model and cornerstones.
WHAT MAKES US GREAT
Develop relationships
at all levels
HOW 
I LEAD
• Visible and approachable 
• Listen and show interest in 
people 
• Praise people and develop 
them to be great
• Use a range of styles to 
influence 
• Keep the customer at the 
centre of everything we do
Think broadly and make 
timely decisions
HOW 
I THINK
• Seek out market trends and 
use them to make decisions 
that generate profit
• Take a longer term and group 
wide view
• Think about my whole business
• Know when to use rigorous 
analysis or gut feel
• Consider risk and the impact 
for us 
• Make reasoned decisions in 
ambiguous situations
Be passionate about 
improving performance
HOW 
I DELIVER
• Challenge the way we do things 
• Passionately pursue 
opportunities for growth
• Tackle poor performance
• Get the right things done with 
pace and energy 
• Know the competition and 
keep on improving
Have the courage to 
lead as myself
WHO 
I AM
• Down to earth – our people 
value honesty
• I am comfortable in my own 
skin – we appreciate genuine 
people who can have fun
• I am confident in my own 
knowledge – our customers 
value our expertise
• I am humble – arrogance 
doesn’t work in our business
• I am resilient – we overcome 
obstacles and keep on going
• I am self-aware – we ask the 
right questions of ourselves 
and learn from our mistakes
OUR CORNERSTONES 75 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Charities and Communities
Colleagues continue to be known for their unparalleled 
enthusiasm for engaging in a wide variety of charitable 
causes and community activities with a range of 
beneficiaries. Fundraising activities alone last year 
raised £1.5 million.
During the year, Keyline broke the £1m barrier for its 
fundraising activities in recent years in support of Prostate 
Cancer UK. In addition, Wickes’ eight-year collaboration 
with the blood cancer charity, Bloodwise (previously known 
as Leukaemia & Lymphoma Research), broke the £5m 
fundraising mark.
Another high spot during the year included the support of 
the Andrew Simpson Sailing foundation and 1851 Trust 
which enabled over 1,000 disadvantaged, nine to fourteen-
year-old children to realise their first experience of sailing. 
The opportunity for the Group to support this worthy cause 
arose as a result of its official partnership with the Americas 
Cup World Series in Portsmouth during the summer of 2015.
Concluding Commentary
This section opened by acknowledging the power of the 
Group and the way it uses collaboration and technology to 
underpin its success and it is appropriate to conclude by 
highlighting further the areas that glue the Group together. 
At Group level today there is a shared focus in the  
following areas: 
•  Cornerstones and leadership model –  
i.e. ‘the way things are done around here’
•  ‘Workforce with a Difference’ - achieving the 
diversity agenda
•  Attracting and retaining – ensuring the business  
has high-calibre talented colleagues
•  Developing and rewarding - to ensure colleagues 
are engaged and motivated 
The behaviours needed to underpin this shared focus are 
reinforced through awards. At the annual conference, those 
leaders and colleagues who, in the opinion of their peers, 
have demonstrated the behaviours valued by the Group are 
recognised and rewarded. 
Because of the Group’s complexity, a balance is struck 
between group-led people initiatives for the shared 
challenges faced, versus business/brand specific activities 
which are addressed locally. These are driven by growth 
plans, the change and transformation agenda or customer-
specific challenges. Focus, flexibility and cost are weighted 
highly in the choices the Group and its businesses make - 
but always with a better end result for customers in mind.
OUR SHARED SUCCESSES - CHARITY PARTNERSHIPS
Giving something back and making decent returns
Why this matters
£1.5  
MILLION
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT 76 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
Statutory Reporting Requirement for Gender Diversity
           F       M       Total
Number % Number % Number %
Central Services 773 46.7% 881 53.3% 1,654 100%
Consumer Division 3,599 34.7% 6,772 65.3% 10,371 100%
Contracts 597 18.2% 2,686 81.8% 3,283 100%
General Merchanting 1,037 12.4% 7,310 87.6% 8,347 100%
Plumbing & Heating 716 18.2% 3,223 81.8% 3,939 100%
Supply Chain 107 13.2% 705 86.8% 812 100%
Grand Total 6,829 24.0% 21,577 76.0% 28,406 100%
         F         M           Total
Number % Number % Number %
Director 2 25.0% 6 75.0% 8 100%
Senior Manager 164 23.2% 543 76.8% 707 100%
Colleague 6,663 24.1% 21,028 75.9% 27,691 100%
Grand Total 6,829 24.0% 21,577 76.0% 28,406 100%
Ashley Sawyer  – Wickes, Rugby Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
77 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Chris Bailey  – Toolstation SECTION HEAD
??. SECTION continued
Since its inception in 2008, Stay Safe has resulted in real 
improvements in safety performance particularly in the 
early years, however improvement had slowed and what 
was a recognised and characteristic plateau in the Group’s 
performance needed to be addressed. So this year the 
Group has evolved its Stay Safe programme and language.
The Group recognises that good safety and good business 
leadership and behaviours are indistinguishable from each 
other. Importantly, whilst safety is rated equally with other 
management responsibilities and all decisions balance the 
needs of employees, customers and other stakeholders, any 
employee who is uncomfortable or unsure about their own 
or other’s safety, is empowered to STOP work, seek help, 
raise a concern or escalate issues.
The Group believes in the power of making things simple, 
avoiding bureaucracy and safety for safety sake and by 
applying a few simple principles relentlessly as a group it 
can achieve extraordinary health and safety results.
The new Group Stay Safe principles are designed to 
encourage engagement, underpin and guide everyone’s 
thinking and action throughout the Group:
TALK POSITIVEL Y, about safety, health and wellbeing:
•  Talk about the value safety adds at work and at home 
and the immediate, positive and certain consequences for 
doing the right thing
• Talk about health and wellbeing as much as safety
•  Talk to the customer to make safety part of the  
Group’s service
CHALLENGE RESPECTFULL Y
•  If in any doubt, stop, challenge others, colleagues, 
customers and suppliers
• Ask questions rather than criticise
•  Recognise that mistakes are part of being human  
and most often these are unintentional, apply  
‘Just / Fair Culture’
COLLABORATE OPENL Y
•  Share your story, report incidents, near misses or 
good ideas
•  Consult the end user and consider the impact of your 
decisions on others
• Celebrate the Group’s safety success
STAY SAFE 
REPORT
THE GROUP’S APPROACH
Keeping people safe is a cornerstone of the business.  
The Group’s underlying philosophy that ‘all those affected  
by our business should return home safe and well at the  
end of every day’, remains unchanged.
STRATEGIC REPORT
78 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
Stay Safe Governance
Throughout 2015 Stay Safe activity was reviewed by the 
Stay Safe Committee, in addition to Stay Safe performance 
being reviewed at board meetings, executive committee 
meetings and also as part of the Group’s regular divisional 
board meetings.
November saw the retirement of the existing Chairman of 
the Stay Safe Committee, Andrew Simons. The incoming 
Chairman of the Committee, Pete Redfern commented:
“On behalf of the Executive Committee and the Board 
I would like to thank Andrew Simon for his dedication and 
hard work in instigating the Stay Safe programme and in 
laying some strong foundations for Stay Safe in the Group. 
I look forward to working with the executive and Stay 
Safe function to build on his work in the coming years to 
reporting continued improvement in the Group’s  
safety performance.”
The Group Stay Safe Committee has reviewed the risk 
profile of the business and established a number of leading 
Stay Safe objectives relating to:
•  Implementation of divisional Stay Safe strategy, aligned to 
the group Stay Safe vision
• Further de-risking of the Group’s operations 
• Manual handling
• Driver behaviour
Progress against these objectives will form part of the 
Remuneration Committee’s overall assessment of executive 
performance next year. 
Stay Safe Performance
In last year’s report the Group noted a plateau effect in 
recent lost time frequency rates. For 2015 Travis Perkins 
saw a 22.6% drop in the lost time frequency rate. This 
positive trend is supported by a 40.7% reduction in the 
severity frequency rate. This means that despite a significant 
increase in workforce numbers the Group’s absolute 
number of days lost overall is down from 6,527 (2013) to 
5,640 (2014) to 3,918 in 2015, representing an estimated 
reduction in the cost of lost days of £860,000 on 2014.
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
Jan 14
Feb 14
Mar 14
Apr 14
May 14
Jun 14
Jul 14
Au 14
Sep 14
Oct 14
Nov 14
Dec 14
Jan 15
Feb 15
Mar 15
Apr 15
May 15
Jun 15
Jul 15
Au 15
Sep 15
Oct 15
Nov 15
Dec 15
Group Lost Time Injury Frequency Rates
Current Rollin Year
Previous Rollin Year
Month
79 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information 80 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
In previous years the Group has reported on its Safe Branch 
measure, branches where:
• No lost time injuries have been reported
•  Near misses are being reported using our online 
reporting system
•  The Group’s internal audit team has not given the branch 
a red or amber rating on its most recent Stay Safe audit
In 2015, 43% of the Group’s branches that were assessed 
achieved this benchmark. The Group recognises that 
whilst obtaining Safe Branch status is an achievement it 
also needs to continually challenge the baseline for this 
benchmark and ‘raise the bar’ in terms of expectation 
for what makes a truly safe branch. With this in mind the 
Group has reviewed its performance measures with a 
view to focusing on a new suite of ‘leading’ or ‘input’ based 
indicators for 2016 and beyond.
Following the implementation of a new incident reporting 
system in March near misses for the Group have increased 
by 142%. The new system is accessible online via a phone 
app and has been well received by staff who now find it 
much easier to report incidents and near misses.
In May the Group’s Tool Hire business was awarded 
“SafeHire Company of the Year” (over 5 outlets) as part of 
the industry’s Hire Awards of Excellence 2015. The award 
is for the company which can best demonstrate how it 
maintains compliance to the SafeHire Standard and has 
improved the health, safety and well-being of its workforce 
and / or users of hired or owned equipment. The judges 
commented on the Group’s entry:
“The winner, who is a first time entrant, and in the words 
of Chief Assessor, Jim Maccall, “truly deserve this honour, 
because their enthusiasm and desire to achieve SafeHire 
compliance was magnificent at all their depots”.
The Group also continues to lead in the transport arena, 
maintaining gold accreditation as part of the Fleet 
Operators Recognition Scheme (FoRS) for the fifth 
consecutive year. As well as continuing to champion 
the Construction Logistics and Cycle Safety (CLOCS) 
programme which brings together developers, construction 
companies, operators, vehicle manufacturers and regulatory 
bodies to ensure a road safety culture is embedded across 
the construction industry.
INNOVA TION & COLLABORA TION 
The Group’s businesses continue to take the Stay Safe 
philosophy and translate this into specific actions that are 
tailored to their operations and the safety issues that they 
face. Some of the activity completed in 2015 and planned 
for 2016 includes:
Case studies from 2015
Just/Fair Culture
In 2015 the Group adopted and implemented the Just/
Fair Culture model as a management tool to encourage 
reporting and to help investigation identify the root cause of 
incidents. The model provides a simple framework, setting 
clear expectations of how colleagues treat each other so 
that the Group can better learn from incidents and near 
misses. Further work will continue in 2016 to embed 
this model.
Would others 
have done the 
same in the same 
circumstances?
Informed about 
procedures?
Does the person 
have a history of 
contravening the 
procedure?
Deficiency in 
selection, training 
or experience?
Were the  
procedures clear, 
workable and 
correct?
Was damage, 
loss or injury  
the intended 
outcome?
START
Was the action 
deliberate?
Negligence 
or reckless 
contravention for 
personal benefit
Possible violation  
or lapse in  
attention
Violation caused  
by the system
Error or poor 
judgement
Error caused 
by the system
Routine error 
by individual
Routine error 
by Group
Disciplinary 
Action
Action required, 
might be 
disciplinary
Fix the system / 
supervision
Retrain or 
coach with 
mentoring
Corrective 
actions / fix 
the system
Corrective 
training / 
coaching
Fix the system
Diminishing Culpability (in all case, document the outcome)
No No Yes
No Yes
Yes Yes Yes
Yes No
No No
No Yes STRATEGIC REPORT
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Transport Safety
In 2015 Travis Perkins joined forces with 3D Driving 
Awareness to support safety in the local community through 
the ‘Wheels & Skills’ programme. A group sponsored safety 
truck will be on hand to show young adults the hazards on 
the road and educate on the effects of drink & drug driving. 
The truck has all of the safety features Travis Perkins has 
on its fleet, 4 way CCTV cameras, fresnel lens, white noise 
reverse alarm & handbrake alarm. 
Recently students from West Derby College near Liverpool 
were invited to the Omega (Warrington) site, each student 
had a ride in the truck which included wearing a pair of beer 
goggles to show the effect of drink-driving. The students 
really engaged with the day and took a lot away with them. 
In 2016 the safety truck aims to visit over 130 schools, 
colleges and universities. 
General Merchanting 
The ‘What Great Looks Like’ programme has focused on 
designing risk out from new and refurbished Travis Perkins 
branches, using a set of standard design requirements 
that are tailored to each location that cover everything 
from traffic management to material storage, staff welfare 
to customer behaviour. A review of the first 19 branches 
completed show a 75% reduction in accidents compared to 
the traditional estate. As well as continuing the What Great 
Looks Like Capital investment programme the business 
is also seeking to implement some of the lower cost and 
behavioural solutions across all branches in 2016.
Contract Merchanting
Following near miss reports and Branch visits, the 
Commercial Team have been working with Celotex, CCF 
Carlisle and Peterborough to change the way Celotex 
product is supplied. Product over 100mm thick is now 
completely shrink wrapped, meaning it is now easier and 
safer to transport, store and handle. Celotex are working 
on a solution for thinner products and anticipate having a 
similar solution in 2016. 
Celotex have also listened to concerns regarding pallet 
heights and will be trialling a “split lift” in the coming 
months. Changing the way a supplier packages their 
products is not a fast process nor is it easy to do. Celotex 
have had to invest heavily in changing the way the products 
come off the production line but by working together 
collaboratively the supply chain is made safer for the Group 
and its customers. 
Plumbing & Heating
The Building the Best programme resulting in over 230 
branch changes was a key change programme for the 
Division. 2015 saw a continued focus on front line Stay  
Safe initiatives to support this change programme to  
embed grass roots behavioural safety in the branches.  
Initiatives include:
•  Stay Safe calendar, designed to engage all the branch 
team in stay safe activities
•  Driver’s days, where all senior leaders spend time out with 
our delivery drivers as part of our reality check
•  Branch & Warehouse Day, for all senior leaders to spend 
the whole day going back to the floor! 
•  Regular branch Stay Safe meetings and a full team 
meeting on 26 June, when all branches closed at 3pm to 
ensure quality time devoted to Stay Safe
•  Design and specification of new delivery vehicles
•  Use of EPOD for completing daily vehicle checks and to 
take and share pictures of deliveries
81 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Darren Cassidy  – Primaflow, Lancashire STRATEGIC REPORT
PLANNED ACTIVITY FOR 2016
De-risking the Group’s operations
•  Work will continue through the “What Great Looks Like” 
programme to design risk out of Travis Perkins branches 
complimented in the Group’s other divisions through 
Building the Best and new format Wickes.
•  The Group will be revisiting the foundations of its 
safety programme with a new risk assessment process, 
encouraging greater colleague engagement in local 
improvement activity. Similarly its manual handling 
programme will evolve to focus more on eliminating 
lifting rather than simply training colleague to lift safely. 
Both programmes are practically based in branch and use 
front line colleagues to solve problems. The programme’s 
effectiveness will be measured by the output in terms  
of improvement activity rather than simply the volume  
of attendees.
•  The Group’s drivers spend much of their time working 
alone and dealing with a variety of operational challenges 
delivering to complex sites and demanding customers. 
By using a revised suite of driving and driver behaviour 
measures and utilising the newly created Driver Coaches 
role, the Group aims to better target interventions with  
this key group of colleagues.
Health & Wellbeing
The Group will partner with Public Health England as 
they launch ‘One You’ a major ‘national behaviour change 
programme encouraging, empowering and enabling people 
to protect and improve their health.’ The programme will 
focus on seven areas of health and wellbeing and link to 
both internal and external resources to assess individual 
health and support needs. The programme also links to 
related colleague benefits available via MyPerks.
82 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Jordon Berry – CCF, Leeds STRATEGIC REPORT
All those affected by our 
business should return 
home safe and well at the 
end of every day
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
83 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 SECTION HEAD
The Group’s approach to environmental sustainability 
is deliberately nuanced between doing the right thing, 
leadership and maximising current opportunities for 
commercial reward. Directionally, the Group looks to work 
by investing in the right behaviours as much as the right 
equipment and is instinctively collaborative. It gets a return, 
right now, on its environmental investment as well as 
making it more resilient in the future.
The Group is not energy intensive, nor does it have 
a readymade end consumer audience from which to 
understand better building requirements. Its main role is 
that of a distributer: positioned between builder and product 
manufacturer, with a large fleet of vehicles and a large 
logistics capability as well as global sourcing programme 
and lots of small community based branches. 
Engagement and Materiality
The Group undertook a major check on its stakeholders in 
2015 as well as continuing with its valuable Non Executive 
Environmental Advisory Panel and work with industry 
bodies and non-governmental organisations (‘NGO’). 
The check-up was refreshing, revealing and at the same 
time reassuring. Customers, colleagues, investors, suppliers, 
academics, NGOs and regulators were polled and the Group 
got some very clear messages.
The Group’s environmental performance matters to them, 
they want it to tackle wastefulness and Greenhouse Gas 
(GHG) emissions and absolutely see it involved in solutions 
for reducing construction and product impact across 
product life cycles. A desire to be clearer about water 
impacts was also evident. 
A Word on Governance
The Group’s approach to sustainability works because 
there is leadership from within the Divisions as well as 
stewardship from the CEO. This model allows integrated 
decisions to be made and for sustainability to be managed 
in much the same way as any other business priority. 
There are now better supply chain partnerships, resource 
efficiency and customer service. The Group’s work is 
based on a set of shared values and these have become 
coded into its cornerstones. It is useful to consider the 
material environmental issues within the context of these 
cornerstones. The five cornerstones are Making Decent 
Returns, Keeping People Safe, Upholding Family Values, 
Working for our Customers and Being the Best. 
Making Decent Returns
How can the Group grow in size and yet shrink its 
carbon emissions?
Travis Perkins recognises that it must play its part in 
reducing carbon emissions to avoid dangerous climate 
change and its consequences. The Group has set itself the 
target to reduce its carbon intensity (tonnes of CO
2
 per 
million pounds of sales) by 28% by 2020 compared to 
2013. To do this, it must achieve what is in many ways the 
holy grail of carbon emissions from business – to continue 
to grow the business while at the same time reducing the 
Group’s carbon footprint.
Such a ‘decoupling’ is entirely feasible. Indeed, reducing 
energy use makes sense economically as well as 
environmentally, so is a major focus of attention for the 
Group. By using less electricity, heating oil, gas and vehicle 
fuel, it can reduce carbon emissions significantly. In addition 
for every tonne of carbon, litre of diesel or kilowatt hour of 
electricity it does not use, there is a corresponding financial 
benefit that can work straight through to the bottom line. 
The Group is making progress in several ways. 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
REPORT
Minimising environmental impacts and footprints makes the  
Group more responsible, more profitable and more resilient.
84 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT
Over half of the carbon emissions under the Group’s
1
 
direct control are from its transport fleet. This is perhaps 
not surprising given that it has the UK’s biggest owner-
operated fleet with around 4,000 vehicles on the road and 
responsibility for up to 9,000 drivers. The Group has two 
main areas of focus for reducing fuel use and emissions 
from transport. Through education and behaviour change, 
the Group has been able to reduce the emissions from 
the existing fleet. The Group also trials and uses new 
technology so that further improvements in efficiency and 
economy can be achieved. Ensuring that delivery routes 
are the most efficient possible helps reduce mileage and 
emissions, and the Group is looking at alternative fuels and 
has started trialling a new biogas powered tractor unit which 
travels between Northampton and Wakefield. 
An important aspect of the Travis Perkins energy strategy is 
to improve the lighting of its offices and stores through the 
installation of LED lamps. Over 90 new stores were opened 
in 2015, all of which were fitted with LED lighting.
The Group is also working to increase its use of 
renewable energy through solar panels. Efforts to reduce 
carbon emissions in the Group’s head office began with 
engagement and behavioural change programmes to 
ensure everyone is using energy more efficiently and 
contributing to saving carbon by switching lights and 
computers off when not in use. After ensuring everything 
possible was being done to reduce consumption, solar 
panels, provided by one of the Group’s own businesses, 
Solfex, were installed to Ryehill House in Northampton in 
2015, making it the first Travis Perkins office able to produce 
its own energy.
Travis Perkins is also making efforts to reduce energy use in 
its many branches. Launched in 2014, the ‘Constant Energy 
Conversation’ challenges Wickes store managers and their 
colleagues to think more actively about conserving energy. 
Each store manager, deputy and key holder undertakes an 
energy management e-learning course, leading to an energy 
management qualification from the Energy Managers 
Association. During 2015, 57 members of staff completed 
the course. Store managers who have completed course are 
encouraged to join the Wickes online energy community, 
to continue the ‘Constant Energy Conversation’ with their 
colleagues throughout Wickes and the Travis Perkins Group. 
Combined, these initiatives have helped to reduce the Group’s 
overall tonnage of carbon emissions from 206,587 in 2014 
to 204,490 in 2015 including one notable achievement of an 
11% reduction in emissions from electricity use. The table on 
page 86 outlines the performance in 2015 compared to the 
Group’s 2014 performance. 
0
12.5
25
37.5
50
2013 2014 2015 2020
Tonnes CO
2
e per £m of deﬂated sales
Travis Perkins PLC CO
2
e Emissions
21.1
18.6
19.5
17.8
19.2
28.5
16.2
Year
Enery Combined taret Transport
2015 data is Office of National Statistics deflated figures. It uses best available 
financial data at the time the report was produced.
Ryehill House, Northampton
85 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
1  This report includes data for companies where Travis Perkins plc has operational control. It excludes activities and data relating to the Mosaic Tile Company Limited (49%), 
Toolstation Europe Ltd (49%), Toriga Ltd (49%) and Staircraft (15%).
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information 86 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
The Group has considered direct GHG emissions  
(Scope 1) and indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) from all 
activities and operations where it has operational control 
over the business.
The Group has reported on all of the emissions sources 
required under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report 
and Directors Reports) Regulations 2013. Scope 1 and 
2 emissions are calculated using the UK Government 
Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2015
2
. 95% 
of Scope 1 and 2 data is from measured sources
3
 with the 
remainder extrapolated from expenditure on fuel.
Supplying building materials on such a large scale means 
that there are many opportunities to improve waste 
management, increase recycling and recovery rates and 
minimise waste to landfill. In 2015, the Group diverted 
42,767 tonnes of waste, resulting in a diversion rate of 88%. 
However, as depicted in the graph, 2015 proved to be a 
challenging year with an overall increase of waste generated 
as result of a number of factors including the addition of 
approximately 48 new sites, including a new 700,000 
square foot primary distribution centre, two new regional 
distribution centres, closure of 3 distribution centres (which 
involved disposing of unwanted/damaged product) and 
improved data accuracy as a result of appointing a new 
waste contractor.
As the Group approaches its goal of being a zero waste 
to landfill business by the end of 2017, finding ways to 
improve increasingly requires imagination and creativity. 
While the Group is fully committed to reducing waste and 
reuse and recycling wherever possible it is aware that its 
overall recycling rate remains lower than many of the major 
customers to which it supplies products. The Group intends 
to start looking closely at how they are achieving higher 
recycling rates (over 95% in some cases) to see what it can 
learn and apply to its own operations. 
One way the Group is making progress is through its 
partnership with Recipro – a web-based exchange for 
surplus materials – which allows surplus materials and 
dead stock from branches to be matched with local 
community groups, charities and local schools who require 
building materials. The partnership delivers notable benefits 
to everyone involved: the Group can reduce waste sent to 
landfill while community groups and charities can access 
quality materials at little cost.
Travis Perkins’ waste partnership with SUEZ has also yielded 
some excellent results, with several technologies and 
systems being used to move waste up the waste hierarchy 
and away from traditional landfill disposal. The guiding 
principle is a circular economy in which all materials used 
to make products are recycled or recovered back into the 
economic cycle.
Another example is the long term partnership SUEZ has 
entered with CEMEX to supply solid recovered fuel (SRF), 
as an alternative to coal, to its Rugby cement plant and to 
others across Europe. A dedicated waste treatment (SRF) 
processing plant has been built by SUEZ next to the CEMEX 
Rugby cement plant to supply the fuel, which is made 
from general waste. Travis Perkins’ offices and stores in 
the Midlands region are now sending waste to the plant for 
processing into SRF.
Can the Group Really Send Nothing to Landfill?
Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO
2
e) Tonnes
Comparison year 2014 Reporting year 2015
Scope 1 
Direct emissions from burning gas and solid fuel for heating and 
from road fuel use for distribution
4
132,295 138,859
Scope 2 
Indirect emissions from the Group’s use of electricity
74,292 65,631
Intensity
5
 
Tonnes of Co
2
e from scope 1 and 2 sources per million pounds of 
inflation adjusted sales
37.24 35.42
2  F ugitive emissions from domestic refrigeration, vehicles and building air conditioning have been excluded in 2013 as they were not material to the Groups overall emissions.
3  10% of the energy data is estimated due to supplier data provision constraints.
4 Scope 1 CO
2
e emissions include 27,907 tonnes from buildings and 110,951 tonnes from transport.
5  Carbon intensity is referenced to turnover, which is adjusted to allow for inflation, relative to baseline year. It uses best available financial data at the time the report was produced.
STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
0.0
2.0
5.0
7.0
10.0
Tonnes of waste per £m of yard sales 
and core sales
Travis Perkins Waste Tonnae
2013 2014 2015
Year
6.1
1.5
7.5
0.9
8.9
1.2
Landﬁll
Diverted 
from landﬁll
2015 data is Office of National Statistics deflated figures. It uses best available 
financial data at the time the report was produced. A proportion of the Group’s waste 
data is estimated.
Does Travis Perkins’ Water Footprint Really Matter?
Although the Group is not a water-intensive business, its 
operations nonetheless have a significant demand for water, 
ranging from water required for wash basins and toilets 
in offices and stores, to water used for cleaning its hire 
equipment after use.
Several of the Group’s businesses offer hire solutions for 
customers, creating a need to clean returned tools and 
equipment after use and before being re-hired. To help 
reduce the water required, wash racks have been installed, 
allowing equipment to be washed down in a secure unit, 
which both recycles water and prevents run-off. Water 
passes through a series of filters and absorbent pads 
remove hazardous oils and sediments, before being stored 
in hazardous waste containers. This results in the final water 
being clean and safe and reducing any risk of polluted 
run-off entering drains and local rivers and watercourses. 
Initiatives such as this have helped reduce water 
consumption across the estate from 373,482 cubic metres 
in 2014 to 336,404 cubic metres in 2015.
Travis Perkins was one of the first, and remains one of 
relatively few, companies in the UK to voluntarily disclose 
information on water risks and use to CDP (formerly 
Carbon Disclosure Project). One of the many benefits of 
participating in CDP’s water program is that it improves 
understanding of the Group’s vulnerability to water-related 
risks. For example, over 99% of Travis Perkins’ total water 
footprint comes from suppliers’ water use
6
, so the Group’s 
main challenge in the years ahead is to ensure its global 
supply chain is resilient to water shortages that could lead 
to temporary or permanent restrictions of certain products.
Analysis of the water impacts associated with the goods 
and services that the Group procures (see ‘How can the 
Group positively influence its suppliers?’ section below) 
has helped reveal product categories that might require 
increased water resilience in the future. The Group is 
also introducing an expectation that all suppliers in water 
intensive sectors will need to provide an Environmental 
Product Declaration (EPD) to quantify the water impact, 
among other environmental data. 
How Does Environmental Performance 
Affect Travis Perkins’ Bottom Line?
Implementation of environmental improvement measures, 
as described in the previous sections, is not just good for 
the environment. It also has a direct financial impact on the 
Group, which it quantifies each year to identify competitive 
advantage and improved profitability. In 2015, environmental 
improvement measures accounted for over £7 million  
of savings. 
87 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Pete Clowsley - Travis Perkins, Shrewsbury
6  Vitalmetrics completed a supply chain screening exercise by product category, for further information please visit www.vitalmetricsgroup.com. 88 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
UPHOLDING FAMIL Y VALUES
0
15
30
45
60
Incidents & complaints
Travis Perkins Environmental Incidents and Complaints
12
27
11
28
13
40
2013 2014 2015
11
10
Taret
Year
Non-reportable
incidents & complaints
Reportable incidents
& complaints
What does Travis Perkins do When Things go Wrong?
The Group utilises over 9,000 suppliers, giving it the 
opportunity to positively influence the environmental 
awareness and performance across a diversified supply 
chain. The Travis Perkins Supplier Manual, updated in 2015, 
describes what the Group expects of them, and what they 
can expect of the Group.
A major initiative planned for 2016 is to better communicate 
the Group’s values to its suppliers in the form of clear 
policies and expectations. This will include asking for more 
help with reducing resource and energy use, challenging 
product design to lower lifetime impacts and asking for 
increased disclosure in the Group’s most resource-intense 
categories.
The Group relies on 1,235 own-brand factories, operating in 
51 countries, to supply goods to its businesses. Assessing 
these factories’ technical and environmental performance 
is extremely important, and thorough auditing procedures 
are in place. In 2015, 380 factories were visited and 
assessed. Where issues were identified, either at the point 
of manufacture or when goods were received at the Group’s 
central warehouse in the UK, positive action was taken. 
Travis Perkins believes in working with suppliers to solve 
problems and to ensure that its environmental standards 
are met. In a few cases, stronger measures are sometimes 
needed, and the Group is not afraid to take those steps.
Over the last few years the Group has been working hard 
to better understand the energy, greenhouse gas, water and 
waste performance of its suppliers, and to openly share 
and report that data. The objective is to encourage more 
cooperation between suppliers and to lead the way for 
the UK building materials industry. In 2014, Travis Perkins 
commissioned VitalMetrics to undertake an extensive 
analysis of the greenhouse gas, water, energy and waste 
impacts associated with the goods and services that it 
procures. In 2015, this research was recognised by the USA 
Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council (SPLC), which 
presented VitalMetrics with its Supplier Leadership Award.
The results of this research, completed in 2015, give the 
Group a comprehensive overview of the environmental 
impacts of its supply chain. For example, scope 3 carbon 
emissions represent by far the largest share of the total 
carbon emissions of Group operations, accounting for 97% 
of its carbon footprint.
7
For a business as large and diverse as Travis Perkins, and 
despite continual improvements to site management 
policies and procedures, it is a huge challenge to eliminate 
environmental incidents completely.
The Group recorded eleven incidents in 2015 that, although 
minor, required a discussion with environmental regulators. 
Regulators contacted the Group about abandoned shopping 
trolleys and littering on two isolated occasions. It was also 
contacted about elevated sediment limits in its effluent at one 
site caused by its failure to empty the sites drain interceptor.
The Group volunteered information about spillages that may 
have impacted local water quality eight times. Of these, four 
were due to non-Group vehicle leakages on or near its sites. 
All spillages were contained quickly thanks to continued 
good awareness and operating procedures. All were small in 
nature involving hydraulic oil, diesel or paint. The Group was 
not prosecuted in 2015 for any environmental offences and 
there are no ongoing cases with any environmental regulator.
How can Travis Perkins Positively Influence its Suppliers?
7   Vitalmetrics completed a supply chain screening exercise by product category, for further information please visit www.vitalmetricsgroup.com
STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT
WORKING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
Travis Perkins owns and manages one of the UK’s largest 
networks of sites that operate with Chain of Custody 
controls. These controls allow business to pass responsible 
sourcing assurances on to its customers.
For over a decade the Group has been steadily increasing 
the quantities of responsibly sourced material. The creation 
and enhancement of habitats, biodiversity, landscapes, flood 
protection and carbon sinks is possible through responsible 
forest management.
The Group procures timber from over 45 countries 
worldwide, and estimates that in 2015, 97% of the timber 
purchased was Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or 
Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification 
(PEFC) certified. When timber is imported, the Group 
ensures country-level traceability, with forest-level 
traceability for products for which the risk is deemed higher. 
During 2015 Travis Perkins worked to increase the number 
of incidental timber suppliers who have Chain of Custody 
controls by offering them a discounted service, and by 
declining to do business with suppliers who have not.
The Group is always open to working with organisations 
able to provide intelligence that helps inform purchasing 
decisions. It has been a member of WWF’s Global Forest 
and Trade Network (GFTN) in the UK since 2003. All 
GFTN members are committed to progressively sourcing 
forest products from well managed sources. In 2015, Travis 
Perkins was among the top performers of companies 
assessed, achieving the maximum score of ‘three trees’.
Where does Travis Perkins’ Timber Come From?
0%
25%
50%
75%
100%
Timber purchased (£)
Travis Perkins Timber and Timber Product Purchases
18
75
0
96
16
81
13
84
2013 2014 2015 2017 Taret
Year
FSC
Other certiﬁed
89 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information 90 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
How can Travis Perkins Contribute to a 
Low Carbon Built Environment?
As the need for new homes in the UK continues to increase, 
one of the key challenges will be ensuring those that are 
built are as energy efficient as possible. 
As the biggest distributor of building materials in the UK, the 
Group is ideally placed to help improve the environmental 
performance of new and existing homes and buildings 
across the UK. Because of this, it established Sustainable 
Business Solutions (SBS) in 2010 to provide integrated 
solutions for low carbon construction, energy efficient 
buildings and renewable energy projects.
Since its inception, SBS has adopted a fabric-first approach 
to developing and delivering products, recognising that 
the first-and most important step in building low carbon 
housing is to design in excellent heat retention, achieved by 
good insulation. More recently, SBS has also begun to offer 
renewable energy technologies to customers, including air 
and ground source heat pumps as well as solar  
panel solutions.
Knowledge-sharing and technical services have been 
added to the SBS offer and in 2015 the business introduced 
its Renewable Heat Incentive (RHI) e-learning modules. 
This online training enables installers to meet their RHI 
installation requirements.
Another important development during the year was the 
Group’s acquisition of a majority stake in the Underfloor 
Heating Store. The new business gives the Group access to 
online and retail customers, complementing its trade-only 
specialist supplier of solar heat, solar power, underfloor 
heating and heat pumps, Solfex Energy Solutions. 
There are major opportunities for the Group to ensure 
that new, low carbon technologies are made more widely 
available throughout the construction industry. SBS, Solfex 
and the Underfloor Heating Store all played an important 
role in 2015 in helping to deliver these solutions across a 
broad range of customer groups, underpinning the Group’s 
commitment to sustainable construction. 
How is Travis Perkins Taking Back What 
Customers Don’t Want?
The construction industry produces around 100 million 
tonnes of waste annually, about a third of all waste produced 
in the UK. As the biggest distributor of building materials in 
the UK, it makes sense that a certain amount of this waste 
relates to Travis Perkins’ packaging or surplus products. In 
order to reduce construction waste, it is hence important 
that the Group is not only limiting its own waste, but that it 
uses its size and influence to help its customers improve 
their recycling rates too.
One way in which this can be achieved is through the 
waste take-back partnerships with major clients, which are 
currently being trialled. When the Group delivers building 
materials to a client’s site, it takes back the resulting 
packaging waste to one of its distribution centres’ recycling 
centres. This allows it to make the most efficient use of 
the return journeys of its fleet, making it easier for clients 
to recycle; all they need to do is separate different types of 
waste for collection.
Since 2012, Travis Perkins has also operated a kitchen 
and bathroom waste collection service for customers 
requiring an installation project. The scheme, introduced 
in partnership with Hippo, aims to ensure that waste from 
installations is appropriately disposed of and that a high 
percentage of it is diverted from landfill. Depending on 
the size and type of project, Wickes (via Hippo) will either 
provide a van collection service or Hippo bags of the 
appropriate size to be filled on site. As a result, an estimated 
95% of the old kitchens are now being recycled rather than 
landfilled, with over 23,000 Wickes’ installation projects are 
expected to have benefitted from the service in 2015 alone.
In 2015 the Group launched a paint take-back scheme, 
in partnership with construction and property services 
firm Willmott Dixon and recycled paint supplier Paint 360, 
to help reduce waste paint sent to landfill. Through the 
scheme, waste paint is collected directly by Paint 360, to 
be recycled into new high quality paint ready for resale 
by Travis Perkins businesses. This scheme embodies the 
principles of the circular economy, and shows how the 
construction sector can shift to a model in which waste is 
reduced and materials reused to save resources.
STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
BEING THE BEST
How is Travis Perkins Leading The Way?
The Group has a responsibility to operate and act in a way 
that demonstrates leadership across all areas of business 
including environmental performance.
For example, the Group supports the sharing of knowledge 
and expertise on sustainability through the Leadership 
Intelligence Club, a partnership between BRE and Sustain 
Worldwide. Created to pool expertise and insights from 
industry leaders, the partnership identifies sustainability-
related issues of industry importance and drives 
improvement in best practice.
The current research focus of the Leadership Intelligence 
Club is the sustainable and resilient procurement of 
materials and products in the construction industry. By 
being a member of this partnership Travis Perkins Group 
demonstrates its commitment to sustainability and to 
working towards a sustainable supply chain. By sharing 
expertise and supporting a collaborative approach, the Group 
also helps sustainable procurement solutions and practices 
to spread more quickly across the industry.
In 2015, the Group’s new Omega Warrington Distribution 
Centre was opened, which demonstrates best practice in 
many areas of environmental management and achieved a 
BREEAM
8
 ‘Very Good’ score. Among the sustainable features 
that allowed the building to attain this score are a series 
of measures designed to reduce energy use and carbon 
emissions, minimise water consumption and encourage 
more sustainable travel habits. 
The sustainable solutions implemented at Omega, such as a 
rainwater harvesting system and solar panels not only help 
the Group reduce its impacts on the environment, but also 
lower the cost of running the building. Several measures 
were also adopted to encourage more sustainable forms of 
transport, including; charging points for electric cars, showers, 
bike shelters and lockers for cyclists.
In 2015 Travis Perkins was a finalist for three Sustainability 
Leadership Awards, one relating to its customer waste 
partnership with Crest Nicholson, one for energy 
management and another or carbon management.
91 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
8   The Buildings Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Methodology. GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
92 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Craig Sharples and Sharon Walrong - Travis Perkins plc, Warrington GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
93 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE 
& REMUNERATION
94   The Board, Committees and advisers
98  Corporate governance report
104 Audit Committee report
110 Directors’ remuneration report
126 Nominations Committee report
128 Directors’ report
132 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 94 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
THE BOARD, COMMITTEES
& ADVISERS
Chairman
Robert Walker
Robert Walker was appointed as a Non-executive Director of Travis Perkins plc in 
2009 and became Chairman in 2010. He is also Chairman of Enterprise Inns plc 
and Eagle TopCo.  He was previously Chairman of WH Smith, Williams Lea, British 
Car Auctions, and Americana International Holdings; and was Senior Independent 
Director of Tate and Lyle plc.  Robert has served on various FTSE 100/250 Boards, 
including Wolseley, BAA, Signet, Thomson Travel Group and Severn Trent, where he 
was Group Chief Executive.  He has also served as adviser to Cinven.  He started his 
career at Procter and Gamble and Mckinsey & Co., then spent over 20 years with 
PepsiCo, culminating as a Division President. He is Chairman of the Nominations 
Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee. 
Chief Executive
John Carter
John Carter joined Sandell Perkins as a management trainee in 1978. He held 
a number of regional management positions, before being appointed Managing 
Director, Operations in 1996, and a director of Travis Perkins plc in July 2001. He 
became Chief Operating Officer in February 2005 and Deputy Chief Executive 
in December 2011. He was appointed Chief Executive on 1 January 2014. He is a 
trustee of the Building Research Establishment. He is a member of the Stay Safe 
Committee and chairman of the Executive Committee.
Chief Financial Officer
Tony Buffin
Tony Buffin was appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 8 April 2013. He is a 
chartered accountant and was previously with the Wesfarmers Group in Australia 
where he was Chief Financial Officer of the Coles Group from 2009. Prior to that,  
he was Chief Executive Officer of the Loyalty Management Group. He is a member 
of the Executive Committee. Tony is also non-executive director of the Dyson  
family businesses.
BOARD 95 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Non-Executive Director
Ruth Anderson
Ruth Anderson was appointed as a non-executive director in 2011. She is a  
non-executive director of Ocado plc, Coats Group plc, The Royal Parks - an 
executive agency of the Department of Culture, Media and Sport, and a trustee 
of the charity, the Duke of Edinburgh’s Award. She is a chartered accountant, and 
held a number of positions in KPMG (UK) from 1976 to 2009, being a member 
of its board from 1998 to 2004 and Vice Chair from 2005 to 2009. She is 
chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Stay Safe Committee 
and the Nominations Committee.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Non-Executive Director
Coline McConville
Coline McConville was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 February 2015. 
Coline is currently a non-executive director of TUI AG, Inchcape PLC, Fevertree Drinks 
PLC, and UTV Media PLC and was formerly a non-executive director of Wembley 
National Stadium Limited, Shed Media PLC and HBOS PLC, and a global advisor and 
director of Grant Thornton International Limited. Previous to that Coline was Chief 
Operating Officer and Chief Executive Officer Europe of Clear Channel International 
Limited. She holds an MBA from Harvard Business School, where she was a Baker 
Scholar. Coline is a member of the Remuneration Committee and took over as 
chairman from 1 November 2015 following the retirement of Andrew Simon.  
Coline is also a member of the Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee.
Non-Executive Director
Pete Redfern
Pete Redfern was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 November 2014. He is 
currently Chief Executive of Taylor Wimpey plc and is also a chartered accountant. 
Pete was previously Chief Executive of George Wimpey plc and prior to that, he held 
the roles of Chief Executive and Finance Director of its UK housing division. Pete is 
a member of the Stay Safe Committee and took over as chairman from 
1 November 2015 following the retirement of Andrew Simon. He is also a member 
of the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee of the Board. 96 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS (Continued)
Secretary
Audit Committee
Remuneration Committee
Nominations Committee
Stay Safe Committee
Deborah Grimason
Ruth Anderson (Chair) 
Coline McConville , Christopher Rogers, John Rogers
Coline McConville (Chair) 
Pete Redfern, John Rogers, Robert Walker
Robert Walker (Chair) 
Ruth Anderson, Coline McConville, Pete Redfern , Christopher Rogers, John Rogers
Pete Redfern (Chair) 
Ruth Anderson, John Carter, Robert Walker
Non-Executive Director
John Rogers
John Rogers was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 November 2014 and 
is currently Chief Financial Officer of J Sainsbury plc and a member of the board 
of Sainsbury’s Bank plc. During his career at Sainsbury’s he has held the posts of 
Property Director, Director of Group Finance and Director of Corporate Finance. 
Prior to joining Sainsbury’s, John held a variety of financial, operational and strategy 
roles. John is a member of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and the 
Nominations Committee.
COMMITTEES
Non-Executive Director
Christopher Rogers
Christopher Rogers was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 September 2013. 
He is a chartered accountant, Managing Director of Costa Coffee and a director of 
Whitbread PLC, of which he was Group Finance Director from 2005 to 2012. He was 
Group Finance Director of Woolworth Group PLC from 2001 to 2005 and previously 
held senior roles in both finance and commercial functions in Comet Group PLC 
and Kingfisher PLC. He was also a non-executive director of HMV Group PLC from 
2006 to 2012. Chris is the Senior Independent Director and a member of the Audit 
Committee and the Nominations Committee. 97 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
John Carter Chief Executive and Committee Chairman 
Tony Buffin Chief Financial Officer
Norman Bell Group Innovation & Strategy Director
Frank Elkins CEO, Contracts Division
Deborah Grimason Company Secretary & General Counsel 
Andrew Harrison COO, General Merchanting Division
Carol Kavanagh Group HR Director
Simon King Wickes Managing Director 
Martin Meech Group Property Director
Neil Pearce Interim IT Director
Robin Proctor Group Supply Chain Director
Paul Tallentire CEO, Plumbing & Heating Division
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
ADVISERS
Investment Bankers / Advisers HSBC Bank plc
Corporate Brokers Citibank, JP Morgan Cazenove
Solicitors Linklaters LLP, London  
  Herbert Smith LLP, London
Auditor KPMG LLP, London
Registrar Capita Registrars, Beckenham GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
98 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE 
REPORT
UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE
The following pages explain how the Company has applied 
the principles and provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate 
Governance Code (“the Code”) during 2015. Since the 
following pages might appear somewhat ‘boiler plate’, 
despite our best efforts, I would like to make the following 
points as introduction:
•  Following the appointment of Coline McConville as a 
non-executive director in February, the three-year process 
of succession planning for both executive and non-
executive directors is now complete. Andrew Simon’s 
tenure as a director completed in October and his 
responsibilities as senior independent director and his role 
as chairman of the Remuneration Committee and of the 
Stay Safe Committee were taken by Chris Rogers, Coline 
McConville and Peter Redfern respectively.
•  In the first year of joining a board, some absences from 
meetings are inevitable; particularly when the non-
executive director concerned has full time executive 
responsibilities. This was indeed the case in 2015, 
although all absences were notified by the individual 
concerned well in advance of his or her joining the Board. 
Going forward, this will be less of an issue.
•  As I mentioned in last year’s report, our initiative of 
having individual non-executive directors (including 
myself) mentoring or adopting businesses and functions 
within the Group was lapsed due to changes in Board 
membership. This has now been reinvigorated and each 
non-executive has been allocated responsibility for key 
businesses or central functions. We plan to rotate these 
assignments every year or so.
•  An internal evaluation of the Board’s performance was 
conducted this year in a fully open and transparent 
process. The Board was judged to be performing well, 
despite the fact that in many respects it is a relatively 
‘new’ Board. Conclusions and recommended actions from 
the review are summarised on page 101.
•  We welcome extensive and regular engagement with our 
shareholders on both business and governance matters. 
We held two separate presentation days covering the 
Group’s property and supply chain functions. These have 
proved to be very helpful in giving closer insights into the 
Group’s competitive strengths.
•  On governance, the Group engages early and with as 
wide a range of shareholders as possible. During 2015, we 
contacted our top 20 investors. Meetings were held with 
four. We remain disappointed that many holders chose 
not to engage, on the basis that they had no governance 
concerns. From our perspective, we always prefer to have 
a regular annual discussion.
The following pages summarise the Company’s governance 
practices by reference to the five main sections of the Code.  99 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
1. Leadership
At 31 December 2015 the Board was made up of six  
non-executive directors (including myself as Chairman) 
and two executive directors. Chris Rogers is the Senior 
Independent Director. The Board has a schedule of matters 
reserved to it, which is reviewed annually. Revisions were 
made in December 2015 to:
•  Raise to £10m the level of disposal requiring  
Board approval
•  Require board approval for transactions involving related 
parties and for class transactions under the Listing Rules
• Make clearer and to conform with updated guidance.
The Board’s key responsibilities are for overall Group 
strategy, policy on corporate governance, approval 
of expansion plans and major capital expenditure, 
consideration of significant financial and operational matters 
and the Group’s exposure to key risks. It also reviews the 
strategy of the individual businesses, the annual budget and 
progress towards the achievement of the budget and long 
term objectives. Legislative, environmental, health and safety 
and employment issues are also considered. 
The Board has approved a written statement of the division 
of key responsibilities between the Chairman, and the 
Chief Executive and a statement of the role of the Senior 
Independent Director. These are reviewed annually and no 
changes were made in 2015.
The Company maintains directors & officers’ insurance 
in respect of the risk of claims against directors. This is 
reviewed annually and has not been changed in 2015. 
All directors have direct access to the Company Secretary 
/ General Counsel and may take independent professional 
advice in the furtherance of their duties if necessary.
I agree the agenda for board meetings in conjunction with 
the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary / General 
Counsel. Agendas are based upon an annual plan, but also 
include matters of particular interest or concern to the 
Board at any particular time. 
I monitor the information provided to the Board to ensure it 
is sufficient, timely and clear.
I generally contact all the Non-executive Directors in 
advance of Board meetings, to suggest the key issues for 
discussion. In particular I discuss the meeting papers with 
any director who is unable to attend, to obtain that director’s 
views. At the meetings, as Chairman, I ensure that each 
director is able to make an effective contribution within an 
atmosphere of transparency and constructive debate. 
Between Board meetings I maintain frequent direct contact 
with the Executive Directors and keep the non-executive 
Directors informed of material developments. I held a 
number of meetings during the year with all the  
Non-executive Directors, without the Executive Directors 
being present. 
Board Meetings
The Board held nine scheduled meetings in 2015. Three 
meetings considered the Group’s long term strategy. Four 
meetings included either visits to parts of the Group’s 
operations or presentations by senior executives on their 
areas of responsibility. One meeting included a visit to the 
operational site of a major supplier. Non-executive directors 
also made individual visits to operational sites. In addition 
to the regular board meetings, key financial information is 
circulated to the Directors outside of meetings. 
The Company typically sets its meeting dates for any 
year 15-18 months prior to the start of the year and liaises 
closely with Non-Executive directors in setting meeting 
dates for any year to ensure so far as possible that clashes 
with external commitments are avoided.
Directors are always provided with the opportunity to attend 
meetings by video or telephone conference if the issue 
is one of location and travel. If, despite that, a Director is 
unavoidably absent from a Board or Board Committee 
meeting they still receive and review the papers and provide 
verbal or written input to the Chairman so that their views 
are made known and considered at the meeting.
Commitments at other organisations with a 31 December 
year end (e.g. Taylor Wimpey) inevitably lead to diary 
congestion during the full and half year results season, 
particularly within the first year of appointment, since it 
takes some time to get diaries in sync. The Company’s 
practice is therefore to hold the related Audit Committee 
a week prior to the Board and to invite non-members so 
that Directors unable to attend the full Board meeting can 
consider and discuss the papers in a group forum. 
Pete Redfern was appointed on 1 November 2014 and was 
unable to attend three meetings in 2015. Two meetings 
clashed with his Taylor Wimpey board commitments, and 
one with personal commitments.
The clashes were identified during the recruitment and on 
boarding process and initially there were a greater number 
of clashes for 2015. Wherever possible, either the clashing 
Taylor Wimpey or Travis Perkins meeting was moved, but it 
proved impossible to find a workable alternative date for the 
three meetings he missed.
John Rogers was appointed also on 1 November 2014 and 
was unable to attend two meetings in 2015, one due to a 
clash with J Sainsbury Audit Committee & Board meetings 
and one, whilst he attended the seven week Advanced 
Management Programme at Harvard Business School. 100 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Board Committees
The Group has five Board Committees: the Audit 
Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations 
Committee, the Stay Safe Committee and the Executive 
Committee, which operate within defined terms of reference, 
which are reviewed annually. Summaries of these are 
available on the Company’s website or may be obtained 
from the Company Secretary. The minutes of committee 
meetings are circulated to all the Directors. 
The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive 
and its members are listed on pages 97. Other executives 
are invited to attend from time to time in relation to specific 
matters. The main purpose of this Committee is to assist 
the Executive Directors in the performance of their duties in 
relation in particular to:
•  Strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures  
and budgets
• The monitoring of operational and financial performance
• The assessment and control of risk
• The prioritisation and allocation of resources
2. Effectiveness
None of the specific circumstances set out in Code 
provision B.1.1 apply and the Board is satisfied that all the 
Non-executive Directors are independent. 
Given the significant changes to Board composition 
which had taken place over the past three years and the 
Company’s ambitions for growth presented to investors at 
the 2013 Capital Markets day, the issue of orderly Board 
succession is of critical importance. A period of transition 
and handover of between nine and twelve months between 
Andrew Simon and the recently appointed directors 
who have assumed membership and chairmanship of 
Committees in his place was considered to be necessary 
and in the best interests of investors and accordingly the 
Board decided to extend Andrew’s term of office until  
31 October 2015.
Appointments of new directors are made by the Board on 
the recommendation of the Nominations Committee. I chair 
that Committee and all the other members are independent 
non-executive directors. A report of the Committee’s work in 
2015 is on pages 126 to 127.
Appointments of non-executive directors
The Company’s policy is to recruit people of the highest 
calibre, with a breadth of skills and experience appropriate 
for the Company’s business. The Group’s businesses both 
trade and retail, are trading businesses. The Group supports 
the principles of the Davies Review and the need for a 
diverse board, although it does not intend to commit to 
specific quotas. The Group uses search firms who abide by 
the voluntary code of conduct which followed the Davies 
PLC Board 
No.
Audit 
No.
Remuneration 
No.
Nomination 
No.
Stay Safe 
No.
Number of meetings 9 5
4
3 1 3
Attendances:
R. Anderson 9 5 - 1 3
A. Buffin
3
9 - - - -
J. Carter
3
9 - - - 3
C. McConville
1
9 5 3 1 -
P. Redfern 6 - 2 0 2
C. Rogers 9 5 - 1 -
J. Rogers 7 5 2 0 -
A. Simon
2
6 - 1 1 2
R. Walker
3
9 - 3 1 3
1
 
Appointed 1 February 2015 
2
 
Retired 31 October 2015 
3
 
Although not a member of the Audit Committee has attended 5 meetings during the year  
4
 
All Audit Committee members also attended a meeting at which audit tender presentations were made by participating firms
The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each director (in whole or in part) during the year is detailed  
in the table below. 101 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Review. The Board diversity policy is summarised in the 
Nominations Committee Report.
Non-executive directors are appointed for a period until 
the third AGM following election, at the end of which the 
appointment may be renewed by mutual agreement. It 
is the Board’s policy that non-executive directors should 
generally serve for six years (two three-year terms) and that 
any term beyond this should be subject to a rigorous review. 
This review takes into account the need for progressive 
refreshing of the Board, maintenance of a balance of skills 
and experience and the particular requirements of the 
Company at the time of the possible extension. 
Non-executive directors do not have a service contract, 
but each has received a letter of appointment. These 
appointments expire on the following dates, and the length 
of service at that date is also shown.
The letters of appointment will be available for inspection 
at the Annual General Meeting (“ AGM”). Coline McConville 
joined the Board on 1 February 2015 Coline is a non-
executive director of Inchcape PLC, TUI AG, Fevertree Drinks 
PLC and UTV Media PLC. Andrew Simon retired from the 
Board on 31 October 2015.
Induction
The Group has an induction process for new directors, which 
is facilitated by the Company Secretary / General Counsel. 
In particular, this includes a programme of meetings 
with senior management in both operations and central 
functions, and visits to a range of branches and stores. 
I ensure that all directors receive appropriate training on 
appointment and then subsequently as required, taking into 
account the need to update their skills and their knowledge 
of the Company’s business. Non-executive directors are 
also regularly provided with information on forthcoming 
legal and regulatory changes and corporate governance 
developments, and briefings on the key risks facing the 
Company, including those identified in the Statement of 
Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 65 to 69.
Evaluation of Board Performance
Each year, the Board undertakes an evaluation of its 
performance and the performance of its Committees and 
individual directors. The Board’s policy is to engage an 
external facilitator to assist this process every three years. 
In 2007, 2011 and in 2014, the Board’s performance was 
reviewed externally by Egon Zehnder. 
Turning to 2015 the Board carried out an internal review 
of its performance. This entailed each director completing 
a questionnaire about the performance of the Board and 
its Committees, followed by individual conversations with 
me. I presented my report to the Board in December 2015. 
Additionally, the Non-executive Directors led by the 
Senior Independent Director conducted a review of my  
own performance. 
As a result, the Board determined that it had effectively 
managed the achievement of the Company’s objectives 
during the year, that the mix of knowledge and skills among 
Board members was appropriate, and that the Board  
worked cohesively. 
For 2016, the following areas for focus, among others, 
were identified:
•  The balance of strategic vs. operational issues on  
the agenda
•  Develop a clear process and timeline for future Board  
and senior executive succession
• Board ownership of the risk management process
• Driving quality improvements in Board information
In 2016, an internal review of the Board’s performance will 
once again be conducted. 
Re-election
At the AGM, all directors will submit themselves for 
election or re-election as appropriate. As a result of the 
Board evaluation exercise, as Chairman I am satisfied that 
each director continues to show the necessary level of 
commitment to the Group, and has sufficient time available 
to fulfil his or her duties, to justify their election or re-
election. The other directors, in a process led by the Senior 
Independent Director, have reached a similar view with 
regard to my own re-election.
The Board believes that there is presently a blend of skills 
and experience among the Non-executive Directors which 
is appropriate for the Group. The skills required for the 
Board include experience in the merchanting and retail 
sectors, capital project and M&A evaluation, as well as the 
essential understanding of financial controls and  
accounting. An understanding of information technology 
is increasingly important.
3. Accountability
A review of the performance of the Group’s businesses 
and the financial position of the Group is included in the 
Strategic Report on pages 5 to 91. 
Ruth Anderson May 2018 (6 years 7 months)
Coline McConville May 2018 (3 years 4 months)
Pete Redfern May 2018 (3 years 7 months)
Christopher Rogers August 2016 (3 years)
John Rogers May 2018 (3 years 7 months)
Robert Walker May 2018 (8 years 8 months) 102 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
The Board uses it to present a full assessment of the 
Group’s position and prospects, its business model, 
and its strategy for delivering that model. The directors’ 
responsibilities for the financial statements are described on 
page 132. 
Going Concern
After reviewing the Group’s forecasts and risk assessments 
and making other enquiries, the Directors have formed a 
judgement at the time of approving the financial statements, 
that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group and 
the Company have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for 12 months from the date of signing 
this Annual Report and Accounts. For this reason, they 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
In arriving at their opinion the Directors considered:
• The Group’s cash flow forecasts and revenue projections
• Reasonably possible changes in trading performance
•  The committed facilities available to the Group and the 
covenants thereon
•  The Group’s robust policy towards liquidity and cash  
flow management
•  The Group management’s ability to successfully manage 
the principal risks and uncertainties outlined on pages  
65 to 69 during periods of uncertain economic outlook 
and challenging macro-economic conditions 
Internal Control 
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal 
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. In the design 
of the system of internal control, consideration has been 
given to the significant risks to the business, the probability 
of these risks manifesting themselves and the most cost 
effective means of controlling them. The threat posed by 
those risks, and any perceived change in that threat, is 
reviewed half yearly by both the Executive Committee and 
the Board. The system manages rather than eliminates risk 
and therefore can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The day-to-day operation of the system of internal control 
is delegated to Executive Directors and senior management, 
but the Audit Committee discuss internal controls on a 
regular basis. The system of internal controls is reviewed by 
the Board in a process that accords with the FRC Guidance 
“Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial & 
Business Reporting”.
Risk Assessment 
It is the responsibility of the Board to establish the risk 
framework within which the Group operates.  The Board and 
the Executive Committee review the risk register twice and 
the risk appetite once in each year. Members of the Audit 
Committee also receive reports of Internal Audit reviews.  
If appropriate, these reports include recommendations 
for improvement in controls or for the management 
of those risks. Measures to integrate risk management 
processes into the Group’s operations, to extend awareness 
of the importance of risk management and to ensure 
that recommended improvements are implemented, are 
regularly reviewed and refreshed.
As part of its viability review, the outcome of which is set out 
on page 63, the Board considered the principal risks and 
uncertainties and mitigating factors set out on pages 65 to 
69. 
Senior executives and managers are asked, each year, to 
confirm the adequacy of internal controls in their areas 
of responsibility, identify any control weaknesses, and to 
confirm the accuracy and completeness of information 
given to the directors and to the external auditors. . 
In conjunction with the Audit Committee, the Board has 
carried out an annual review of the overall effectiveness  
of the system of internal control and risk management,  
during the year and up until the date of approval of this 
Annual Report. 
Audit Committee and Auditors 
The Board has established an Audit Committee consisting 
of four independent non-executive directors. Its key 
responsibilities and a description of its work in 2015 are 
contained in its report, which is set out on pages 104 to 108. 
4. Remuneration 
The Board has established a Remuneration Committee 
consisting of the Chairman and three independent non-
executive directors. Its responsibilities include remuneration 
policy, a review of the performance of executive directors 
prior to determining their remuneration and the approval of 
incentive arrangements, including performance criteria. The 
remuneration of the non-executive directors other than the 
Chairman is determined by the Chairman and the executive 
directors and Remuneration Committee determines the 
Chairman’s fee. No director plays a part in the discussion 
about his or her own remuneration. 
The Committee’s key responsibilities and a description of its 
work in 2015 are contained in its report, which is set out on 
pages 110 to 131.  103 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
5. Relations with Shareholders
The Company encourages two-way communication with 
both its institutional and private investors and responds 
promptly to all enquiries received. Each year, the Company 
reviews its strategy for engaging with shareholders. In 2015, 
the Executive Directors and I, either separately or together, 
attended a large number of meetings with analysts, and with 
shareholders. 
In 2015 the Group held two investor briefing events, both 
of which were attended by more than 50 investors, equity 
analysts and debt providers. These events provided an 
overview of the Group’s approach to property and supply 
chain. Copies of the presentations are available in the 
investor relations section of the Group’s website at  
www.travisperkinsplc.co.uk. The Board is provided regular 
updates on discussion with shareholders and equity 
analysts. In addition, reports about the Company published 
by equity analysts or brokers are circulated to all directors.
The Group makes the Senior Independent Director 
available as a direct contact for investors and shareholders, 
if they wish. However, no meetings have in fact taken 
place between the Company’s investors and the Senior 
Independent Director due to lack of appetite for such 
meetings among the investors, and accordingly the 
Company has not complied with provision E.1.1 of the 
Code in this respect. As regards governance issues, as 
Chairman I aim to meet with major shareholders shortly 
after the previous year’s Annual General Meeting. These 
meetings are deliberately timed early in the year so that the 
Board can consider and respond to shareholder concerns 
well in advance of the following year’s annual report and 
shareholder meeting. I normally contact the Group’s 20 
largest shareholders to ensure the widest consultation 
possible and particularly, given market volatility, to ensure 
that the views of any shareholder which substantially 
increases its stake during the year have been fully taken into 
account. In 2015 few shareholders chose to engage, on the 
basis that they had no governance concerns. The Board’s 
view is that Group would always prefer to have a regular 
annual discussion.
As well as sending the annual report to shareholders, 
during the year, the Group published its interim results on 
its website and issued two trading updates. Shareholders 
receive at least twenty working days notice of the Annual 
General Meeting at which all directors are available 
for questions and a short business presentation takes 
place. Each substantive issue is the subject of a separate 
resolution. I announce the numbers of proxy votes for and 
against each resolution at the meeting, after the voting has 
taken place, and these numbers are subsequently published 
on the Company’s website.
The Board’s Fair, Balanced and  
Understandable Declaration
At the board meeting during which the Group’s results for 
the year were presented by the Chief Executive and the 
Chief Financial Officer, the Board also considered whether 
the annual report and accounts, when taken as a whole, 
present a fair, balanced and understandable overview of the 
Group and its performance. After:
• Hearing from the Executive Directors
•  Receiving a report from the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee on that Committee’s meeting to discuss 
the preparation and content of the year-end financial 
statements and the audit conducted upon them
•  Discussing the contents of the Annual Report  
and Accounts
The Board concluded that the annual report and accounts 
are fair, balanced and understandable and accordingly the 
Directors’ declaration to that effect can be found in the 
Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 132..
Corporate Governance Compliance 
Statement
I am pleased to report that the Board considers that the 
Company has complied throughout the year ended  
31 December 2015 with the provisions set out in the Code 
save that for the reason described in section 5 on this page.
The Senior Independent Director has not proactively  
met with Investors; but has made himself fully available 
for meetings should investors request them.
Robert Walker 
Chairman 
18 March 2016 GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
104 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
AUDIT 
COMMITTEE 
REPORT
Dear Shareholder
As chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to report 
below on the work of the Committee in 2015. This year saw 
the appointment to the Committee of Coline McConville on 
1 February increasing the number of members to four. It is 
a committee with strong experience in finance matters and 
corporate governance as can be seen from the biographies 
on pages 94 to 96.
I said in my 2014 report that the Committee would tender 
the contract for external audit services. The tender was 
completed in the first quarter following a comprehensive 
process, with the decision to recommend appointing KPMG 
LLP in place of Deloitte LLP who had worked with the 
Company for more than 30 years. I would like to record  
the thanks of the Committee for their service over so  
many years.
The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of Internal 
Audit during the year. This comprised gathering views of 
stakeholders, reviewing the quality of the audit workplan and 
of internal audit reviews as well as the recommendations  
to management.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the effectiveness of the 
internal control environment. The Group’s control framework 
has developed over many years and there are a significant 
number of systems replacements underway. Given the level 
of change the Audit Committee has tasked Internal Audit to 
take a more active role in reviewing these programmes.
Furthermore, management have been undertaking work to 
improve the current control environment and this work will 
continue in 2016 with the Audit Committee appraised of 
progress through the year.
I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer 
any questions about the work of the Committee.
Ruth Anderson  
Chairman, Audit Committee 
18 March 2016 105 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Role of the Audit Committee
The Committee’s full terms of reference, which are reviewed 
annually and were updated in February 2016, are available 
on the Group’s website (www.travisperkinsplc.co.uk), or on 
request to the Company Secretary / General Counsel.
Membership and Attendance 
I was chairman of the Committee throughout the year. 
Christopher Rogers was a member of the Committee 
throughout 2015 as was John Rogers. During the year, the 
Committee was also joined by Coline McConville, effective 
from her appointment to the Board on 1 February 2015.
All members of the Committee are considered to 
be independent and have considerable financial and 
commercial experience gained through a variety of 
corporate and professional appointments. The Board 
considers that John Rogers, Christopher Rogers and I have 
the recent and relevant financial experience required by the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (see also the board profiles 
on pages 94 to 96). The Deputy Company Secretary was 
secretary to the Committee throughout 2015. 
The Committee held four formal meetings during 2015 
and as noted below, one additional meeting to discuss 
accounting judgements in respect of the 2015 year end 
accounts. Attendance at the meetings is shown on page 
100. The Group Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief 
Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the Head of 
Internal Audit and the external auditor also attended most 
meetings. At each meeting attended, the external auditor 
and the Head of Internal Audit were given the opportunity to 
discuss with the Committee any matters which they wished 
to raise without the presence of management. In addition, 
during the year, there were a number of meetings between 
the Chairman of the Committee and the Head of Internal 
Audit and between the Chairman of the Committee and the 
external auditors, without management being present. 
In addition to its formally scheduled meetings the 
Committee also met in December specifically to give 
preliminary consideration to accounting judgements in 
relation to the 2015 financial statements. As noted above, 
the Committee also completed a competitive tender for 
the provision of external audit services involving three firms 
including the incumbent auditor Deloitte LLP, which resulted 
in the recommendation to the shareholders at the AGM that 
KPMG LLP be appointed.
On behalf of shareholders I would like to thank Deloitte LLP 
for the service they have provided to the Audit Committee 
and the Board during their significant time as external 
auditors to the Group.
Work of the Committee
At the board meeting following each committee meeting, I 
report to the Board on the work of the Committee, outlining 
key matters and making appropriate recommendations.
The Audit Committee adheres to an annual work plan in 
order to fully discharge its obligations. This work plan is 
reviewed by the Committee to ensure that it encompasses 
all issues required to be considered by the Committee 
including the effectiveness of the Committee itself, of 
internal audit and the external auditors. 
The Committee gives due consideration to the annual 
report and financial statements and preliminary results 
announcements prepared by management and associated 
press releases issued at the half year and year end. The 
Committee also review the Group’s systems of internal 
control, the internal audit plan and tax strategy  
and compliance.
In addition, there are a number of standing agenda items 
where at each meeting the Committee reviews:
• Internal audit and risk reports
• Whistleblowing, fraud and bribery 
•  Progress on implementing recommendations arising  
  from internal and external audit work
In addition to attending the Audit Committee meetings, 
during the year the Committee members met with 
operational and finance team members.
The Audit Committee reviewed papers from the Group’s 
management team and from the Group’s Auditors that 
provided details of the significant financial reporting 
estimates and judgements made during the preparation and 
presentation of the Group’s interim and annual accounts.
I am satisfied that the Committee received sufficient, 
reliable and timely information from management to enable 
it to fulfil its responsibilities during the year. 106 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Significant Issues Related to the Financial Statements
Matter Issue and Nature of Judgement Factors Considered and Conclusion Reached
Carrying 
value of 
goodwill and 
intangible 
assets
The Group balance sheet contains a significant value of 
goodwill and other intangible assets associated with historical 
acquisitions. The Directors are required to determine annually 
whether those assets have suffered any impairment. They 
do so by comparing the present value of future cash flows 
for each cash generating unit with the carrying value of its 
goodwill and other intangible assets. 
The calculations undertaken to help arrive at a conclusion 
incorporate a consideration of the risks associated with each 
cash generating unit and are based upon forecasts of their 
long term future cash flows, which by their nature require 
judgement to be exercised and are subject to considerable 
uncertainty.
The cash flow forecasts used for impairment considerations are 
prepared from the strategic business plans presented to, and approved 
by, the Board of Directors annually.
Management presented the Committee with papers setting out the 
results of the work done, the assumptions made and the conclusions 
reached. They explained to the Committee how the cash flow and 
discount rate calculations were prepared, the key assumptions and 
judgements that were made, how sensitive those cash flows were 
to changes in the key assumptions and how a deterioration in the 
performance of the contract plumbing & heating business, PTS, and 
wholesale distribution business, F & P, and a weak outlook for these 
businesses respective markets had resulted in an impairment of £141m 
being made against the carrying value of goodwill in respect of PTS  
and F & P.
After reviewing management’s papers, and obtaining further explanation 
where necessary the Committee concluded that management had 
taken a consistent, balanced and reasoned approach to preparing 
its calculations and that the judgements made were acceptable. 
Furthermore, the Committee concluded that it was appropriate to 
impair the goodwill and other intangible assets associated with the 
PTS and F & P businesses. The Committee considered there was no 
indication of impairment in any other business. 
Accounting 
for rebate 
income and 
fixed priced 
discounts
The terms of supplier agreements result in a significant 
value of Supplier Income being received by the Group. The 
calculation of the value receivable and the value deferred into 
stock is complicated due to the number, nature and structure 
of the agreements in place. 
However, only two agreements are not co-terminous with 
the Group’s accounting year end. Furthermore approximately 
80% of amounts due to the Group are received during the 
course of the year. Therefore the key judgements relate to 
the calculation of the total value of rebates and fixed price 
discounts still to be received at the year-end and the value of 
fixed price discounts and rebates to be set against the gross 
value of inventory in the balance sheet.
During the year the Committee discussed reports presented by 
management about the progress of improvements to systems, controls 
and processes and enhancements to calculation methodologies applied.  
It also received reports that enabled it to monitor supplier income 
collection rates and compare them with the prior year and it discussed 
the Group’s adherence to its accounting policies and procedures.
A summary update of the year-end position was given to the 
Committee at the meeting held to consider the year-end results
The Committee concluded that the controls over recognising and 
recovering Supplier Income were appropriate and that the values 
included in the financial statements were appropriate.
Inventory 
valuation
To meet customer expectations the Group carries a wide range 
of stock in over 2,000 locations. Stock should be included in 
the balance sheet at the lower of cost or net realisable value. 
The determination of cost is complicated when rebate and 
fixed priced discount agreements are in place (see above). 
Furthermore, determining the net realisable value of the wide 
range of products held in many locations requires judgement 
to be applied.
Management presented a paper to the Committee that enabled 
it to review, question and understand how stock is controlled and 
accounted for throughout the Group. It incorporated both qualitative 
and quantitative information such that the Committee could understand 
how management determined that stock was in existence, owned by the 
Group, valued appropriately and recorded in completeness. The paper 
included how provisions were determined to ensure that stock was held 
at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The Committee concluded 
that stock was fairly stated. 
The table below sets out the key judgement areas associated 
with the Group’s financial statements for the year-ended 
31 December 2015 that were considered by the Audit 
Committee. In reaching its conclusions, set out in more 
detail below, the Committee has considered papers and 
explanations given by management, discussed each matter 
in detail, challenged assumptions and judgements made and 
sought clarification where necessary. It has reviewed and 
discussed any internal audit reports in respect of the matters 
under consideration and the Committee also received a 
report from the external auditors on the work undertaken 
to arrive at the conclusions set out in their audit report on 
pages 137 to 139 and had the opportunity to discuss it with 
them in depth. 107 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Internal Audit
In 2015 internal audit continued to focus on reviewing 
financial controls in areas which the Audit Committee 
considered of higher risk alongside its cyclical plan to 
review higher risk areas. More emphasis was also placed 
on auditing change programmes to provide additional 
programme assurance given the considerable changes 
underway in the Group. 
Resources continued to be strengthened through 
recruitment to the internal audit team, and training of 
high calibre individuals, and the use of co-source partners 
to provide assurance in specialist areas such as IT, data 
protection, tax and treasury operations. 
Additionally the Committee agreed that a trial be 
commenced in the Contracts division to evaluate the 
effectiveness of moving branch and store compliance 
teams under the control of the Division. No changes are 
planned to the reporting line of the internal audit team.
Further enhancements to the work of internal audit were 
delivered through the implementation of a new system  
to record and monitor all active recommendations that  
management agreed to implement which: 
•  Enables management to track the ageing of actions and 
provide updates thereon
• The documentation of all audit findings
•  Provides management with a single point of reference for 
all reviews completed by branch compliance teams
At each Committee meeting reports issued by internal audit 
were considered. The Committee continued to review the 
speed at which recommendations agreed by management 
were implemented during the year. All actions, which 
were considered to be of high or significant importance 
by internal audit were, for the first time, subject to further 
review by the internal audit team prior to being validated as 
complete by management.
The risk management framework was reviewed in the year 
and risk register updated by the Board. The updated risk 
register provided a key input into the internal audit plan  
for 2016 which was agreed by the Committee in  
November 2015.
The Committee was satisfied with the overall effectiveness 
of the internal audit function.
Risk Management and Internal Controls
The Group’s control framework has developed over many 
years and there are a significant number of systems 
replacements underway. Given the level of change the 
Audit Committee has tasked Internal Audit to take a more 
active role in reviewing these programmes. Furthermore, 
management have been undertaking work to improve the 
current control environment and this work will continue 
in 2016 with the Audit Committee appraised of progress 
through the year.
During the year the Board reviewed the risk management 
framework. The Committee reviewed the Group’s 
internal financial controls and its internal control and risk 
management systems in February 2016.
External Auditor
KPMG LLP is a leading international audit partnership, 
and was first appointed at the 2015 AGM following a 
competitive tender exercise conducted during late 2014 
and early 2015. There are no contractual restrictions on the 
Group with regard to their appointment. In accordance with 
current professional standards, the partner responsible for 
the audit will change every 5 years. 
During the year the Committee reviewed the arrangements 
for transitioning the audit to KPMG.  It also undertook the 
following in respect of the external auditor:
•  Reviewed the policy on engagement of the external 
auditor for non-audit work, as referred to below, and the 
policy on the employment of anyone previously employed 
by the external auditor
•  Reviewed the plans presented by the external auditor 
for conduct of the year-end audit and half-year review 
including the related risk analyses, terms of engagement, 
fees and letters of representation
•  Confirmed the effectiveness, independence, and 
objectivity of the external auditor, taking into account 
information and written assurances provided by KPMG 
LLP, on its quality and independence controls, and its 
ethical standards
The Committee specifically discussed the effectiveness 
of the external audit process at its meetings in February 
and November 2015 and again at its meeting in February 
2016. In each case the Committee obtained input from 
the Company’s finance team. In particular the Committee 
considered the audit plan for 2015 and the audit of the 
2015 report and accounts, and their identification of risk 
areas. The Committee was satisfied with the effectiveness 
of the external audit process. GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Value of Work
Non-audit services require approval as follows:
• £5,000 to £25,000 – Chief Financial Officer
•  £25,000 to £50,000 – Chief Financial Officer  
 and Committee Chairman
•  >£50,000 – Chief Financial Officer and Committee 
Chairman following a competitive tender
Formal approval by the Committee is also required if the 
aggregated level of forecast fees for non-audit services 
exceeds 50% of the statutory audit fee.
Reporting
The Chief Financial Officer reports twice annually to the 
Committee on fees for non-audit services payable to  
the auditors.
As shown in note 5 to the accounts, during the year the 
Auditors were paid £520,000 (2014: £435,000 (previous 
auditors)) for audit-related work, and £129,000 (2014: 
£111,000 (previous auditors)) for non-audit work.
The principal items of non-audit fees relate to the interim 
review and the provision and maintenance of the Group’s 
employee benefits system, MyPerks. In view of KPMG’s 
detailed understanding of the Group’s operations and 
accounting policies, and being mindful of future Auditor 
reporting obligations, the Audit Committee decided that 
it was appropriate for KPMG to provide these services. In 
addition, £0.8m (2014: £1.4m) of fees were paid to other 
accounting firms for non-audit work, including advice to the 
Remuneration Committee.
The Committee understands that the total fees paid by 
the Group to KPMG in 2015 amount to less than 0.007% 
of KPMG’s UK fee income and considers that the Auditor’s 
independence and objectivity has not been impaired by the 
non-audit fees paid to it in 2015.
Ruth Anderson  
Chairman, Audit Committee 
18 March 2016
Independence and Objectivity
One of the Committee’s responsibilities is to ensure 
compliance with the Board’s policy in respect of services 
provided by, and fees paid to, the external auditor. There  
has been no change to this policy, which is summarised 
below and is included on the Group’s website at  
www.travisperkinsplc.co.uk.
General Principle
The external auditors should only be chosen to carry out 
non-audit work where its nature makes it more effective 
for the work to be carried out by auditors who have existing 
knowledge of the Group. The external auditors should not 
provide non-audit services where it might impair their 
independence or objectivity in carrying out the audit.
Permitted Work Prohibited Work
AUDIT RELATED NON-AUDIT RELATED
Activities required by law or legislation 
to be undertaken by the Auditors
Reviews of interim financial information
Managed service reports to housing 
associations and local authorities
Tax advisory services
Public reporting on investment 
circulars and similar documents
Private reporting to sponsors and 
similar parties in connection with 
investment circulars and similar 
documents
Book-keeping and work related to the 
preparation of accounting records
Financial information system design or 
implementation
Appraisal and valuation services
Internal audit services
Actuarial services
Forensic work
Recruitment services
Secondment of staff to a supervisory 
or management position
Provision of investment advice, broking 
or legal services
Areas of Work
108 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
109 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Stephen Bushby - F & P, Bedford 110 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION 
REPORT
Dear Shareholders
I am very pleased to introduce the 2015 Directors’ Remuneration 
Report, my first as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
The Group has a stated ambition to deliver long term sustainable 
value to shareholders. A fundamental aspect of this is the link 
between the Group’s strategy and its approach to remuneration as 
outlined in the strategic report and shown again below.
Co-investment 
Plan
PSP
Annual 
Incentive
Financial 
Ambition
Strategy
Customer 
Innovation
Optimise Network
Scale Advantage
Portfolio 
Management
EPS
LAROCE
Personal 
objectives aligned  
to operational 
delivery
EPS
CROCE
Aggregate 
cash flow
Double digit 
EBITA growth
Investment grade 
credit metrics
Prospective 
dividend growth 
to within 2.5-3.25x 
cover
150-250 bps 
LAROCE 
improvement over 
medium term 
(3-5 years)
TSR
Each part of the remuneration package plays a role in driving performance beyond the short and medium terms to deliver 
long term ambition and shareholder returns. Keeping this momentum and optimising the link between strategy and 
remuneration is of course the role of the remuneration committee and will be the key focus during my tenure.
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION 111 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
2015 Remuneration Outcomes
The Group has delivered good results in 2015, particularly in 
the context of the challenges in the sector and in the wider 
market. We have delivered:
•  Adjusted EBITA growth of 7.7% – excellent performance 
compared to our peers
• Increased LAROCE to 10.5%  
• Increased adjusted EPS by 4.3%
• Improved total shareholder return by 8%. 
The committee ensures that executive remuneration targets 
are stretching, aligned to the business strategy in order that 
they drive long term shareholder value. This is reflected in 
the financial measures and targets selected for incentives 
and also in the measures used in the strategic tracker 
which forms part of the short term incentive. The tracker 
measures are very closely aligned to the corporate plan and 
the levers of value creation described earlier in the report 
and provide an important bridge between short and long 
term incentives.
2015 Bonus Payout
Bonuses for Executive Directors are based on EPS 
(60%), LAROCE (20%) and performance against our 
strategic tracker (20%). Adjusted EPS grew 4.3% during 
the year resulting in 18% of maximum paying out for this 
element.  Our LAROCE performance increased to 10.5% 
resulting in a payout of 15.3% of maximum for this element.
Performance against the strategic tracker during this period 
was very strong. Customer satisfaction has improved 
significantly, we are experiencing excellent sales growth 
driven by our multi-channel investment and our key IT 
deliverables are significantly ahead of plan. We have also 
made good progress against our Stay Safe objectives. 
Overall, the Committee considered that excellent 
performance had been delivered against our strategic 
tracker, positioning the company well for future growth.  
The Committee therefore concluded that 90% of the  
bonus based on the strategic tracker should be paid.
The overall bonus for 2015 was therefore 31.9% of 
maximum, resulting in a payment of 57.3% of salary for the 
CEO and 47.8% of salary for the CFO. Half of this bonus will 
be paid in cash following the year end. The remaining half 
will be deferred into shares, which vest after two years. In a 
mechanism which is unusually onerous in the FTSE, half of 
the deferred shares (so 25% of the bonus earned) will only 
vest if future share price performance conditions are met.
Deferred Share Bonus Awards in Respect of 2013 bonuses
The share price growth targets attached to the deferred 
share award relating to bonus earned in 2013 were achieved 
and accordingly these awards will vest in full in March 2016.
2013 PSP Vesting
PSP awards granted in 2013 were subject to adjusted EPS 
(40%), TSR (20%) and cash flow (40%) performance. 
Adjusted EPS grew by 37% over the three year period 
resulting in 95% of the EPS element vesting. The 
Company’s TSR performance was ranked 27th against the 
comparator group of FTSE 50-150 companies resulting 
in 94.5% of the TSR element vesting. Aggregate cash flow 
over the three year period was £740m resulting in full 
vesting of the cash flow element.
Overall 96.8% of PSP awards granted in 2013 vested.
2013 Co-Investment Awards
The CEO invested the maximum amount possible under the 
Co-Investment plan in 2013. The Committee determined 
CROCE targets set for matching awards granted in 2013 
have been partially met, taking into account the significantly 
increased investment in freehold property and IT systems 
during the period compared to plan when the targets were 
originally set, resulting in 44.2% of matching awards vesting.
2016 Remuneration Structure
For 2016 we are not making any changes to our 
remuneration structure and Directors will continue to be 
paid in accordance with the Policy.
Executive Director salaries were increased by 1.5% with 
effect from 1 January 2016. This increase reflects salary 
increases received by managers throughout the Group. 
Colleague salary increases were 2%. The CEO’s current 
salary is therefore £683,298 and the CFO’s salary  
is £528,003.
Non-executive Directors’ fees were also increased by 1.5% 
from 1 January 2016.
2017 Remuneration Review
Our current Remuneration Policy and our share plans 
(performance share plan, co-investment plan and deferred 
share bonus plan) all expire in 2017.
During the second half of 2016 the Committee intends to 
undertake a detailed review of the Policy to ensure that it 
remains aligned with strategy and continues to support the 
delivery of future business performance and shareholder 
value. We intend to consult with shareholders later in the 
year in relation to any changes we propose to make to our 
policy and our share plans.
We will be submitting our remuneration report to the 2016 
AGM where it will be subject to an advisory shareholder 
vote and I look forward to receiving your support for  
the report.
Coline McConville 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
18 March 2016 112 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT
The following sets out our Annual Remuneration Report 
for 2015 which includes details of how our policy was 
implemented in 2015 and how we intend to implement our 
policy in 2016. This report will be subject to an advisory 
shareholder vote at the AGM on 25 May 2016.
There are no changes proposed to the remuneration policy 
for 2016 from the Policy approved by shareholders at the 
2014 AGM. Our remuneration policy is included on pages 
103 – 110 of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts which 
can be accessed via the following link:
www.travisperkinsplc.co.uk/~/media/Files/T/Travis-Perkins/
reports-and-presentations/annual-report-2014.pdf
Remuneration Philosophy
The principles of the Group’s remuneration policy  
remain unchanged:
•  Remuneration should be competitive and contribute to 
the delivery of short and long term superior financial 
returns for shareholders
•  Remuneration should contain significant performance 
related incentive elements
•  Reward mechanisms should ensure that a significant 
proportion of variable pay is delivered in deferred shares 
(with malus and claw-back provisions) ensuring that 
executives retain a meaningful personal stake in the 
Group’s success
•  All colleagues should be able to share in the success of 
the Group through participation in both annual bonus 
schemes and longer term share plans
•  The approach to basic salary increases should be 
consistent across all colleagues including no pay 
increases for mergers and acquisitions activity
These principles apply across the Group. In addition to 
competitive base salary and bonus programmes, colleagues 
also have access to an extensive range of benefits under our 
MyPerks colleague benefit brand. This includes a wide range 
of flexible and voluntary benefits, retirement benefits, our 
ever popular all-colleague Sharesave Scheme and a range 
of recognition programmes.
Mark Jackson - Keyline, Lincoln 113 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Statement of Implementation of the Remuneration Policy in 2016
The following provides a summary of our Remuneration Policy and sets out how the Committee intends to implement the 
remuneration policy in 2016.
Plan Individual Maximum 
Opportunity in 2016
Measures and Weighting Operation
Base Salary CEO - £683,298  
(2015: £673,200)
CFO - £528,003 
(2015: £520,200)
n/a Executive directors’ salaries were increased by 1.5% with effect 
from 1 January 2016.
This increase is in-line with the increase received by other 
managers (colleagues received a 2% increase).
Benefits n/a n/a There is no change to benefit entitlement for 2016.  
Directors are entitled to:
Private medical insurance
Income protection
Annual leave – up to 30 days
Fully expensed company car (or cash alternative)
Life assurance of up to 5 times salary
Staff discount card
Pension 25% of salary 
allowance or 
contribution
Directors participate in a defined contribution arrangement or 
receive a cash allowance.
Annual Bonus CEO - 180% max
CFO - 150% max
The 2016 bonus will be 
based on the following 
measures:
• EPS 60%
•  Lease Adjusted Return 
on Capital Employed 
(LAROCE) 20%
• Business strategy 20%
Targets are determined in line with the Annual Operating Plan 
(AOP) for 2016.
Threshold for EPS is set at 95% of AOP. Threshold for 
LAROCE is set at 96% of AOP.
Performance below threshold results in zero bonus. 
Bonus earned rises from 0% to 100% of maximum bonus 
opportunity for levels of performance between threshold and 
maximum targets (105% of AOP for EPS and 104% of AOP 
for LAROCE).
For achievement of AOP for these measures 50% of bonus 
potential can be earned.
For the business strategy element of the bonus the 
Committee has agreed a number of objectives which are 
aligned with our short and medium term business strategy. 
For 2016 the strategic tracker includes measures related to 
our people, customers, network, multi-channel, cost of goods 
for sale and IT systems objectives.
Half of bonus earned is paid in cash and the remainder is 
deferred as shares for two years. 114 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Plan Individual Maximum 
Opportunity in 2016
Measures and Weighting Operation
Deferred 
Share Bonus 
Plan
DEFERRED SHARES
Half of the bonus deferred as shares is subject to forfeiture if 
target share prices are not achieved. Target share prices are 
based upon the average share price during the bonus year, 
inclusive of a compounded long-term equity rate of return.
These performance tested shares are split into 2 equal 
tranches. Tranche 1 vests in full if after one year, by 
comparison to the highest 30 day average share price during 
the period, the target share price is met. If the target share 
price is not met, 50% of tranche 1 is forfeited.
Tranche 2 vests in full if after two years, by comparison to 
the highest 30 day average share price during the period the 
target share price is met. If the target share price is not met at 
the end of two years, 50% of tranche 2 is forfeited.
Half the total vested award may be exercised on vesting. The 
remainder does not become exercisable until twelve months 
after vesting.
In determining achievement of target share prices dividends 
paid during the period are included. Dividend equivalents on 
vesting shares may be paid.
The compounded equity rate of return used to determine 
targets for vesting of deferred bonus is set at December 2015 
RPI (1.2%) plus 4%. Share price target for the first tranche is 
2,131.3p and 2,231p for the second tranche.
Malus and claw-back provisions apply.
Performance 
Share Plan
CEO - 150%
CFO - 150%
The 2016 PSP award 
will be based on the 
following measures:
•  Adjusted EPS growth - 
40%
•  Aggregate cash flow - 
40%
• Relative TSR - 20%
Awards are subject to performance over a three year 
performance period.
Adjusted EPS - threshold target of 3% p.a. growth above RPI 
over three years with full vesting at 10% growth above RPI.
The aggregate cash flow range is threshold £867m to 
maximum £959m.
Relative TSR - relative position in FTSE 50-150.
Threshold is median relative position.
Maximum is upper quartile relative position.
For each measure performance below the threshold target 
results in zero vesting. For achieving threshold performance 
30% of the award vests. 100% vests for achieving the 
maximum target. Vesting is on a pro rata basis between 
threshold and maximum.
Malus & claw-back provisions apply.
Dividend equivalents may be paid on vesting.
Statement of Implementation of the Remuneration Policy in 2016 (Continued) 115 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Plan Individual Maximum 
Opportunity in 2016
Measures and Weighting Operation
Co-
investment 
Plan (SMS)
Participants are 
invited to participate 
annually.
Each participant 
purchases company 
shares from their 
own resources.
Participants may 
invest up to 50% of 
their net salary. 
Maximum matching 
awards of twice 
the gross salary 
equivalent of the 
amount invested 
(i.e 100% of  
gross salary).
The 2016 Co-investment 
matching award will be 
based on the following 
measures:
•  Cash Return on Capital 
Employed (CROCE)
CROCE performance range is target 8.4% to 9.4%.
Performance below threshold levels results in zero vesting. 
For achieving threshold performance 30% of the award  
vests. 100% vests for achieving maximum levels of 
performance. Vesting is on a pro-rata basis between 
threshold and maximum.
Malus and claw-back provisions apply.
Dividend equivalents may be paid on vesting.
All employee 
share plans
Executives may 
participate in HMRC 
approved Sharesave 
and BAYE plans on 
the same basis as 
other employees.
Shareholding 
requirements
Executive directors 
are required to hold 
shares valued at two 
times salary within 
five years of being 
appointed to the 
board.
Formal requirement (not voluntary guidelines) apply to 
directors and senior executives.
Participation in long term incentives may be scaled back or 
withheld if the requirements are not met or maintained.
For the purposes of assessing compliance with the 
shareholding requirement vested, but unexercised awards will 
be included.
Bonus targets are considered to be commercially sensitive, and disclosure of such may provide an unfair advantage to 
the Company’s competitors. However targets, and the corresponding level of vesting or bonus earned, will be disclosed 
retrospectively, in the relevant reporting period. 116 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Malus and Claw-back
Malus and claw-back provisions are included in the executive 
bonus plan (the Deferred Share Bonus Plan - which 
applies to Executive Directors and the majority of Executive 
Committee members), the Co-investment Plan (the 
Share Matching Scheme - which applies to a wider group 
typically including business unit managing directors) and 
the Performance Share Plan (“PSP”). The circumstances in 
which malus and claw-back could apply are as follows:
•  Discovery of a material misstatement resulting in an 
adjustment in the audited consolidated accounts of  
the Company
•  The assessment of any performance target or condition in 
respect of an award was based on error, or inaccurate or 
misleading information
•  The discovery that any information used to determine the 
number of shares subject to an award was based on error, 
or inaccurate or misleading information
•  Action or conduct of an award holder, which in the 
reasonable opinion of the Board, amounts to employee 
misbehaviour, fraud or gross misconduct
For bonus, malus will apply up to the date bonus is 
determined and claw-back for three years thereafter. For the 
Performance Share and Co-investment Plans, malus will 
apply during the three year vesting period with claw-back 
applying for two years thereafter.
Remuneration Elsewhere in the Group
The Committee takes into account remuneration packages 
available to all colleagues when considering executive pay. 
As with many companies, senior management participate in 
a wider range of incentives than the majority of colleagues. 
The Group recognises that it has to operate on this basis to 
attract and retain high-quality managers, but ensures that 
a significantly higher proportion of reward for this group is 
placed on variable incentive outcomes.
All colleagues are entitled to a competitive remuneration 
package that includes basic pay, bonus, pension and our 
comprehensive ‘MyPerks’ benefits offering. To provide our 
colleagues easy access to their benefits we operate an online 
benefits platform which can be accessed through work 
or home computers, mobile phones or tablets. The hub is 
open to all employees of the Group and it provides detailed 
information about all the rewards and benefits that are 
included in the MyPerks scheme as well as specific access 
to colleague rewards, flexible benefits (where employees can 
‘trade’ some of their benefits in favour of others or elect to 
increase or decrease their benefits to suit their lifestyle or 
circumstances), discounts, advice and guidance.
Over 22,000 colleagues are active members of a group 
pension scheme. Contribution rates made by the Group 
range from 1% to 20% of qualifying earnings under the 
defined contribution scheme. The defined benefits schemes 
are closed to new members. 
The Group’s Sharesave scheme continues to be a great 
success. In 2015 6,740 colleagues took up the invitation to 
participate on either three or five year contracts committing 
to savings contracts of £27m. Nearly 11,000 colleagues are 
now active Sharesave plan participants. Plans maturing in 
2015 delivered gains of approximately £17m shared across 
the 4,223 participating colleagues.
Fees and 
benefits
In line with our remuneration policy Non-Executive Directors’ fees were reviewed and, with exception of the 
Chair of the Health & Safety Committee, increased by 1.5% in line with general increases across the Group with 
effect from 1 January 2016. The fees for the Chair of the Stay Safe Committee were increased from £4,080 to 
£8,000 to reflect the strategic importance and time commitment required to fulfil the role:
Chairman - £279,531 (2015: £275,400)
Non-executive Director basic fee - £56,942 (2015: £56,100)
Chairs of Audit and Remuneration Committees - £12,424 (2015: £12,240)
Senior Independent Director - £10,353 (2015: £10,200)
Chair of Stay Safe Committee - £8,000 (2015: £4,080)
25% of Non-executive Director fees are paid in shares.
Non-executive Directors do not receive any other benefits (other than a staff discount for purchasing products)
Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors 117 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
AUDITED INFORMATION
Annual Report on Remuneration
Single Total Figure of Remuneration
Salary 
2015
£000
Salary 
2014
£000
Benefits 
2015
£000
Benefits 
2014
£000
Bonus 
2015
6
£000
Bonus 
2014
£000
 L TI               
  2015
£000
  LTI
2014
6
£000
Pension 
2015
£000
Pension 
2014
£000
Total 
2015
£000
Total 
2014
£000
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
John Carter 673 660 44 41 289 793 1,389 975 168 165 2,563 2,634
Geoff Cooper
1
- 119 - 1 - - - 862 - 30 - 1,012
Tony Buffin 520 510 24 21 186 511 1,696 527 128 128 2,554 1,697
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Ruth Anderson 68 67 - - - - - - - - 68 67
John Coleman
2
- 53 - - - - - - - - - 53
Coline McConville
3
53 - - - - - - - - - 53 -
Pete Redfern
4
57 9 - - - - - - - - 57 9
Chris Rogers 58 55 - - - - - - - - 58 55
John Rogers
4
56 9 - - - - - - - - 56 9
Andrew Simon
5
69 75 - - - - - - - - 69 75
Robert Walker 275 270 - - - - - - - - 275 270
Total 1,829 1,827 68 63 475 1,304 3,085 2,364 296 323 5,753 5,881
Notes:
1.  Geoff Cooper stepped down as an Executive Director with effect from 6 March 2014
2. John Coleman retired 31 October 2014
3. Coline McConville was appointed a non-executive director on 1 February 2015
4.  Peter Redfern and John Rogers were appointed as non-executive directors on 1 November 2014
5. Andrew Simon retired 31 October 2015
6.  L TI reported for 2014 for Geoff Cooper and John Carter included PSP awards vesting in 2015. The value of the vesting PSP awards were reported on an estimated basis using the 
average share price of the final quarter of 2014. They are restated here reflecting the actual share price on vesting. For John Carter shares prices for PSP vesting were 2 March 2025p, 
10 April 2009p and 4 December 2024p. For Geoff Cooper for PSP vesting 2 March the share price was 2025p. 118 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Explaining the Single Figure Table
Bonus earned is based upon achievement of the following Group financial targets:
Benefits
Benefits for 2015 for John Carter and Tony Buffin include 
private medical insurance and the provision of a company 
car or car allowance.
Annual Bonus for 2015
The tables below provide a summary of the performance 
achieved under the annual bonus for 2015:
Director Maximum bonus opportunity
(% of salary)
Actual bonus
(% of salary)
Actual bonus 
(£’000)
John Carter 180% 57.33% £385,946
Tony Buffin 150% 47.78% £248,552
75% of the bonus amount is included in the annual bonus column in the single figure table. This includes 50% paid as cash and 
25% which is deferred but subject to no future performance conditions. The remaining 25% of the bonus is deferred subject to 
future performance conditions and will be reported on vesting.
Measure Summary of Performance Committee’s Assessment
Customer Customer satisfaction improved in 2015 compared to 2014 and target 
performance of 8.2/10 was achieved
Met in Full
Multi-Channel On-line sales growth (16.7%) was very strong in 2015 and significantly 
exceeded target
Met in Full
COGS/GNFR* savings Annualised cost savings from both COGS and GNFR programmes 
significantly exceed budget
Met in Full
IT System Over 180 initiatives successfully delivered in 2015, significantly  
exceeding target
Met in Full
People Stay Safe performance slightly below target due to delayed adopting of 
new reporting system in some areas of the business. However significant 
progress has been made in relation to days lost (down 30%), frequency 
rate (down 22.6%) and severity rate (down 40.7%)
Good Progress
*Goods Not For Resale
Performance 
Measure
Weighting Targets Actual 
Performance
Pay-out 
(as a % of maximum)
Threshold Plan Maximum
EPS 60% 121.8p 128.2p 134.6p 124.1p 18.0%
LAROCE 20% 10.4% 10.8% 11.2% 10.5% 15.3%
Business Strategy 20%
The Committee assessed performance against a number 
of strategic targets which were set at the start of the year.  
A summary of performance is provided below.
90% 119 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Long Term Incentive Plans (‘L TIP’)
The long term incentive figure in the single figure table is made up of the following plans:
Performance Share Plan Co-investment Plan (SMS) Total
John Carter
£1,065,924
(54,381 shares at £19.60/share)
£323,136
(16,486 shares at £19.60/share)
£1,389,060
Tony Buffin
£996,158
(50,822 shares at £19.60/share)
£699,826
(32,902 shares at £21.27/share)*
£1,695,984
*Vested in 2015 under the terms of special share match award granted in 2013. Tony Buffin did not participate in the 2013 Co-investment Plan as his 
employment commenced after the award. 
Deferred share bonus vesting in March 2016 will be included in the 2016 single figure table.
Performance Share Plan
The following table sets out the performance targets, achievements and vesting levels for the Performance Share Award 
granted in 2013 and vesting in 2016 in respect of the performance period ending in 2015: 
Measure Weighting Threshold Maximum Actual Vesting
EPS Growth 40% RPI +3%pa RPI +10% pa 37.0% 37.9%
Relative TSR 20% Median Upper quartile 27th 18.9%
Aggregate cash flow 40% £664m £734m £740m 40.0%
Total vesting 96.8%
Relative total shareholder return performance was measured against companies ranked 50 -150 in the FTSE index on the date 
of award.
Co-Investment Plan (SMS)
The following table sets out the performance targets, achievements and vesting levels for the matching awards granted in 2013 
and vesting in 2016 in respect of the performance period ending in 2015: 
Measure Weighting Threshold Maximum Actual Vesting
Cash Return on Capital Employed 100% 7.51% 8.51% 7.71% 44.2%
Total vesting 44.2%
The Committee determined that CROCE targets set for matching awards granted in 2013 have been partially met, taking 
into account the increased investment in freehold property and IT systems during the period, compared to the plan in 
place when the targets were originally set. 120 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Directors’ Pension Entitlements
Share Interests Awarded During the Financial Year
Performance Share Plan
John Carter 
£000
Tony Buffin 
£000
Accrued DB pension at 31 December 2015 including revaluation if applicable 274 n/a
Normal Retirement Age 60 years 65 years
Additional value of pension on early retirement 0 n/a
Pension Value in the year from DB scheme (HMRC Method) n/a n/a
Pension Value in the year from company contributions to DC scheme n/a 40
Pension value in year from cash allowance  
(Salary Supplement in place of Employer pension contributions)
168 88
Total pension benefit accrued in 2015 168 128
The Company’s DB scheme is closed to new members. 
John Carter ceased DB accrual on 31 December 2010. The 
value of the pension under the DB scheme is calculated 
using the HMRC Method. A gross cash allowance of 25% of 
salary was paid to John Carter and Geoff Cooper in lieu of 
continued accrual. Tony Buffin received 25% of salary paid 
as a mix of pension contributions to the DC scheme and a 
cash allowance.
Date of Award Type of Award Basis Face Value Performance Period 
John Carter
26 March 2015
Performance 
Shares
150% 
of Salary
£1,004,642
(51,573 shares at 
1,948p/share)
1 January 2015 
to 
31 December 2017
Tony Buffin
£776,297
(39,851 shares at 
1,948p/share)
Performance Share Plan awards are subject to the following performance measures:
Measure Weighting Target Range Vesting Range
EPS Growth 40% Threshold target -  
RPI + 3% per annum over  
the vesting period
Maximum target -  
RPI + 10% per annum over 
the vesting period
No vesting below threshold target
Threshold target - 30% Vests
Maximum target - 100% Vests
Pro-rata vesting between these points
Aggregate Cash Flow over three 
years up to 2017
40% Threshold target £901m 
Maximum target £996m
Company TSR Relative to FTSE 
50-150 Index
20% Threshold target -  
median performance  
(top 50%)
Maximum target -  
upper quartile performance 
(top 25%) 121 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Co-Investment Plan (SMS)
Shares vest two years from grant, partly subject to the 
performance conditions detailed in the remuneration policy 
table. The long term equity rate of return which determines 
the rate of vesting of the deferred bonus element will be 
5.2% (RPI plus 4%, subject to a 6% cap) for this award.
No new grants were made to the Executive Directors under 
the all employee Sharesave (SAYE) plan during 2015.
Payments to Past Directors  
No payments were made to past directors
Payments for Leaving Directors 
No payments for loss of office were made during 2015. 
Directors’ Shareholding and  
share interests
Formal shareholding requirements (not voluntary guidelines) 
apply to executive directors and senior executives. 
Participation in long term incentives may be scaled back 
or withheld if the requirements are not met or maintained. 
Executive directors are required to hold shares valued at 
two times salary within 5 years. As at 31 December 2015 
John Carter shareholding was in excess of six times salary 
and Tony Buffin three times salary.
Directors’ shareholdings and share interests as at 
31 December 2015 were as follows:
Executive 
Director
Beneficial 
Owner
Conditional 
Shares granted 
under L TI Plans
1
Unconditional 
Shares granted 
under L TI Plans
2
Vested but 
unexercised 
Options
Total 
Interests
Interests qualifying 
towards shareholder 
requirement
John Carter 231,537 289,495 26,717 0 547,749 231,537
Tony Buffin 81,600 201,864 16,570 0 300,034 81,600
1. Includes awards made under Deferred Share Bonus Plan, Performance Share Plan and Co-investment plan (SMS)  
2. Includes awards made under Deferred Share Bonus Plan (which are not subject to a performance condition) and Sharesave
Deferred Share Bonus Plan 
Half of the bonuses earned in 2015 will be issued as deferred shares as follows:
Type of Award Basis Face Value
John Carter Shares 50% of 2015 bonus £192,973
Tony Buffin Shares 50% of 2015 bonus £124,276
Co-Investment Plan matching awards are subject to the following performance measure:  
 
Measure Weighting Target Detail Matching Range
Cash Return on  
Capital Employed (CROCE)
100% Threshold target 9.08% 
Maximum target 10.0%
0.6:1 matching at threshold target
2:1 matching at maximum target
Pro-rata matching between these points
Date of Award Type of Award Basis Face Value Performance Period 
John Carter
23 March 2015 Matching Shares
up to 2:1 matching 
of shares purchased
£665,261
(33,447 shares at  
1,989p/share)
1 January 2015 
to 
31 December 2017
Tony Buffin
£514,097
(25,847 shares at  
1,989p/share) 122 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
There were no changes in share ownership between  
31 December 2015 and 29 February 2016.
During 2015 John Carter exercised 40,155 shares vested 
under the Performance share plan and 9,106 shares under 
the Deferred Share Bonus plan (at £19.65/share) and 
6,523 shares vested under the Performance Share Plan (at 
£20.08/share). Tony Buffin exercised 32,902 shares vested 
under his special share matching award (at £21.36/share).
Non-Executive Director Beneficial Shareholding 
(as at 31 December 2015)
Beneficial Shareholding 
(as at 29 February 2016)
Ruth Anderson 2,268 2,355
Coline McConville 334 421
Pete Redfern 434 514
Chris Rogers 1,964 2,051
John Rogers 433 504
Robert Walker 72,593 73,086
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Service Contracts
Each of the executive directors has a service contract, 
the date of which is shown below, which will be available 
for inspection at the Annual General Meeting or at the 
Company’s registered office. These contracts provide for 
six months notice from the directors and 12 months notice 
from the Company. They do not specify any particular level 
of compensation in the event of termination or change  
of control.
• John Carter - 1 January 2014
• Tony Buffin - 8 April 2013
Non-Executive Directors do not have a service contract, 
but each has received a letter of appointment which will be 
available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting or at 
the Company’s registered office. These appointments expire 
on the following dates:
Director Expiry of appointment letter
Ruth Anderson May 2018
Coline McConville May 2018
Pete Redfern May 2018
Chris Rogers August 2016
John Rogers May 2018
Andrew Simon Retired October 2015
Robert Walker May 2018
No compensation is payable on termination of the 
employment of Non-Executive Directors, which may be  
with or without notice.
Outside Appointments
Travis Perkins recognises that its Executive Directors 
may be invited to become Non-executive Directors 
of other companies. Such Non-executive duties can 
broaden a Director’s experience and knowledge which can 
benefit Travis Perkins. Subject to approval by the Board, 
Executive Directors are allowed to accept Non-executive 
appointments, provided that these appointments will not 
lead to conflicts of interest, and they may retain the fees 
received. John Carter does not currently hold any  
non-executive appointments. Tony Buffin has been a  
non-executive director of the Dyson family businesses  
since 2014. Tony earned and retained fees of £40,000 
during 2015 (2014: £40,000).
Funding of Equity Awards
Executive incentive arrangements are funded by shares 
purchased in the market. Entitlements under the HMRC 
approved all colleague Sharesave scheme are satisfied by 
newly issued shares. Where shares are newly issued, the 
Company complies with Investment Association dilution 
guidelines on their issue. The current dilution usage of 
discretionary plans is given in the 2015 AGM notice. Where 
shares are purchased in the market, these are held by a 
trust in which case the voting rights relating to the shares 
are exercisable by the Trustees in accordance with their 
fiduciary duties. At 31 December 2015 the Trust held 
1,318,532 shares. 123 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Performance Graph & Table 
For Comparative purposes the FTSE 100 index has been selected as this is the index of which the company is a member.
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Travis Perkins plc
FTSE 100
Total Shareholder Return
Total Shareholder Return
Historical CEO Pay
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Single Figure Remuneration (£000) 1,412 1,423 1,938 3,506 2,044 2,634 2,563
Annual Bonus Payout (% of maximum) 100.0% 100.0% 75.9% 27.0% 62.9% 89.0% 31.9%
Vesting of Share Options (% of maximum) 0% - - - - - -
Vesting of Performance Share Plan  
(% of maximum)
- 0% 0% 80.0% 37.4% 44.8% 96.8%
Vesting of Co-investment Plan (SMS)  
(% of maximum)
0% 0% 51.0% 100.0% 0% 0% 44.2%
Data for 2014-15 relates to John Carter, earlier data relates to the prior CEO, Geoff Cooper
Change in Remuneration of Director undertaking the Role of CEO
Percentage Change in  
Salary Earned 
(2015 Full Year Compared to 2014 Full Year)
Percentage Change in Bonus 
Opportunity Earned 
(2015 Full Year Forecast Compared to 2014 Full Year)
Percentage Change in Taxable 
Benefits Received 
(2013/14 T ax Year Compared to 2014/15 T ax Year)
CEO 2.0% -57.1% 24.9%**
Comparative  
Employee Group*
2.1% -40.0% 5.3%
*  Comparative group is all colleagues within the Travis Perkins Merchanting Division. This division is the largest division within the company, covers roles at all levels of the 
organisation, and has wide geographic coverage within the UK and consequently provides a broad and diverse basis for comparison. Comparative group data is provided on  
a per capita basis.
**   Change in benefits relates to change in car following promotion to CEO combined with increased benefit in kind charges in relation to car and fuel benefit. 124 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Relative Importance of Spend on Pay
Capital expenditure is shown, for comparison, as an indicator of investment by the company in future growth. It includes 
funds invested in the purchase of property, plant and equipment. Corporation Tax is included as indicator of wider societal 
contribution facilitated by the Company’s operations and is the actual amount of corporation tax paid in the relevant 
reporting periods.
700
800
900
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
Distribution to
Shareholders
Capex Corporation Tax Employee
Remuneration
2015 2014
100
48
780
293
700
800
900
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
Distribution to
Shareholders
Capex Corporation Tax Employee
Remuneration
81
50
729
165
700
800
900
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
Distribution to
Shareholders
Capex Corporation Tax Employee
Remuneration
2015 2014
100
48
780
293
700
800
900
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
Distribution to
Shareholders
Capex Corporation Tax Employee
Remuneration
81
50
729
165
Governance
Remuneration Committee and consideration by the 
directors of matters relating to directors’ remuneration
During the year the committee comprised Andrew Simon 
(Chair, part year), Coline McConville (Chair, part year), Peter 
Redfern and John Rogers, all of whom are independent non-
executive directors, and Robert Walker. 
Deloitte was appointed by the Committee in December to 
provide independent advice on executive remuneration. 
Deloitte replaced PwC who provided advice to the 
committee up to this point. Deloitte was selected following 
an interview process.
Deloitte and PwC are both founding members of the 
Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and adhere 
to this Code in its dealings with the Committee. The 
Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by Deloitte 
and PwC is objective and independent. The Committee 
is comfortable that the Deloitte and PwC engagement 
partner and team that provides remuneration advice to the 
Committee do not have connections with the Company that 
may impair their independence. The Committee reviewed 
the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there 
were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
Fees are determined on a time and materials basis at 
prevailing market rates. During the year PwC was paid 
£22,000 for advice provided to the Committee and Deloitte 
were paid £2,500.
PwC provided additional services to the Company in 
relation to remuneration including support in developing 
and implementing remuneration proposals, compensation 
benchmarking and other tax and consulting services. 
Deloitte were the Company’s auditors until the close of the 
2014 accounts. Since this time, Deloitte have also provided 
corporate tax advisory and internal audit services.
In addition John Carter (CEO), Tony Buffin (CFO), Deborah 
Grimason (Company Secretary), Carol Kavanagh (Group 
Human Resources Director), Sonia Fennell (Deputy 
Company Secretary) and Paul Nelson (Group Head of 
Reward) have assisted the committee in its work, but never 
in respect of their own remuneration.
Responsibilities
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing 
and implementing the remuneration policy within the 
company. It determines all aspects of the remuneration of 
executive directors and reviews with the Chief Executive the 
remuneration of other senior executives. The committee 
also oversees the administration of the Company’s share 
plans. The committee’s terms of reference are available on 
the company website or from the Company Secretary.
Key Items discussed in 2015 Meetings
In 2015 the remuneration committee met three times. The 
committee discussed amongst others the following matters: 125 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
The Directors’ Remuneration Report has been approved by 
the Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf.
Coline McConville 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
18 March 2016
Month Key Issues Considered
March Bonuses
• Review of achievement against 2014 targets
• Bonus targets for 2015
L TIP Awards
• Review of performance conditions and grants for 2015
• Review of awards vesting in 2015
Review of executive shareholding requirement
Annual Directors’ Remuneration Report
November Review of Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference
Salary Review 2016
Review of remuneration trends and issues
Review of bonus 2015 performance
Review of L TIP forecasts
December Directors’ pay review
Review of bonus targets
Bonus measures for 2016
Review of L TIP targets
Shareholder Voting
At the last AGM the following resolutions in relation to remuneration were put by the Company:
Resolution Votes For % For Votes Against % Against Votes Withheld
To receive and approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report 166,086,786 98% 3,387,091 2% 2,224,376 126 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
NOMINATIONS 
COMMITTEE 
REPORT
Dear Fellow Shareholder
A few words of introduction to summarise the work of the 
Nominations Committee during the past year.
During 2015, the Nominations Committee held only one 
meeting. This was considerably fewer than in past years, 
when the Committee was heavily involved in planning and 
executing Board executive and non-executive succession. 
The final step in this process was the appointment to the 
Board of Coline McConville in February as a non-executive 
director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee; the 
latter to succeed Andrew Simon who retired from the Board 
in October 2015. 
As a result, the Board is now fully fit for the future, with an 
appropriate blend of skills in terms of age, gender, past 
versus current experience and retail versus merchanting 
experience. We now have a settled Board.
The purpose of the Committee’s meeting in 2015 was to 
review the pipeline of executive talent below the Board, 
future executive succession plans at that level, and the 
Group’s provision of appropriate training and development 
programmes. 
The Committee plans to hold at least three meetings during 
2016. We will continue to put priority time against executive 
pipeline development, but also lay the groundwork and 
process for more long-term board succession planning. 127 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Role
The Committee’s principal responsibility is to ensure that 
the Board comprises individuals with the most appropriate 
balance of experience, skills and knowledge to help develop 
and support the Company strategy. In order to achieve 
this, the Committee requires procedures to be in place that 
enable the nomination, selection and succession of the 
most capable directors and senior executives.
The Committee is also responsible for considering, and 
making recommendations to the Board on succession 
planning for directors and other senior executives; in  
this sense the Nominations Committee undertakes a 
broader role.
The Nominations Committee comprises all the Non-
executive Directors and is chaired by me other than when  
it is dealing with matters in relation to me or the 
chairmanship of the Company. The Chief Executive, Chief 
Financial Officer and Group HR Director are invited to attend 
when appropriate.
Election of Directors
A rigorous selection process precedes the appointment of 
all directors by the Board, and their recommendation by the 
Nominations Committee.
The performance of each director, the Board and each 
Committee is reviewed annually as part of the Board 
evaluation process and I am pleased to confirm that the 
Board recommends the election and re-election of all 
directors who are standing for re-election at the Group’s 
2016 AGM.
Activities in 2015
The Committee operates under formal terms of reference 
and met once during the year. The principal matter 
discussed at the meeting was a review of the senior talent 
below the Board and the organisation and succession plans 
for senior leadership roles.
Furthermore, a meeting of the Non-executive directors, 
without me being present, led by the Senior Independent 
Director Andrew Simon, was held to conduct a review of my 
performance as Chairman in connection with the renewal of 
my service contract at its sixth anniversary. 
Board Succession
As mentioned in my introductory note (above), the 
recruitment of new non-executive directors was completed 
with the appointment of Coline McConville with effect 
from 1 February 2015, and Andrew Simon retired from the 
Board after over nine years service on 31 October 2015. 
Andrew was chairman of the Remuneration and Stay Safe 
Committees and (since August 2014) Senior  
Independent Director.
The Nominations Committee recommended and the 
Board agreed that Chris Rogers be appointed as Senior 
Independent Director with effect from 1 November 2015. 
Andrew was succeeded as Remuneration Committee 
chairman by Coline McConville and as Stay Safe 
Committee chairman by Pete Redfern.
The individuals involved did not participate in discussions 
about their appointments.
2016 Objectives
To look further ahead to the future retirement of the current 
Chief Executive, and the current Chairman and to lay out a 
clear process for board and senior executive succession.
Board Diversity
It is the Group’s firm belief that having executives and  
non-executives on the Board that are diverse in age, 
experience, nationality or gender, provides us with different 
perspectives. This does not just make good commercial and 
business sense, but it is good for the Group’s colleagues and 
its customers as well.
In addition, the Group has a clear preference for non-
executives of whatever background, who have demonstrated 
success as CFOs or CEOs.
As a result, job specifications, search processes and 
selection criteria are focused on appointing candidates that 
not only meet the criteria for the role, but who could also 
offer different perspectives. Therefore, diversity, including 
gender diversity, is actively considered, and will continue 
to be so. The Board is committed to appointing the best 
people and ensuring all employees are able to develop their 
careers within the Group and therefore do not believe it is 
appropriate to set targets in this area.
At the most senior director/manager level the Group has 
two female board directors (25%). The Group currently also 
has two women on its operating executive (16.66%). Further 
details of the Group’s workforce diversity are set out in the 
“Capturing the way things are done around here” section on 
pages 70 to 77.
I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer 
any questions about the work of the Committee.
Robert Walker 
Chairman 
18 March 2016 128 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
DIRECTORS’ 
REPORT
The Directors present their annual report  
and audited accounts for the year ended  
31 December 2015. 
The Corporate Governance statement  
on pages 98 to 103 forms part of the 
Directors’ Report.
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION 129 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Business Review
A review of the Group’s position, developments, activities  
in the field of research and development and future 
prospects can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 
5 to 91. Whilst the Group operates predominately in the 
UK it does have a few branches in the Isle of Man and the 
Republic of Ireland.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reporting
Details of the Group’s Green House Gas Emissions can be 
found in the Environmental Report on pages 84 to 91.
Results and Dividends 
The Group results for the year ended 31 December 2015 
and dividends for the year ending 31 December 2015 are 
set out in the income statement and note 12 respectively 
on pages 140 and 165. If approved at the Annual General 
Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 27 May 2016 to 
those shareholders on the register at the close of business 
on 29 April 2016.
Balance Sheet and Post Balance 
Sheet Events
The balance sheet on pages 142 and 143 shows the Group’s 
financial position. No important events have occurred since 
the balance sheet date.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
A review of the Group’s principal risks and uncertainties are 
on pages 65 to 69.
Financial Risk Management 
Details of the Group’s approach to capital management 
and the alleviation of risk through the use of financial 
instruments are given in the Financial Review on pages 
56 to 63. Specific quantitative information on borrowings 
and financial instruments is given in notes 23 and 24 on 
pages 175 to 183 of the annual financial statements.
Directors and their Interests 
The UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”) requires 
that all directors of FTSE 350 companies are subject to 
re-election at the Company’s Annual General Meeting each 
year and therefore executive directors, John Carter and 
Tony Buffin, and non-executive directors Ruth Anderson, 
Coline McConville, Pete Redfern, Chris Rogers, John Rogers 
and Robert Walker will all seek re-election at the Annual 
General Meeting. Andrew Simon retired from the Board on 
31 October 2015. 
The names of the Directors at 31 December 2015, together 
with their biographical details are set out on pages 94 to 96. 
All of these Directors held office throughout the year, except 
Coline McConville who was appointed with effect from 
1 February 2015. The Executive Directors have rolling 12 
month notice periods in their contracts. The Non-executive 
Directors do not have service contracts. In the light of the 
formal evaluation of their performances as a result of the 
process described on page 101, Robert Walker, Chairman, 
confirms on behalf of the Board that all directors continue 
to be effective in, and committed to, their roles.
Directors and officers of the Company are entitled to be 
indemnified out of the assets of the Company in respect 
of any liability incurred in relation to the affairs of the 
Company, or any associate company, to the extent the 
law allows. In this regard, the Company is required to 
disclose that under article 140 of the Company’s Articles of 
Association, the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity, 
to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 against 
liabilities incurred by them in the execution of their duties 
and exercise of their powers. This indemnity is currently 
in force. In addition, if proceedings against directors are 
instituted subsequent to any person acquiring control of 
the Company, the Company has agreed with each of the 
Directors that pursuant to article 140(D) of the Company’s 
Articles of Association, the Company shall provide a 
Director with funds (subject to certain restrictions) to meet 
expenditure incurred by that Director in defending any 
criminal or civil proceedings.
A copy of the Company’s Articles of Association (which 
contains this indemnity) is available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office during normal business hours 
and will be available for inspection at (and during the period 
of 30 minutes prior to) the Company’s forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting. 
None of the Directors had an interest in any contract to 
which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party 
during the year.
The Company has undertaken to comply with the best 
practice on approval of directors’ conflicts of interests in 
accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association. 
These provisions have operated effectively. Under the 
Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation 
where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest  
that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the  
Company’s interests. 
The disclosable interests of Directors at 31 December 2015, 
including holdings, if any, of spouses and of children aged 
under 18, were as detailed in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 121 and 122. 130 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Substantial Shareholdings 
As at 31 December 2015, the Company had been notified 
of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the 
voting rights in the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company (as at this date no other such notification from 
any other shareholder had been received by the Company)
Any notifications received by the Company after  
31 December 2015 and up to 1 April 2016 (being a date 
within one month prior to the publication of the AGM notice) 
are disclosed in the AGM notice.
Close Company Status 
The close company provisions of the Income and 
Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the Company.
Employees 
Statements on employee matters are contained in the 
section of the annual report entitled “Capturing the way 
things are done around here” on pages 70 to 77. 
Details of the number of employees and related costs can 
be found in note 7 to the financial statements. 
The Company is committed to equality of opportunity and 
recognises the benefit of diversity within its workforce. Its 
approach to the matter of diversity on company boards is 
set out in the Nominations Committee report on page 127 
and in the section of the annual report entitled “Capturing 
the way things are done around here” on pages 70 to 77. 
The Company has an equal opportunities policy aimed at 
ensuring that employment decisions are based on ability 
and potential regardless of gender, race, colour, ethnic 
origin or sexual orientation, age or disability. In particular, 
applications for employment by disabled persons are always 
fully and fairly considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of 
the person concerned. In the event of a member of staff 
becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their 
employment with the Group continues and that appropriate 
training is arranged. It is the policy of the Company that the 
training, career development and promotion of disabled 
persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of 
other employees.
The Group’s policies and practices have been designed to 
keep employees informed on matters relevant to them 
as employees through regular meetings and newsletters. 
Employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide 
range of matters affecting their interests. All employees with 
more than three months’ service are eligible to participate 
in the Company’s Sharesave and Buy-As-You Earn plans. 
Details are provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
Political Donations
The Group did not give any money for political purposes 
nor did it make any donations to political organisations or 
independent candidate or incur any political expenditure 
during the year. 
Auditor
KPMG LLP is the Company’s auditor at the date of this 
report, having been appointed following the outcome of the 
tender for the role of external auditor conducted during late 
2014 and early 2015. Resolutions will be proposed at the 
Annual General Meeting to re-appoint KPMG LLP as the 
Company’s auditor, and to authorise the Audit Committee to 
fix the auditor’s remuneration. 
Statement on Disclosure of Information 
to the Auditor
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval 
of this report confirms that:
•  So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant  
audit information of which the Company’s auditor is 
unaware; and
•  The director has taken all reasonable steps that they 
ought to have taken as a director in order to make 
themselves aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware 
of that information. 
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of s.418 of the Companies 
Act 2006. 
Share Capital and Change of Control
As at 31 December 2015 the Company had an allotted 
and fully paid share capital of 249,814,722 ordinary shares 
of 10 pence each, with an aggregate nominal value of 
£24,981,472 (including shares owned by the employee 
share ownership trust). The ordinary shares are listed on the 
London Stock Exchange. All the shares rank pari passu. The 
rights and obligations attaching to the shares are set out in 
the Company’s Articles of Association. Fully paid shares in 
the Company are freely transferable. There are no persons 
Number %
BlackRock Inc 13,308,320 5.33%
OppenheimerFunds Inc 10,642,484 4.26%
Sprucegrove Investment 
Management Ltd
10,303,711 4.12%
Majedie Asset 
Management Ltd
8,054,007 3.22% 131 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
that hold securities carrying special rights with regard to 
the control of the Company. Details of the structure of the 
Company’s share capital and changes in the share capital 
during the year are also included in note 20 to the annual 
financial statements.
As at 31 December 2015 the Travis Perkins Employee Share 
Ownership Trust owned 1,318,532 shares in the Company 
(0.528%) of issued share capital for use in connection with 
the Company’s share schemes. Any voting or other similar 
decisions relating to those shares would be taken by the 
trustees, who may take account of any recommendation of 
the Company.
There are no restrictions on voting rights attaching to the 
Company’s ordinary shares. The Company is not aware of 
any agreements between holders of securities that may 
result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on  
voting rights.
The rules governing the appointment and replacement of 
board members and changes to the Articles of Association 
accord with usual English company law provisions. The 
powers of the Company’s Directors are set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association. In particular, the 
Board has the power to issue shares and to purchase the 
Company’s own shares and is seeking renewal of these 
powers at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in 
accordance with the restrictions and within the limits set out 
in the notice of that meeting.
There are a number of agreements to which the Company 
is a party that may take effect, alter or terminate upon a 
change of control following a takeover bid. None of these 
agreements is considered significant in the context of the 
Company as a whole. 
There are no agreements providing for compensation 
for Directors or employees on change of control. As set 
out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 122, 
service contracts for executive directors do not specify any 
particular level of compensation in the event of termination 
following change of control of the Company. As noted 
above, the Company has agreed with each of the Directors 
that it shall provide a director with funds (subject to certain 
restrictions) to meet expenditure incurred in defending 
any criminal or civil proceedings if such proceedings are 
instituted subsequent to any person acquiring control of  
the Company.
By order of the Board.
Deborah Grimason 
Company Secretary and General Counsel 
18 March 2016 132 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
 S T A TEMENT OF  
DIRECTORS’ 
RESPONSIBILITIES
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Report and the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors 
are required to prepare the group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent 
company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union. Under company law the Directors must not 
approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of 
the profit or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing 
these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 
requires that directors:
•  Select suitable  accounting policies and apply them 
consistently
•  Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent
•  State whether the financial statements have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU
•  Prepare the financial statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume the Group  
and the Company will continue in business
•  Make an assessment of the company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a strategic report, a directors’ 
report, a directors’ remuneration report and  a corporate 
governance statement, which  comply with that law and 
those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included on 
the Company’s website.  Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
•  The financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted 
by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; 
•  The Strategic Report, which is incorporated into the 
Directors’ Report, includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of 
the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
•  The annual report and financial statements taken as a 
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy
Declaration
We consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, when 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Group’s performance, business model and 
strategy.
By order of the Board 
 
John Carter Tony Buffin 
Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 
18 March 2016 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
133 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION
Steve Fellows - Travis Perkins, Aylesbury 134 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Wickes, Rugby Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
135 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
137 Independent auditors’ report
140 Financial statements
147   Notes to the financial statements  136 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Paul Williams - Benchmarx, Shrewsbury 137 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INDEPENDENT  
AUDITOR’S REPORT  
TO THE MEMBERS OF TRAVIS PERKINS plc ONLY
1. Our opinion on the financial statements  
is unmodified 
We have audited the financial statements of Travis Perkins 
plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 
140 to 205. 
In our opinion:
•  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2015 and of the Group’s and the 
Parent Company’s profit for the year then ended;
•  the financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRSs  
as adopted by the EU); and
•  the financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2. Our assessment of risks of material 
misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial 
statements the risks of material misstatement that had  
the greatest effect on our audit were as follows:
Valuation of Goodwill and non-current assets  
(£2,983 million)
Refer to page 106 (Audit Committee Report), page 151 
(Critical judgements and key sources of estimation and 
uncertainty) and pages 165 to 167, (note13) Financial 
disclosures.
The Risk – Loss of significant customers or changing 
consumer habits may lead to a risk that the business does 
not meet the growth projections necessary to support the 
carrying value of these assets. 
A significant proportion of the market served by the PTS 
and F & P businesses is highly competitive, offers low 
margins and certain manufacturers exercise a degree of 
control over customer pricing. The re-segmentation of 
the P&H business has now been completed and the PTS 
business is clearly focused on the larger contract customers 
which operate in this competitive element of the market. In 
addition changing consumer habits are most significant in 
the consumer division and the Wickes business in particular.
During the year the Group has reassessed its cash flows in 
relation to PTS and F & P as a result of  completion of the 
re-segmentation programme and risk adjusted these cash 
flows to account for the observed changes in the market. 
This has resulted in an impairment of £141 million being 
recorded in the financial statements.
Our Response - Our procedures included critically assessing 
the key assumptions applied by the Group in determining 
the recoverable amount of the above CGUs. In particular, 
we evaluated the appropriateness and consistency of 
underlying assumptions in determining the cash flows, 
specifically revenue growth, margin assumptions and 
capital expenditure. We considered historical forecasting 
accuracy, compared  forecast cash flows to those currently 
being achieved by the CGUs and assessed if future cash 
flows reflect known or probable changes in the business 
environment. We used our own valuation specialists to 
challenge the key inputs used in the calculation of the 
discount rates used by the group, including comparisons 
with external data sources for comparable companies. We 
performed our own sensitivity analysis on these CGUs, 
including a reduction in assumed growth rates, increased 
capital expenditure and an increased discount rate. We 
assessed whether the Group’s disclosures regarding the 
sensitivity of the impairment assessment, to changes in key 
assumptions, appropriately reflected the risks inherent in the 
valuation of goodwill and non-current assets.
Recognition of supplier rebate income 
Refer to page 106 (Audit Committee Report), page 151 
(Critical judgements and key sources of estimation and 
uncertainty) and page 173 (Note 18) Financial disclosures.
The Risk – As a result of the wide range of products and 
suppliers to the Group, there are a significant number of 
complex and varying purchase agreements within the 
business specifically involving fixed price discounts, volume 
rebates and customer sales support. We consider the risk 
to relate to the calculation and recoverability of the year end 
OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT 138 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
receivables from suppliers in respect of these agreements. 
The risk is driven by the complexity of this calculation 
across the range of products and divisions.
Our Response - Our audit procedures in this area included 
recalculating a sample of rebates receivable based on the 
terms of the  purchase agreements. We compared post year 
end cash receipts and credit notes received to the year end 
recoverable balance to assess the validity and accuracy of 
the rebates receivable. For significant balances outstanding 
at the date of signing the audit report we considered the 
success of rebate collection in previous periods and agreed 
the amount accrued to contractual agreements. 
Inventory valuation (£762 million)
Refer to page 106 (Audit Committee Report), page 151 
(Critical judgements and key sources of estimation 
and uncertainty) 
The Risk –The impact of rebate accounting and overheads 
allocations makes the inventory valuation complex in 
the various group businesses. In addition the competitive 
market and changes in consumer tastes may impact the 
saleability of the product. Both of these factors may lead to 
a risk of items not being recorded at the lower of cost and 
net realisable value.
Our Response - Our audit procedures in this area included 
evaluation of the appropriateness of the methodologies 
applied in determining product cost and critically assessing 
the calculation (including the allocation of rebates). We 
compared the amounts at which a sample of items is stated 
with the invoiced cost, adjusted for any subsequent rebates 
and compared that with sales prices achieved after the 
year-end. We critically assessed the assumptions used in 
deriving the required level of provisions by forming our own 
expectations based on historical sales levels and compared 
these to the Group’s calculations. We also considered the 
adequacy of the Group’s disclosures about the degree of 
estimation involved in arriving at the valuation.
3. Our application of materiality and an 
overview of the scope of our audit
The materiality for the group financial statements as a 
whole was set at £18 million, determined with reference 
to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation. Materiality 
represents 5% of Group profit before tax adjusted for 
impairment of intangible assets as disclosed on the face  
of the income statement.
We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or 
uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding £0.5 
million in addition to other identified misstatements that 
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
Of the Group’s 43 reporting components, 15 were subject to 
audit for group reporting purposes. These group procedures 
covered 93% of total group revenue; 95% of group profit 
before taxation; and 91% of total group assets. For the 
remaining components, we performed analysis at an 
aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that 
there were no significant risks of material misstatement 
within these.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to 
the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant 
risks detailed above and the information to be reported 
back. The Group audit team approved the component 
materialities, which ranged from £1.7 million to £10 million, 
having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group 
across the components. 
The Group audit team visited all the significant component 
locations (all UK based), to assess the audit risk and 
strategy and, subsequently, to discuss the findings reported 
to the Group audit team in more detail, and any further work 
required by the Group audit team was then performed by 
the component auditor.
4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified  
In our opinion:
•  the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006;
•  the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements. 
5. We have nothing to report on the 
disclosures of principal risks
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
•  the directors’ statement of viability assessment on page 
63, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, 
based on that, the directors’ assessment and expectations 
of the group’s continuing in operation over the 3 years 
from 28 February 2016; or 
•  the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements 
concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting. 139 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6. We have nothing to report in respect of 
the matters on which we are required to 
report by exception
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to 
you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our 
audit, we have identified other information in the annual 
report that contains a material inconsistency with either 
that knowledge or the financial statements, a material 
misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
•  we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors’ 
statement that they consider that the annual report and 
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the group’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy; or
•  the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately 
address matters communicated by us to the audit 
committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report 
to you if, in our opinion:  
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or  
•  the parent company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not 
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or  
•  certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made; or
•  we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:  
•  the directors’ statements, set out on pages 102 and 63, in 
relation to going concern and longer-term viability; and 
•  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on  
page 98 in The Corporate Governance Report relating to 
the company’s compliance with the eleven provisions of  
the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for  
our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above 
responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 132, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
A description of the scope of an audit of financial 
statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report 
is made solely to the company’s members as a body and is 
subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding 
our responsibilities, published on our website at www.kpmg.
com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into 
this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide 
an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we 
have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Greg Watts (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
One Snowhill
Snowhill Queensway
Birmingham
B4 6GH
18 March 2016 140 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Income Statements
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
The Group 
2015 2014
Notes
Pre- 
exceptional 
items 
£m
Exceptional 
items 
£m
Total 
  
£m
Pre- 
exceptional 
items
£m
Exceptional 
items 
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 4 5,941.6 - 5,941.6 5,580.7 - 5,580.7
Operating profit before 
amortisation and impairment
412.6 - 412.6 384.0 (23.3) 360.7
Amortisation of goodwill  
and acquired intangible assets
(18.0) - (18.0) (17.6) - (17.6)
Impairment of goodwill  
and other intangible assets
- (140.6) (140.6) - - -
Operating profit 5(a) 394.6 (140.6) 254.0 366.4 (23.3) 343.1
Finance income 9 1.2 - 1.2 5.6 - 5.6
Finance costs 9 (31.7) - (31.7) (27.3) - (27.3)
Profit before tax 364.1 (140.6) 223.5 344.7 (23.3) 321.4
Tax 10(a) (71.8) 16.0 (55.8) (68.0) 5.3 (62.7)
Profit for the year 292.3 (124.6) 167.7 276.7 (18.0) 258.7
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 292.2 (124.6) 167.6 276.5 (18.0) 258.5
Non-controlling interests 0.1 - 0.1 0.2 - 0.2
292.3 (124.6) 167.7 276.7 (18.0) 258.7
Earnings per ordinary share 
Basic 11(a) 67.8p 105.9p
Diluted 11(a) 66.2p 102.8p
Total dividend declared per 
ordinary share 
12 44.0p 38.0p
All results relate to continuing operations. Details of exceptional items are given in notes 5 and 10.
 The Company
Notes
2015
£m
2014
£m
Revenue 4 264.9 205.4
Operating profit before exceptional items 239.5 178.5
Exceptional items 5 - (6.4)
Operating profit 239.5 172.1
Finance income 9 1.2 5.9
Finance costs 9 (47.5) (41.4)
Profit before tax 193.2 136.6
Tax 10 10.8 10.6
Profit for the year 204.0 147.2
All results relate to continuing operations. Details of exceptional items are given in note 5.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 141 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Statements of Comprehensive Income
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
The Group The Company 
Notes
2015 
£m
2014
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Profit for the year 167.7 258.7   204.0 147.2
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss
Actuarial gains / (losses ) on defined benefit pension schemes 28(g) 24.8 (48.4) - -
Deferred tax rate change on actuarial movement 10(b) (1.4) - - -
Income tax relating to items not reclassified 10(b) (4.7) 9.5 - -
18.7 (38.9) - -
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss
Cash flow hedges (0.3) 0.2 (0.3) 0.2
Other comprehensive  income / (loss) for the year net of tax 18.4 (38.7) (0.3) 0.2
Total comprehensive income for the year 186.1 220.0 203.7 147.4 142 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
The Group The Company
Notes
2015
£m
2014
 £m
2015
£m
2014
Restated*
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill 13 1,740.2 1,816.8 - -
Other intangible assets 14 371.7 406.8 - -
Property, plant and equipment 15 849.1 689.3 0.1 0.1
Derivative financial instruments 24 6.3 18.7 6.3 18.7
Investment property 16 0.4 0.4 - -
Interest in associates 17 7.9 1.7 12.2 1.3
Investment in subsidiaries 17 - - 3,683.5 3,659.6
Investments 17 7.8 3.2 3.3 -
Deferred tax asset 26 - - 2.9 3.7
Total non-current assets 2,983.4 2,936.9 3,708.3 3,683.4
Current assets
Inventories 761.8 742.7 - -
Trade and other receivables 18 986.9 931.8 269.8 167.4
Derivative financial instruments 24 16.2 2.5 16.2 2.5
Cash and cash equivalents 19 83.8 108.3 32.8 54.0
Total current assets 1,848.7 1,785.3 318.8 223.9
Total assets 4,832.1 4,722.2 4,027.1 3,907.3
*Information about the restatement is given in note 5.
Balance Sheets
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 143 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Group The Company
Notes
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
Restated
£m
Equity and Liabilities
Capital and reserves
Issued capital 20 25.0 24.9 25.0 24.9
Share premium account 22 518.9 510.5 517.8 509.4
Merger reserve 22 326.5 326.5 326.5 326.5
Revaluation reserve 22 18.4 18.1 - -
Hedging reserve 22 (0.1) 0.2 (0.1) 0.2
Own shares 22 (15.5) (28.5) (15.5) (28.5)
Other reserves 22 (1.4) (1.5) - -
Accumulated profits 22 1,918.1 1,827.5 421.5 315.1
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 2,789.9 2,677.7 1,275.2 1,147.6
Non controlling interests 5.9 - - -
Total equity 2,795.8 2,677.7 1,275.2 1,147.6
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 23 411.4 440.0 360.2 385.4
Derivative financial instruments 24 - 0.5 - 0.5
Retirement benefit obligations 28 52.2 97.5 - -
Long-term provisions 25 7.4 7.8 - -
Amounts due to subsidiaries - - 2,231.6 2,303.9
Deferred tax liabilities 26 61.3 66.7 - -
Total non-current liabilities 532.3 612.5 2,591.8 2,689.8
Current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 23 139.8 43.5 137.0 45.6
Trade and other payables 27 1,235.5 1,255.2 23.1 24.3
Tax liabilities 90.2 71.6 - -
Short-term provisions 25 38.5 61.7 - -
Total current liabilities 1,504.0 1,432.0 160.1 69.9
Total liabilities 2,036.3 2,044.5 2,751.9 2,759.7
Total equity and liabilities 4,832.1 4,722.2 4,027.1 3,907.3
The financial statements of Travis Perkins plc, registered number 824821, were approved by the Board of Directors on 18 March 2016 and 
signed on its behalf by:
John Carter Tony Buffin 
Director Director 144 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
The Group
Issued  
share  
capital
£m
Share 
premium 
account
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Revaluation 
reserve
£m
Hedging 
reserve
£m
Own 
shares
£m
Other
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total equity 
before non-
controlling 
interest
£m
Non
controlling 
interest
£m
Total  
equity
£m
At 1 January 2014 24.7 498.0 326.5 18.4 - (40.6) (1.7) 1,689.9 2,515.2 - 2,515.2
Profit for the year - - - - - - 0.2 258.5 258.7 - 258.7
Other comprehensive 
income for the period  
net of tax
- - - - 0.2 - - (38.9) (38.7) - (38.7)
Total comprehensive 
income for the year
- - - - 0.2 - 0.2 219.6 220.0 - 220.0
Dividends - - - - - - - (81.1) (81.1) - (81.1)
Issue of share capital 0.2 12.5 - - - 12.1 - (10.5) 14.3 - 14.3
Realisation of revaluation 
reserve in respect of 
property disposals
- - - (0.2) - - - 0.2 - - -
Difference between 
depreciation of assets on 
a historical basis and  
on a revaluation basis
- - - (0.1) - - - 0.1 - - -
Tax on share based 
payments (note 10c)
- - - - - - - (0.5) (0.5) - (0.5)
Foreign exchange - - - - - - - (0.1) (0.1) - (0.1)
Credit for equity-settled 
share based payments
- - - - - - - 9.9 9.9 - 9.9
At 31 December 2014 24.9 510.5 326.5 18.1 0.2 (28.5) (1.5) 1,827.5 2,677.7 - 2,677.7
Profit for the year - - - - - - 0.1 167.6 167.7 - 167.7
Other comprehensive 
income for the period  
net of tax
- - - - (0.3) - - 18.7 18.4 - 18.4
Total comprehensive 
income for the year
- - - - (0.3) - 0.1 186.3 186.1 - 186.1
Dividends - - - - - - - (100.2) (100.2) - (100.2)
Issue of share capital 0.1 8.4 - - - 13.0 - (11.5) 10.0 - 10.0
Realisation of revaluation 
reserve in respect of 
property disposals
- - - (0.5) - - - 0.5 - - -
Difference between 
depreciation of assets on a 
historical basis and on  
a revaluation basis
- - - (0.1) - - - 0.1 - - -
Deferred tax rate change - - - 0.9 - - - - 0.9 - 0.9
Tax on share based 
payments (10c)
- - - - - - - 1.9 1.9 - 1.9
Arising on acquisition - - - - - - - - - 5.9 5.9
Foreign exchange - - - - - - - (0.2) (0.2) - (0.2)
Credit for equity-settled 
share based payments
- - - - - - - 13.7 13.7 - 13.7
At 31 December 2015 25.0 518.9 326.5 18.4 (0.1) (15.5) (1.4) 1,918.1 2,789.9 5.9 2,795.8
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 145 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Statement of Changes in Equity
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
The Company
Issued 
share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium 
account
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Hedging 
reserve
£m
Own 
shares
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total
equity
£m
Previously reported  
at 1 January 2014
24.7 496.9
326.5
- (40.6) 214.3 1,021.8
Prior period restatement (note 5e) - - - - - 45.4 45.4
At 1 January 2014 (restated) 24.7 496.9 326.5 - (40.6) 259.7 1,067.2
Profit for the year - - - - - 147.2 147.2
Other comprehensive income  
for the period net of tax
- - - 0.2 - - 0.2
Total comprehensive  
income for the year
- - - 0.2 - 147.2 147.4
Dividends - - - - - (81.1) (81.1)
Issue of share capital 0.2 12.5 - - 12.1 (10.5) 14.3
Tax on share based payments  
(note 10c)
- - - - - (10.1) (10.1)
Credit for equity-settled share  
based payments
- - - - - 9.9 9.9
At 31 December 2014 24.9 509.4 326.5 0.2 (28.5) 315.1 1,147.6
Profit for the year - - - - - 204.0 204.0
Other comprehensive income  
for the period net of tax
- - - (0.3) - - (0.3)
Total comprehensive income 
for the year
- - - (0.3) - 204.0 203.7
Dividends - - - - - (100.2) (100.2)
Issue of share capital 0.1 8.4 - - 13.0 (11.5) 10.0
Tax on share based payments  
(note 10c)
- - - - - 0.4 0.4
Credit for equity-settled share  
based payments
- - - - - 13.7 13.7
At 31 December 2015 25.0 517.8 326.5 (0.1) (15.5) 421.5 1,275.2
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 146 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Cash Flow Statements
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
The Group The Company
2015
£m
2014
 £m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of goodwill     
and other intangibles and exceptional items
412.6 384.0 239.5 178.5
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 83.0 74.9 0.1 0.1
Amortisation of internally generated intangibles 3.1 0.7 - -
Other non cash movement – share based payments 13.7 9.9 3.4 1.2
Other 0.7 - - -
Losses of associates (2.7) 3.3 (7.5) -
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (26.3) (26.8) - -
Operating cash flows before exceptional items 484.1 446.0 235.5 179.8
Increase in inventories (14.1) (48.5) - -
Increase in receivables (43.0) (107.7) (124.1) (19.3)
(Decrease) / increase in payables (38.8) 48.9 (49.4) (31.2)
Payments of exceptional items (14.6) (3.8) - (0.4)
Pension payments in excess of the charge to profits (23.3) (24.7) - -
Cash generated from operations 350.3 310.2 62.0 128.9
Interest paid (19.9) (15.2) (18.8) (12.9)
Income taxes paid (47.8) (49.9) - -
Net cash from operating activities 282.6 245.1 43.2 116.0
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.5
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 50.8 30.8 - -
Development of computer software (23.9) (14.0) - -
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (268.7) (150.9) (0.1) (0.1)
Interest in associates (3.5) (2.1) (3.5) 1.6
Investments (5.3) - (31.3) (16.7)
Acquisition of businesses net of cash acquired (note 29) (26.0) (15.7) - -
Net cash used in investing activities (276.4) (151.7) (34.7) (14.7)
Financing activities
Net proceeds from the issue of share capital 10.0 14.3 10.0 14.3
Net movement in finance lease liabilities (2.7) (2.5) - -
Debt arrangement fees (3.9) (2.6) (3.9) (2.6)
Repayment of loan notes (40.8) - (40.8) -
Increase / (decrease) in loans and  liabilities to pension scheme 106.9 (243.0) 110.0 (240.0)
Increase in sterling bond - 250.0 - 250.0
Dividends paid (100.2) (81.1) (100.2) (81.1)
Net cash from financing activities (30.7) (64.9) (24.9) (59.4)
Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents (24.5) 28.5 (16.4) 41.9
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 108.3 79.8 49.2 7.3
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year (note 19) 83.8 108.3 32.8 49.2
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 147 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the financial statements
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
Overview
Travis Perkins plc is a company incorporated in the United 
Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006. The address of the 
registered office is given on page 210. The nature of the Group’s 
operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic 
Report on pages 5 to 91.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, 
the currency of the primary economic environment in which the 
Group operates.
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). The financial 
statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS 
adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial 
statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared on the historic cost 
basis, except that derivative financial instruments, available for 
sale investments, contingent consideration arising from business 
combinations and certain borrowings are stated at their fair value. 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of 
the Company and all entities controlled by the Company (its 
subsidiaries) (together referred to as “the Group”) from the date 
control commences until the date that control ceases. Control is 
achieved where the Company:
• Has the power over the investee
•  Is exposed or has rights to a variable return from the 
involvement with the investee
• Has the ability to use its power to affect its returns
As such, the results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are 
included in the consolidated income statement from the effective 
date of acquisition.
At the date of the approval of these financial statements, the 
following Standards and Interpretations, which have not yet 
been applied in these financial statements, were in issue, but not 
yet effective:
• FRS 9 - Financial Instruments
• IFRS 14 - Regulatory Deferral Accounts
• Annual improvements to IFRS 2010-2012 cycle
• Annual improvements to IFRS 2011-2013 cycle
• Annual improvements to IFRS 2012-2014 cycle
•  Amendments to IFRS 11 - Accounting for Acquisitions of 
Interests in Joint Operations
•  Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 – Clarification of 
Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation
• IFRS 15 - Revenue Recognition
The Directors anticipate that adoption of these Standards and 
Interpretations in future periods will not have a material impact on 
the financial statements of the Group.
•  IFRS 16 – In January 2016 the IASB issued IFRS 16 on 
accounting for leases which is yet to be endorsed by the 
European Union. This standard will have a material effect 
on the Group because of the value of operating leases it has 
entered into (see note 30). The Group is in the process of 
determining what the effect may be which given the complexity 
of the standard and volume of leases is expected to take a 
considerable time.
The Directors are currently of the opinion that the Group’s forecasts 
and projections, show that the Group should be able to operate 
within its current facilities and comply with its banking covenants. 
The Group is however, exposed to a number of significant risks 
and uncertainties, which could affect the Group’s ability to meet 
management’s projections and hence its ability to meet its banking 
covenants. The Directors believe that the Group has the flexibility 
to react to changing market conditions and is adequately placed to 
manage its business risks successfully.
Detailed considerations of going concern, risks and uncertainties 
are provided in the Annual Report on pages 102 and 65 to 69 
respectively.
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement 
at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a 
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
twelve months from the date of signing these accounts. For this 
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements.
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The principal accounting policies adopted in preparing the financial 
statements are set out below.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised when goods or services are received by the 
customer and the risks and rewards of ownership have passed 
to them. Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration 
received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for 
goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net 
of discounts and value added tax. For the Group, services comprise 
tool hire and kitchen and bathroom installations. For the Parent 
Company, revenue comprises management charges receivable 
and dividend income received.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those items of income and expenditure  
that by reference to the Group are material in size or unusual 
in nature or incidence, that in the judgement of the Directors, 
should be disclosed separately on the face of the financial 
statements (or in the notes in the case of a segment) to ensure 
both that the reader has a proper understanding of the Group’s 
financial performance and that there is comparability of financial 
performance between periods.
Items of income or expense that are considered by the Directors 
for designation as exceptional items include, but are not limited 
to, significant restructurings, onerous contracts, write-downs or 
impairments of current and non-current assets, the costs of 
acquiring and integrating businesses, gains or losses on disposals 
of businesses and investments, re-measurement gains or losses 
arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial 
instruments to the extent that hedge accounting is not achieved or 
is not effective, material pension scheme curtailment gains and the 
effect of changes in corporation tax rates on deferred tax balances.
Supplier income
Supplier Income comprises fixed price discounts, volume rebates 
and customer sales support.
Fixed price discounts and volume rebates received and receivable 
in respect of goods which have been sold are initially deducted 
from the cost of inventory and therefore reduce cost of sales in the 
income statement when the goods are sold. Where goods on which 
the fixed price discount or volume rebate has been earned remain 
in inventory at the year-end, the cost of that inventory reflects 
those discounts and rebates (see inventory accounting policy). 148 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
The Group receives customer sales support payments that are 
made entirely at the supplier’s option, that are requested by the 
Group when a specific product is about to be sold to a specific 
customer and for which payment is only received after the sale 
has been completed. All customer sales support receipts received 
and receivable are deducted from cost of sales when the sale to 
the third party has been completed, i.e. when the customer sales 
support payment has been earned. 
Supplier income receivable is netted off against trade payables 
when there is a legally binding arrangement in place and it is 
management’s intention to do so, otherwise amounts are included 
in other receivables in the balance sheet.
Other promotional arrangements are not significant.
Customer rebates
Where the Group has rebate agreements with its customers, 
the value of customer rebates paid or payable, calculated in 
accordance with the agreements in place, is deducted from 
turnover in the year in which the rebate is earned.
Business combinations and goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition 
method. The cost of an acquisition represents the cash value of the 
consideration and/or the fair value of the shares issued on the date 
the offer became unconditional. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for 
recognition under IFRS 3 (2008) are recognised at their fair value 
at the acquisition date except that:
•  Deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets 
related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and 
measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 
Employee Benefits respectively
•  Liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by 
the Group of an acquiree’s share-based payment awards are 
measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group’s 
previously held interest in the acquired entity is remeasured to fair 
value at the acquisition date and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is 
recognised in the income statement.
Goodwill arising on acquisition represents the excess of the 
cost of acquisition over the share of the aggregate fair value of 
identifiable net assets (including intangible assets) of a business or 
a subsidiary at the date of acquisition. All material intangible fixed 
assets obtained on acquisition have been recognised separately 
in the financial statements. Goodwill is initially recognised as 
an asset and allocated to cash generating units or groups of 
cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the 
synergies of the combination, then at least annually, is reviewed 
for impairment. Any impairment is recognised immediately in 
the income statement and is not subsequently reversed, as such, 
goodwill is stated in the balance sheet at cost less any provisions 
for impairment in value.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to 
IFRS (1 January 2004) has been retained at the previous UK GAAP 
carrying value subject to being tested for impairment at that date. 
Goodwill written off to reserves prior to 1998 under UK GAAP has 
not been reinstated and would not be included in determining any 
subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Liabilities for contingent consideration are classified as fair value 
through profit and loss.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets identified as part of the assets of an acquired 
business are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value 
can be measured reliably on initial recognition. Intangible assets 
are amortised to the income statement on a straight-line basis 
over a maximum of 20 years except where they are considered 
to have an indefinite useful life. In the latter instance, they are 
reviewed annually for impairment.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost 
less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. 
Assets are depreciated to their estimated residual value on a 
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows:
•  Buildings - 50 years or if lower, the estimated useful life of the 
building or the life of the lease
• Plant and equipment - 4 to 10 years
• Computer Software - 3 to 10 years
• Freehold land is not depreciated
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their 
expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets, or where 
shorter, the term of the relevant lease. 
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset 
is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds 
net of expenses and the carrying amount of the asset in the 
balance sheet and is recognised in the income statement. Where 
appropriate, the attributable revaluation reserve remaining in 
respect of properties revalued prior to the adoption of IFRS is 
transferred directly to reserves.
Leases
Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the 
risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are 
capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the 
leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease 
payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance 
charges and reduction of the lease liability to achieve a constant 
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance 
charges are charged directly against income. Capitalised leased 
assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful 
life of the asset or the lease term. Leases where the lessor retains 
substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are 
classified as operating leases. 
Operating lease rental payments are recognised as an expense in 
the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Reverse lease premia and other incentives receivable for entering 
into a lease agreement are recognised in the income statement on 
a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s tangible and intangible assets 
with a definite useful life are reviewed at each balance sheet date 
to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If such 
an indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated 
and compared to its carrying value. Where the asset does not 
generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the 
Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating 
unit (“CGU”) to which the asset belongs. The recoverable amount 
of an asset is the greater of its fair value less disposal cost and 
its value in use (the present value of the future cash flows that 
the asset is expected to generate). In determining value in use the 
present value of future cash flows is discounted using a pre tax 
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money in relation to the period of the investment and the 
risks specific to the asset concerned.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 149 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Where the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount a 
provision for the impairment loss is established with a charge 
being made to the income statement. When the reasons for 
a write down no longer exist the write down is reversed in the 
income statement up to the net book value that the relevant 
asset would have had if it had not been written down and if it had 
been depreciated.
For intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life the 
recoverable amount is estimated at each annual balance sheet date.
Inventories
Inventories, which consist of goods for resale, are stated at the 
lower of average weighted cost and net realisable value. Cost 
comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour 
costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing 
the inventories to their present location and condition. Net 
realisable value is the estimated selling price less the estimated 
costs of disposal.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet 
when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of 
the instrument.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured at amortised cost, which is 
carrying amount less provision for irrecoverable amounts. 
Allowances for the estimated irrecoverable amounts are made 
in the income statement when the receivable is considered to 
be uncollectible.
Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets are treated as impaired when in the opinion of 
the Directors, the likelihood of full recovery is diminished by either 
events or change of circumstance.
Bank and other borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts, loan notes and other 
loans are recognised in the balance sheet at amortised cost. 
Finance charges associated with arranging non-equity funding 
are recognised in the income statement over the life of the facility. 
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement 
in accordance with the effective interest rate method.
Trade payables
Trade payables are measured at amortised cost.
Foreign currencies
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the 
rates ruling on the date of the transaction.
At the balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of 
exchange ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising 
on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its 
exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks arising from 
financing activities. The Group does not enter into speculative 
financial instruments. In accordance with its treasury policy, the 
Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for 
trading purposes. 
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value. The fair 
value of derivative financial instruments is the estimated amount 
the Group would receive or pay to transfer to a market participant 
the derivative at the balance sheet date, taking into account current 
interest and exchange rates and the current creditworthiness of 
the counterparties. 
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, that 
are designated and effective as hedges of the future variability of 
cash flows, are recognised in equity and the ineffective portion is 
recognised immediately in the income statement.
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value 
of a hedged item, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair 
value attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding 
entry in the income statement. 
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains 
or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the income 
statement as they arise.
Derivatives embedded in commercial contracts are treated as 
separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not 
closely related to those of the underlying contracts, with unrealised 
gains or losses being reported in the income statement. 
The fair value of hedged derivatives is classified as a non-current 
asset or non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedge 
relationship is more than 12 months, otherwise they are classified 
as current.
Foreign currency forward contracts not designated as effective 
hedges are marked-to-market at the balance sheet date, with any 
gains or losses being taken through the income statement.
Financial assets and financial liabilities
Financial assets are classified into the following specified 
categories: financial assets at ‘fair value through profit or loss’ 
(“FVTPL”), ‘available-for-sale’ (“ AFS”) financial assets and ‘loans 
and receivables’. The classification depends on the nature and 
purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of 
initial recognition.
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities ‘at 
FVTPL’ or ‘other financial liabilities’ and trade and other payables.
The Group has defined the classes of financial assets to be 
other financial assets, cash and borrowings and derivative 
financial instruments.
Financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL 
where the financial asset or the financial liability is either held for 
trading or it is designated as FVTPL.
A financial asset or financial liability is classified as held for trading 
if it:
•  Has been acquired principally for the purpose of being sold or 
disposed of in the near future; or
•  Is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that 
the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of 
short-term profit-taking; or
•  Is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a 
hedging instrument.
Financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair 
value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the income 
statement unless it is an effective cash flow relationship. The net 
gain or loss recognised in the income statement incorporates 
any interest earned or paid on the financial asset and financial 
liability respectively. 150 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables and other receivables that have fixed or 
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market 
are classified as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, 
less any impairment. Interest income is recognised by applying 
the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables, which 
applies to all amounts owed to the Group when the recognition of 
interest would be immaterial. 
Other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially 
measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. Other financial 
liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an 
effective yield basis. The effective interest method is a method 
of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of 
allocating interest expense over the relevant period. The effective 
interest is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash 
payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, 
where appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount on 
initial recognition.
Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the 
contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire; or it 
transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group 
neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards 
of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, 
the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an 
associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group 
retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a 
transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the 
financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for 
the proceeds received.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, 
the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable 
and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. 
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income 
statement because it excludes items of income and expense that 
are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes 
items, which are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability 
for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted 
or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used 
in the computation of taxable profit. This is accounted for using the 
balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally 
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred 
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not 
recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or 
from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) 
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither 
the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset 
realised based on tax laws and rates that have been enacted 
or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax 
is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it 
relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case 
the deferred tax is also dealt within equity.
Retirement benefit costs
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes 
are recognised as an expense when employees have rendered 
services entitling them to the contributions.
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is 
determined using the projected unit credit method with actuarial 
valuations being carried out at the end of each reporting period. 
Re-measurement comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effects 
of asset ceilings and minimum funding payments and the return 
on scheme assets (excluding interest) are recognised immediately 
in the balance sheet with a charge or credit to the statement 
of comprehensive income. Re-measurement recorded in the 
statement of comprehensive income is not recycled. Net interest 
is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit 
liability or asset. Net interest expense or income is recognised 
within finance costs.
Where the Group is committed to pay additional contributions 
under a minimum funding arrangement and it has no 
unconditional right to receive any surplus in a winding up of 
the scheme, the pension obligation recognised in the financial 
statements is the higher of the IAS 19 (revised 2011) obligation 
or the net present value of future minimum funding payments to 
which the Group is unconditionally committed, discounted using 
the IAS 19 (revised 2011) discount rate.
Employee share incentive plans
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to 
employees (long-term incentives, executive share options and 
Save As You Earn). These payments are measured at fair value at 
the date of grant by the use of the Black Scholes option-pricing 
model taking into account the terms and conditions upon which 
the options were granted. The cost of equity-settled awards 
is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, 
based on the Group’s estimate of the number of shares that will 
eventually vest.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group 
has a present legal or constructive obligation because of a past 
event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will 
be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are measured at the 
Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the 
obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present 
value where the effect is material.
Equity instruments and own shares 
Equity instruments represent the ordinary share capital of the 
Group and are recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly 
attributable incremental issue costs.
Consideration paid by the Group for its own shares is deducted 
from total shareholders’ equity. Where such shares vest to 
employees under the terms of the Group’s share incentive 
schemes or the Group’s share save schemes or are sold, any 
consideration received is included in shareholders’ equity.
Dividends
Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the 
period end are not recognised in the financial statements until 
they have been approved by shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting.
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 151 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES 
OF ESTIMATION AND UNCERTAINTY
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB. The preparation of 
financial statements requires the Directors to make estimates and 
assumptions about future events that affect the reported amounts 
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and 
liabilities. Future events and their effects cannot be determined 
with certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires 
the exercise of judgement based on various assumptions and 
other factors such as historical experience, current and expected 
economic conditions. The Directors frequently re-evaluate these 
significant factors and make adjustments where facts and 
circumstances dictate. The Directors believe that the following 
judgements are critical due to the degree of estimation required 
and / or the potential material impact they may have on the 
Group’s financial position and performance.
Supplier income
The overwhelming majority of Supplier Income, in excess of 85% 
by value is determined by reference to fixed price discounts on 
actual purchases with approximately 3% being volume rebates 
that are subject to stepped rebate targets, the rebate percentage 
increasing as values or volumes purchased reach pre-agreed 
targets. However, by the year-end the Group knows whether those 
targets were reached.
Approximately 80% of amounts receivable for Supplier Income are 
received during the year as they are earned and settled monthly, 
although some agreements may also stipulate quarterly, bi-annual 
or annual payments; with only two of the arrangements not being 
co-terminous with the Group’s statutory year end.  Therefore the 
key judgements relate to the total value of rebates and fixed price 
discounts still to be received at the year-end and the amount to 
be set against the gross value of inventory.   These are determined 
using established methodologies and in the case of collectability 
management’s knowledge of the parties involved and historical 
collection trends.
Other Supplier Income relates to customer sales support received 
in respect of sales of specific products to specific customers which 
is included in the income statement when the relevant sale occurs, 
i.e. when all conditions for it to be earned have been met.
Income taxes
The Group is subject to the income tax laws of the United 
Kingdom. These laws are complex and subject to different 
interpretations by taxpayers and tax authorities. When establishing 
income tax liabilities, the Directors make a number of judgements 
and interpretations about the application and interaction of these 
laws to estimate the amount expected to be paid to (or recovered 
from) the tax authorities. Changes in these tax laws or in their 
interpretation could affect the Group’s effective tax rate and the 
results of operations in a given period. Accordingly, future tax 
expense may be affected as these uncertain matters are resolved.
Cash generating units
The Directors consider that individual assets do not generate cash 
flows that are largely independent of those from other assets and 
consequently that, for the purposes of impairment testing, each 
branch in the Group is a cash generating unit (“CGU”). Impairment 
testing of property, plant and equipment is carried out at individual 
branch level and no write offs have been made. Goodwill and other 
intangibles impairment testing is carried out at brand level as 
described in note 13. 
Goodwill and other intangible assets
In testing for impairment, the recoverable amount of goodwill and 
intangible assets is determined by reference to the value in use 
of the CGU grouping to which they are attributed. In addition the 
Directors have made certain assumptions concerning discount 
rates and the future development of the business that are 
consistent with its corporate plan. Whilst the Directors consider 
their assumptions to be realistic, should actual results, including 
those for market volume changes, be different from expectations, 
for instance due to a worsening of the UK economy, then it is 
possible that the value of goodwill and other intangible assets 
included in the balance sheet could become impaired.
The pre-tax discount rate is derived from the Group’s weighted 
average cost of capital (“WACC”) calculated by the Group’s 
advisors. The WACC is based upon the risk free rate for 
twenty-year UK gilts, adjusted for the UK market risk premium, 
which reflects the increased risk of investing in UK equities and 
the relative volatilities of the equity of the Group compared to the 
market as a whole. In arriving at the discount rate the Directors 
have applied an adjustment to reflect their view of the relative 
risk of the Group’s operations. Further details concerning the 
judgements made by the Directors in respect of goodwill and other 
intangible assets and the impairment testing thereof, are given in 
note 13.
Pension assumptions
The Group has chosen to adopt assumptions that the Directors 
believe are generally in line with comparable companies. If the 
difference between actual inflation and the actual increase in 
pensionable salaries is greater than that assumed, or if long 
term interest rates were lower than assumed, or if the average 
life expectancy of pensioners increases, then the pension deficit 
could be greater than currently stated in the balance sheet. Where 
the pension obligation is included in the balance sheet at the net 
present value of the minimum funding payments then the impact 
on the balance sheet of changes in these assumptions is reduced.
Inventories
In determining the cost of inventories the Directors have to make 
judgements to arrive at cost and net realisable value. 
The Group has entered into a large number of rebate and fixed 
price discount agreements, the effects of which have to be offset 
against the gross invoice price paid for goods. As explained 
above in the section setting out the judgements made in respect 
of Supplier Income, the calculation of the value deferred into 
stock is complicated due to the number, nature and structure of 
the agreements in place. However, the Group has a well tested 
methodology that is consistently applied and which the Directors 
believe recognises the appropriate deduction from the gross 
invoice cost of stock.
Furthermore,  determining  the net realisable value of the wider 
range of products held in many locations requires judgement 
to be applied to determine the likely saleability of the product 
and the potential price that can be achieved. In arriving at any 
provisions for net realisable value the Directors take into account 
the age, condition and quality of the product stocked and the 
recent trend in sales. 152 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4. REVENUE
The Group The Company
2015 
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Sale of goods 5,793.2 5,457.9 - -
Sales of services 148.4 122.8 - -
Management charges - - 8.4 8.3
Dividends from subsidiaries - - 256.5 197.1
5,941.6 5,580.7 264.9 205.4
Other operating income 5.0 5.7 7.5 -
Finance income 1.2 5.6 1.2 5.9
5,947.8 5,592.0 273.6 211.3
Like-for-like sales are a measure of underlying sales performance for two successive periods. Branches and stores contribute to like-for-like 
sales once they have been trading for more than 12 months. Revenue included in like-for-like is for the equivalent times in both years being 
compared. When branches close, revenue is excluded from the prior year figures for the months equivalent to the post closure period in the 
current year.
5. PROFIT
a. Operating profit
The Group The Company
2015
£m
2014 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Revenue 5,941.6 5,580.7 264.9 205.4
Cost of sales (4,172.6) (3,930.2) - -
Gross profit 1,769.0 1,650.5 264.9 205.4
Selling and distribution costs (1,066.2) (1,015.5) - -
Administrative expenses (480.4) (320.6) (32.9) (33.3)
Profit on disposal of properties 23.9 26.3 - -
Other operating income 5.0 5.7 7.5 -
Share of results of associate 2.7 (3.3) - -
Operating profit 254.0 343.1 239.5 172.1
Add back exceptional items 140.6 23.3 - 6.4
Add back amortisation of acquired intangible assets 18.0 17.6 - -
Adjusted operating profit 412.6 384.0 239.5 178.5 153 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
During the year the Group incurred the following costs for services provided by the Company’s auditor: The Group
2015 2014
£000 £000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 130 107
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 390 328
Fees paid to the Company’s auditor for other services:
      Audit related assurance services 55 89
      Other services 84 22
659 546
Audit related assurance services in 2014 include £12,000 which was paid to the auditor by the Travis Perkins Pension and Dependants’ 
Benefit Scheme. 
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 104 to 108, and includes an explanation 
of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when the auditor provides non-audit services.
Operating profit has been arrived at after charging / (crediting):
The Group The Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Movement of provisions against inventories (1.2) (1.5) - -
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 4,173.8 3,931.7 - -
Pension costs in administration expenses 9.4 7.5 0.4 0.5
Pension costs in selling and distribution costs 21.5 15.1 - -
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 83.0 74.9 - -
Impairment of goodwill and acquired intangible assets 140.6 - - -
Impairment of investments - - 14.3 -
Amortisation of internally generated intangible assets 3.1 0.7 - -
Staff costs 748.8 706.4 11.8 9.8
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (26.3) (26.8) - -
Rental income (5.0) (5.7) - -
Hire of vehicles, plant and machinery 47.3 44.3 - -
Other leasing charges – property 185.4 183.6 - -
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 18.0 17.6 - -
Auditor’s remuneration for audit services 0.5 0.4 0.1 0.1 154 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5. PROFIT continued
b. Adjusted Operating Margin
General 
Merchanting
Contracts Consumer Plumbing & 
 Heating
Unallocated Group
 2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Revenue 1,971.5 1,872.7 1,213.6 1,071.3 1,385.8 1,283.4 1,370.7 1,353.3 - - 5,941.6 5,580.7
Segment result 198.8 183.4 77.3 65.9 89.9 82.4 (102.1) 29.4 (9.9) (18.0) 254.0 343.1
Amortisation of 
intangible assets
- - 5.9 5.7 4.9 4.9 7.2 7.0 - - 18.0 17.6
Exceptional items - - - - - (10.0) 140.6 28.7 - 4.6 140.6 23.3
Adjusted segment 
result
198.8 183.4 83.2 71.6 94.8 77.3 45.7 65.1 (9.9) (13.4) 412.6 384.0
Adjusted operating 
margin
10.1% 9.8% 6.9% 6.7% 6.8% 6.0% 3.3% 4.8% - - 6.9% 6.9%
Segmental information including the definition of segment result is shown in note 6. 
c. Adjusted profit before and after tax
The Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit before tax 223.5 321.4
Exceptional items 140.6 23.3
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 18.0 17.6
Adjusted profit before tax 382.1 362.3
The Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit after tax 167.7 258.7
Exceptional items 140.6 23.3
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 18.0 17.6
Tax on amortisation of acquired intangible assets (3.4) (3.5)
Tax on exceptional items (7.5) (5.3)
Effect of reduction in corporation tax rate on deferred tax (8.5) -
Adjusted profit after tax 306.9 290.8
d. Exceptional items
The Group The Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 140.6 - - -
Reconfiguration of the Plumbing and Heating business - 29.5 - 2.1
Onerous lease provision release - (10.0) - -
Write down of loans and investment in Rinus Roofing Limited - 4.6 - 5.1
Fair value adjustments to contingent consideration
- (0.8) - (0.8)
140.6 23.3 - 6.4
To enable readers of the financial statements to obtain a clear understanding of underlying trading, the Directors have shown the exceptional 
items separately in the group income statement.  155 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2015
Trading conditions in the wholesale and contract led Plumbing and Heating market have been challenging and as a consequence, following 
the annual impairment review of goodwill and other intangible assets, the Group has recognised an impairment charge in respect of PTS 
(£109.9m) and F&P (£30.7m) totalling £140.6m. Details of the allocation of the impairment charge are given in note 13.
2014
The programme to reconfigure the Plumbing and Heating business resulted in the Group and the Company incurring £29.5m and £2.1m 
respectively of exceptional operating charges. Details of the exceptional provision is given in note 25.
£10.0m of surplus exceptional onerous lease provision was credited back to operating profit following the surrender of the lease on a property. 
The Group disposed of its investment in Rinus Roofing Limited for £2.8m and recorded a loss of £4.6m, £5.1m in the Company, as loans 
previously advanced to that company and the Group’s equity investment were not fully recovered. 
In accordance with IAS 39 the contingent consideration payable in respect of the acquisition of Solfex was reassessed with the discounted 
amount previously recognised being reduced by £0.8m in the Group and in the Company.
e. Prior period restatement
The company operates Group wide equity settled share incentive schemes and in 2015 the directors reviewed the application of IFRS 2 
share based payments. In prior periods, in the individual accounts of Travis Perkins plc, the credit to equity arising on equity settled share 
based payments has been incorrectly restricted to the value attributable to employees of Travis Perkins plc only. This has been restated 
to show the credit to equity as being the value of share based payments arising on all Group wide equity settled schemes. As subsidiaries 
are not recharged for the share based payment charge the amount is debited to cost of investment. The impact on the balance sheet in 
2014 and 2013 is shown below.
As previously 
stated 
£m
2014
Prior period 
restatement 
£m
 
As restated 
£m
As previously 
stated 
£m
2013
Prior period 
restatement 
£m
 
As restated 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.1 - 0.1 0.1 - 0.1
Derivative financial instruments 18.7 - 18.7 9.3 - 9.3
Interest in associates 1.3 - 1.3 7.7 - 7.7
Investments in subsidiaries 3,605.5 54.1 3,659.6 3,588.8 45.4 3,634.2
Deferred tax asset 3.7 - 3.7 18.2 - 18.2
Total non current assets 3,629.3 54.1 3,683.4 3,624.1 45.4 3,669.5
Trade and other receivables 167.4 - 167.4 133.1 - 133.1
Derivative financial instruments 2.5 - 2.5 - - -
Cash and cash equivalents 54.0 - 54.0 7.3 - 7.3
Total current assets 223.9 - 223.9 140.4 - 140.4
Total assets 3,853.3 54.1 3,907.3 3,764.5 45.4 3,809.9
Issued capital 24.9 - 24.9 24.7 - 24.7
Share premium account 509.4 - 509.4 496.9 - 496.9
Merger reserve 326.5 - 326.5 326.5 - 326.5
Hedging reserve 0.2 - 0.2 - - -
Own shares (28.5) - (28.5) (40.6) - (40.6)
Accumulated profits 261.0 54.1 315.1 214.3 45.4 259.7
Total equity 1,093.5 54.1 1,147.6 1,021.8 45.4 1,067.2
Interest bearing loans &borrowings 385.4 - 385.4 363.9 - 363.9
Derivative financial instruments 0.5 - 0.5 4.5 - 4.5
Long term other payables - - - 1.9 - 1.9
Amounts due to subsidiaries 2,303.9 - 2,303.9 2,308.0 - 2,308.0
Total non current liabilities 2,689.8 - 2,689.8 2,678.3 - 2,678.3
Interest bearing loans &borrowings 45.6 - 45.6 3.2 - 3.2
Trade and other payables 24.3 - 24.3 59.4 - 59.4
Derivative financial instruments - - - 1.8 - 1.8
Total current liabilities 69.9 - 69.9 64.4 - 64.4
Total liabilities 2,759.7 - 2,759.7 2.742.7 - 2.742.7
Total equity and liabilities 3,853.2 54.1 3,907.3 3,764.5 45.4 3,809.9 156 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
6. BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENTS
As required by IFRS 8 the operating segments are identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly 
reviewed by the Chief Executive to assess their performance. All four divisions sell building materials to a wide range of customers, none of 
which are dominant, and operate almost exclusively in the United Kingdom and consequently no geographical information is presented.
Segment result represents the profit earned by each segment without allocation of certain central costs finance income and costs and 
income tax expense. Unallocated segment assets and liabilities comprise financial instruments, current and deferred taxation, cash and 
borrowings and pension scheme assets and liabilities.
Inter-segment trading is eliminated. During 2015 an impairment loss was recognised in the Plumbing and Heating segment on goodwill and 
other intangible assets totalling £140.6m. In 2014 there were no impairment losses or reversals of impairment losses recognised in profit or 
loss or in equity in any of the reportable segments.
2015
General 
Merchanting
£m
Contracts
£m
Consumer 
£m
Plumbing & 
Heating
£m
Unallocated
£m
Consolidated
£m
Revenue  
1,971.5 1,213.6 1,385.8 1,370.7 - 5,941.6
Result
Segment result  
198.8 77.3 89.9 (102.1) (9.9) 254.0
Finance income
- - - - 1.2 1.2
Finance costs
- - - - (31.7) (31.7)
Profit before taxation
198.8 77.3 89.9 (102.1) (40.4) 223.5
Taxation
- - - - (55.8) (55.8)
Profit for the year
198.8 77.3 89.9 (102.1) (96.2) 167.7
Segment assets 1,540.2 833.7 1,479.1 856.0 123.1 4,832.1
Segment liabilities (437.8) (244.8) (283.8) (293.4) (776.5) (2,036.3)
Consolidated net assets
1,102.4 588.9 1,195.3 562.6 (653.4) 2,795.8
Capital expenditure
169.8 31.6 44.3 20.0 - 265.7
Amortisation of acquired 
intangibles
- 5.9 4.9 7.2 - 18.0
Impairment of goodwill 
and other intangibles
- - - 140.6 - 140.6
Depreciation
47.8 9.2 17.6 8.4 - 83.0
2014
General 
Merchanting
£m
Contracts
£m
Consumer
£m
Plumbing & 
Heating
£m
Unallocated 
£m
Consolidated
 £m
Revenue 1,872.7 1,071.3 1,283.4 1,353.3 - 5,580.7
Result
Segment result 183.4 65.9 82.4 29.4 (18.0) 343.1
Finance income - - - - 5.6 5.6
Finance costs - - - - (27.3) (27.3)
Profit before taxation 183.4 65.9 82.4 29.4 (39.7) 321.4
Taxation - - - - (62.7) (62.7)
Profit for the year 183.4 65.9 82.4 29.4 (102.4) 258.7
Segment assets
1,453.4 735.5 1,436.2 961.5 135.6 4,722.2
Segment liabilities
(420.2) (280.7) (334.7) (265.2) (743.7) (2,044.5)
Consolidated net assets 1,033.2 454.8 1,101.5 696.3 (608.1) 2,677.7
Capital expenditure 110.1 13.9 20.1 13.6 - 157.7
Amortisation - 5.7 4.9 7.0 - 17.6
Depreciation 44.6 8.8 15.6 5.9 - 74.9
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 157 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
During 2014 14 branches were transferred from Keyline in the Contracts division to Travis Perkins in the General Merchanting division with 2 
branches transferring in the opposite direction. As a result net assets with a net book value of £1m were transferred between the segments. 
There were no inter segment transfers in 2015.
Unallocated segment assets and liabilities comprise the following:
Assets
2015
£m
2014 
£m
Interest in associates 7.9 1.7
Financial instruments 22.5 21.2
Investment properties 0.4 0.4
Investments 7.8 3.2
Cash and cash equivalents 83.8 108.3
Unallocated corporate assets 0.7 0.8
123.1 135.6
Liabilities
Financial instruments - (0.5)
Tax liabilities (90.2) (71.6)
Deferred tax liabilities (61.3) (66.7)
Retirement benefit obligations (52.2) (97.5)
Interest bearing loans, borrowings and loan notes (551.2) (483.5)
Unallocated corporate liabilities (21.6) (23.9)
(776.5) (743.7)
7. STAFF COSTS
a. The average monthly number of persons employed (including executive directors)
The Group The Company
2015
No.
2014
No.
2015
No.
2014
No.
Sales and distribution 21,204 20,320 - -
Administration 3,466 3,160 51 48
24,670 23,480 51 48
b. Aggregate remuneration
The Group The Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Wages and salaries 680.9 646.8 7.6 7.7
Share based payments (note 8) 13.7 9.9 3.4 1.2
Social security costs 54.2 49.7 0.8 0.9
Other pension costs (note 28i) 30.9 22.6 0.4 0.5
779.7 729.0 12.2 10.3 158 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 
The Black-Scholes option-pricing model is used to calculate the fair value of the options and the amount to be expensed. The probability of 
the performance conditions being achieved was included in the fair value calculations. The inputs into the model for options granted in the 
year expressed as weighted averages are as follows:
2015 2014
Executive 
Options
SAYE Nil price 
options
Executive 
Options
SAYE Nil price 
options
Share price at grant date (pence) 1,948 2,022 1,964 1,787 1,665 1,832
Option exercise price (pence) 1,959 1,616 - 1,796 1,390 -
Volatility (%) 24.2% 23.4% 24.2% 29.0% 28.2% 29.3%
Option life (years) 3.0 3.3 2.9 3.0 3.4 3.0
Risk-free interest rate (%) 0.7% 0.9% 0.7% 1.2% 1.4% 1.1%
Expected dividends as a dividend yield (%) 2.2% 2.1% 2.2% 1.9% 1.9% 1.9%
Volatility is based on historic share prices over a period equal to the vesting period. Option life used in the model has been based on options 
being exercised in accordance with historical patterns. For executive share options the vesting period is 3 years. If options remain unexercised 
after a period of 10 years from the date of grant, these options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before options 
vest. SAYE options vest after 3 or 5 years and expire 3½ or 5½ years after the date of grant.
The risk-free interest rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK Government bonds on a term consistent with the vesting period. Dividends 
used are based on actual dividends where data is known and future dividends estimated using a dividend cover of three times (within the 
Board’s target range).
The expected life of options used in the model has been adjusted, based upon management’s best estimate, for the effect of non-transferability, 
exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
A description of the share schemes operated by the Group is contained in the remuneration report on pages 110 to 125. 
SAYE options were granted on 25 September 2015. The estimated fair value of the shares under option at that date was £9.6m for the Group 
and £0.1m for the Company. 
Shares were granted under the share-matching scheme on 18 March 2015. The estimated fair value of the shares under option at those 
dates was £6.2m for the Group and £2.2m for the Company.
Shares were granted under the performance share plan on 26 March 2015 and 24 August 2015. The estimated fair value of the shares under 
option at those dates was £9.4m for the Group and £3.1m for the Company.
Shares were granted under the deferred share bonus plan on 9 March 2015. The estimated fair value of the shares at that date was £2.7m 
for the Group and £1.4m for the Company. 
Shares were granted under the Toolstation long-term incentive plan on 10 April 2015. The estimated fair value of the shares at that date was 
£0.1m for the Group and £nil for the Company. 
The Group charged £13.7m (2014: £9.9m) and the Company charged £3.4m (2014: £1.2m) to the income statement in respect of equity-
settled share-based payment transactions.
The number and weighted average exercise price of share options is as follows:
The Group
2015 2014
 Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Number of 
options
Number 
of nil price 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Number of 
options
Number 
of nil price 
options
In thousands of options p No. No. p No. No.
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,124 5,979 3,872 856 6,222 4,771
Forfeited during the year 1,226 (609) (989) 1,018 (552) (958)
Exercised during the year 791 (1,339) (863) 684 (2,111) (841)
Granted during the year 1,633 1,751 926 1,407 2,420 900
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,345 5,782 2,946    1,124 5,979 3,872
Exercisable at the end of the year 740 222 253 700 434 743
Share options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the year.  The weighted average share price for options exercised during the year 
was 2,000 pence (2014: 1,790 pence). 159 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Details of the options outstanding at 31 December 2015 is as follows:
The Group
2015 2014
Executive 
options SAYE
Nil price
 options
Executive 
options SAYE
Nil price 
options
Range of exercise prices (pence) 201-2,018 657-1,616 - 201-1,853 636-1,390 -
Weighted average exercise price (pence)
1,503 1,335 - 1,087 1,128 -
Number of shares (thousands)
339 5,444 2,946 590 5,389 3,872
Weighted average expected remaining life (years)
1.9 2.1 1.1 1.2 2.3 0.9
Weighted average contractual remaining life (years)
7.5 2.6 7.9 5.7 2.8 7.5
If all 0.3million outstanding executive options vest and then are exercised on the date of vesting, or in the case of SAYE all 5.5m shares are 
acquired on the first possible day 5.8m of shares will be issued for a consideration of £77.8m in the years ending 31 December:
31 December 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
No.
m
Value
£m
No.
m
Value
£m
No.
m
Value
£m
No.
m
Value
£m
No.
m
Value
£m
Options 0.1 1.7 0.1 1.7 0.1 1.6 - - - -
SAYE 1.4 13.5 1.8 24.0 1.6 25.4 0.4 5.2 0.3 4.5
The table above shows theoretical amounts. For the Company to receive the cash indicated in the periods shown, the following must occur:
• All performance conditions on executive share options must be fully met
• Options must be exercised on the day they vest (option holders generally have a 7 year period post vesting to exercise the option)
• The share price at the exercise date for SAYE options must exceed the exercise price and every holder must exercise
• All option/SAYE holders must remain with the Company, or leave on good terms
If none of the requirements are met then the Company will receive no consideration.
The number and weighted average exercise price of share options is as follows:
The Company
2015 2014
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price
Number of 
options
Number  
of nil price 
options
Weighted 
average
exercise  
price
Number of 
options
Number 
 of nil price 
options
In thousands of options p No. No. p No. No.
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 892 121 1,631 873 186 2,331
Forfeited during the year 1,168 (7) (402) 1,064 (9) (406)
Exercised during the year 462 (67) (374) 1,065 (81) (618)
Transferred to other group companies - - - 1,507 (6) (20)
Granted during the year 1,722 17 340 1,513 31 344
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,481 64 1,195 892 121 1,631
Exercisable at the end of the year 913 2 169 429 62 332 160 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
Details of the options outstanding at 31 December 2015 is as follows:
The Company
2015 2014
Executive 
options SAYE
Nil price 
options
Executive 
options SAYE
Nil price 
options
Range of exercise prices (pence) 1,020-1,958 657-1,616 - 201-1,883 657-1,390 -
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 1,713 1,335 - 744 1,176 -
Number of shares (thousands) 23 42 1,195 83 43 1,651
Weighted average expected remaining life (years) 2.2 2.3 0.9 0.7 2.5 0.8
Weighted average contractual remaining life (years) 8.2 2.8 7.7 4.8 3.0 7.4
9. NET FINANCE COSTS
a. Finance costs and finance income
The Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts* (14.0) (14.4)
Interest on sterling bond (7.4) (2.1)
Interest on obligations under finance leases (0.7) (1.2)
Unwinding of discounts - property provisions (0.3) (1.3)
Unwinding of discounts - SPV loan (2.5) (2.5)
Other interest (2.7) (3.4)
Other finance costs – pension scheme (2.9) (2.4)
Net loss on re-measurement of derivatives at fair value (1.2) -
Finance costs (31.7) (27.3)
Amortisation of cancellation receipt for swap accounted for as fair value hedge 0.9 1.0
Net gain on re-measurement of derivatives at fair value - 4.1
Interest receivable 0.3 0.5
Finance income 1.2 5.6
Net finance costs (30.5) (21.7)
*Includes £3.8m (2014: £1.7m) of amortised finance charges..
b. Interest cover covenant
The Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts* (14.0) (14.4)
Interest on sterling bond (7.4) (2.1)
Amortised bank finance charges 3.8 1.7
Other interest (2.7) (3.4)
Interest receivable 0.3 0.5
Interest for covenant purposes (20.0) (17.7)
Adjusted interest cover for covenant purposes 20.6x 21.6x
*Includes £3.8m (2014: £1.7m) of amortised finance charges. 161 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Adjusted interest cover is calculated by dividing adjusted operating profit of £412.6m (2014: £384.0m) less £nil  (2014: £1.3m) of specifically 
excluded IFRS adjustments, by the interest for covenant purposes. The calculation for 2015 is in accordance with the requirements of the 
£550m credit facility signed on 14 December 2015.
c. Fixed charge cover interest
The Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts* (14.0) (14.4)
Interest on sterling bond (7.4) (2.1)
Interest on obligations under finance leases (0.7) (1.2)
Unwinding of discounts - SPV loan (2.5) (2.5)
Loan note interest (included in other interest) (0.3) (0.6)
Interest for fixed charge ratio purposes (24.9) (20.8)
*Includes £3.8m (2014: £1.7m) of amortised time charges.
The charge caused by the unwinding of the discounts relates principally to the property provisions created in 2008 and the liability to the 
pension scheme associated with the SPV (note 28).
d. The Company
The Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts* (14.0) (14.4)
Interest on sterling bond (7.4) (2.1)
Interest payable to group companies (22.5) (22.5)
Other interest (2.4) (2.4)
Net loss on re-measurement of derivatives at fair value (1.2) -
Finance costs (47.5) (41.4)
Amortisation of cancellation receipt for swap accounted for as fair value hedge 0.9 1.0
Net gain on re-measurement of derivatives at fair value - 4.1
Interest receivable from group companies 0.1 0.4
Interest receivable 0.2 0.4
Finance income 1.2 5.9
Net finance costs (46.3) (35.5)
* Includes £3.8m (2014: £1.7m) of amortised finance charges. 162 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
??. SECTION continued
10. TAX
a. Tax charge in income statement
The Group The Company
2015 2014 2015 2014
Pre-
exceptional 
items
£m
Exceptional 
items
£m
Total
£m
Pre-
exceptional 
items
£m
Exceptional 
items
£m
Total
£m £m £m
Current tax
UK corporation tax 
 - current year 71.8 - 71.8 70.2 (5.3) 64.9 (11.1) (14.4)
 - prior year (1.3) - (1.3) (11.1) - (11.1) 0.2 (0.6)
Total current tax 70.5 - 70.5 59.1 (5.3) 53.8 (10.9) (15.0)
Deferred tax
 - current year (0.1) (16.0) (16.1) 1.9 - 1.9 (0.2) 0.4
 - prior year 1.4 - 1.4 7.0 - 7.0 0.3 4.0
Total deferred tax 1.3 (16.0) (14.7) 8.9 - 8.9 0.1 4.4
Total tax charge 71.8 (16.0) 55.8 68.0 (5.3) 62.7 (10.8) (10.6)
The differences between the total tax charge shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax to 
the profit before tax are as follows:
The Group
2015 2014
£m % £m %
Profit before tax 223.5 321.4
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate 45.3 20.3 69.1 21.5
Tax effect of expenses / credits that are not deductible / taxable in 
determining taxable profit
1.1 0.5 1.7 0.6
Depreciation of non-qualifying property 1.9 0.9 1.9 0.6
Exceptional fair value movement not taxable - - (0.2) (0.1)
Impairment of goodwill 20.0 8.9 - -
Impairment of intangibles 0.9 0.4 - -
Deferred tax rate change (8.5) (3.8) - -
Property sales (5.0) (2.2) (5.7) (1.8)
Prior period adjustment 0.1 - (4.1) (1.3)
Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year 55.8 25.0 62.7 19.5
The standard rate of corporation rate for the year of 20.25% is a blended rate of 21% up to 1 April 2015 and 20% thereafter. The tax charge 
for 2015 includes an exceptional credit of £8.5m arising from the reduction in the rate of UK corporation tax from 20% to 19% on 1 April 2017 
and a further reduction to 18% on 1 April 2020. In addition the tax charge includes an exceptional credit of £7.5m in respect of the exceptional 
impairment of other intangible assets. 163 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Company
 2015 2014
£m % £m %
Profit before tax 193.2 136.6 
Intercompany dividends (256.5) (197.1) 
Loss before tax and dividends received (63.3) (60.5) 
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate (12.8) 20.2 (13.0) 21.5
Tax effect of expenses / credits that are not deductible / taxable in 
determining taxable profit
(1.5) 2.4 (0.8) 1.3
Impairment of investments 2.9 (4.6) - -
Prior period adjustment 0.5 (0.8) 3.4 (5.6)
Deferred tax rate change 0.1 (0.1) - -
Exceptional fair value movement not taxable - - (0.2) 0.3
Tax credit and effective tax rate for the year (10.8) 17.1 (10.6) 17.5
b. Tax charge in statement of comprehensive income
In addition to the amounts charged to the income statement the following amounts relating to tax have been recognised in other 
comprehensive income:
The Group The Company
Deferred tax 2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Items that may not be reclassified  
Deferred tax rate change on actuarial movement (1.4) - - -
Income tax relating to items not reclassified (4.7) 9.5 - -
(6.1) 9.5 - -
c. Tax credited directly to equity
In addition to the amount charged to the income statement and other comprehensive income, the following amounts relating to tax have 
been recognised in equity:
   The Group The Company
Current tax
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Excess tax deductions related to share based payments on exercised options 4.8 5.6 1.1 -
Deferred tax
Share based payments (2.9) (6.1) (0.7) (10.1)
Tax rate change impact on revaluation reserve 0.9 - - -
2.8 (0.5) 0.4 (10.1) 164 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11. EARNINGS PER SHARE
a. Basic and diluted earnings per share
2015
£m
2014
£m
Earnings
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share being net profit attributable 
to equity holders of the Parent Company
167.6 258.5
Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 247,302,865 244,146,721
Dilutive effect of share options on potential ordinary shares 5,681,972 7,295,091
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 252,984,837 251,441,812
Earnings per share 67.8p 105.9p
Diluted earnings per share 66.2p 102.8p
No share options (2014: 47,940) had an exercise price in excess of the average market value of the shares during the year.  As a result, these 
share options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
b. Adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated by excluding the effect of the exceptional items and amortisation from earnings.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share being net profit attributable 
to equity holders of the Parent Company
167.6 258.5
Exceptional items 140.6 23.3
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 18.0 17.6
Tax on amortisation of acquired intangible assets (3.4) (3.5)
Tax on exceptional items (7.5) (5.3)
Effect of reduction in corporation tax rate on deferred tax (8.5) -
Adjusted earnings 306.8 290.6
Adjusted earnings per share 124.1p 119.0p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 121.3p 115.6p 165 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12. DIVIDENDS
Amounts were recognised in the financial statements as distributions to equity shareholders as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 25.75p (2013: 21.0p) per ordinary share 63.7 51.2
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 14.75p (2014: 12.25p) per ordinary 
share
36.5 29.9
Total dividend recognised during the year 100.2 81.1
The Company is proposing a final dividend of 29.25p in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015.
Dividend cover of 2.8x (2014: 3.1x) is calculated by dividing adjusted earnings per share (note 11) of 124.1p (2014: 119.0p) by the total dividend 
for the year of 44.0p (2014: 38.0p). 
There are no income tax consequences in respect of the dividends declared, but not recognised in the financial statements. The dividends for 
2015 and for 2014 were as follows:
2015
Pence
2014
Pence
Interim paid 14.75 12.25
Final proposed 29.25 25.75
Total dividend for the year 44.0 38.0
The anticipated cash payment in respect of the proposed final dividend is £72.7m (2014: £63.7m).
13. GOODWILL
The Group
General 
Merchanting
Contracts Consumer P&H Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2014 466.4 172.9 829.5 345.1 1,813.9
Recognised on acquisitions during the year - - - 2.9 2.9
At 1 January 2015 466.4 172.9 829.5 348.0 1,816.8
Recognised on acquisitions during the year (note 29) 1.8 8.1 2.1 10.4 22.4
Impairment charged to the income statement as an 
exceptional item
- - - (99.0) (99.0)
At 31 December 2015 468.2 181.0 831.6 259.4 1,740.2
The Company has no goodwill.  166 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Cash generating units
The Directors consider that each branch in the Group is an individual Cash Generating Unit (“CGU”). Goodwill and intangible assets with 
indefinite useful lives have been allocated and monitored for impairment testing purposes to groups of individual CGU’s within the same 
brand. The following analyses goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives by CGU grouping. 
2015 2014
 CGU Grouping Intangibles
(note 14)
£m
Goodwill
£m
Total 
£m
Intangibles
(note 14)
£m
Goodwill
£m
Total 
£m
Contracts
CCF - 43.6 43.6 - 43.6 43.6
Keyline - 109.6 109.6 - 101.5 101.5
BSS Industrial 49.3 27.8 77.1 49.3 27.8 77.1
General Merchanting
Travis Perkins - 468.2 468.2 - 466.4 466.4
Consumer
Tile Giant - 24.6 24.6 - 24.6 24.6
Bathrooms.com - 2.1 2.1 - - -
Toolstation - 103.4 103.4 - 103.4 103.4
Wickes 162.5 701.5 864.0 162.5 701.5 864.0
Plumbing & Heating
PTS 2.7 - 2.7 40.9 68.7 109.6
City Plumbing Supplies - 240.4 240.4 - 240.4 240.4
Plumbnation - 1.7 1.7 - 1.7 1.7
Primaflow - 2.9 2.9 - 2.9 2.9
Solfex - 4.0 4.0 - 4.0 4.0
Underfloor Heating - 10.4 10.4 - - -
F&P 8.3 - 8.3 8.5 30.3 38.8
Other 3.9 - 3.9 3.9 - 3.9
226.7 1,740.2 1,966.9 265.1 1,816.8 2,081.9
In March 2014 the business announced plans to clarify the Plumbing and Heating format strategy, by aligning the PTS business to support 
large contract customers with City Plumbing Supplies supporting the small to medium sized plumbing and heating engineers and bathroom 
installers. As a consequence of this restructuring the Directors determined that the goodwill and other intangibles associated with the PTS 
branches that are rebranded as City Plumbing Supplies should be reallocated to the City Plumbing Supplies CGU. Therefore £65m of 
goodwill has been transferred from the PTS CGU to the City Plumbing Supplies CGU. 
Measuring recoverable amounts
The Group tests goodwill and other non-monetary assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications 
that impairment may have occurred. The recoverable amounts of the goodwill and other non-monetary assets with indefinite useful lives are determined 
from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and like-for-like 
market volume changes which impact sales and therefore cash flow projections and maintenance capital expenditure. Management estimates pre-tax 
discount rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGU groupings that are not reflected in 
the cash flow projections.
At the beginning and end of the financial year the recoverable amount  of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives in all 
segments was in excess of their book value after the adjustment for impairment at 31 December 2015 outlined below. In the absence of 
a binding agreement to sell the assets and active reference market on which fair value can be determined the recoverable amount of the 
goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives was determined according to value in use. The Directors’ calculations have shown 
that no impairments have occurred other than detailed below. The key variables applied to the value in use calculations were:
• Cash flow forecasts, which were derived from the most recent board approved corporate plan
13. GOODWILL continued 167 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
•  The sales market volume assumptions underlying the cash flow forecasts are the Directors’ estimates of likely future changes based on 
historic performance (excluding future investment and enhancements) and the current outlook for both the UK economy and the UK 
building materials industry. This is viewed as the key operating assumption because the state of the building materials market determines 
the Directors’ approach to margin and cost maintenance
•  A risk adjusted pre tax discount rate is calculated by reference to the weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”) of the Group. For 2015, the pre 
tax discount rate ranged between 9.0% and 9.8% (2014: 9.45% to 10.28%), which is not significantly different for any individual CGU or CGU 
grouping. That is because each CGU operates in the same market, selling the same product types therefore the risk profiles are not dissimilar
•  For 2015, cash flows beyond the corporate plan (2020 and beyond) have been determined using a growth rate of 2.1%, which is the  
average long-term forecast GDP growth outlined in the Economic and Fiscal Outlook report produced by the Office for Budget Responsibility.  
The Directors believe this is the most appropriate indicator of long-term growth rates that is available (2014 growth rate: 2.1%)
Impairment
Following the annual impairment review of goodwill and intangible assets, the Group has recognised an impairment charge totalling 
£140.6m. Trading conditions in the wholesale and contract led Plumbing and Heating market have been challenging and as a consequence 
expectations of future profitability were reduced in the value in use calculations. The impairment charge has been allocated as follows.
CGU Goodwill 
 
 
£m
Acquired  
Brands 
 
£m
Acquired 
Customer 
Relationships 
£m
Total 
 
 
£m
F & P 30.3 0.3 0.1 30.7
PTS 68.7 38.2 3.0 109.9
 99.0 38.5 3.1 140.6
Sensitivity of results to changes in assumptions
Whilst management believe the assumptions are realistic, it is possible that an impairment would be identified if any of the above key 
assumptions were changed significantly. For instance factors which could cause an impairment are:
• Significant underperformance relative to the forecast results
• Changes to the way the assets are used or changes to the strategy for the business
• A deterioration in the UK economy
The impairment review calculations are based upon anticipated discounted future cash flows. For most of the CGU groupings, given the 
prudence already built into the Group’s corporate plan and the level of headroom they show, the Directors do not envisage reasonably 
possible changes to the key operating assumptions that are sufficient to generate a different outcome to the impairment calculations 
undertaken. However, for the CGU groupings listed in the table below this is not the case as the Directors consider that reasonably possible 
changes in key assumptions could result in discounted future cash flows being insufficient to allow full recovery of the carrying value of the 
CGU’s goodwill and other intangible assets.
The Directors have conducted a sensitivity analysis to determine the specific value for each assumption, all other assumptions remaining the same, that 
would result in the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets equalling their recoverable amounts and these are shown in the tables below. 
The sole market value adjustment is the average annual change incorporated in the corporate plan of each CGU grouping.
31 December 2015
CGU Grouping Headroom
Like-for-like Market Volume
(Average per annum) Discount Rate Long-term Growth Rate
Assumption Sensitivity Assumption Sensitivity Assumption Sensitivity
Wickes £137m 0.9% (2.8%) 9.1% 10.1% 2.1% 0.8%
An increase in maintenance capital expenditure of £1m per annum will reduce headroom by £15m.
31 December 2014
CGU Grouping Headroom
Like-for-like market volume 
(Average per annum) Discount rate Long-term growth rate 
Assumption Sensitivity Assumption Sensitivity Assumption Sensitivity
Tile Giant
Wickes
PTS
£10m
£100m
£44m
3.2%
-
1.9%
(3.5%)
(1.7%)
(3.0%)
9.6%
9.6%
9.8%
12.5%
10.3%
12.5%
2.1%
2.1%
2.1%
(2.2%)
1.1%
(2.2%) 168 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
14. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
The Group
Brand Computer 
software
Customer 
relationships
Total
Cost or valuation £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2014 301.1 17.1 147.6 465.8
Recognised on acquisitions in the year 1.3 - - 1.3
Additions - 14.0 - 14.0
At 31 December 2014 302.4 31.1 147.6 481.1
Recognised on acquisitions in the year (note 29) 3.7 - - 3.7
Additions - 23.9 - 23.9
At 31 December 2015 306.1 55.0 147.6 508.7
Amortisation
At 1 January 2014 4.1 9.0 42.0 56.0
Charged to operating profit in the year on acquired intangibles 2.1 0.9 14.6 17.6
Charged to operating profit in the year on internally generated 
intangibles
- 0.7 - 0.7
At 31 December 2014 6.2 11.5 56.6 74.3
Charged to operating profit in the year on acquired intangibles 2.5 0.9 14.6 18.0
Charged to operating profit in the year on internally generated 
intangibles
- 3.1 - 3.1
Impairment charged to the income statement as an  
exceptional item
38.5 - 3.1 41.6
At 31 December 2015 47.2 15.5 74.3 137.0
Net book value
At 31 December 2015 258.9 39.5 73.3 371.7
At 31 December 2014 296.2 19.6 91.0 406.8
2015 2014
£m £m
Cost of brands with an indefinite useful life (note 13) (net of impairment losses) 226.7 265.1
Cost of brands being amortised (net of impairment losses) 40.9 37.3
267.6 302.4
Where a brand, which is a leading brand in its sector and has significant growth prospects, but has not been established for a significant period 
of time, the Directors do not have sufficient evidence to support a contention that it will have an indefinite useful life. Accordingly for Toolstation, 
Plumbnation, Solfex, Primaflow, Underfloor Heating, Bathrooms.com and certain product related brands the Directors have decided it is appropriate 
to amortise their cost over their estimated useful lives. The useful lives of those brands being amortised range from 10 to 20 years while the 
remaining lives range from 4 to 14 years.
The Directors consider that the other brands excluding PTS and F & P (which have been impaired in 2015), which are also all leading brands in 
their sectors with significant histories and significant growth prospects have an indefinite useful life. They are reviewed annually for impairment; 
details of impairment testing are shown in note 13. Acquired customer relationships are amortised over their estimated useful lives, which range 
from 5 to 15 years. The remaining lives of amortised customer relationships range from 1 to 10 years. The Company has no intangible assets. 169 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
15. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
The Group The Company
Freehold
Long 
leases
Short 
leases
Plant and 
equipment Total
Plant and 
equipment
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost or deemed cost
At 1 January 2014 334.7 28.2 147.2 548.8 1,058.9 0.7
Additions 42.9 0.1 13.5 101.2 157.7 0.1
Additions from acquired businesses 0.4 - - 0.1 0.5 -
Reclassifications - 8.9 (8.9) - - -
Disposals (0.3) (0.2) (4.6) (44.3) (49.4) (0.1)
At 1 January 2015 377.7 37.0 147.2 605.8 1,167.7 0.7
Additions 101.8 0.4 23.4 140.1 265.7 0.1
Additions from acquired businesses 1.9 - - 0.6 2.5 -
Disposals (27.6) - (8.1) (40.1) (75.8) (0.1)
At 31 December 2015 453.8 37.4 162.5 706.4 1,360.1 0.7
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2014 47.4 6.5 64.0 331.1 449.0 0.6
Charged this year 4.3 0.4 10.7 59.5 74.9 0.1
Reclassifications - 6.1 (6.1) - - -
Disposals (0.1) (0.1) (4.3) (41.0) (45.5) (0.1)
At 1 January 2015 51.6 12.9 64.3 349.6 478.4 0.6
Charged this year 4.6 0.8 11.1 66.5 83.0 0.1
Disposals (8.5) - (5.8) (36.1) (50.4) (0.1)
At 31 December 2015 47.7 13.7 69.6 380.0 511.0 0.6
Net book value
At 31 December 2015 406.1 23.7 92.9 326.4 849.1 0.1
At 31 December 2014 326.1 24.1 82.9 256.2 689.3 0.1
The cost element of the fixed assets carrying value is analysed as follows:
The Group The Company
Freehold
Long 
leases
Short 
leases
Plant and 
equipment Total Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At deemed cost 32.0 6.1 - - 38.1 -
At cost 421.8 31.3 162.5 706.4 1,322.0 0.7
453.8 37.4 162.5 706.4 1,360.1 0.7
Included within freehold property is land with a value of £157.0m (2014: £149.5m) which is not depreciated. No assets are pledged as security 
for the Group’s liabilities. 170 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The carrying amount of assets held under finance leases is analysed as follows:
The Group The Company
Long
 leases
£m
Short 
 leases
£m
Plant and 
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Total
£m
2015 0.8 6.0 4.3 11.1 -
2014 0.8 7.2 5.2 13.2 -
16. INVESTMENT PROPERTY
The Group
£m
Deemed cost
At 1 January 2014 and 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2015 0.5
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2014 and 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2015 (0.1)
Net book value
At 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015 0.4
Investment property rental income totalled £nil (2014: £nil). 
No external valuation has been performed and therefore, the Directors have estimated that the fair value of investment property equates to 
its carrying value. 
The Company has no investment property.
15. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT continued 171 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17. INVESTMENTS
a. Interest in associates
The Group The Company
2015 2014 2015 2014
£m £m £m £m
Equity investment 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2
Loan facility 11.0 6.1 11.0 0.1
Share of losses (4.3) (5.6) - -
7.9 1.7 12.2 1.3
Travis Perkins plc holds a 49% investment in The Mosaic Tile Company Limited, a 49% investment in Toriga Limited and a 49% investment 
in Toolstation Europe Limited. In 2014 the Company disposed of its 25% investment in Rinus Roofing Limited. There is no impairment in 
the carrying value of the investment in and loan to Toolstation Europe because the future profitability forecasts fully support the current 
carrying value.
The Groups share of associates’ assets, liabilities, income and expenses are as follows:
 The Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current assets 7.8 7.3
Current liabilities (5.0) (5.4)
Non current assets 1.1 1.0
Non-current liabilities (0.7) (0.1)
Net assets / (liabilities) 3.2 2.8
Group share of net assets (49%) 1.6 1.4
Goodwill 6.3 0.3
Carrying amount of investment in associates 7.9 1.7
Income 18.1 18.5
Expense (21.3) (21.4)
Net expense of equity accounted investments (3.2) (2.9)
Group share of revenue (49%) 8.9 9.1
Group share of net expense (49%) (10.4) (10.5)
The reconciliation of investments in associates is given below.
 The Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
At 1 January 1.7 7.3
Additions of investments 3.5 4.9
Interest on loans - 0.2
Disposals of Rinus sales proceeds - (2.8)
Exceptional loss on disposal of Rinus - (4.6)
Impairment of loans to Toolstation Europe - (1.9)
Reversal of impairment 4.2 -
Retained profit (1.5) (1.4)
At 31 December 7.9 1.7 172 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
b. Investment in subsidiaries
 The Company
Cost
2015
£m
2014 
Restated
£m
At 1 January as previously reported 3,676.6 3,605.8
Prior period restatement - 45.4
At 1 January restated 3,676.6 3,651.2
Additions 38.3 25.4
At 31 December 3,714.9 3,676.6
Provision for impairment (31.4) (17.0)
Net book value at 31 December 3,683.5 3,659.6
In 2015 the company placed some dormant subsidiaries in members voluntary liquidation and consequently an impairment has been 
recognised on these investments. Investments in subsidiaries have been restated (Note 5e).
A full listing of all related undertakings is provided in note 38.
c. Investments
The Group The Company
2015 2014 2015 2014
Available for sale investments at fair value £m £m £m £m
Investments in property entities 3.5 3.2 - -
Shares held in invested entities 1.0 - 1.0 -
Loans receivable at amortised cost
Loans to property entities 1.0 - - -
Loans to invested entities 2.3 - 2.3 -
7.8 3.2 3.3 -
The investments in property entities represent minority holdings in property owning entities that acquired properties from the Group in 
2006 and 2015. These investments present the Group with an opportunity to generate returns through both income and capital gains. The 
Directors consider that the carrying amount of these investments approximates to their fair value. The Group provides loans to one of the 
property entities totalling £1.0m and charges interest at rates of between 10% and 12%.
On 20 February 2015 the Group acquired a strategic non controlling interest of 15% in Staircraft Limited, a major supplier of timber 
staircases to house builders for a consideration of £1.0m. These shares are not held for trading and accordingly are classified as available for 
sale.  The Group provides a loan facility and charges interest at 3.0%.
17. INVESTMENTS continued 173 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
The Group The Company
2015 2014 2015 2014
£m £m £m £m
Trade receivables 690.4 669.8 - -
Allowance for doubtful debts (23.9) (25.3) - -
666.5 644.5 - -
Amounts owed by subsidiaries - - 269.8 167.4
Other receivables 246.1 208.3 - -
Prepayments and accrued income 74.3 79.0 - -
Trade and other receivables 986.9 931.8 269.8 167.4
The Group’s trade and other receivables at the balance sheet date comprise principally of amounts receivable from the sale of goods, together 
with amounts due in respect of rebates and sundry prepayments. The Directors consider the only class of asset containing significant credit risk 
is trade receivables. The average credit term taken for sales of goods is 55 days (2014: 55 days). The allowance for doubtful debts is estimated 
by the Group’s management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment. The Directors consider the 
carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair values. The business has provided fully for all receivables outstanding 
for more than 90 days beyond agreed terms. Trade receivables which have been outstanding for less than 90 days that are not considered 
recoverable are specifically provided for. No interest is charged on the trade receivable from the date of the invoice until the date the invoice 
is classified as overdue according to the trading terms agreed between the Group and the customer. Thereafter, the Group retains the right to 
charge interest at between 2% to 4% per annum above the clearing bank base rate on the outstanding balance.
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts
The Group
2015 2014
£m £m
At 1 January 25.3 33.9
Amounts written off during the year (13.7) (21.7)
Increase in allowance recognised in the income statement 12.3 13.1
At 31 December 23.9 25.3
In determining the recoverability of trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable that 
may have occurred between the date credit was initially granted and the reporting date. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to 
the customer base being large. Accordingly, the Directors believe that no further credit provision is required in excess of the allowance for 
doubtful debts.
Included in the Group’s trade receivable balance are debtors unprovided against with a carrying amount of £66.8m (2014: £84.1m) which 
are past due at the reporting date for which the Group has not identified a significant change in credit quality and as such, the Group 
considers that the amounts are still recoverable and therefore there is no allowance for doubtful debts. Except for some instances of personal 
guarantees the Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables
Days overdue The Group
2015 2014
£m £m
0 – 30 days 45.3 55.6
31 – 60 days 10.2 15.4
61 – 90 days 11.3 13.1
66.8 84.1
Included in the allowance for doubtful debts are specific trade receivables with a balance of £3.9m (2014: £2.7m) which have been placed 
into liquidation. The impairment represents the difference between the carrying amount of the specific trade receivable and the amount it is 
anticipated will be recovered.
None of the Company’s debts are overdue. The directors do not consider there to be any significant credit risk, as the majority of the debt is 
due from subsidiaries. 174 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and cash deposits with an original maturity of three months or less held by the Group 
and Company, net of overdrafts. The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
20. SHARE CAPITAL
The Group and the Company
Issued and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 10p No. £m
At 1 January 2014 246,786,289 24.7
Allotted under share option schemes 1,916,699 0.2
At 1 January 2015 248,702,988 24.9
Allotted under share option schemes 1,111,734 0.1
At 31 December 2015 249,814,722 25.0
The Company has one class of ordinary share that carries no right to fixed income. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive 
dividends as declared and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. All shares rank equally with regard to the 
Company’s residual assets.
21. OWN SHARES
The Group and the Company
2015
No.
2014
No.
At 1 January 2,428,176 3,459,161
Movement during the year (1,109,644) (1,030,985)
At 31 December 1,318,532 2,428,176
Allocated to grants of executive options - 77,878
Not allocated to grants of executive options 1,318,532 2,350,298
1,318,532 2,428,176
The own shares are stated at cost and held by the Employee Share Ownership Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s share option 
schemes. All rights attaching to own shares are suspended until the shares are re-issued.
22. RESERVES
Details of all movements in reserves for both the Group and Company are shown in their respective Statement of Changes in Equity. 
A description of the nature and purpose of each reserve is given below: 
• the merger reserve represents the premium on equity instruments issued as consideration for the acquisition of BSS
• the revaluation reserve represents the revaluation surplus that arose from property revaluations in 1999 and prior years
•  the hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments (net of 
tax) related to hedged transactions that have yet to occur 
•  the own shares reserve represents the cost of shares purchased in the market and held by the Employee Share Ownership Trust to satisfy 
options under the Group’s share option schemes
•  the other reserve represents anticipated gross outflow on potential exercise of the put option held over the non-controlled 24% 
shareholding in Plumbnation
The cumulative total of goodwill written off directly to reserves for acquisitions from December 1989 to December 1998 is £40.1m. 
The aggregate information for the accounting periods prior to this period is not available. 175 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23. BORROWINGS
A summary of the Group objectives, policies procedures and strategies with regard to financial instruments and capital management can be 
found in the Strategic Report on pages 5 to 91. At 31 December 2015 all borrowings were denominated in Sterling except for the unsecured 
senior notes which are denominated in US dollars.
a. Summary
The Group The Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Unsecured senior notes 137.0 133.1 137.0 133.1
Liability to pension scheme (note 28) 35.4 36.0 - -
Bank loans (note 23c)* 110.0 - 110.0 -
Sterling bond 256.2 258.0 256.2 258.0
Bank overdraft* - - - 4.8
Finance leases (note 23d) 18.6 21.3 - -
Loan notes (note 23e) - 40.8 - 40.8
Finance charges netted off bank debt* (3.8) (3.2) (3.8) (3.2)
Finance charges netted off sterling bond (2.2) (2.5) (2.2) (2.5)
551.2 483.5 497.2 431.0
Current liabilities 139.8 43.5 137.0 45.6
Non-current liabilities 411.4 440.0 360.2 385.4
551.2 483.5 497.2 431.0
*These balances together total the amounts shown as bank loans in note 23(b). 
b. Analysis of borrowings
 The Group
Bank loans and  
overdrafts
 Other 
 borrowings
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Borrowings repayable
On demand or within one year - - 139.6 43.5
More than one year, but not more than two years - - 2.8 135.9
More than two years, but not more than five years 110.0 - 5.4 7.5
More than five years - - 299.4 302.3
Gross borrowings 110.0 - 447.2 489.2
Unamortised fees (3.8) (3.2) (2.2) (2.5)
106.2 (3.2) 445.0 486.7
 The Company
Bank loans and  
overdrafts
 Other 
 borrowings
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Borrowings repayable
On demand or within one year - 4.8 137.0 40.8
More than one year, but not more than two years - - - 133.1
More than two years, but not more than five years 110.0 - - -
More than five years - - 256.2 258.0
Gross borrowings 110.0 4.8 393.2 431.9
Unamortised fees (3.8) (3.2) (2.2) (2.5)
106.2 1.6 391.0 429.4 176 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23. BORROWINGS continued
c. Facilities
At 31 December 2015, the following facilities were available:
 The Group The Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Drawn facilities
5 year committed revolving credit facility 110.0 - 110.0 -
Sterling bond 254.0 255.5 256.2 255.5
Unsecured senior notes 137.0 133.1 137.0 133.1
Bank overdrafts - - - 4.8
501.0 388.6 503.2 393.4
Undrawn facilities
5 year committed revolving credit facility 440.0 550.0 440.0 550.0
Bank overdrafts 30.0 30.0 30.0 25.2
470.0 580.0 470.0 575.2
On 14 December 2015, the Group signed a £550m banking agreement with a syndicate of banks, which  runs until December 2020.  
The $200m of unsecured loan notes were repaid on 26 January 2016. On the 15 September 2014 the company issued a 7 year sterling 
bond with a principal amount of £250m. The disclosures in note 23(c) do not include finance leases, loan notes, or the effect of finance 
charges netted off bank debt.
d. Obligations under finance leases
The Group
Minimum  
lease payments
Present value of 
minimum 
 lease payments
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts payable under finance leases:
 Within one year 3.6 3.6 2.8 2.7
 In the second to fifth years inclusive 10.6 12.8 8.5 10.2
 After five years 14.0 15.4 7.3 8.4
28.2 31.8 18.6 21.3
Less: future finance charges (9.6) (10.5) - -
Present value of lease obligations 18.6 21.3 18.6 21.3
Less: Amount due for settlement within one year  
(shown under current liabilities)
  (2.8) (2.7)
Amount due for settlement after one year  15.8 18.6
Excluding 999-year leases, the average loan term for properties held under finance leases is 49 years and the average borrowing rate 
has been determined at the inception of the lease to be 9.0%. Interest rates are fixed at the contract date. All lease obligations, which are 
denominated in Sterling, are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments. 177 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
e. Loan notes
Included in borrowings due within one year is £nil (2014: £3.2m) of loan notes issued as consideration for the acquisition of Broombys 
Limited in 1999. They were redeemed on their final redemption date of 30 June 2015. On 24 March 2014 as consideration for the acquisition 
of Toolstation the company issued loan notes totalling £37.6m. The loan notes were redeemed on 30 April 2015.
f. Interest
The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows:
2015
%
2014
%
Unsecured senior notes 5.9 5.9
Sterling bond 4.4 4.4
Bank loans and overdraft 2.0 1.9
Other borrowings 2.1 2.0
The $200m unsecured senior notes were issued at fixed rates of interest and swapped into variable rates. As detailed in note 24, to manage 
risk the Group enters into fixed to floating swap contracts which swapped $90m of the private placement debt and all £250m principal of 
the sterling bond into floating rates. For the year to December 2015 this had the effect of lowering the weighted average interest paid by 1.0%.
In respect of income earning financial assets and interest bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective interest rates 
at the balance sheet date. All assets and liabilities except for loan notes reprice within six months.
The Group
 2015 2014
Effective 
interest rate £m
Effective 
interest rate £m
Unsecured senior notes 5.9% 137.0 5.9% 133.1
Unsecured variable rate bank facilities 1.38% 110.0 - -
Sterling bond 4.375% 256.2 4.375% 255.5
Loan notes - Toolstation - - 1.5% 37.6
Loan notes - Broombys - - 6.0% 3.2
503.2 429.4
The Company
 2015 2014
Effective 
interest rate 
£m
Effective 
interest rate 
£m
Unsecured senior notes 5.9% 137.0 5.9% 133.1
Unsecured variable rate bank facilities 1.38% 110.0 - -
Sterling bond 4.375% 256.2 4.375% 255.5
Loan notes - Toolstation - - 1.5% 37.6
Loan notes - Broombys - - 6.0% 3.2
Bank overdraft - - 2.25% 4.8
503.2 434.2
The US private placement carries fixed rate coupons of between 130 bps and 140 bps over US treasuries. 178 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23. BORROWINGS continued
g. Fair values
For both the Group and the Company the fair values of financial assets and liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected cash 
flows at prevailing rates at 31 December. There were no significant differences between book and fair values on this basis and therefore no 
further information is disclosed.
Details of the fair values of derivatives are given in note 24.
h. Guarantees and security
There are cross guarantees on the overdrafts between group companies.
Travis Perkins Trading Company Limited, Wickes Building Supplies Limited, Travis Perkins Properties Limited, Keyline Builders Merchants 
Limited and Travis Perkins Plumbing and Heating LLP are guarantors of the following facilities advanced to Travis Perkins plc:
• £250m sterling bond;
• £550m revolving credit facility;
• $200m unsecured senior notes;
• Interest rate and currency derivatives (note 24).
The Group companies have entered into other guarantee and counter-indemnity arrangements in respect of guarantees issued in favour of 
Group companies by the clearing banks amounting to approximately £22.4m (2014: £62m). 179 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
a. Significant accounting policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the 
basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are 
disclosed in note 2 to the financial statements.
b. The carrying value of categories of financial instruments
 The Group The Company
2015 2014 2015 2014
£m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 21.2 18.7 21.2 18.7
Designated as fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL) 1.3 2.5 1.3 2.5
Loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents) 999.7 961.1 304.9 221.4
Available-for-sale 4.5 3.2 - -
1,026.7 985.5 327.4 242.6
Financial liabilities
Designated as fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL) 1.2 1.4 1.2 1.4
Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships - 0.5 - 0.5
Borrowings (note 23a) 551.2 483.5 497.2 431.0
Trade and other payables at amortised cost (note 27) 1,061.9 1,033.8 21.9 22.9
1,614.3 1,519.2 520.3 455.8
Loans and receivables exclude prepayments of £74.3m (2014: £79.0m). Trade and other payables exclude taxation and social security and 
accruals and deferred income totalling £172.4m (2014: £220.0m). Deferred consideration payable totalling £1.2m is included in financial 
liabilities designated as fair value through profit and loss. The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, which 
is net of impairment losses, represents the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk. The Group has considered the impact of credit risk on 
its financial instruments and because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings considers its impact to be immaterial.
c. Fair value of financial instruments
The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows:
• Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates
•  Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves 
derived from quoted interest rates
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into 
levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable:
• Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
•  Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the 
asset or liability either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices)
•  Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based 
on observable market data (unobservable inputs) 180 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
There were no transfers between levels during the year.
Included in assets The Group The Company
Level 2 2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Interest rate swaps designated and effective as hedging instruments carried
at fair value
6.3 8.0 6.3 8.0
Cross currency interest rate swaps designated and effective as hedging 
instruments carried at fair value
11.7 10.7 11.7 10.7
Foreign currency forward contracts designated and effective as hedging instruments 
carried at fair value
3.2 - 3.2 -
Foreign currency forward contracts at fair value through profit and loss 1.3 2.5 1.3 2.5
22.5 21.2 22.5 21.2
Current assets 16.2 2.5 16.2 2.5
Non-current assets 6.3 18.7 6.3 18.7
22.5 21.2 22.5 21.2
Included in liabilities
Level 2
Foreign currency forward contracts designated and effective as hedging 
instruments carried at fair value
- 0.5 - 0.5
Level 3
Deferred consideration at fair value through profit and loss 1.2 1.4 1.2 1.4
1.2 1.9 1.2 1.9
Current liabilities 1.2 1.4 1.2 1.4
Non-current liabilities - 0.5 - 0.5
1.2 1.9 1.2 1.9
d. Interest risk management
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as entities in the Group borrow funds at both fixed and floating interest rates. The risk is managed 
by the Group by maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings, by the use of interest rate swap contracts and 
forward interest rate contracts. Hedging activities are evaluated regularly to align with interest rate views and defined risk appetite, ensuring 
optimal hedging strategies are applied, by either positioning the balance sheet or protecting interest expense through different interest 
rate cycles.
The Group adopts a policy of ensuring that its exposure to changes in interest rates on borrowings is on either a fixed rate basis or is subject to 
movements within pre-defined limits. To achieve its desired interest rate profile the Group uses interest rate swap contracts where necessary.
Under interest rate swap contracts, the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating interest rate amounts calculated 
on agreed notional principal amounts. Such contracts enable the Group to mitigate the risk of changing interest rates on the fair value of 
issued fixed rate debt held and the cash flow exposures on the issued variable rate debt held. The fair value of interest rate swaps at the 
reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the curves at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the 
contract, and is disclosed below. The average interest rate is based on the outstanding balances at the end of the financial year. 
On 15 September 2014 the Group and Company entered into interest rate swap contracts with seven syndicate banks which swapped the 
fixed rate payable on the listed sterling bond of 4.375% to floating rates based on 6 month libor. These interest rate swap contracts, totalling 
a notional amount of £250m, are all designated and effective as fair value hedges. At 31 December 2015 the fair value of the interest rate 
derivatives, all of which terminate more than five years from the balance sheet date, to which the Group and the Company were parties, was 
estimated at £6.3m (2014: £8.0). This amount is based on market values of equivalent instruments at the balance sheet date.  The fair value 
thereof has been credited to the income statement where it is matched with the fair value movement of the associated sterling bond.  181 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts at the reporting date:
Interest rate swap contracts
 Average contract
 floating interest
 rate
 Notional principal 
 amount
 Fair value
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Fair value hedges - receive fixed / pay floating contracts % % £m £m £m £m
Over five years 2.98 2.95 250.0 250.0 6.3 8.0
The floating rate on the interest rate swaps outstanding at 31 December 2015 is six month LIBOR plus a basis point increment averaging 
223.3. The floating leg is settled every six months whilst the receivable fixed leg is settled annually. 
e. Cross currency swaps and currency forward contracts
In order to eliminate the currency risk associated with the $200m unsecured senior notes the Group and Company have two cross currency 
swaps of £23m and £29m to fix the exchange rate at £1 equal to $1.73 for the entire lives of $90m of the unsecured senior notes. The hedging 
risk on the remaining $110m is eliminated through the use of forward currency contracts.
The forward options fixed the notional amount receivable and payable in respect of the unsecured senior notes to £52m as well as fixing the 
exchange rate applicable to future coupon payments. The two currency swaps convert the borrowing rates on US$50m and US$40m of debt 
from 5.89% to a variable rate based on six month LIBOR plus basis point increment of 86.5 and 86.7 respectively. The currency swaps settle 
on a half-yearly basis. The Group will settle the difference between the fixed and floating interest on a gross basis.
Currency swap contracts exchanging fixed rate interest for floating rate interest are designated and effective as fair value hedges in respect of 
interest rates. During the period, the hedge was 100% effective in hedging the fair value exposure to interest movements and as a result, the 
carrying amount of the loan was adjusted by £0.7m (2014: £1.3m), which was included in the income statement at the same time that the fair 
value of the interest rate swap was also included in the income statement.
The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of currency swap contracts accounted for as fair value hedges 
as at the reporting date:
Fair value hedges – outstanding receive fixed pay floating contracts
 Average contract
 floating interest
 rate
 Notional principal 
 amount
 Fair value
 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
% % £m £m £m £m
Less than 1 year 1.6 1.6 52.0 52.0 11.7 10.7
52.0 52.0 11.7 10.7
The Group and the Company have three currency forward contracts with a notional value of $30m each and one with a notional value of 
£20m to hedge $110m of unsecured senior notes. These contracts have a maturity date of January 2016. At 31 December 2015 the fair value 
of these forward contracts was estimated at £3.2m (2014: £(0.5)m). These contracts are designated cash flow hedges.
The Group acquires goods for sale from overseas, which when not denominated in Sterling are paid for principally in US dollars. The Group 
has entered into forward foreign exchange contracts (all of which are less than one year in duration) to buy US dollars to hedge the exchange 
risk arising from these anticipated future purchases. At the balance sheet date the total notional value of contracts to which the Group was 
committed was US$72.4m (2014: US$75.0m). The fair value of these derivatives is £1.3m (2014: £2.5m). These contracts are not designated 
cash flow hedges and accordingly the fair value movement has been reflected in the income statement. 182 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
f. Liquidity analysis
The following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments and other financial liabilities. The table has been 
drawn up based on the undiscounted net cash flows on the derivative instrument that settle on a net basis and the undiscounted gross cash 
flows on those derivatives that require gross settlement. When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been 
determined by reference to the projected interest and foreign currency rates as illustrated by the yield curves existing at the reporting date.
2015
0-1 year
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-5 years
£m
5+ years
£m
Total
£m
Gross settled
Interest rate swaps – receipts 62.8 - - - 62.8
Interest rate swaps – payments (52.4) - - - (52.4)
10.4 - - - 10.4
Foreign exchange forward contracts (47.6) - - - (47.6)
Total gross settled (37.2) - - - (37.2)
Net settled
Interest rate swaps 3.5 2.6 4.5 0.5 11.1
Total derivative financial instruments (33.7) 2.6 4.5 0.5 (26.1)
Borrowings (125.6) - (106.2) (289.4) (521.2)
Deferred consideration (1.2) - - - (1.2)
Other financial liabilities (note 27) (1,061.9) - - - (1,061.9)
Finance leases (note 23d) (3.6) (3.6) (7.0) (14.0) (28.2)
Total financial instruments (1,226.0) (1.0) (108.7) (302.9) (1,638.6)
2014
0-1 year
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-5 years
£m
5+ years
£m
Total
£m
Gross settled
Interest rate swaps – receipts 3.4 59.4 - - 62.8
Interest rate swaps – payments (0.8) (52.5) - - (53.3)
2.6 6.9 - - 9.5
Foreign exchange forward contracts (45.6) - - - (45.6)
Total gross settled (43.0) 6.9 - - (36.1)
Net settled
Interest rate swaps 3.6 3.0 6.5 3.5 16.6
Total derivative financial instruments (39.4) 9.9 6.5 3.5 (19.5)
Borrowings (48.4) (133.7) - (291.4) (473.5)
Deferred consideration (1.4) - - - (1.4)
Other financial liabilities (note 27) (1,033.8) - - - (1,033.8)
Finance leases (note 23d) (3.6) (3.6) (9.2) (15.4) (31.8)
Total financial instruments (1,126.6) (127.4) (2.7) (303.3) (1,560.0)
24. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued 183 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
g. Interest rate sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative financial 
instruments at the balance sheet date. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming that the amount of liability outstanding at 
the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year. A 1.0% increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to 
key management personnel. If interest rates had been 1.0% higher / lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s:
•  Profit before taxation for the year ended 31 December 2015 would have decreased / increased by £4.1m (2014: increased / decreased by 
£3.1m)
•  Net equity would have decreased / increased by £3.2m (2014: increased / decreased by £2.4m) mainly because of the changes in the fair 
value of interest rate derivatives
25. PROVISIONS
The Group
Property
£m
Insurance 
£m
Plumbing   
and heating 
reconfiguration
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2014 36.5 29.9 - 2.5 68.9
Additional provision charged to the income statement - 3.4 - - 3.4
Additional provision (released) / charged to income 
statement as exceptional items
(10.0) - 16.1 - 6.1
Utilisation of provision (5.8) (3.2) - (1.3) (10.3)
Unwinding of discount 1.4 - - - 1.4
At 31 December 2014 22.1 30.1 16.1 1.2 69.5
Additional provision charged to income statement - 10.5 - - 10.5
Utilisation of provision (9.3) (12.2) (11.9) (1.0) (34.4)
Unwinding of discount 0.3 - - - 0.3
At 31 December 2015 13.1 28.4 4.2 0.2 45.9
Included in current liabilities 7.8 28.4 2.1 0.2 38.5
Included in non-current liabilities 5.3 - 2.1 - 7.4
13.1 28.4 4.2 0.2 45.9
The Group has a number of vacant and partly sub-let leasehold properties. Where necessary provision has been made for the residual lease 
commitments after taking into account existing and anticipated sub-tenant arrangements.
The Group recognised in 2014 an exceptional provision of £16.1m relating to the reconfiguration of the Plumbing and Heating division.  
The provision covered expected property costs, legal costs and IT costs arising from the reconfiguration.
Should a provision ultimately prove to be unnecessary then it is credited back into the income statement. Where the provision was originally 
established as an exceptional item, any release is shown as an exceptional credit.
It is Group policy to insure itself using policies with a high excess against claims arising in respect of damage to assets, or due to employers 
or public liability claims. The nature of insurance claims means they may take some time to be settled. The insurance claims provision 
represents management’s best estimate, based upon external advice of the value of outstanding claims against it where the final settlement 
date is uncertain. 184 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25. PROVISIONS continued
26. DEFERRED TAX
The following are the major fully recognised deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the 
current and prior reporting periods.
 The Group
(Asset) / Liability At
1 Jan 2015
£m
Arising on 
acquisition
£m
Recognised
in income
£m
Recognised
in equity
£m
At
31 Dec 2015
£m
Capital allowances 1.6 - 1.0 2.6
Revaluation of property 8.9 - - (0.9) 8.0
Share-based payments (11.1) - (0.3) 2.9 (8.5)
Provisions (0.6) - 0.9 - 0.3
Property assets acquired  
in business combinations
8.8 0.4 (1.7) - 7.5
Brand 78.3 0.8 (17.9) - 61.2
Pension scheme liability (19.2) - 3.3 6.1 (9.8)
Deferred tax 66.7 1.2 (14.7) 8.1 61.3
The following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis of its provisions. The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted net 
cash outflows.
0-1 year
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-5 years
£m
5+ years
£m
Total
£m
2015
Property 8.0 1.6 2.8 2.4 14.8
Plumbing and Heating reorganisation 2.1 2.1 - - 4.2
Insurance 28.4 - - - 28.4
Other 0.2 - - - 0.2
38.7 3.7 2.8 2.4 47.6
2014
Property 18.8 1.3 2.5 2.8 25.4
Plumbing and Heating reorganisation 14.0 2.1 - - 16.1
Insurance 30.1 - - - 30.1
Other 1.2 - - - 1.2
64.1 3.4 2.5 2.8 72.8
The Company has no provisions. 185 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Group
At
1 Jan 2014
£m
Arising on 
acquisition
£m
Recognised
in income
£m
Recognised
in equity
£m
At
31 Dec 2014
£m
Capital allowances 3.0 (0.1) (1.3) - 1.6
Trading losses (1.8) - 1.8 - -
Revaluation of property 8.9 - - - 8.9
Share based payments (17.6) - 0.4 6.1 (11.1)
Provisions (8.7) - 8.1 - (0.6)
Property assets acquired 
in business combinations
9.7 - (0.9) - 8.8
Brand 81.8 - (3.5) - 78.3
Pension scheme liability (14.0) - 4.3 (9.5) (19.2)
Deferred tax 61.3 (0.1) 8.9 (3.4) 66.7
At the balance sheet date the Group had unused capital losses of £42.3m (2014: £45.8m) available for offset against future capital profits. 
No deferred tax asset has been recognised because it is improbable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can 
utilise the losses because they arose prior to the Group acquiring Wickes and that business owns no assets that may generate a future capital 
gain against which the losses can be offset.
Other than disclosed above, no deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. 
The Company
At
1 Jan 2015
£m
Recognised
 in income
£m
Recognised
 in equity
£m
At
31 Dec 2015
£m
Share-based payments (3.3) (0.2) 0.7 (2.8)
Other timing differences (0.4) 0.3 - (0.1)
(3.7) 0.1 0.7 (2.9)
The Company
At
1 Jan 2014
£m
Recognised 
 in income
£m
Recognised 
 in equity
£m
At
31 Dec 2014
£m
Share-based payments (17.7) 4.3 10.1 (3.3)
Other timing differences (0.5) 0.1 - (0.4)
(18.2) 4.4 10.1 (3.7) 186 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
The Group The Company
2015 2014 2015 2014
£m £m £m £m
Trade payables 904.6 852.3 - -
Other taxation and social security 58.2 64.5 - -
Deferred consideration payable 1.2 1.4 1.2 1.4
Other payables 157.3 181.5 21.9 22.9
Accruals and deferred income 114.2 155.5 - -
Trade and other payables 1,235.5 1,255.2 23.1 24.3
The Group 
Trade and other payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The Directors consider that the 
carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value. The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that 
all payables are paid within the credit timeframe.
The Company
Trade and other payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The Directors consider that the 
carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
28. PENSION ARRANGEMENTS
Defined benefit schemes
The Group operates three final salary schemes being The Travis Perkins Pensions and Dependants’ Benefit Scheme (“the TP scheme”), 
the “BSS schemes” being the BSS Defined Benefit Scheme and the immaterial BSS Ireland Defined Benefit Scheme. All defined benefit 
schemes are closed to new members. The TP scheme is for the majority of members a 1/60th scheme. The assets of the TP schemes are 
held separately from those of the Group under the control of the scheme’s trustees. Employees are entitled to start drawing a pension, based 
on their membership of the scheme, on their normal retirement date. If employees choose to retire early and draw their pension, then the 
amount they receive is scaled down accordingly.
The TP scheme is funded by contributions from Group companies and employees. Contributions are paid to the Trustees on the basis of 
advice from an independent professionally qualified actuary who carries out a valuation of the scheme every three years.
A full actuarial valuation of the TP scheme was carried out on 30 September 2014. The IAS 19 valuation has been based upon the results 
of the 30 September 2014 valuation, and then updated to 31 December 2015 by a qualified actuary. The present values of the defined 
obligations, the related current service costs and the past service costs for the scheme were measured using the projected unit method.
The assets of the BSS schemes are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of the schemes’ trustees. The 
most recent actuarial valuations of the BSS schemes’ assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligations were carried out at 
30 September 2014. The present value of the defined benefit obligation, and the related current service cost and past service cost, were 
measured using the projected unit method with a control period equal to the future working lifetime of the active members.
In June 2010, an agreement was reached with the trustees of the Travis Perkins final salary pension scheme to fund £34.7m of the deficit 
using a group controlled special purpose vehicle (“SPV”). The pension scheme is entitled to receive the income of the SPV for a period 
of up to 20 years, subject to funding levels. This income is backed by the security of 16 Travis Perkins freehold properties. As the SPV is 
consolidated into the Travis Perkins plc group accounts advantage has been taken of Regulation 7 of The Partnership (Accounts) Regulations 
2008 and accounts for the SPV will neither be audited or filed.
2014 Restatement
The 2014 pension numbers in respect of the TP Scheme have been restated to reduce the return on plan assets in the year by £14.8m to 
exclude the contingent rentals from the value of the liability to the pension scheme with an equal and opposite reduction to the additional 
liability recognised in respect of the minimum funding requirement. There was no overall effect on the total pension liability.
The TP scheme and the BSS schemes expose the Group to actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and salary 
risk. A summary of the risks and the management of those risks is given below. 187 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Investment risk The present value of the defined benefit liabilities of the schemes is calculated using a discount rate 
predetermined by reference to high quality corporate bond yields. If the return on scheme assets is below 
this rate it may create a plan deficit. Currently the schemes have a relatively balanced investment in equity 
securities, debt instruments and real estate. Due to the long term nature of the scheme liabilities the trustees 
of the pension funds consider it appropriate that a reasonable portion of the scheme assets should be 
invested in equities.
Interest risk A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the schemes’ liabilities, but the effect will be partially offset 
by an increase in the return on the schemes debt assets..
Longevity risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liabilities of the schemes is calculated by reference to the best 
estimate of mortality of plan participants both during and after their employment. An increase in the life 
expectancy of the plan participants will increase the schemes liabilities.
Salary risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liabilities is calculated by reference to the future salaries of scheme 
participants. As such an increase in salaries of scheme participants will increase the schemes’ liabilities.
a. Major assumptions used by the schemes’ actuaries at the balance sheet date (in nominal terms)
At 31 December 
2015
At 31 December  
2014
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 2.45% 2.35%
Rate of increase of pensions in payment post 2006 2.20% 2.50%
Rate of increase of pensions in payment 1997 -2006 3.10% 3.40%
Discount rate 3.85% 3.70%
Inflation assumption - RPI 3.20% 3.10%
Inflation assumption - CPI 2.20% 2.10%
In respect of longevity, the valuation adopts the S2PA year of birth tables with improvements in life expectancy to continue in the medium 
term, with base year appropriate to the member’s date of birth. This results in the following life expectancies at illustrative ages:
Weighted average life expectancy for mortality tables used to determine pension liability at 31 December 2015:
Male Female
Years Years
Member age 65 (current life expectancy) - TP Scheme 22.1 24.7
Member age 45 (life expectancy on reaching age 65) - TP Scheme 23.8 26.6
Member age 65 (current life expectancy) - BSS Schemes 22.1 24.7
Member age 45 (life expectancy on reaching age 65) - BSS Schemes 23.8 26.6
b. Amounts recognised in income in respect of the defined benefit schemes
2015 2014
TP
Scheme
£m
BSS
Schemes
£m
Group
£m
Group
£m
Current service costs charged to operating profit in the 
income statement
(15.9) (2.9) (18.8) (10.7)
Past service gains from settlements 1.9 0.3 2.2 -
Net interest income / (expense) (1.1) (1.8) (2.9) (2.4)
Total pension charge (15.1) (4.4) (19.5) (13.1)
The Directors have agreed with the Schemes’ Actuaries and the Trustees to pay total contributions, including the amounts in excess of 
ongoing contributions required to repay the deficit of £10.0m to the BSS schemes in 2016. In 2016, the excess of funding over the on-going 
service contributions will be £10.0m in total for the Group.
Note 5 shows where pension costs have been charged in the income statement. Actuarial gains and losses have been included in the 
Statement of Comprehensive Income. 188 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
28. PENSION ARRANGEMENTS continued
c.  The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of all of its defined benefit schemes and the 
movements during the year
2015 2014
TP
Scheme
£m
BSS
Schemes
£m
Group
£m
TP
Scheme
£m
BSS
Schemes
£m
Group
£m
Fair value of plan assets 913.8 247.5 1,161.3 908.9 230.9 1,139.8
Present value of defined benefit obligations (879.4) (283.0) (1.162.4) (947.8) (287.6) (1,235.4)
Actuarial  surplus / (deficit) 34.4 (35.5) (1.1) (38.9) (56.7) (95.6)
Restriction an asset recognised (34.4) - (34.4) - - -
Additional liability recognised for minimum funding 
requirements
(0.2) (16.5) (16.7) (1.9) - (1.9)
Gross pension liability at 31 December (0.2) (52.0) (52.2) (40.8) (56.7) (97.5)
Deferred tax asset 9.8 19.2
Net pension liability at 31 December (42.4) (78.3)
In finalising the 30 September 2014 actuarial valuations the Trustees of both schemes reached agreement with the Company that in order 
to eliminate the funding shortfalls at that date the Company would pay recovery plan contributions to each scheme.  Amounts receivable by 
each scheme from 1 Janaury 2016 are as follows:
• TP Scheme – nil
• BSS Scheme - £10.0m p.a payable in monthly instalments until 1 September 2021
The Company has agreed to make voluntary recovery plan contributions of £0.2m per month to the TP Scheme until September 2023.  
These contributions are not contractual and can be stopped at any time with one months notice at the Company’s sole discretion.
2015 2014
TP
Scheme
£m
BSS
Schemes
£m
Group
£m
TP
Scheme
£m
BSS
Schemes
£m
Group
£m
At 1 January actuarial  (deficit) / asset (38.9) (56.7) (95.6) 41.1 (40.8) 0.3
Additional liability recognised for minimum funding 
requirements
(1.9) - (1.9) (46.7) (25.0) (71.7)
(40.8) (56.7) (97.5) (5.6) (65.8) (71.4)
Current service costs and administration expenses 
charged to the income statement
(15.9) (2.9) (18.8) (8.0) (2.7) (10.7)
Past service gains from settlements credited to the 
income statement
1.9 0.3 2.2 - - -
Net interest  (expense) / income (1.1) (1.8) (2.9) 0.4 (2.8) (2.4)
Contributions from sponsoring companies 27.4 12.5 39.9 22.8 12.6 35.4
Foreign exchange - 0.1 0.1 - - -
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included 
in net interest)
(25.8) 3.0 (22.8) 46.5 8.9 55.4
Actuarial  gain  arising from changes in 
demographic assumptions
39.6 8.2 47.8 - - -
Actuarial gain / (loss) arising from changes in 
financial assumptions
27.2 8.0 35.2 (141.7) (33.6) (175.3)
Actuarial  gain / (loss)  arising from experience 
adjustments
19.4 (6.2) 13.2 - 1.7 1.7
(Increase) / reduction  in  minimum funding 
requirement liability
(32.1) (16.5) (48.6) 44.8 25.0 69.8
At 31 December actuarial deficit (0.2) (52.0) (52.2) (40.8) (56.7) (97.5) 189 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
d. Major categories and fair value of plan assets
The major categories and fair values of plan assets at the end of the reporting period for each category are as follows:
At 31 December 2015 At 31 December 2014
TP 
Scheme
£m
BSS 
Schemes
£m
TP 
Scheme
£m
BSS 
Schemes
£m
Level 1
Domestic equities 218.8 16.6 210.0 13.6
Overseas equities 247.8 133.2 253.9 126.2
Fixed interest government bonds - - - 16.4
Corporate bonds 116.6 20.7 117.2 2.4
Diversified growth fund 125.4 71.2 127.9 69.8
Liability driven investment 75.5 - 131.8 -
Level 3
Property 44.8 0.4 41.6 -
SPV asset 21.7 - 22.7 -
Cash and other 63.2 5.4 3.8 2.5
913.8 247.5 908.9 230.9
Actual return on scheme assets 2015 2014
£m £m
TP Scheme 8.2 0.9% 85.2 9.4%
BSS Schemes 11.5 4.6% 18.4 8.0%
e. Movements in the fair value of scheme assets in the current period
2015 2014
 TP
Scheme
£m 
BSS
Schemes
£m
Group
£m
 TP
Scheme
£m 
BSS
Schemes
£m
Group
£m
At 1 January 908.9 230.9 1,139.8 821.1 206.1 1,027.2
Interest on scheme assets 34.0 8.5 42.5 38.7 9.5 48.2
Return on scheme assets not included above (25.8) 3.0 (22.8) 46.5 8.9 55.4
Foreign exchange - (0.3) (0.3) - - -
Administration expenses (0.6) - (0.6) - - -
Contributions from sponsoring companies 27.4 12.5 39.9 22.8 12.6 35.4
Contributions from members - 0.1 0.1 5.0 0.1 5.1
Benefits paid (30.1) (7.2) (37.3) (25.2) (6.3) (31.5)
At 31 December 913.8 247.5 1,161.3 908.9 230.9 1,139.8 190 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
28. PENSION ARRANGEMENTS continued
f. Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations in the current period
2015 2014
TP
Scheme
£m
BSS
Schemes
£m
Group
£m
 TP
Scheme
£m 
BSS
Schemes
£m
Group
£m
At 1 January (947.8) (287.6) (1,235.4) (780.0) (246.9) (1,026.9)
Service cost (13.4) (2.6) (16.0) (8.0) (2.7) (10.7)
Interest cost (34.5) (10.3) (44.8) (38.3) (12.3) (50.6)
Foreign exchange - 0.4 0.4 - - -
Contributions from members - (0.1) (0.1) (5.0) (0.1) (5.1)
Experience adjustments 19.4 (6.2) 13.2 - 1.7 1.7
Actuarial gain arising from changes 
in demographic assumptions
39.6 8.2 47.8 - - -
Actuarial gains / (loss) arising from changes 
in financial assumptions
27.2 8.0 35.2 (141.7) (33.6) (175.3)
Benefits paid 30.1 7.2 37.3 25.2 6.3 31.5
At 31 December (879.4) (283.0) (1,162.4) (947.8) (287.6) (1,235.4)
g. Amounts recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income are as follows
2015 2014
TP
Scheme
£m
BSS
Schemes
£m
Group
£m
TP
Scheme
£m
BSS
Schemes
£m
Group
£m
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included 
in net interest)
(25.8) 3.0 (22.8) 46.5 8.9 55.4
Actuarial gain arising from changes  
in demographic assumptions
39.6 8.2 47.8 - - -
Actuarial (gain) / losses arising from changes  
in financial assumptions
27.2 8.0 35.2 (141.7) (33.6) (175.3)
Actuarial gain arising from experience adjustments 19.4 (6.2) 13.2 - 1.7 1.7
(Increase) / decrease in minimum funding 
requirement liability
(32.1) (16.5) (48.6) 44.8 25.0 69.8
Re-measurement of net defined pension liability 28.3 (3.5) 24.8 (50.4) 2.0 (48.4)
h. Reconciliation of asset ceiling / additional liability
2015 2014
TP
Scheme
£m
BSS
Schemes
£m
Group
£m
TP
Scheme
£m
BSS
Schemes
£m
Group
£m
At 1 January (1.9) - (1.9) (46.7) (25.0) (71.7)
Interest expense (0.6) - (0.6) - - -
Change in asset ceiling (32.1) (16.5) (48.6) 44.8 25.0 69.8
 At 31 December (34.6) (16.5) (51.1) (1.9) - (1.9) 191 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
i. Maturity profile of obligations
The weighted average duration of the scheme liabilities is:
TP Scheme – 18.3 years
BSS Scheme – 18.5 years
The maturity profile of the defined benefit obligations for the schemes are as follows:
TP Scheme 
%
BSS Schemes 
%
2017 – 2026 15.6 14.8
2027 – 2036 22.4 22.5
2037 – 2046 24.4 23.9
2047 – 2056 20.1 20.2
2057 – 2066 12.4 12.7
2067 – 2076 4.4 4.8
2077 – 2086 0.6 1.0
2087 – 2096 - 0.1
j. Sensitivities 
The estimated effects of changing the key assumptions (discount rate, inflation and life expectancy) on the IAS19 (revised 2011) balance 
sheet position as at 31 December 2015 is given below.
Assumption TP Scheme BSS Schemes
Discount rate Increase of 0.1% 15.9 4.8
Decrease of 0.1% (16.3) (5.0)
Inflation Increase of 0.1% (8.9) (4.0)
Decrease of 0.1% 7.9 3.0
Longevity Increase of 1 year (29.9) (9.1)
Decrease of 1 year 31.7 9.6
Defined contribution schemes
The Group operates two defined contribution schemes for all qualifying employees. The pension cost, which represents contributions payable 
by the Group, amounted to £14.3m (2014: £11.9m).
The total charge to the profit and loss account disclosed in note 7 of £30.9m (2014: £22.6m) comprises defined benefit scheme current and 
past service costs of £16.6m (2014: £10.7m) and £14.3m (2014 £11.9m) of contributions made to the defined contribution schemes. 192 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
29. ACQUISITION OF BUSINESSES
On 4 February 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Rudridge Limited for a total consideration of £13.4m. Rudridge 
Limited is a leading supplier of groundwork, civil engineering and drainage materials. 
On 6 July 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of IJM Enterprises Limited trading as Bathrooms.com, an online retailer 
of bathroom suites, for a total consideration of £3.1m.
On 24 July 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Garratt Timber Supplies Limited, which trades as a timber merchant, 
for a total consideration of £4.1m. 
On 18 August 2015, the Group acquired 55% of the issued share capital of The Underfloor Heating Store Limited, an online supplier of 
underfloor heating systems, for a total consideration of £7.3m.
For the period from acquisition the combined revenue and operating profit for all the above acquisitions total £54.4m and £2.3m respectively. 
If the acquisitions had been completed on the first day of the year group revenues would have been £5,959.7m and group operating profit 
before amortisation would have been £413.3m.
Goodwill recognised consists of the benefits from forecast growth and the assembled workforces. None of the goodwill recognised is 
expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. Acquisition costs charged in administration expenses for the period to 31 December 2015 
amounted to £0.5m. The fair value of the acquired trade receivables totalled £9.4m and all acquired receivables are expected to be collected 
in full. 
All acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Provisional fair values ascribed to identifiable assets as at the 
date of the acquisitions are shown in the table below:
Fair value  
acquired
£m
Net assets acquired:
Property, plant and equipment 2.5
Identifiable intangible assets 3.7
Inventories 5.0
Trade and other receivables 11.3
Cash at bank 2.1
Trade and other payables (11.2)
Corporation tax (0.8)
Deferred tax (1.2)
11.4
Goodwill – addition during the period 22.4
33.8
Satisfied by:
Cash paid 27.9
Non controlling interest 5.9
33.8
£0.2m of prior year contingent consideration was paid in respect of Solfex Limited. 193 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30. OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS 
The Group has entered into a significant number of property operating leases for its trading sites, the commercial terms for which tend to 
vary. The leases, at inception, are typically 25 years in duration, although some have lessee only break clauses of between 10 and 15 years.  
No leases place any commercial restriction on the Group’s ability to conduct its business in the manner it sees fit (for instance restrictions on 
dividends, debt levels or further leases). No lease has clauses that link rental payments to performance, for instance turnover leases and no 
lease contains contingent rent clauses.
All leases include rent escalation clauses setting out the basis for future rent reviews. Typically these are based on open market conditions or 
are linked to RPI or CPI. The Group has a small number of leases that are subject to fixed reviews, but these are not material.
There are no significant pre-emption rights in any of the Group’s leases. 
The Group also leases certain items of plant and equipment. The Company has no operating lease arrangements.
a. The Group as lessee
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Minimum lease payments under equipment operating leases recognised in income for the year 38.8 36.0
Minimum lease payments under property operating leases recognised in income for the year 185.4 183.6
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases. The table below sets out the lease commitments of the Group as they fall due up until the end of the existing leases and do not 
include the effect of possible lease renewals:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Within one year 191.4 174.8
In the second to fifth years inclusive 662.2 624.3
In the sixth to ten years inclusive 524.8 513.4
In the eleventh to fifteenth years inclusive 377.8 407.7
After fifteen years 42.1 44.3
1,798.3 1,764.5
b. The Group as lessor
The Group sublets a number of ex-trading properties to third parties.  Property rental income earned during the year in respect of these 
properties was £5.0m (2014: £5.7m).
At the balance sheet date, the Group had contracts with tenants for the following future minimum lease payments:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Within one year 5.2 5.4
In the second to fifth years inclusive 16.7 19.2
After five years 17.9 22.1
39.8 46.7 194 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
32. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, its Directors and with its pension schemes (note 28). Transactions between 
Group companies, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. Transactions between 
the Company and its subsidiaries are disclosed below. In addition the remuneration of the Directors, and the details of their interests in the 
share capital of the Company are provided in the audited part of the remuneration report on pages 117 to 122.
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 
Related Party Disclosures. 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Short-term employee benefits 10.7 16.1
Post employee benefits 0.4 0.4
Share-based payments 4.2 2.9
15.3 19.4
The Company undertakes the following transactions with its active subsidiaries:
• Providing day-to-day funding from its UK banking facilities
• Paying interest to members of the Group totalling £22.5m (2014: £22.5m)
• Levying an annual management charge to cover services provided to members of the Group of £8.4m (2014: £8.3m)
• Receiving annual dividends totalling £256.5m (2014: £197.1m)
Details of balances outstanding with subsidiary companies are shown in note 19 and in the Balance Sheet on pages 142 and 143.
Other than the payment of remuneration there have been no related party transactions with directors.
The Group advanced a total of £3.5m (2014: £4.9m) to all the Group’s associate companies in 2015. Operating transactions with the 
associates during the year were not significant. 
31. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS 
The Group The Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Contracted for but not provided in the accounts 39.2 13.8 - - 195 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
33. ANAL YSIS OF CHANGES IN NET DEBT
The Group
Cash 
and cash 
equivalents
Finance 
leases
Term 
loan and 
revolving 
credit 
facility and 
loan notes
Unsecured 
senior US$ 
Notes and 
Sterling 
Bond
Liability to 
pension 
scheme
Exchange 
and fair value 
adjustments 
on derivatives 
hedging net 
debt items
Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2014 (79.8) 23.8 238.4 128.7 36.5 (3.7) 343.9
Cash flow (28.5) (2.5) (240.0) 247.4 (3.0) - (26.6)
Exchange movement - - - 4.2 - (4.2) -
Fair value movement - - - 9.2 - (9.2) -
Finance charges 
amortised
- - 1.6 0.1 - - 1.7
Issue of Toolstation 
loan notes
- - 37.6 - - - 37.6
Amortisation of swap 
cancellation receipt
- - - (1.0) - - (1.0)
Discount unwind on 
liability to pension 
scheme
- - - - 2.5 - 2.5
At 1 January 2015 (108.3) 21.3 37.6 388.6 36.0 (17.1) 358.1
Cash flow 24.5 (2.7) 65.2 - (3.1) - 83.9
Exchange movement - - - 3.9 - (3.9) -
Fair value movement - - - (1.0) - 1.0 -
Finance charges 
movement
- - 3.4 0.4 - - 3.8
Amortisation of swap 
cancellation receipt
- - - (0.9) - - (0.9)
Discount unwind on 
liability to pension 
scheme
- - - - 2.5 - 2.5
31 December 2015 (83.8) 18.6 106.2 391.0 35.4 (20.0) 447.4
Balances at 31 December comprise: The Group
2015 2014
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 83.8 108.3
Non-current interest bearing loans and borrowings (411.4) (440.0)
Current interest bearing loans and borrowings (139.8) (43.5)
Exchange and fair value adjustments on derivatives hedging net debt items 20.0 17.1
Net debt (447.4) (358.1) 196 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2015 2014
£m £m
Net debt before exchange and fair value adjustments (467.4) (375.2)
Finance leases arising from the implementation of IAS 17 14.3 16.0
Unamortised swap cancellation receipt - 0.9
Liability to pension scheme 35.4 36.0
Fair value adjustment to debt 20.0 17.1
Finance charges netted off borrowings (6.0) (5.7)
Net debt under covenant calculations (403.7) (310.9)
34. LEASE ADJUSTED GEARING
 The Group
2015
 
 
£m
2014
Restated  
(note 37)
£m
Net debt before exchange and fair value adjustments 467.4 375.2
Exchange and fair value adjustments (20.0) (17.1)
Net debt 447.4 358.1
Property operating lease rentals x8 1,443.2 1,423.2
Lease adjusted net debt 1,890.6 1,781.3
Property operating lease rentals x8 1.443.2 1,423.2
Total equity 2,795.8 2,677.7
Lease adjusted equity 4,239.0 4,100.9
Gearing 44.6% 43.4%
33. ANAL YSIS OF CHANGES IN NET DEBT continued 197 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
35. FREE CASH FLOW
 The Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net debt before exchange and fair value adjustments at 1 January (375.2) (347.6)
Net debt before exchange and fair value adjustments at 31 December (467.4) (375.2)
Increase in net debt before exchange and fair value adjustments (92.2) (27.6)
Dividends paid 100.2 81.1
Net cash outflow for expansion capital expenditure 237.6 115.0
Net cash outflow for acquisitions 26.0 15.7
Net cash outflow for investments 5.3
Amortisation of swap cancellation receipt (0.9) (1.0)
Discount unwind on liability to pension scheme 2.5 2.5
Cash impact of exceptional items 14.6 3.8
Issue of Toolstation loan notes - 37.6
Interest in associate 3.5 2.1
Shares issued and sale of own shares (10.0) (14.3)
Increase in fair value of debt and exchange 2.9 13.4
Movement in finance charges netted off bank debt 3.8 1.7
Special pension contributions 23.3 24.7
Free cash flow 316.6 254.7
36. LEVERAGE RATIOS
The adjusted ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, tax and 
depreciation (“EBITDA ”) is derived as follows:
 The Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit before tax 223.5 321.4
Net finance costs 30.5 21.7
Depreciation and amortisation 104.1 93.2
EBITDA 358.1 436.3
Exceptional operating items 140.6 23.3
Adjusted EBITDA 498.7 459.6
IFRS adjustments required for covenant calculations - (2.4)
Adjusted EBITDA under covenant calculations 498.7 457.2
Net debt under covenant calculations (note 33) 403.7 310.9
Adjusted net debt to EBITDA under covenant calculations 0.81x 0.68x 198 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Adjusted ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and operating lease rentals (“EBITDAR”) is derived as follows:
 The Group
2015 
 
 
£m
2014 
Restated 
(note 37) 
£m
Adjusted EBITDA 498.7 459.6
Property operating lease rentals net of rent receivable 180.4 177.9
Adjusted EBITDAR 679.1 637.5
Net debt before exchange and fair value adjustments 467.4 375.2
Exchange and fair value adjustments (20.0) (17.1)
Net debt 447.4 358.1
Property operating lease rentals x8 1,443.2 1,423.2
Lease adjusted net debt 1,890.6 1,791.3
Lease adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDAR 2.8x 2.8x
Fixed charge cover is derived as follows:
The Group
2015 
 
 
£m
2014 
Restated 
(note 37) 
£m
Adjusted EBITDAR 679.1 637.5
Property operating lease rentals net of rent receivable 180.4 177.9
Interest for fixed charge calculation (note 9) 24.9 20.8
205.3 198.7
Fixed charge cover net of rent receivable 3.3x 3.2x
36. LEVERAGE RATIOS continued ntinued 199 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
37. RETURN ON CAPITAL RATIOS
Group return on capital employed is calculated as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Operating profit 254.0 343.1
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 18.0 17.6
Exceptional items 140.6 23.3
Adjusted operating profit 412.6 384.0
Opening net assets 2,677.7 2,515.2
Net pension deficit 78.3 57.4
Net debt before exchange and fair value adjustments 375.2 347.6
Exchange and fair value adjustment (17.1) (3.7)
Opening capital employed 3,114.1 2,916.5
Closing net assets 2,795.8 2,677.7
Net pension deficit 42.4 78.3
Net debt before exchange and fair value adjustments 467.4 375.2
Exchange and fair value adjustment (20.0) (17.1)
Closing capital employed 3,285.6 3,114.1
Average capital employed 3,199.9 3,015.3
Adjusted pre–tax return on capital 12.9% 12.7%
Group lease adjusted return on capital employed is calculated as follows:
2015
£m
2014
Restated*
£m
Adjusted operating profit 412.6 384.0
50% of property operating lease rentals 90.2 89.0
Lease adjusted operating profit 502.8 473.0
Average capital employed 3,199.9 3,015.3
Property operating lease rentals x8 1,443.2 1,423.2
Lease adjusted capital employed 4,643.1 4,438.5
Lease adjusted return on capital employed 10.8% 10.7%
Group lease adjusted return on capital employed adjusted for goodwill written off and the impairment of goodwill and acquired intangible 
assets is shown below.
*The 2014 lease related numbers were restated to reflect a refinement to the calculations to include £5.7m of rental income receivable on 
leased property that is sublet. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
200 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
2015
£m
2014
Restated
£m
Lease adjusted operating profit 502.8 473.0
Opening capital employed 3,114.1 2,916.5
Goodwill written off 92.7 92.7
Opening capital employed adjusted for goodwill written off 3,206.8 3,009.2
Closing capital employed 3,285.6 3,114.1
Goodwill and acquired intangibles written off 233.3 92.7
Closing capital employed adjusted for goodwill written off 3,518.9 3,206.8
Average capital employed 3,362.9 3,108.0
Property operating lease rentals x8 1,443.2 1,423.2
Lease adjusted capital employed 4,806.1 4,531.2
Lease adjusted return on capital employed 10.5% 10.4%
37. RETURN ON CAPITAL RATIOS continued ntinued
Company Name Registered % Ownership Status
Active subsidiary companies
Benchmarx Kitchens and Joinery Limited UK 100 Active
BSS (Ireland) Limited Ireland 100 Active
CCF Limited UK 100 Active
City Investments Limited Jersey 100 Active
City Plumbing Supplies Holdings Limited UK 100 Active
Connections (AML) Limited UK 100 Active
Garratt Timber Supplies Limited UK 100 Active
Hunter Estates Limited UK 100 Active
IJM Enterprises Limited UK 100 Active
IJM Holdings Limited UK 75 Active
Keyline Builders Merchants Limited UK 100 Active
Plumbnation Limited UK 75 Active
Primaflow Limited UK 100 Active
PTS Group Limited UK 100 Active
Rudridge Limited UK 100 Active
Solfex Limited UK 100 Active
The BSS Group Limited UK 100 Active
Tile Giant Limited UK 100 Active
Toolstation Limited UK 100 Active
TP General Partner (Scotland) Limited UK 100 Active
Travis Perkins (Properties) Limited UK 100 Active
Travis Perkins (PSL 2015) Limited UK 100 Active
Travis Perkins Acquisitions Company Limited UK 100 Active
Travis Perkins Bridge Properties LLP UK 100 Active
Travis Perkins Finance Company Limited UK 100 Active
38. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
201 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Company Name Registered % Ownership Status
Active subsidiary companies
Travis Perkins Financing Company No. 2 Limited UK 100 Active
Travis Perkins Financing Company No. 3 Limited UK 100 Active
Travis Perkins Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong 100 Active
Travis Perkins Leasing Company Limited UK 100 Active
Travis Perkins P&H Partner Limited UK 100 Active
Travis Perkins Plumbing & Heating LLP UK 100 Active
Travis Perkins Sourcing (Shanghai) Ltd China 100 Active
Travis Perkins Trading Company Limited UK 100 Active
Underfloor Heating  Store (The) Limited UK 55 Active
Wickes Building Supplies Limited UK 100 Active
Wickes Developments Limited UK 100 Active
Wickes Limited UK 100 Active
Wickes Properties Limited UK 100 Active
Dormant & non-trading subsidiary companies
A. Warren & Sons Limited UK 100 Dormant
A.M. Supplies (Pumps And Controls) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Actionbridge Limited UK 100 Dormant
Ahed Limited UK 100 Dormant
Angelery Limited UK 100 Dormant
B. & G. (Heating & Plumbing) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Baird Lindsay Limited UK 100 Dormant
Basic Partition Systems Limited UK 100 Dormant
Basildon Heating Services Limited UK 100 Dormant
Birchwood Group Holdings Limited UK 100 Dormant
Birchwood Products Limited UK 100 Dormant
Blyth & Taylor (Hants) Limited UK 100 Dormant
BMSS Limited UK 100 Dormant
Bondco 909 Limited UK 100 Dormant
Bonham Lilley Timber Limited UK 100 Dormant
Border Building Supplies Limited UK 100 Dormant
Boston (2011) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Boxbrook Holdings Limited UK 100 Dormant
Brasscapri Limited UK 100 Dormant
Brassware Sales Limited UK 100 Dormant
British Steam Specialties (International) Limited (The) UK 100 Dormant
British Steam Specialties Limited (The) UK 100 Dormant
Broombys Limited UK 100 Dormant
Bss (UK) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Builders Mate Limited UK 100 Dormant
Builders Traders Limited UK 100 Dormant
Bulwell Timber Company Limited UK 100 Dormant
Burt Boulton (Timber) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Buywell Building Supplies Limited UK 100 Dormant
C & C Building Supplies (Marple) Limited UK 100 Dormant 202 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
38. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS continued
Company Name Registered % Ownership Status
Dormant & non-trading subsidiary companies
C & G Building Supplies Limited UK 100 Dormant
C.H. Crees and Son Limited UK 100 Dormant
Carmichael Browne Associates Limited UK 100 Dormant
Central England Supplies Ltd UK 100 Dormant
Chandler Forest Products Limited UK 100 Dormant
Chinnor Plumbing Supplies Limited UK 100 Dormant
Christie & Vesey Limited UK 100 Dormant
City Plumbing Supplies (Poole) Limited UK 100 Dormant
City Plumbing Supplies (Salisbury) Limited UK 100 Dormant
City Plumbing Supplies (Scotland) Limited UK 100 Dormant
City Plumbing Supplies Limited UK 100 Dormant
Cobtree Nominees Limited UK 100 Dormant
Commercial Ceiling Factors (Midlands) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Commercial Ceiling Factors Limited UK 100 Dormant
Contract Supplies (North East) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Coppas Controls (Uk) Limited UK 100 Dormant
County Hire Services (Wollaton) Limited UK 100 Dormant
County Landscape Products Limited UK 100 Dormant
Curran Sawmills Limited (The) UK 100 Dormant
D.W. Archer Limited UK 100 Dormant
Direct Building Supplies Truro Limited UK 100 Dormant
Direct Heating Spares Limited UK 100 Dormant
Domestic Heating Supplies (Warrington) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Downpatrick Timber Slate & Coal Company Limited UK 100 Dormant
Dyfed Building and Plastic Supplies Limited UK 100 Dormant
E Fletcher (Timber) Limited UK 100 Dormant
E. Salisbury Limited UK 100 Dormant
Edwards & Company (Longfield) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Elecnation Limited formerly Malden Timber Limited UK 100 Dormant
Elias Wild & Sons Limited UK 100 Dormant
F W Darby & Co (Tunbridge Wells) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Fishguard Building Supplies Limited UK 100 Dormant
Floorsystems Limited UK 100 Dormant
Flortek Limited UK 100 Dormant
Four Oaks Timber and Joinery Supplies Limited UK 100 Dormant
Fry & Pollard Limited UK 100 Dormant
Gisowatt Uk Limited UK 100 Dormant
Graylin Limited UK 100 Dormant
Greenwell Building Supplies Limited UK 100 Dormant
Grundy & Pilling Limited UK 100 Dormant
Hardleys Timber & Building Supplies Limited UK 100 Dormant
Harris of Stirchley Limited UK 100 Dormant
Harrison Trenery Limited UK 100 Dormant
Harvey Building Supplies (Scotland) Limited UK 100 Dormant
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 203 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Company Name Registered % Ownership Status
Dormant & non-trading subsidiary companies
Heatek Labone Cadel Limited UK 100 Dormant
Heatstall Limited UK 75 Dorman
HT (1995) Limited UK 100 Dormant
HTG (1996) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Hunter Limited UK 100 Dormant
Index Timber & Building Supplies Limited UK 100 Dormant
Instox Limited UK 100 Dormant
Ivco Process Valves Limited UK 100 Dormant
J & B. Labone Limited UK 100 Dormant
J T Stanton & Co., Limited UK 100 Dormant
J.H. Walker & Co. (York) Limited UK 100 Dormant
James Ladd & Sons Limited UK 100 Dormant
Jayhard Holdings Limited UK 100 Dormant
Jayhard Ltd UK 100 Dormant
John Clements (Builders Merchants) Limited UK 100 Dormant
John Dove & Co. Limited UK 100 Dormant
John H. Turner & Lisney Limited UK 100 Dormant
Joseph Spark & Son Limited UK 100 Dormant
K X Company Limited UK 100 Dormant
Kelmar (Plumbing & Heating Supplies) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Keyline (CML) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Kisling Limited UK 100 Dormant
Lord Street Building Supplies (Leigh) Limited UK 100 Dormant
M & H (North East) Limited UK 100 Dormant
M G Bailey (Building Materials) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Malden Timber (West) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Manor Building & Plumbing Supplies Limited UK 100 Dormant
Manor Copper Supplies Limited UK 100 Dormant
May & Hassell (Cumbria) Limited UK 100 Dormant
May & Hassell (Scotland) Limited UK 100 Dormant
May & Hassell Limited UK 100 Dormant
Mayalls Limited UK 100 Dormant
MD (1995) Group Limited UK 100 Dormant
MD (1995) Limited UK 100 Dormant
MD (Park Street) Limited UK 100 Dormant
MD-DOR3 Limited UK 100 Dormant
MD-DOR4 Limited UK 100 Dormant
Monteith Building Services Limited UK 100 Dormant
NAGS Building Supplies Limited UK 100 Dormant
Nailnole Limited UK 100 Dormant
Neptronik Controls Ltd UK 100 Dormant
Newcastle Tile Centre Limited UK 100 Dormant
Norman Mackenzie (Building Supplies) Limited UK 100 Dormant
O J Williams (Merchants) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 204 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Company Name Registered % Ownership Status
Dormant & non-trading subsidiary companies
P.C.P. Harris (Builders Merchants) Limited UK 100 Dormant
P.C.P. Harris (Holdings) Limited UK 100 Dormant
P.T.S. Plumbing Trade Supplies Limited UK 100 Dormant
Passmore Drywall & Insulation Limited UK 100 Dormant
Peck & Goodwin Limited UK 100 Dormant
Peckham Timber and Builders Merchants Limited UK 100 Dormant
Plasterers & Builders Merchants Limited UK 100 Dormant
Plumbing Parts Limited UK 100 Dormant
Plumbstall Limited UK 75 Dorman
Price & Brown (Heating) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Price Tool Sales Limited UK 100 Dormant
Primaflow (Birmingham) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Property Newco Two Limited UK 100 Dormant
R A Thomas (Joinery) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Renpye Limited UK 100 Dormant
S & M Bathrooms Limited UK 100 Dormant
S & M Builders Merchant (Batley) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Sandell Perkins + Newmans Limited UK 100 Dormant
Seales McLean Limited UK 100 Dormant
Ses Southern Limited UK 100 Dormant
Sharpe & Fisher (Properties) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Sharpe & Fisher Limited UK 100 Dormant
Shires Timber Co. Ltd UK 100 Dormant
Simmons of Stoke-On- Trent Limited UK 100 Dormant
SLBM Systems Limited UK 100 Dormant
Smiths Building Supplies Limited UK 100 Dormant
Spendlove C. Jebb UK 100 Dormant
Spendlove C. Jebb Holdings Limited UK 100 Dormant
Stearns (Shipton Green) Limited UK 100 Dormant
T Butt & Son Limited UK 100 Dormant
T J Willets (Timber) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Tavistock Building Supplies Limited UK 100 Dormant
Taylor Building Supplies Ltd UK 100 Dormant
Terant Supplies Limited UK 100 Dormant
The Cobtree Scottish Limited Partnership UK 100 Dormant
The Yard Building Supplies Limited UK 100 Dormant
Tile Beta Limited UK 100 Dormant
Tile Delta Limited UK 100 Dormant
Tile Giant Holdings Limited UK 100 Dormant
Tile HQ Limited UK 100 Dormant
Tile It All (UK) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Tile Magic Holdings Limited UK 100 Dormant
Tile Magic Limited UK 100 Dormant
TP Directors Ltd UK 100 Dormant
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
38. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS continued 205 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Company Name Registered % Ownership Status
Dormant & non-trading subsidiary companies
TPG Management Services Limited UK 100 Dormant
Travis & Arnold Limited UK 100 Dormant
Travis Perkins Capital Partner Limited UK 100 Dormant
Travis Perkins Installation Services Limited UK 100 Dormant
Travis Perkins Marketing Company Limited UK 100 Dormant
Travis Perkins Quest Trustees Limited UK 100 Dormant
Tricom Group Limited UK 100 Dormant
Tricom Supplies Limited UK 100 Dormant
UGS Limited UK 100 Dormant
UGS South East Limited UK 100 Dormant
Vaner Holdings Limited UK 100 Dormant
W.A. Hawke & Son Limited UK 100 Dormant
W.H. Newson & Sons Limited UK 100 Dormant
W.H. Newson Holding Limited UK 100 Dormant
W.S. Shuttleworth (Maidenhead) Limited UK 100 Dormant
W.S. Shuttleworth (Slough) Limited UK 100 Dormant
W.S. Shuttleworth (Timber) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Water Street Home Improvements Limited UK 100 Dormant
Whittaker & Co. (Builders Merchants) Limited UK 100 Dormant
Wickes Group Trustees Limited UK 100 Dormant
Wickes Holdings Limited UK 100 Dormant
Wickes Retail Sourcing Limited UK 100 Dormant
William Bird Holdings Limited UK 100 Dormant
William Bloore & Son Limited UK 100 Dormant
Zenith Plumbpoint Limited UK 100 Dormant
Investments
The Mosaic Tile Company Limited UK 49 Active
Toriga Energy Limited UK 49 Active
Toolexpert Benelux BV Netherlands 49 Active
Toolstation Europe BV Netherlands 49 Active
Toolstation Europe Limited UK 49 Active
Toriga Limited UK 49 Active
Independent Construction Technologies Limited UK 15 Active
P H Properties Limited UK 15 Active
Staircraft (Midlands) Limited UK 15 Active
Staircraft Integrated Solutions Limited UK 15 Active
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 206 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 206 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Travis Perkins plc, Warrington 207 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Heading
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SHAREHOLDER 
INFORMATION
208  Five-year summary
210 Other shareholder information 
207 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 208 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Five-year summary
Consolidated income statement
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Revenue 5,941.6 5,580.7 5,148.7 4,844.9 4,779.1
Operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items 412.6 384.0 347.6 325.7 313.2
Amortisation (18.0) (17.6) (17.9) (17.4) (12.9)
Exceptional items (140.6) (23.3) - (8.7) (9.8)
Operating profit 254.0 343.1 329.7 299.6 290.5
Exceptional investment income - - 9.4 39.5 -
Net finance costs (30.5) (21.7) (26.5) (39.9) (20.9)
Profit before tax 223.5 321.4 312.6 299.2 269.6
Income tax expense (55.8) (62.7) (47.9) (50.5) (57.2)
Net profit 167.7 258.7 264.7 248.7 212.4
Adjusted return on capital 12.9% 12.4% 11.8% 11.5% 11.3%
Basic earnings per share 67.8p 105.9p 109.9p 104.3p 90.3p
Adjusted earnings per share 124.1p 119.0p 103.6p 90.6p 93.1p
Dividend declared per ordinary share (pence) 44.0p 38.0p 31.0p 25.0p 20.0p
Number of branches at 31 December 
(Includes branches of associates)
2,028 1,975 1,939 1,896 1,868
Average number of employees (FTE) 24,670 23,480 21,937 21,632 21,423
Consolidated cash flow statement
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Cash generated from operations 350.3 310.2 319.2 327.6 345.1
Net interest paid (19.7) (15.0) (20.5) (27.3) (23.5)
Income taxes paid (47.8) (49.9) (59.2) (64.5) (26.3)
Net purchases of investments, property and plant (247.1) (134.1) (90.3) (49.7) (94.2)
Interest in associates (3.5) (2.1) (2.9) (2.9) (2.3)
Disposal of businesses - - - - 26.9
Acquisition of businesses net of cash acquired (26.0) (15.7) (9.3) (24.5) (9.9)
Proceeds from issuance of share capital 10.0 14.3 13.9 8.9 10.6
Dividends paid (100.2) (81.1) (65.1) (51.2) (38.8)
Bank facility finance charges (3.9) (2.6) - - (6.1)
Movement in finance lease liabilities (2.7) (2.5) (2.1) 5.7 (1.6)
Repayment of unsecured loan notes (40.8) - - - -
Increase / (decrease) in loans 106.9 7.0 (143.0) (61.6) (152.2)
Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents (24.5) 28.5 (59.3) 60.5 27.7
Net debt at 1 January (375.2) (347.6) (452.2) (583.2) (773.6)
Non cash adjustment (8.3) (54.2) 18.8 14.6 8.9
Cash flow from debt and debt acquired (59.4) (1.9) 145.1 55.9 153.8
Net debt before exchange and fair value adjustments  
at 31 December
(467.4) (375.2) (347.6) (452.2) (583.2)
Free cash flow 316.6 254.7 239.6 241.8 293.5 209 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Consolidated balance sheet
2015
 £m
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
 £m
2011
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 849.1 689.3 609.9 578.4 562.6
Goodwill and other intangible assets 2,111.9 2,223.6 2,223.7 2,232.3 2,095.1
Derivative financial instruments 22.5 21.2 9.3 12.8 40.3
Interest in associates 7.9 1.7 7.3 6.7 51.3
Investment property and other investments 8.2 3.6 3.1 2.8 1.9
Current assets
Inventories 761.8 742.7 687.7 637.1 596.0
Trade and other receivables 986.9 931.8 822.9 746.4 746.1
Cash and cash equivalents 83.8 108.3 79.8 139.1 78.6
Total assets 4,832.1 4,722.2 4,443.7 4,355.6 4,171.9
Capital and reserves
Issued capital 25.0 24.9 24.7 24.5 24.4
Share premium account 518.9 510.5 498.0 487.2 480.8
Merger reserve 326.5 326.5 326.5 326.5 326.5
Own shares (15.5) (28.5) (40.6) (62.4) (75.2)
Other reserves 16.9 16.8 16.7 18.5 15.7
Accumulated profits 1,918.1 1,827.5 1,689.9 1,461.3 1,277.2
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 2,789.9 2,677.7 2,515.2 2,255.6 2,049.4
Non-controlling interests 5.9 - - - -
Total equity 2,795.8 2,677.7 2,515.2 2,255.6 2,049.4
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 411.4 440.0 421.6 195.2 598.2
Derivative financial instruments - 0.5 4.5 4.9 5.9
Retirement benefit obligations 52.2 97.5 71.4 125.9 123.7
Long-term provisions and other payables 7.4 7.8 22.6 67.0 28.9
Deferred tax liabilities 61.3 66.7 61.3 69.1 77.8
Current liabilities 
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 139.8 43.5 5.8 396.1 63.6
Derivative financial instruments - - 1.8 2.6 -
Trade and other payables 1,235.5 1,255.2 1,218.1 1,107.6 1,088.3
Tax liabilities 90.2 71.6 73.2 74.8 75.9
Short-term provisions 38.5 61.7 48.2 56.8 60.2
Total liabilities 2,036.3 2,044.5 1,928.5 2,100.0 2,122.5
Total equity and liabilities 4,832.1 4,722.2 4,443.7 4,355.6 4,171.9 210 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL DIARY
Ex-dividend date 28 April 2016
Record date 29 April 2016
Annual General Meeting 25 May 2016
Payment of final dividend 27 May 2016
Announcement of 2016 interim results 2 August 2016
Interim Management Statement 19 October 2016
Announcement of 2016 annual results 2 March 2017
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (“ AGM”)
The AGM will be held on Wednesday 25 May at 12 noon at 
Northampton Rugby Football Club, Franklins Gardens,  
Weedon Road, Northampton NN5 5BG. The notice and proxy card 
for the meeting is enclosed with this report.
It has always been the Company’s custom to provide a light 
luncheon for shareholders following the AGM, and this year a hot 
luncheon will be available.
REGISTRARS
For Information about shareholdings, dividends and to report 
changes to personal details Shareholders should contact the 
Company’s registrars:
Capita Asset Services, 
The Registry,  
34 Beckenham Road,  
Beckenham,  
Kent. BR3 4TU
email: shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk
Telephone: 0371 664 0300 
Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by 
provider. Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the 
applicable international rate; lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, 
Monday – Friday.
Please do not forget to tell Capita if you move house or change 
bank or if there is any other change to your account information. 
You can view and manage your shareholder account online via the 
shareholder portal at www.travisperkins-shares.com. Please note 
that you will need to register to use this service for which purpose 
you will require your unique investor code (IVC), which can be 
found on your share certificate, proxy card or dividend tax voucher.
Having your dividends paid directly into your bank accounts is 
a more secure method of payment than payment by cheque.  
If you do not already have your dividends paid directly into your 
account and would like to do so, please contact Capita at the 
address above.
SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS
Company Website
Travis Perkins plc Annual and Interim Reports, results 
announcements and presentations are available in the Investor 
Relations section of our website at www.travisperkinsplc.co.uk. 
This website also carries a range of information about the Group 
and its principal brands, products and services which can be 
accessed via the “Our Businesses” section. 
Annual Report
The Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 is published 
on our website at http://www.travisperkinsplc.co.uk/investor-
relations and a hard copy has been sent by post only to those 
shareholders who have requested it in paper copy format. Other 
shareholders have been notified of its availability on the website, 
either in writing or by email.
A paper copy is available by writing to the Company Secretary at 
the Company’s registered office Lodge Way House, Lodge Way, 
Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7UG or you can email your 
request to cosec@travisperkins.co.uk.
Electronic Shareholder Communications
The Company strongly prefers shareholders to receive their 
shareholder communications electronically since this not only 
results in cost savings to the Company but also reduces the 
impact that the unnecessary printing and distribution of reports 
has on the environment.
If you received a hard copy of this report, or received notification of 
its availability in the post and would like to receive fully electronic 
communication, you should register on the shareholder portal at 
www.travisperkins-shares.com, and follow the instructions. Terms 
and conditions apply. Please telephone Capita Asset Services on 
the number given above if you have any queries.
SHAREHOLDER SERVICES
The Company’s registrars, Capita Asset Services (“Capita”), provide 
a number of other services that, as a shareholder, might be useful 
to you:
Duplicate Share Register Accounts
If you are receiving more than one copy of our report, it may be 
that your shares are registered in two or more accounts on our 
register of members. If that was not your intention you might 
consider merging them into one single entry. Please contact Capita 
who will be pleased to carry out your instructions.
Dividend Re-Investment Plan (“DRIP”)
This is a scheme which allows you to use your dividends to buy 
further shares in Travis Perkins. For any shareholders who wish to 
re-invest dividend payments in the Company, a facility is provided 
by Capita IRG Trustees Ltd in conjunction with Capita Asset 
Services. Full details are available from Capita on  0371 664 0381 
(Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary 
by provider. Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at 
the applicable international rate); lines are open from 9.00 am to 
5.30 pm Monday – Friday. If Non-UK +44 208 639 3402. E-mail 
shares@capitaregistrars.com   
Alternatively, you can sign up for this service on the Share Portal or 
visit www.travisperkins-shares.com. (by clicking on ‘reinvest your 
dividends’ and following the on screen instructions). 
Other shareholder information
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 211 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Please note that this facility is only available to shareholders with 
an address in the UK or EEA. The value of shares and income from 
them can fall as well as rise and you may not recover the amount 
of money you invest.
Overseas Shareholders
Capita has partnered with Deutsche Bank to provide you with a 
service that will convert your sterling dividends into your local 
currency at a competitive rate. You can choose to receive payment 
directly into your local bank account, or alternatively, you can be 
sent a currency draft.
You can sign up for this service on the Share Portal (by clicking 
on ‘manage your account’ and ‘Change your dividend details’ 
and following the on screen instructions) or by contacting the 
Customer Support Centre. Further details are available from 
Capita Asset Services: by telephone UK: 0371 664 0300 (Calls 
are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by 
provider. Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the 
applicable international rate). From overseas: +44 203 728 5000. 
Lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding 
public holidays.
SHARE DEALING SERVICES
There are two share dealing services that you may wish to use 
to buy or sell shares in Travis Perkins (but alternatively there are 
many other options that you could use):
 •  Capita offers an on-line and telephone share dealing service 
which is available by logging on to www.capitadeal.com or 
telephoning 0371 664 0445 (Calls are charged at the standard 
geographic rate and will vary by provider. Calls outside the 
United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international 
rate; lines are open 8.00am to 4.30pm, Monday - Friday). For 
the on-line service, Capita’s commission rates are 1.25% of the 
value of the deal (minimum £34.50, maximum £161.50) and for 
the telephone service, Capita’s commission rates are 1.50% of 
the value of the deal (minimum £44.50 maximum £205.50); 
all charges include a £5.00 Compliance charge. The maximum 
online transaction value is £25,000 and a £1 (‘Panel for 
Takeovers and Mergers’) PTM levy is applied to all transactions 
over £10,000.  Share purchases are also subject to SDRT. These 
services are only available to private shareholders resient in the 
EEA, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man.
•  Stocktrade offer a telephone share dealing service which 
is available by telephoning +44 131 240 0414 and quoting 
reference ‘Travis Perkins Dial and Deal’. Stocktrade’s commission 
will be 1.0%, to deals subject to minimum of £25.00. Minimum 
commission will apply to amounts up to £2,500. Please note 
that UK share purchases will be subject to 0.5% stamp duty. 
There will also be a PTM levy of £1 for single trades in excess of 
£10,000. When buying shares you will be required to pay for your 
transaction at the time of the deal by debit card, and you should 
ensure that you have sufficient cleared funds available in your 
debit card account to pay for the shares in full.
SHARE FRAUD - WARNING TO SHAREHOLDERS
In recent years, share fraud has been increasing, with shareholders 
receiving unsolicited correspondence concerning investment 
matters. Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to 
lure investors into scams; offering to sell shares that turn out to 
be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price 
in return for an upfront payment. Sometimes these individuals 
imply that they represent Travis Perkins, but in fact they have no 
connection with the Company and have no authority to claim or 
imply that they are. 
If you are approached by fraudsters, please tell the Financial 
Conduct Authority using the share fraud reporting form at  
www.fca.org.uk/scams, where you can also find out more about 
investment scams.
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information 212 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Travis Perkins plc, Warrington 07 ANNUAL REPORTS & ACCOUNTS 2015
CONTENTS.
130 188
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
190 Five year record
192 Other shareholder information
132 Income statements
133 Statements of comprehensive  
 income
134 Balance sheets
136 Consolidated statement of   
 changes in equity
138  Cash flow statements
139 Notes to the financial    
 statements
Travis Perkins plc is a leading company in the builders’ 
merchanting and home improvement markets.  
Born out of the merger in 1988 between Travis & Arnold and 
Sandell Perkins, the group can trace its roots back over 200 
years and continues to grow today by following a successful 
strategy of acquisition and organic growth.
John Carter Chief Executive
Designed by Travis Perkins plc, Design Print & Distribution Travis Perkins plc, Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton. NN5 7UG   Telephone 01604 752424
www.travisperkinsplc.com
The paper and board used in the production of this publication are all FSC accredited.
The printing process used in the production of this publication was carbon neutral and used vegetable based inks.
