 TT Electronics plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Enhancing our opportunities
TT Electronics plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Contents
Strategic Report
1–41
Governance and Directors’ Report
42–75
Financial Statements
76–134
01 2015 highlights
02 TT Electronics at a glance
03 Where we operate
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Chief Executive’s strategic review
10 Market overview
12 Our business model 
13 Our strategy
14 Our strategy at a glance and KPIs
16 Strategy in action
22 Risk management
24 Principal risks and uncertainties
26 Resources, relationships and 
responsibilities
30 Divisional review
30 Transportation Sensing  
and Control
32 Industrial Sensing and Control
34 Advanced Components
36 Integrated Manufacturing Services
38 Financial review
42 Chairman’s introduction to governance
44 Board of Directors
46 Leadership
49 Effectiveness 
50 Nominations Committee
51 Accountability
52 Audit Committee
56 Directors’ Remuneration Report
58 Directors’ Remuneration Policy
63 Annual Report on Remuneration
70 Other statutory disclosures
74 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
76 Independent auditor’s report to the 
members of TT Electronics plc only
80 Consolidated income statement
81 Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
82 Consolidated balance sheet
83 Consolidated statement of changes  
in equity
84 Consolidated cash flow statement
85 Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements
123 Company balance sheet
124 Statements of changes in equity
125 Notes to the Company  
financial statements
131 Five-year record
Additional Information
132 Glossary
134 Shareholder information
More online
www.ttelectronics.com
Our purpose
To harness our leading expertise to engineer 
electronics that put our customers ahead.
TT Electronics is a global provider of engineered electronics for 
performance critical applications. We provide our customers with 
engineering support and expertise through our global network of 
specialists and world class facilities. Our experience and understanding 
of highly regulated markets enable us to continue to develop and deliver 
reliable products and solutions for our customers, helping them solve 
challenging problems to meet the needs of their customers.  2015 highlights
Revenue
£509 .9m
2014: £524.3m 
(2)%
2
532.2
524.3
509.9
2013 2014 2015
Operating Profit
1
£21.7m
2014: £29.2m 
(30)%
2
30.8
29.2
21.7
2013 2014 2015
Free Cash Flow
£5.1m
2014: £(22.5)m 
+123%
0.5 (22.5)
5.1
2013 2014 2015
Net Debt
£(56.1)m
2014: £(14.3)m 
26.9
(14.3) (56.1)
2013 2014 2015
EPS
1
8.8p
2014: 12.9p 
(36)%
2
14.6
12.9
8.8
2013 2014 2015
Dividend
5.5p
2014: 5.5p 
Nil change
5.4
5.5 5.5
2013 2014 2015
Strategic Progress
 – Successful year of transition, establishing a stable 
business performance 
 – Good progress on new strategic plan, new streamlined 
organisation performing well
 – Operational Improvement Plan largely complete – 
well ahead of schedule, £7 million lower cost
 – Acquisition of Aero Stanrew for £42.2 million, 
extending our aerospace and defence capability
Financial Headlines
 – Organic revenue decline of 3%; flat excluding prior 
year one-off contracts in challenging markets
 – Underlying operating profit in line with expectations
 – OIP delivering benefits ahead of schedule offsetting 
general industrial weakness 
 – Strong cash flow performance with excellent 
cash conversion 
 – Balance sheet strength maintained post acquisition 
of Aero Stanrew
1. Underlying before restructuring, acquisition costs and asset impairment.
2. Change at constant currency.
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
01 Our businesses
Across the divisions, our teams of specialists with years of experience 
focus on developing and delivering innovative advanced electronics  
to enable our customers to stay ahead of their competitors – 
by meeting the needs of their end customers and increasingly 
demanding regulatory standards.
Transportation 
Sensing and 
Control
Industrial 
Sensing and 
Control
Advanced 
Components
Integrated 
Manufacturing 
Services
The Transportation Sensing 
and Control division 
develops both sensors 
and control solutions for 
automotive OEMs and tier 
one suppliers including 
powertrain providers for 
passenger cars and trucks. 
The division develops a 
wide range of products for 
multiple applications on a 
vehicle, from power controls, 
gear position and pedal 
sensors to fluid and 
emission sensors, with 
almost all of them focused 
on the safety and driver 
assistance features required 
by our customers.
The Industrial Sensing and 
Control division addresses 
challenging sensing 
requirements in terms 
of precision, speed of 
response, reliability or the 
physical environment in 
which the products operate. 
Its position, pressure, 
temperature, flow and fluid 
quality sensors are used for 
critical applications in a 
range of end markets 
including industrial 
automation and process 
control, medical 
and aerospace.
The Advanced Components 
division creates specialist, 
high performance, 
ultra-reliable, highly 
engineered electronic 
components for circuit 
protection, power 
management, signal 
conditioning and 
connectivity applications 
in harsh environments. 
It serves customers in the 
industrial, automotive, 
aerospace & defence and 
medical markets and 
focuses on creating value 
by developing innovative 
electronic solutions to 
challenging problems for 
our customers’ electronic 
circuits or systems.
The IMS division draws on 
its manufacturing design 
engineering capabilities, 
global facilities and 
world-class quality 
standards to provide highly 
complex electronic 
manufacturing solutions 
to customers. The business 
has broad capabilities 
ranging from printed 
circuit board assembly to 
environmental test and full 
systems integration. This 
global suite of end-to-end 
solutions is focused 
exclusively on low volume, 
high mix business. 
Main markets: Passenger 
cars, trucks, two-wheelers
Main markets: Industrial, 
medical, transportation, 
oil and gas
Main markets: Aerospace 
and defence, industrial, 
transportation
Main markets: Aerospace 
and defence, medical, 
industrial, transportation
Locations: Austria, China, 
Germany, India, Mexico, 
Romania, UK
Locations: Mexico, UK, 
USA
Locations: Barbados, 
China, Malaysia, Mexico, 
Tunisia, UK, USA
Locations: China, 
Romania, UK, USA
Revenue
£205.8m
Revenue
£6 1.0m
Revenue
£95.3m
Revenue
£147.8m
Operating loss
£(1.4)m
Operating profit
£11.4m
Operating profit
£6.0m
Operating profit
£5.7m
 Page 30 Page 32 Page 34 Page 36
02
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / TT Electronics at a glance Fullerton, USA Barbados
Timisoara, Romania
Werne, Germany Manesar, India
Carrollton, USA
Klingenberg, Germany Bangalore, India
Mexicali, Mexico Perry, USA
Salzburg, Austria
Juarez, Mexico UK
Abercynon 
Barnstaple
Basingstoke
Bedlington
Cambridge
Fairford 
Lutterworth
Rogerstone
Sheffield
Weybridge
Kuantan, Malaysia
Corpus Christi, USA
Singapore
Tunis, Tunisia
Where we operate
We operate globally, with a sales, engineering and manufacturing 
presence in all major regions, making us well positioned to serve  
our customers worldwide.
Revenue by region (2015) Revenue by market (2015)
■ United Kingdom – 16%
■ Rest of Europe – 46%
■ Americas – 20%
■ Asia – 17%
■ Rest of the World – 1%
■ Passenger car – 35%
■ Industrial and other – 30%
■ Medical – 13%
■ Aerospace and 
Defence – 12%
■ Other transportation – 10%
Suzhou, China
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
03
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Refocusing and rebuilding
2015 was a successful year of transition for TT Electronics, 
as we began the task of refocusing and rebuilding our 
business with a view to a return to sustainable profitable 
growth. In my first year as Chairman, I have been 
delighted to see the commitment shown by all parts of 
the business to the delivery of the strategic plan first 
outlined in last year’s Annual Report. I believe that this 
has provided a solid foundation from which to unlock our 
potential and deliver improved value for our shareholders. 
One of the key highlights of 2015 was the progress made 
in delivering the Operational Improvement Plan (“OIP”), 
involving the transfer of key product lines from Werne, 
Germany to Timisoara, Romania, which will be completed 
at lower cost than originally projected. This has enabled 
the business to redeploy its financial and human resources 
to focus on the task of simplifying its global operating 
footprint. These initiatives, together with the excellent cash 
conversion achieved in year, means that the Group has now 
moved on to pursue growth opportunities in strategically 
important sectors. A good example of this is the acquisition 
of Aero Stanrew Group Limited, which was completed in 
December for a purchase price of £42.2 million (on a cash 
free debt free basis) and provides an excellent platform for 
future growth in aerospace and defence markets. 
2015 results
Considering the scale of change put in place across the 
business during 2015, and despite the mixed market 
conditions, the overall performance of the Group was 
encouraging in the past year, and the Executive team 
has delivered what it set out to achieve.
The Board is recommending maintaining the final 
dividend at 3.8 pence. This, when combined with the 
interim dividend of 1.7 pence, gives an unchanged  
total dividend of 5.5 pence per share for the full year 
(2014: 5.5 pence per share).
Neil Carson
Chairman
04
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Chairman’s statement Strategic and operational progress
Given the business performance at the start of 2015, the 
Board and the Executive team re-examined the future 
direction of the business and launched a new strategic 
plan. This is now in place, and the foundations for 
rebuilding the business have been laid, although there 
remains a significant amount of work to complete before 
the Group will return to sustainable profitable growth.
Board changes
As announced in April last year, I took over as Chairman 
of the Group from Sean Watson immediately following the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting in May. I am indebted 
to Sean for the leadership he has shown during his seven 
year tenure on the Board, which has left the Group well 
positioned to achieve its long term growth ambitions. 
During 2015, we continued the process of embedding 
the changes to the senior management team described 
in last year’s Annual Report. Following the appointment 
of Mark Hoad as Chief Financial Officer in January 2015, 
we remain focused on further strengthening the Board and 
have embarked on a recruitment process which is likely 
to culminate in the introduction of a new Non-Executive 
Director later this year. The Executive Management Board 
has now been in place for over a year and Richard Tyson 
is responsible for ensuring that this team continues the 
process of focusing on the execution of the Group’s 
strategic priorities in the coming year.
The Board, through the Remuneration Committee, 
is committed to ensuring that the Group operates 
in accordance with best practice regarding both 
the disclosure of directors’ remuneration and the 
development of an effective executive remuneration 
strategy. The alignment between our strategic goals, 
KPIs and executive remuneration is set out in the 
Remuneration Report (see page 56 for more details).
Our people
The execution of our new strategy would not be possible 
without the hard work and dedication of our people 
across all of our divisions. In what has continued to be 
a challenging environment across our core markets, 
I am delighted with the contribution made by our staff 
throughout the Group in the development and execution 
of the growth plans and strategic initiatives introduced 
last year, particularly in the areas of operational efficiency, 
supply chain improvement and health and safety 
management. On behalf of the Board, I would like to 
thank all of our employees who have made a contribution 
to these work streams and our business performance 
during 2015.
Looking forward
2015 was a year of transition, but significant progress has 
been made in refocusing our business, rebuilding a stable 
platform and putting the business on a trajectory for 
sustainable, profitable growth in the medium term. Recent 
events have revealed that the more challenging macro-
economic environment first experienced during 2015 has 
intensified, as factors such as falling oil prices, uncertain 
Asian markets and a decline in the values of world stock 
markets have led to a loss in economic confidence. The 
Board believes that the actions taken in 2015, driven by 
the implementation of our new strategic plan, will help to 
meet these economic challenges head on, and allow us to 
strengthen our existing operating platform for the benefit 
of customers, investors and employees alike.
Neil Carson
Chairman
9 March 2016
“ Considering the scale of change 
during 2015, the performance  
of the Group was encouraging.”
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
05 An encouraging start
At the beginning of 2015, the business faced some major 
challenges and we recognised there were real complexities 
that we had to deal with and that needed managing 
carefully. Having completed the comprehensive business 
review, we understood these issues and subsequently the 
new team and I developed a clear set of strategic priorities. 
We set ourselves a clear, realistic and straightforward plan. 
That plan is now being executed across the Group. I am 
pleased to report that we have made an encouraging start 
and are seeing signs of good progress.
2015 performance
We set out to stabilise business performance and to work 
towards returning the business to sustainable, profitable 
growth. The new team has made good progress on all 
fronts. 2015 was always going to be a year of transition, 
but in that context the overall business performance has 
been encouraging. 
Group revenue for 2015 was £509.9 million (2014: 
£524.3 million) which equated to a 3 per cent decline  
on an organic basis. Although headline revenues reduced 
marginally, in difficult markets we have delivered results  
in line with our plans and our cash flow performance has 
been excellent. The Group’s order book remains sound, 
although recent weakness in our shorter cycle industrial 
market has resulted in the order book for the coming year 
being slightly lower than at the same time last year.
As expected, underlying operating profit declined by 
26 per cent to £21.7 million (2014: £29.2 million). The 
reduction was in large part due to lower R&D capitalisation, 
which resulted in a £2.5 million increase in R&D expense at 
constant currency, the non-recurring £5.0 million of profit 
from large one-off orders in Industrial Sensing and Control 
and Advanced Components in 2014, and a £0.9 million 
increase in depreciation charge for capital investments 
made in prior years. There was a £1.4 million positive 
foreign exchange benefit. At constant exchange rates, 
underlying operating profit declined by 30 per cent. 
Cash flow has been a significant area of focus throughout 
the year. We delivered full year cash conversion of 136 per cent 
(2014: 3 per cent) and a free cash inflow of £5.1 million 
(2014: outflow £22.5 million). The improvement  
in cash conversion reflected tighter control of capital 
Richard Tyson
Chief Executive Officer
06
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Chief Executive’s strategic review expenditure and a £4.6 million working capital inflow 
(2014: outflow £16.8 million). Net capital expenditure 
totalled £16.8 million (2014: £28.0 million) and capitalised 
development expenditure was reduced to £1.3 million 
(2014: £6.8 million), equivalent in total to 0.9 times 
underlying depreciation and amortisation (2014: 1.6 times). 
Closing net debt was £56.1 million (2014: £14.3 million) 
including the acquisition of Aero Stanrew Group Limited 
(“Aero Stanrew”); net debt to EBITDA was 1.3 times as 
reported (2014: 0.3 times), and 1.2 times including the 
pro-forma impact of Aero Stanrew.
The Operational Improvement Plan has clearly been a key 
area of focus for us in the year and we are really pleased 
with the progress made. For the Werne, Germany to 
Timisoara, Romania transfer, we originally intended to 
move 16 lines over the life of the project, with ten of those 
being transferred during 2015. In November we took the 
decision not to move four of the remaining lines as the 
expected benefits no longer justified the required level  
of spend. All twelve lines have now been moved and  
are customer qualified. The final step in the programme  
is to consolidate the footprint in Werne. The transfer of 
production from Fullerton, USA to Mexicali, Mexico was 
completed in the second half of 2015. Overall the 
Operational Improvement Plan is expected to be completed 
at a cash cost of circa £23 million, £7 million less than the 
original estimate, and full run-rate benefits of £5.0 million 
per annum are now anticipated in 2017, a year earlier than 
originally expected. 
As indicated in our November 2015 trading update,  
with our shorter-cycle industrial market facing businesses 
experiencing market weakness, our intention is to make 
footprint reductions. These plans are now well advanced 
and include relocating the last remaining production  
out of our Fullerton, USA site which will be transferred  
to Bedlington, UK. These measures will enable us to 
continue to invest in the business and future growth.
Having made significant operational progress, and with  
the balance sheet firmly under control, we felt able to  
move M&A up the agenda and in December announced 
the acquisition of Aero Stanrew for a total consideration  
of £42.2 million on a cash and debt free basis, of which 
£4.0 million was funded through the issue of new shares  
in TT Electronics to the management of Aero Stanrew  
who remain with the Group. The acquisition strengthens 
our position in growth areas in the aerospace and defence 
market, and enhances our technology and product 
capabilities. The acquisition is expected to enhance 
earnings immediately and the return on invested capital  
to exceed TT’s cost of capital in the second full year  
of ownership.
A year of important changes 
We set out our strategic plan to improve TT Electronics’ 
performance across six priorities, delivering three outcomes 
to build sustainable, profitable growth and improve value 
for our shareholders. Having developed their execution 
plans in the first half of the year, the divisional management 
teams set about implementing the strategic priorities as 
outlined in the divisional reviews on pages 30 to 37.
We are seeing promising signs from the early phase of the 
roll-out of our strategy. The action we have taken so far has 
helped to reset the business and restore our focus on our 
customers and on our shareholders, recognising that it will 
take time and concerted effort in order for us to achieve  
our potential. 
With our renewed focus on our customers, we have already 
seen some real progress with new contracts and some 
brand new customers to TT that we are very proud of. 
For example:
 – We successfully displaced an existing tier one 
manufacturer for the supply of an advanced next-
generation haptic pedal solution for a global premium 
automotive OEM. We delivered wins in China with three 
new contracts for accelerator pedals; an oil temperature 
sensor for a major Chinese transmission manufacturer; 
and a crankshaft sensor leveraging an existing product 
design. We also won a global project for a new chassis 
height sensor based again on an existing TT design,  
with initial launch in Europe and China. 
 – Across the Industrial Sensing and Control division we 
managed to largely off-set the large one-off contract 
position in 2014 through winning orders with new 
customers in specifically targeted new market segments, 
in both electronic power steering systems and in our 
optical sensing business, ensuring the division delivered 
strong underlying performance. 
 – In Advanced Components, despite suffering from some 
of the macro-economic weaknesses described elsewhere 
in this report in some of its core markets, the division 
secured a record level of new customer product positions 
for their components giving confidence in their 
competitiveness and medium term potential. 
“ In difficult markets we have 
delivered results in line with  
our plans and our cash flow 
performance has been excellent.”
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
07 The reorganisation of TT started in 2014 and was 
completed in 2015. The new four-division structure ensures 
focus on, and responsiveness to, our target markets and 
customers. Our new leaner structure also strengthens 
accountability and agility in decision making. 
The new team members have blue chip industrial 
backgrounds and strong international experience. Most 
importantly, this is a team that is used to delivering growth 
in challenging situations. Another exciting change this year 
was the arrival of Neil Carson, the former Chief Executive of 
Johnson Matthey Plc. Neil joined the Board as Chairman in 
May 2015. He has a formidable reputation as a successful 
leader. His wealth of experience and proven track record of 
building successful businesses will no doubt help TT rebuild 
and unlock its potential. I would like to thank our previous 
Chairman, Sean Watson, for his support in my transition 
into the Group and with the changes to the Executive team. 
Employee engagement
In Spring 2015, we started to roll out our new plan; 
refreshed our purpose and set our course of actions through 
the six strategic priorities under the “One TT” umbrella – 
underpinned by a new culture, the “TT Way”. This series of 
changes was launched internally as “BE TT”, which denotes 
“Build Expertise in TT”.
I believe that successful strategic execution only happens 
with strong employee engagement, especially at site level. 
This is critical to the success of our plan. As a leadership 
team we have put a lot of emphasis on communication 
and openness. Workshops and townhall communications 
were held at all of our sites to explain the strategy, address 
concerns and questions from our employees, as well as to 
ensure it was brought to life and owned locally. 
The “One TT” concept has been well received by our 
employees as they can see the potential of harnessing  
our expertise, as well as opportunities, from different parts 
of TT. There are an increasing number of examples of 
different business units or functions working together  
to help customers resolve challenges.
The TT Way
As we put in place the new strategy, it was also very 
apparent we needed to develop a new culture to change 
the way we work and behave – from top to bottom.  
T o guide us we have developed a framework called  
‘The TT Way’ – our aspired culture that is required to help 
us achieve our plan – consistently. 
One of the key dimensions of the TT Way I’d like to 
highlight here is we do the right thing. We will build TT  
on a solid foundation with high standards of ethics and 
integrity. We talk about this a lot. I am keen that TT is an 
organisation that is committed and proactive in playing  
a positive role as a good corporate citizen. We can and  
will make a positive impact for our customers and the 
communities in which we operate. 
Operational efficiency
Lean is an area very close to my heart. In January we 
established the Operations and Procurement Council  
to enable the leadership teams of different divisions  
to collaborate and to share experience, and to drive 
improvement globally. The Council launched TT’s BE Lean 
programme by training 16 Master Lean Practitioners 
(“MLPs”), our first group. These practitioners worked 
together to implement a new standard in our first pilot site 
in October and the results were remarkable given the first 
lean training session had only been held in June. The 
enthusiasm and motivation of the team was extremely 
encouraging and gave me great confidence in what this 
focus on lean will mean to our future. T o build on the 
success in 2015, in 2016 we will be training more MLPs and 
carry out pilots in more sites to embed lean practices and 
enable the sharing of best practice and experience, focused 
on constantly improving TT’s competitiveness. 
Research & development
More targeted and efficient R&D is one of our six strategic 
priorities. Without consistent and competitive R&D to 
address the new challenges in the market, we will lose our 
competitive advantage and more importantly lose the 
trust our customers have placed in us. R&D is a critical 
strategic tool and asset to support and drive our long term 
A new structure with new leadership 
Executive 
Management Board 
left to right:
Lynton Boardman, Group 
General Counsel & 
Company Secretary
Candy Bowles, EVP 
Corporate Development 
& Strategy
TC Chan, EVP IMS
Tim Roberts, EVP 
Industrial Sensing  
& Control
Richard Tyson, Chief 
Executive Officer
Mark Hoad, Chief 
Financial Officer
Amrei Drechsler, EVP 
Transportation  
Sensing & Control
Gareth Mycock, EVP 
Advanced Components
John Leighton-Jones, EVP 
Human Resources
Michael Robinson, EVP 
Operations & Supply 
Chain
08
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Chief Executive’s strategic review continued growth. To me it is an important investment that needs to 
be protected and enhanced to secure leadership positions  
in our chosen areas of expertise.
Over the last two years we have increased our level of 
investment, changed how we manage our R&D and 
strengthened the R&D community across the divisions.
We have some great examples of new products launched  
in 2015 that target important areas for future growth.  
For example: 
 – We successfully launched our AdBlue
®
 optical fluid sensor 
which is used to reduce NOx emissions for diesel exhaust 
systems, a key area of OEM focus to address legislative 
change. Our first-mover advantage was reflected in 
securing our first customers in Korea, India and China. 
 – Our Industrial Sensing and Control division secured 
a development order from a large tier one customer 
for a new linear sensor for suspension systems. 
 – Our Advanced Components division rolled out a new 
high power current sense resistor for the industrial, 
medical and automotive markets in motor drive,  
battery monitoring and process control applications.
Growth
We have a well-defined and disciplined approach to 
acquisitions, choosing to develop organically, where 
possible, through product extension into new markets  
and gaining traction with existing customers. While we  
are making some major changes and rebuilding towards 
organic growth, we continue to explore other inorganic 
opportunities to accelerate growth in attractive markets 
where we can leverage our expertise to expand our market 
presence and enhance our offering to our customers.
Aero Stanrew acquisition
In December we acquired Aero Stanrew for a consideration 
on a cash and debt free basis of £42.2 million. 
Headquartered in Barnstaple, Devon, Aero Stanrew is a 
leader in the design and production of electromagnetic 
components and electronic systems for harsh environments 
and safety critical applications. The business is primarily 
focused on commercial aerospace and defence markets, 
with sole-source positions on key growing platforms, 
providing good visibility of future revenues. Aero Stanrew 
solves complex technical challenges in product areas and 
for a customer base which overlaps with a number of  
our businesses. 
The combination of the two businesses provides the 
opportunity to accelerate our strategy by offering a wider 
range of capability to a broader base of tier one customers 
and increasing our exposure to aerospace and defence. 
I am very pleased that the leadership team of Aero Stanrew 
have agreed to stay with the business and have taken a 
significant portion of their consideration as shares in TT 
Electronics, reflecting their commitment to and confidence  
in TT, and the opportunities we both see.
The acquisition will be reported as part of the Advanced 
Components division. It accelerates our strategy to 
return to sustainable, profitable growth and reflects 
our confidence that it is time to move on and create 
a platform for further growth. 
A fundamentally good business platform
I am repeatedly reassured that we have a good set of 
businesses with good market positions. We are in the right 
space in our markets. The markets enjoy sustainable 
demand drivers for engineered electronic components. 
The increasingly stringent regulatory requirements (such 
as the imposition of higher CO2 emission limits), and the 
demand for more efficient fuel or energy management 
by the end products produced by our customers, are all 
driving increased use of sophisticated electronics. To 
continue to offer cutting edge and versatile products to 
stay ahead of their competition, our customers – most of 
which are global leaders in their own sectors – require our 
engineers’ support to develop more reliable, and more 
resilient products for harsh environment applications.
We have excellent customer relationships in transportation, 
aerospace and defence, and industrial markets. Our 
customers have reassured me that TT has helped them 
develop and deliver some of the most exciting products. 
Our team’s deep expertise in the capabilities we offer and 
their passion is what makes us different. Knowing millions 
of our products are working reliably in some of the 
harshest environments makes me feel very proud. 
What we need to do now is to unlock our potential, as one 
global team. 
Outlook 
We have made good early progress in executing the 
strategy we set out at the start of the year to stabilise  
the business and create a platform for growth. In difficult 
markets we have delivered results in line with our 
expectations. Our cash flow performance has been 
excellent. The acquisition of Aero Stanrew represents  
an important step in our development and growth.
The Operational Improvement Plan is largely complete 
and we will now make further changes to our operational 
footprint which will enable us to continue to invest in the 
business and future growth. Although we recognise that  
we are facing a tougher macro-economic environment, 
the combination of our self-help actions and the 
contribution from Aero Stanrew mean that we are on 
track to make progress in 2016. We remain confident in 
our ability to return the business to sustainable profitable 
growth in the medium term.
Richard Tyson
Chief Executive Officer
9 March 2016
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
09 2015
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Global light vehicle* assembly forecast (million units)
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
88.2 92.7 97.1 101.7 105.3 107.3 108.7
Source: PwC Autofacts
CAGR 3.5%
* Light vehicle = passenger cars and commercial vehicles
 up to 6000kg gross weight 
The market for performance-critical electronics-based 
engineered products is showing healthy growth and  
TT is well positioned in it with proven expertise and strong 
customer relationships. Our solutions continue to perform 
with superior reliability to enable our customers’ products 
to function and excel in their respective, often extremely 
demanding environments. Our wide range of products is 
applied in end markets including automotive, industrial,  
aerospace & defence, and medical.
Automotive
Automotive electronics is a core market for TT. Continued 
growth in car ownership in emerging markets, driven 
by rising disposable income, and innovation-driven 
replacement in more mature markets provide a positive 
macro environment. Regionally, Asia (especially China)  
is expected to see stronger growth than the rest of the 
world, despite some market uncertainties. The Chinese 
car market is forecast to grow to 23.2 million new cars 
sold in 2020, up from 18.4 million cars in 2014.
Automotive electronics, a US$218 billion market in 2014, 
is projected to reach over US$300 billion by 2020. Within 
automotive electronics, safety control and power control 
are two sizable and fast-growing segments: global 
demand in these two segments is about US$75 billion 
and US$38 billion respectively (recent four year CAGR  
10 per cent and 9 per cent respectively). 
As car users pay more attention to safety, driver 
experience and the comfort of the car, more intelligent 
and robust electronics, such as sensors, will be required.  
At the same time, to deliver energy efficiency through 
weight reduction, the in-car electronics need to be  
lighter and increasingly miniaturised. This implies higher 
packaging and interfacing complexity. The rising adoption 
of hybrid and electric vehicles also drives the use of 
batteries and therefore new opportunities for power 
control electronics. All of these dynamics are playing  
to the strengths and expertise of TT.
Industrial
Industrial production is increasingly instrumented – 
measurement and control devices with more intelligent 
and interconnected systems are generating an 
unprecedented level of data. In 2015, the global  
industrial market saw some mixed dynamics: while  
overall manufacturing output and capital expenditure 
were still expanding, albeit at a slower rate, investment  
in oil & gas and mining businesses declined.
Against this backdrop, the global industrial electronics 
market is expected to be worth over US$320 billion by  
2018, with semiconductor capital equipment, test and 
measurement instruments, automation systems and 
process control instrumentation the main applications. 
Regionally, Asia Pacific is expected to see around  
17 per cent CAGR towards 2018, as China and other 
markets adopt industrial automation technologies at  
an accelerated pace. North America and Europe are  
only slightly less dynamic, at about 15 per cent CAGR.
As manufacturers seek to improve efficiency and flexibility 
by deploying smarter, more automated, ICT-enabled 
production processes. underpinned by real time 
performance data, more reliable and precise electronics-
10
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Market overview
Sizeable markets 
with encouraging 
demand drivers 2015
Global aircraft production forecast (units)
Military
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
545
551
607
Helicopter
Regional
Business
Large Commercial Aircraft (LCA)
1 ,424 1 ,535 1 ,664 1 ,730 1 ,835 1 ,919
943
1,132
1 ,234
1,296
1,385
1 ,353
319
315
310
280
301
334 1 ,434
1,487
1 ,520
1 ,487
1 ,502
1,515 549
520
557
4,669
4,989
5,285
5,344
5,568
5,727
CAGR 6.1% for LCA
CAGR 4.2%
Source: Roland Berger
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
based sensing and control applications will be required, 
which are TT’s core capabilities. 
Aerospace and Defence 
Aerospace and defence equipment and services was a 
US$682 billion market in 2014, growing slightly after a 
decline in the previous two years. In the medium term,  
the market is expected to see aircraft production ramping 
up to meet higher demand for air travel and stabilising 
orders from military owners/users. It is forecast that 
60,300 new aircraft will be produced between 2015 and 
2025. More than a third of these will be large commercial 
aircraft, the largest segment by value and one of the 
fastest growing at a 6.1 per cent CAGR (in unit terms) 
between 2015 and 2020. Lower oil prices usually support 
airline profitability and increased orders, although this 
could also lessen the pressure to upgrade aircraft to meet 
fuel emission requirements. Global emissions targets will 
still drive the demand for more fuel-efficient new aircraft. 
For the defence market, global spend is also forecast  
to increase by US$89 billion between 2014 and 2018,  
to US$1.69 trillion. 
The aerospace and defence electronics market is expected 
to reach US$248 billion by 2018. 
Applications such as aeronautics, inflight entertainment, 
avionics and engines are expected to drive the use of 
more sophisticated electronics. The replacement of 
hydraulics with electrical onboard systems, and the shift  
to lighter, composite materials for the airframe, require 
power electronics based surge protection systems and 
electronic systems to support energy-optimised flying.  
At the same time, military and public security systems  
are also adopting electronics for extreme high reliability 
and ultra accurate solutions in detection, identification  
or localisation. These are all opportunities for TT with  
its strong position in engine, flight control and power 
management electronics, as well as its deep expertise  
in high performance electronics more broadly.
Electronic Manufacturing Services
The global electronic manufacturing services market  
was worth US$406 billion in 2014, and is forecast  
to grow to US$505 billion in 2019 – a CAGR of 
approximately 4.5 per cent. 
These positive market dynamics are driven by the 
underlying demand for ICT equipment, advanced  
medical devices, automotive sub-assemblies and 
electronic/electrical consumer products, as well as the 
OEMs’ continued shift towards outsourced production  
for increased flexibility and cost advantages.
EMS providers are also increasingly positioning themselves 
as complete solution partners to their customers by 
adding supplementary services, on other areas of design, 
engineering or supply chain. Geographically, TT’s IMS 
division has a competitive global footprint and relevant 
certifications in place across its network of facilities.
Sources: Axis Research Mind; CAR – Center Automotive Research  
an der Universität Duisburg-Essen; Deloitte; IDC; Strategy Analytics; 
Roland Berger
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
11 Our business model
We drive sustainable shareholder value through...
Providing engineering 
support and expertise 
through our global 
network
Developing products 
for regulated markets 
in specialists areas
Delivering reliable 
products for harsh 
environment 
applications
Working closely with 
our customers to solve 
difficult problems and 
to meet their needs
We maintain our competitive advantage by…
Strong focus on harsh 
environment/performance 
critical applications
We work closely with our customers to develop and deliver electronics solutions that  
are fit for purpose – suited for the harsh environments where the end products operate;  
continuing to perform reliably for mission critical applications. Our high performing  
products enable our customers to stay ahead of their competition.
Highly relevant  
experience resolving 
customer challenges
We bring a wide range and years of well-tested expertise in engineering electronics to  
our customers. We understand our customers’ challenges. We work closely and flexibly  
to respond to their situations. We have proven capability in meeting stringent regulatory 
requirements in the specialised markets we serve.
Global performance,  
in many different ways
The different cultural backgrounds of our teams enables us to support our customers  
in different geographical markets, and gives them access to world class know-how.  
Our global footprint and experience gives us agility and opportunity to optimise  
our supply chain. 
We work together in the TT Way
We do  
the right thing
We bring out the 
best in each other
We achieve  
more together
We champion 
expertise
We get  
the job done
We have developed and implemented a framework ‘The TT Way’ – our aspired culture that will help us achieve our 
plan – consistently. This framework describes TT at its best and is essentially about ensuring we have embedded  
the right behaviours whilst driving performance improvement.
Strategy at a glance
Page 14
KPIs
Page 15
Our risks
Page 24
12
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Our business model We focus our activities under six strategic priorities
Strategy in action
Page 16
We measure ourselves on three outcomes 
– Improved Customer Performance
– Improved Operational Performance
– Improved Returns and Cash Generation
1
Market
leading
position
2
Enhanced 
customer 
focus
3
Targeted and 
efficient  
R&D spend
4
Operational 
efficiency
5
 A lean, agile 
and learning 
organisation
6
 Financial discipline 
and performance 
management
We will return to sustainable profitable growth in three phases
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Refocus
Rebuild
Sustainable growth
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
13
Our strategy
Our strategy
We launched our strategic programme in Spring 
2015. The programme is underpinned by six  
strategic proirities, providing focus for investment 
and change. And we will measure our performance by 
the three outcomes. The new strategy is also a call to 
action for everyone in TT to work together as one TT 
and to harness the expertise of the whole  
Group to build a more successful and sustainable 
future. The roll-out of the strategy consisted  
of a series of Group-wide engagement and 
communication activities throughout 2015. Our strategic priorities
We started our rebuild phase in the Spring of 2015 – focusing on strengthening TT, across six strategic priorities  
as a framework for action and direction. We have made an encouraging start and progress is evident in all areas.  
We continue to have a clear focus going forward:
Strategic priorities Progress 2016 priorities
1. Market leading position
Focus on opportunities where our competitive 
advantages lie to grow our market share, in 
particular in new geographies and various end 
markets to balance our presence. 
Developed a better understanding of our core strengths in engineered electronics. 
Focused on opportunities where we are best positioned, and can help  
our customers deliver the best end solutions to their customers; for example high 
performance resistors, heptic pedals, encoder chips.
Continue to focus on applications and end markets 
that have sustainable growth drivers, and where our 
expertise can be best applied – such as safety critical 
applications in aerospace or automotive, emmissions 
reduction, demanding temperature environments or 
precision-critical applications.
2. Enhanced customer focus
Put our customers first and strengthen our 
partnerships. Proactively manage relationships 
to build and defend our leading supplier position. 
Improve our presence in key growth geographies.
Improved our understanding of our customers and their requirements. through  
“voice of customer” programmes. Introduced a stronger focus on building 
engineering-led strategic partnerships, and increased our customers’ visibility of TT’s 
wider-capabilities. Strengthened our resources in key growth geographies to improve 
our response and support to our customers (for further information, see the Divisional 
review on pages 30 to 37).
Strengthen strategic account management.
Continue to strengthen capabilities and 
our coverage in high growth geographies.
Continue to build a more balanced 
customer portfolio.
 3.  Targeted and efficient  
R&D spend
Drive continued innovation to ensure our 
competitiveness. Improve efficiency in our project 
management and engineering processes to help 
release funding for more product development.
Revamped our R&D project management to improve transparency and efficiency, 
and eventually the returns on our R&D investment. Begun the journey of encouraging 
cross divisional R&D collaboration – forums and resources are put in place to create  
a stronger R&D community for best practice sharing and more innovative  
problem solving.
Complete the enforcement of the new R&D 
management framework.
Continue to build the TT R&D community  
to encourage and facilitate collaboration.
Launch more new products to market.
4. Operational efficiency
The benefits of achieving best in class operational 
performance are significant and key to our 
competitiveness. Improving global procurement 
practices and embedding Lean principles and tools 
are our key focuses.
Established the Operations Council and the Procurement Council to drive best practice 
globally and to leverage our global scale.
Developed our Lean model and trained the first class of 16 Master Lean Practitioners; 
completed our Lean assessment at the sites; see Strategy in Action on page 20. 
OIP projects are ahead of schedule and will be completed for less than the  
original budget.
Lean roll-out through the next wave of sites in 2016. 
More Master Lean Practitioner classes will be 
launched.
Review our procurement practices around the world. 
Roll-out new procurement practices globally including 
the implementation of strategic procurement 
practices and improve vendor assessment.
5.  A lean, agile and learning 
organisation
Create a workplace where talented people can do 
their best and continue to develop, while ensuring 
we have the right capabilities to deliver our 
strategic priorities.
Reorganised to enable our workforce to better focus on our customers and the growth 
opportunities. The simplified structure has also strengthened accountability. 
Began to revamp our performance management framework to strengthen alignment 
of personal objectives and incentives to the Group strategy.
Complete the revamp of our talent 
management framework.
Roll out the TT Way management framework and 
align behaviours with performance and incentives. 
Align our capabilities and the strategic priority 
requirements through training.
6.  Financial discipline and  
performance management
Emphasis on transparency, openness and 
accountability in financial control and 
performance management.
Placed greater emphasis on all elements of working capital management and cash 
generation; incentive targets are aligned to ensure that our spending is properly 
controlled. Cash conversion improved significantly during 2015 (see Financial review 
on page 39 for more information).
Introduced a new, standardised process to review budgets/forecasts, with a focus on 
transparency and challenge, and a greater emphasis on business insight.
Continue to improve the control environment through 
a Group-wide process and controls improvement plan. 
Drive process optimisation and automisation 
where appropriate.
Strengthen tracking of other leading indicators, 
market and other trend data.
14
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Our strategy at a glance and KPIs KPIs
Strategic priorities Progress 2016 priorities
1. Market leading position
Focus on opportunities where our competitive 
advantages lie to grow our market share, in 
particular in new geographies and various end 
markets to balance our presence. 
Developed a better understanding of our core strengths in engineered electronics. 
Focused on opportunities where we are best positioned, and can help  
our customers deliver the best end solutions to their customers; for example high 
performance resistors, heptic pedals, encoder chips.
Continue to focus on applications and end markets 
that have sustainable growth drivers, and where our 
expertise can be best applied – such as safety critical 
applications in aerospace or automotive, emmissions 
reduction, demanding temperature environments or 
precision-critical applications.
2. Enhanced customer focus
Put our customers first and strengthen our 
partnerships. Proactively manage relationships 
to build and defend our leading supplier position. 
Improve our presence in key growth geographies.
Improved our understanding of our customers and their requirements. through  
“voice of customer” programmes. Introduced a stronger focus on building 
engineering-led strategic partnerships, and increased our customers’ visibility of TT’s 
wider-capabilities. Strengthened our resources in key growth geographies to improve 
our response and support to our customers (for further information, see the Divisional 
review on pages 30 to 37).
Strengthen strategic account management.
Continue to strengthen capabilities and 
our coverage in high growth geographies.
Continue to build a more balanced 
customer portfolio.
 3.  Targeted and efficient  
R&D spend
Drive continued innovation to ensure our 
competitiveness. Improve efficiency in our project 
management and engineering processes to help 
release funding for more product development.
Revamped our R&D project management to improve transparency and efficiency, 
and eventually the returns on our R&D investment. Begun the journey of encouraging 
cross divisional R&D collaboration – forums and resources are put in place to create  
a stronger R&D community for best practice sharing and more innovative  
problem solving.
Complete the enforcement of the new R&D 
management framework.
Continue to build the TT R&D community  
to encourage and facilitate collaboration.
Launch more new products to market.
4. Operational efficiency
The benefits of achieving best in class operational 
performance are significant and key to our 
competitiveness. Improving global procurement 
practices and embedding Lean principles and tools 
are our key focuses.
Established the Operations Council and the Procurement Council to drive best practice 
globally and to leverage our global scale.
Developed our Lean model and trained the first class of 16 Master Lean Practitioners; 
completed our Lean assessment at the sites; see Strategy in Action on page 20. 
OIP projects are ahead of schedule and will be completed for less than the  
original budget.
Lean roll-out through the next wave of sites in 2016. 
More Master Lean Practitioner classes will be 
launched.
Review our procurement practices around the world. 
Roll-out new procurement practices globally including 
the implementation of strategic procurement 
practices and improve vendor assessment.
5.  A lean, agile and learning 
organisation
Create a workplace where talented people can do 
their best and continue to develop, while ensuring 
we have the right capabilities to deliver our 
strategic priorities.
Reorganised to enable our workforce to better focus on our customers and the growth 
opportunities. The simplified structure has also strengthened accountability. 
Began to revamp our performance management framework to strengthen alignment 
of personal objectives and incentives to the Group strategy.
Complete the revamp of our talent 
management framework.
Roll out the TT Way management framework and 
align behaviours with performance and incentives. 
Align our capabilities and the strategic priority 
requirements through training.
6.  Financial discipline and  
performance management
Emphasis on transparency, openness and 
accountability in financial control and 
performance management.
Placed greater emphasis on all elements of working capital management and cash 
generation; incentive targets are aligned to ensure that our spending is properly 
controlled. Cash conversion improved significantly during 2015 (see Financial review 
on page 39 for more information).
Introduced a new, standardised process to review budgets/forecasts, with a focus on 
transparency and challenge, and a greater emphasis on business insight.
Continue to improve the control environment through 
a Group-wide process and controls improvement plan. 
Drive process optimisation and automisation 
where appropriate.
Strengthen tracking of other leading indicators, 
market and other trend data.
Financial
Organic revenue growth (%) 
2
5
(3)
2013 2014 2015
3% reduction largely as a result of the 
non-recurrence of two large one-off 
orders in the prior year
Cash conversion (%) 
3
44
136
2013 2014 2015
Excellent cash conversion of 136% due 
to strong control over capital expenditure 
and working capital
Earnings per share (EPS) (p) 
12.9
14.6
8.8
2013 2014 2015
Reduction as expected due to the 
non-recurrence of large one-off orders, 
reduced R&D capitalisation and increased 
depreciation
Return on invested capital (%) 
12.1
14.5
9.0
2013 2014 2015
Tight control of invested capital only 
partially offset the reduction in 
profitability in the year
Non-Financial
Safety performance  
(No. of incidents)
27
000
29
2013 2014 2015
Despite the lost time incidents being up 
slightly versus 2014, there was a marked 
improvement in the second half of the 
year, as zero harm measures are gaining 
momentum
Engagement score 
4.43
4.54
2014 2013 2015
Encouraging increase in employee 
engagement scores following the launch 
of our new business plan and strategic 
priorities under the “One TT” umbrella.  
An employee survey was not performed 
in 2014
R&D spend (% of sales) 
4.0
000
3.6
2013 2014 2015
R&D spend as a percenatge of sales has 
consistantly increased since 2013 to drive 
innovation in areas where we have a 
competitive advantage
Data for each of the Financial KPIs is provided on a three year basis. For Non-Financial KPIs, 
data is provided on a two year basis. See the Glossary on page 132 for definitions.
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
15
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Transportation – 
growing presence 
in the Chinese 
market
2015 has seen further opportunities in the growth market 
of China. We have built on the transfer of technologies 
with a high-performing local R&D team, strengthening 
relationships with our customers through more resources 
on the ground.
We benefit from validated and robust technologies which we are implementing together 
with our Chinese customers for their local applications and demands. We have a trusted 
technology portfolio that is highly regarded by our customers because of our high 
performance solutions and experienced teams.
Our Transportation Sensing and Control business is now benefiting from our investments 
into the market and customer contacts over the last years. Our biggest success is the 
relationship with the most important domestic transmission manufacturer and our 
reputation in the traditional European market was the driver for the recent domestic 
contactless pedal win.
Our priorities in action
1. Market leading position
2. Enhanced customer focus
3. T argeted and efficient R&D spend
4. Operational efficiency
6
5
2
3
4
1
2
16
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Priorities in Action Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
17
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
18
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Priorities in Action continued R&D with  
Delta Electronics
Enhanced customer focus and R&D with Delta Electronics 
Inc. Industrial Business. We have enabled Delta to adopt 
a market-leading position with our optoelectronics 
technology, providing power electronics/energy 
management solutions.
We have a strong track record with Delta after 10 years working with them on resistor 
technology. When Delta was looking for an encoder chip to get them in a market-leading 
position, they came to TT and we worked with their team from concepts through to the 
design of the end product. 
TT did not have this as an existing product but targeted R&D, operational efficiency and 
team commitment ensured we developed the right product for the customer. Delta and 
TT have a strong partnership based on engineering expertise, trust and collaboration 
and both engineering teams worked together on challenging requirements with many 
specification changes. This was supported by our sales and operations teams.
For TT, the project and technology helps put us into the servo motor and robotics industry 
which is a fast growing market and establishes us as a market player in the encoder 
market which is the heart of the servo motor assembly. 
Our priorities in action
1
6
5
4
2
3
2. Enhanced customer focus
3.  T argeted and efficient  
R&D spend
5.  A lean, agile and learning 
 organisation
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
19
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 20
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Priorities in Action continued Operational 
efficiency
Operational Efficiency and Enhanced Customer focus 
through our BE Lean programme – a group wide 
programme to apply Lean principles in our operations  
in 2015. TT launched its biggest operational plan to 
improve service and quality for its global customers.
The “BE Lean”programme is focused on improving processes that deliver customer value 
through higher quality, speed and productivity. Following customer feedback we reviewed 
what was important to our customers and identified shortening of lead times and 
improving delivery performance as areas to drive improvement.
Sixteen Master Lean Practitioners participated in an eight week pilot at our Bedlington,  
UK site. These Master Lean Practitioners gained experience in implementing our lean 
operating system and tools in a high impact value stream. BE Lean helps to create a safe  
work environment for our employees, deliver quality and speed for our customers and 
productivity for our shareholders.
We are introducing Lean principles across all our locations to set consistent standards and 
make our operations more efficient. It is an essential part of doing what is required for our 
customers and for us to win and grow.
Our priorities in action
5
4
2
3
1
6 2
2. Enhanced customer focus
5.  A lean, agile and learning  
organisation
6.  Financial discipline and  
performance management
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
21
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Enhanced risk management 
underpins the successful 
delivery of our strategy
Risk management
The Board of Directors is responsible for risk management 
and internal controls, supported by the Audit Committee 
and informed by the executive Risk Committee. The Board 
defines risk appetite and monitors the management of 
significant risks to ensure that the nature and extent of 
significant risks taken by the Company are aligned with 
overall goals and strategic objectives. The Risk Committee 
supports the Board and the Audit Committee in monitoring 
the exposure through regular reviews and has been 
delegated responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness 
of risk management processes and controls. The Internal 
Audit function was outsourced to PwC during 2015 to 
enhance the levels of resource and expertise available to 
the Group in specific areas, although its activities remain 
under the direction of the Executive team. The function 
assists the Risk Committee by advising management on 
improvements to the overall risk management framework, 
facilitating the risk review process and providing 
independent experience and input to the process.
Risk management processes and internal control 
procedures are established within business practices 
across all levels of the organisation. Risk identification, 
assessment and mitigation are performed both “bottom 
up” with more detailed assessment at operational level, 
as well as through “top down” assessment of strategic and 
market risk at the executive management and Board level.
Risk management and internal controls provide reasonable 
but not absolute protection against risk. Risk appetite is 
not static and is regularly assessed to ensure it continues 
to be aligned with goals and strategy. 
Risk profile
New and existing risks were identified and assessed during 
2015. Executive management, the Risk Committee and the 
Board of Directors performed further analysis to prioritise 
these risks, with a focus on those principal elements posing 
the highest current risk to the achievement of the Company’s 
objectives or the ongoing viability of the business. Risks 
Our risk management framework
Corporate level steering
“Top-down” oversight; Set risk appetite; Monitor 
significant risks; Alignment with strategic 
objectives at corporate level
Operational steering and implementation
“Bottom-up” identification, assessment and 
mitigation of risk at operational level
Board of Directors
Primary responsibility for 
risk oversight; setting 
strategic objectives and 
defining risk appetite
Audit Committee
Oversee risk 
management and 
internal control 
processes
Divisional level steering and reporting
Risk identification assessment and implementation  
of risk management action plans and actions
Risk and 
assurance 
function
Risk Committee
Provides framework for
managing risks; regular 
reviews of principal risks 
and risk management 
processes
Business units/site level steering and reporting 
Implement and embed risk management
at operational level
22
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Risk management Viability statement 
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group 
over the period to December 2018, taking into account 
the Group’s current position and the potential impact 
of the principal risks and uncertainties set out on 
pages 24 and 25 of the Directors’ Report. Based on 
this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have 
a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able 
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they 
fall due over the period to December 2018.
The Directors have determined that the period to 
December 2018 represents an appropriate period over 
which to provide the viability statement as this aligns 
with the business cycle including product development 
and order intake trends.
The Directors have taken the view that it is reasonable 
to assume (based on indications of interest received 
from the Group’s existing relationship banks and the 
wider banking community) that the Group will be able 
to refinance its existing facility agreements on materially 
equivalent terms or better in advance of the maturity 
date of August 2017.
Whilst the Directors have no reason to believe the 
Group will not be viable over a longer period, given the 
inherent uncertainty involved, the Directors believe that 
this presents investors and other key stakeholders with 
a reasonable degree of confidence while still providing 
a longer-term perspective.
In making this statement, the Directors have carried 
out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing 
the Group, including those that would threaten its 
business model, the underlying mitigation planning, 
the assessment of future performance, solvency and 
liquidity, and the Group’s internal controls environment. 
In making the assessment of the Group’s viability, 
the Directors have stress tested the Group’s financial 
projections for the period covered by the viability 
statement, testing it for “business as usual” risks, (such as 
profit growth and working capital variances) and severe 
but plausible events (occurring both individually and in 
unison), as well as a “reverse” stress-test to understand 
the conditions which could jeopardise the future viability 
of the Group. The Group’s wide geographical and sector 
diversification helps minimise the risk of serious business 
interruption or catastrophic reputational damage. 
Furthermore, the business model is structured so that 
the Group is not overly reliant on any single customer, 
market or geography. 
Whilst this review does not consider all of the risks that 
the Group may face, the Directors consider that this 
stress-testing based assessment of the Group’s 
prospects is reasonable in the circumstances of the 
inherent uncertainty involved.
assessed as higher priority are consolidated onto a Risk Heat 
Map. Risks included on the heat map are monitored more 
closely by the Group, recognising that whilst these “top risks” 
represent a significant proportion of the Group’s risk profile, 
executive management and the Risk Committee continue to 
monitor the entire universe of potential risks to identify new 
or emerging threats as well as changes in risk exposure.
Risk management enhancements
In the last Annual Report, two particular issues were 
highlighted as having increased the overall risk profile 
of the business during 2014, namely poor forecasting 
processes and slower than anticipated progress in 
implementing the Group’s Operational Improvement 
Plan. In 2015, our risk monitoring processes have 
identified good progress in delivering improvements in 
both of these areas during the course of the year, as a 
result of targeted mitigation. This improvement was also 
seen across other risk factors, including Health & Safety 
management and on specific Financial risks (in particular 
Cash and Liquidity Management). Indeed, the analysis of 
the Group risk heat map identified a notable reduction in 
the number of “red” and “amber” risks overall, based on 
the specific mitigations that have been put in place during 
the course of the past year. It is recognised, however, that 
the risk relating to “Economic Downturn”, which was 
specifically incorporated into the risk register during 2015 
increased during the second half of 2015 and that 
continued attention was required on “Strategic 
Engagement”, given the fact that the Group is only just 
moving into the second year of its new strategic direction. 
A further change in the way the Group operates its risk 
management processes during 2015 relates to the period 
of time over which key risks are assessed, which is now 
undertaken on a three year timeframe, to align with the 
time period selected by the Board for the “viability” 
statement set out below.
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
23 Link to 
strategy
Risk 
description
Potential 
impact
Mitigating 
action
General
1
 
6
General economic downturn
Reduction in demand and orders
Decelerating sales growth affecting 
operating profit
 – Monitor the wider economic 
conditions of our geographical 
markets
 – Timely financial reporting to monitor 
performance and provide a basis  
for corrective action when required 
 – Ongoing optimisation of our 
cost base 
Commercial
1
 
2
 
6
Contractual risks
Potential liabilities from defects in 
performance-critical products that 
often operate in extreme environments
Reputational impact
Deterioration in customer relationships
Liability claims
Reduction in revenues, profitability 
and cash generation
 – Quality control procedures and 
systems in place and appropriate 
levels of insurance carried for key risks
 – Group guidelines on acceptable levels 
of contractual liability are reinforced 
1
 
2
 
6
Pricing and margin pressures
Potential price down in contracts
Reduction in revenues, profitability and 
cash generation
 – Good communications with 
customers to ensure understanding  
of their circumstances (eg design 
improvements)
2
 
3
 
6
Research and development
Delay in new product development 
which is intended to support  
revenue growth 
Increased cost in product development
Delay in achieving projected revenues
Inability to meet the latest requirement 
due to step change in technology
 – Close collaboration with key 
customers
 – Active monitoring of costs and 
milestones
 – T arget R&D more effectively 
 – Implementation of standard  
project management disciplines
Operational
1
 
4
 
6
Health and safety
Risk of a health and safety incident in 
the workplace
Potential injury to employees or visitors
Regulatory action and legal claims
Reputational impact
Reduction in profitability
 – Enforce a zero tolerance attitude for 
safety related incidents at all levels
 – Three year roadmap put in place to 
strengthen health and safety 
compliance, including external audit; 
locally developed specific initiatives 
put in place
 – Incident reports regularly reviewed  
by the EMB
 – Continued training to raise awareness 
and regular audits of facilities 
24
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Principal risks and uncertainties Link to 
strategy
Risk 
description
Potential 
impact
Mitigating 
action
Operational
5
People and capability
Ability to attract and retain high 
quality and capable people
Loss of key personnel
Potential business disruption
Breakdown of communication and 
misalignment
 – Remuneration structure designed  
to support retention
 – Succession planning processes 
embedded within the businesses
 – Campaigns to increase performance 
and development of communication 
between managers and employees 
to ensure alignment on objectives 
 – Develop feedback loop utilising 
surveys to encourage regular 
objectives and performance 
discussions 
1
 
2
 
4
6
Supplier resilience
Potential failure of critical suppliers
Product delivery delays; inability  
to meet customer commitments
Reduction in revenues, profitability 
and cash generation
 – Regular review of key supplier 
financial health and product quality
 – Monitoring of relevant commodity 
and precious metals pricing
 – Review of spend patterns to identify 
opportunities 
Legal
1
 
2
 
3
4
Legal and regulatory compliance
Intentional or inadvertent non-
compliance with legislation including 
laws and regulations covering export 
control, anti-bribery and competition
Reputational impact
Civil or criminal liabilities leading  
to significant fines and penalties  
or restrictions being placed upon  
our ability to trade
Reduction in revenues, profitability  
and cash generation
 – Cross-division export compliance 
group established and anti-bribery 
programme in place
 – Approach involves risk assessment, 
policy, training, review and 
monitoring
 – Whistle-blower process in place 
to ensure issues can be raised, 
investigated and managed 
Key
1. Market leading position 2. Enhanced customer focus 3. T argeted and efficient R&D spend 4. Operational efficiency  
5. A lean, agile and learning organisation 6. Financial discipline and performance management
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
25 Our resources, relationships 
and responsibilities
TT values the diverse resources and relationships we have 
developed as they all play an integral role in our success. 
We also take our responsibilities as a corporate citizen, 
business partner and employer very seriously. We manage 
our resources, relationships and responsibilities within  
the principles of “The TT Way”: We do the right thing;  
we achieve more together; we bring out the best in  
each other; we champion expertise; and we get the  
job done well.
We do the right thing 
Making a difference in local communities
TT has a network of 27 locations. In many of these 
locations we are an important local employer. We 
encourage our workforce to play an active and 
constructive part in their local communities. In 2015 we 
engaged in a number of community activities around 
the world, which allowed our employees to develop close 
relationships with the localities in which they work. 
Our partnership with MacMillan Cancer Support as Charity 
of the Year has reached its third consecutive year. This 
year, employees from all UK sites contributed via various 
events, including the World’s Biggest Coffee Morning, 
the Mountain Trail Challenge, an Ice Bucket Challenge, 
the Jo Rees Memorial Cycle Ride and a climb to the top 
of Pen y Fan Mountain in South Wales. 
In India, our employees have given much needed support 
for residents affected by the 2015 earthquakes and floods 
in areas of Nepal and East India. Our team has also 
funded the local charity GOONJ, which sent trucks 
containing emergency humanitarian assistance to 
affected areas. 
In Timisoara, Romania our employees embarked 
on an environmental campaign to clean up the city 
surroundings, creating a better neighbourhood for 
the local community.
Supporting education in the local communities is 
an important focus of our Corporate Responsibility 
programme. In Perry, USA our employees held a three-
week “Stuff the Bus” drive to raise money and school 
supplies for local children, which were distributed at the 
Lake County “Back to School Bash”. In Gurguan, India we 
helped several educational organisations such as The RK 
Public School, which provides support for children from 
economically disadvantaged backgrounds, and the 
Khushboo organisation, supporting education for autistic/
special needs children. TT has provided specialist 
equipment including an electrical wheelchair, i-pads and 
electronic equipment to support and enhance learning. 
Inspiring our next generation of engineers
As an employer TT has benefitted from the engineering 
skills and expertise of our workforce. We are committed to 
play our part to invest in and develop future generations 
of engineers for our industry. 
Our facilities take part in many local STEM (Science, 
T echnology, Engineering, and Mathematics) focused 
educational partnerships. In Lutterworth, UK, for example, 
we hosted a three-day school visit, with the objective of 
inspiring the engineers of the future. At our Fairford, UK 
site we supported the STEM works organisation by 
welcoming six bright young students from the local area. 
The pupils from Stratton and North Cerney primary 
schools were given a VIP welcome by the Fairford team. 
The Rogerstone team celebrate after completing the  
Jo Rees Memorial Cycle Ride for Macmillan Cancer Support
26
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Resources, relationships and responsibilities During their visit they toured the site and had the 
opportunity to develop their skills in computer-aided 
design by using tools to make their own personalised key 
rings and specialised multi-core cables. Later in the year, 
valuable manufacturing experience was added via a “Build 
and Program Robots” workshop at Northleach Primary 
School in Gloucestershire.
Additionally, for the first time in 2015, our employees in 
Malaysia organized TT Lab. This community education 
initiative gave first-hand experience of electronics to 500 
school children, between the ages of 10 and 12, from 
eleven local schools. It was a true success which we look 
forward to continuing in the coming years.
Our employees can help to make a big difference to the 
communities we operate in, and our involvement also 
makes staff feel proud to be part of TT. The way our 
employees connect with and contribute to their local 
community is of great value and of mutual benefit. 
Ethics
One of our key competitive strengths is that we are an 
ethical company, operating with integrity and to one 
standard worldwide. We do not tolerate corruption or 
bribery in any form, and are committed to maintaining 
the fundamental principles of fairness, honesty and 
common sense which lie at the heart of the Group’s 
philosophy, values and corporate standards. We operate 
effective systems and processes to counter corrupt 
practices, including an anonymous “whistleblower” 
reporting facility where individuals can notify us  
of concerns.
Whistleblowing issues are reported directly to management 
or through the Group’s multi-lingual, anonymous Ethics 
and Integrity portal. Significant issues are reported to 
the Audit Committee and in each instance, cases are 
investigated in detail and appropriate action taken. 
Strong business ethics form the basis for our relationships 
with all of our key stakeholders, including employees, 
customers, partners and suppliers. Our Statement of 
Values and Business Ethics Code sets out the operating 
principles to which we adhere, which cover a diverse range 
of issues including anti-bribery, information assurance, 
intellectual property protection, fair competition, the 
working environment (including standards of behaviour 
expected from our employees), hospitality/entertainment 
and avoiding conflicts of interest.
Day-to-day oversight of ethics and compliance-related 
matters is undertaken through our Corporate and Social 
Responsibility Committee, which is supported by a 
dedicated Environmental, Health and Safety Committee, 
under the leadership of our EVP Operations, Michael 
Robinson. For any matters of particular concern, an  
Ethics Committee is convened on an ‘as needed’  
basis, constituted from member of the Executive 
Management Board.
Human rights
TT Electronics is committed to upholding the human 
rights of our workers and to treating them with dignity 
and respect as understood by the international 
community. Our Human Rights Code is contained within 
the EICC Code of Conduct (see below) and covers all 
workers including permanent, temporary, migrant, 
student, contract, direct and indirect. Our Code details 
expected labour standards covering: freely chosen 
employment, child labour avoidance, working hours, 
wages and benefits, humane treatment, freedom of 
association and nondiscrimination.
We do not tolerate practices which contravene 
international standards. Regulatory demands upon us  
vary considerably around the world.; however, we have 
established a core structure to ensure that Group 
companies fully comply with legislative and regulatory 
requirements while permitting them to tailor their 
approach to particular local needs. 
Everyone in TT is responsible for having due regard for 
human rights. Managers and supervisors must provide 
leadership that promotes human rights as an equal 
priority to other business issues. All employees are 
responsible for ensuring that their own actions do not 
impair the human rights of others, and are encouraged to 
bring forward, in confidence, any concerns they may have 
about human rights. 
Richard Tyson, CEO, and Mark Hoad, CFO, opened the library  
of The RK Public School during their visit in November 2015
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
27 Upholding high standards – Electronics Industry 
Citizenship Coalition
We maintain an active involvement with the Electronics 
Industry Citizenship Coalition (“EICC”). 
The EICC’s Code of Conduct provides guidelines for 
performance and compliance in five critical areas: 
Environment, Ethics, Health & Safety, Labour and 
Management Systems. In particular, the Code of Conduct 
establishes standards to ensure that working conditions 
are safe, that workers are treated with respect and dignity 
and that business operations are environmentally 
responsible and conducted ethically.
All of our manufacturing facilities complete an EICC 
survey on a periodic basis, which measures performance 
and social practices, as well as the performance of social 
and environmental management systems. The most 
recent evaluation exercise demonstrated high levels of 
adherence to the Code of Conduct for sites across the 
Group, leading to them all being assessed as either “low” 
or “medium” risk. 
Compliance 
TT places a strong emphasis on business integrity and 
actively ensures that we operate in an environment in 
which innovation can flourish within a compliance and 
risk-focussed culture. 
During 2015, we have worked hard to develop a more 
integrated approach to governance, risk and compliance. 
Compliance with laws and regulation has been identified 
as one of our principal Group-level risks, and is monitored 
on a regular basis by the Risk Committee, with appropriate 
mitigations being adopted as required. A practical 
example of the approach we have taken to compliance 
issues relates to the business’ adherence to international 
export control laws, where the Group’s products could 
have specific military or “dual-use” applications. Given the 
Group’s focus on defence and aerospace, we have 
launched a dedicated training programme across our UK 
operations, followed by an audit programme and a refresh 
of our export control policies. This programme of work 
was largely completed in 2015, and will be supplemented 
by a similar programme for our US operations in 2016. 
We achieve more together
Treating our people with respect – equal 
opportunities and diversity 
TT is committed to employment policies that provide and 
promote equal employment opportunities for all our 
employees and applicants, and to maintaining a 
workplace that ensures tolerance, respect and dignity for 
all staff. No employee, applicant, contractor or temporary 
worker should be treated less favourably, victimised or 
harassed on the grounds of disability, sex, marital or civil 
partnership status, race, nationality, colour, ethnicity, 
religion or similar philosophical belief, sexual orientation, 
age or any distinction other than merit. Consideration is 
always given to human rights principles as part of the 
Group’s working practices.
Employees
Our 5,875 employees are effectively our bank of expertise 
and through teamwork we make our business a success. 
TT’s workforce comprises a male population of 51 per cent 
and a corresponding female population of 49 per cent.
The table below provides a further breakdown:
Employees (full time equivalent) Male Female
Main Board Directors 6 0
Executive Management Board 6 2
Senior Manager (Ex EMB) 29 7
Austria 185 80
Barbados 27 86
China 396 462
Germany 413 405
India 33 6
Malaysia 61 298
Mexico 446 455
Romania 255 263
Tunisia 30 5
UK Total 815 477
USA 285 316
Other 16 10
Total 3,003 2,872
Creating a positive working environment at all of our 
locations is of paramount importance. We strive to build  
a supportive, diverse and engaging workplace, whilst 
nurturing a high performance corporate culture, built 
around our core values.
We bring out the best  
in each other 
Engaging our people 
As a global company, it is vitally important that employees 
irrespective of where they are based connect with BE TT, 
our strategy and vision. We believe engaged employees 
are critical to our success; our employees’ engagement 
and dedication have made TT a unique organisation.
In 2015, our Employee Survey received an overall 
response rate of over 70 per cent. Employees’ feedback 
suggested that we have made some good progress in 
all areas measured under the survey. In April 2015, we 
launched our new plan supported by a communication 
campaign. Results from our survey in October 2015 
showed that over 65 per cent of our employees 
understood and believed in the new direction set out in 
the revised strategy. This feedback represents significant 
progress over prior years.
28
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Resources, relationships and responsibilities continued Employee engagement begins with fostering a culture 
that is open, transparent and collaborative. At all levels, we 
are committed to encouraging a high degree of openness 
and equality which will continue to enhance our culture. 
We strive to maintain engagement of employees at all 
points from application through to the retirement process. 
We approach every interaction with openness, honesty 
and integrity. Strong relationships built on trust are at the 
core of what we do. Collaboration across the Group and 
beyond assists our ability to gather important insights and 
ideas, improving the way we conduct our business and 
serve our customers.
In 2015, we continued to make significant progress to 
connect with our employees at all levels. 
Employees are provided with a wide range of 
opportunities and communication channels to enable 
them to understand the plans and objectives of the 
Group. For example, all managers are encouraged to 
attend the quarterly webcast presented by the Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and to 
cascade pertinent messages to their teams. 
Managers and employees alike are also encouraged to 
promote and role-model the TT Way. Collectively we 
create a more positive workplace. During 2015, over  
1,200 “Thank You” cards were issued through our global 
recognition programme “Inspire”, which acknowledges 
individual and team contributions through monthly 
recognition awards, quarterly exceptional awards and 
bi-annual Chief Executive awards.
We champion expertise 
Training and developing our people
“Building Expertise” lies at the heart of our growth 
strategy and the ‘deal’ we have with our employees. 
Personal development is as important to TT’s future 
success as it is to furthering individual careers.
We continue to invest heavily in the training and 
development of our people. We believe strongly in 
equipping our people with the right skills to do their  
jobs effectively, encouraging them to develop to their  
full potential. 
In August we begain the journey to embed an integrated 
talent framework, to increase the focus on how we 
manage and develop the talent in our business.
Our Leadership Conference in Spring 2015 highlighted a 
desire amongst our senior managers to strengthen their 
change management capabilities, to make the new 
strategy happen. Over a dozen training sessions were run 
globally for around 120 senior managers, looking at how 
TT is experiencing change and how we can better work 
together to lead the workforce through that change.
Our 2015 engagement survey highlighted the need to 
further develop our managers in a consistent way. The TT 
Way of Management” was created in the Autumn, and 
the roll out to all sites will continue in 2016. This will 
provide an excellent foundation for driving performance 
and strengthening engagement with our people. 
Alongside organisation-wide development programmes 
we also provide a variety of tailored, local training and 
development opportunities. Our Master Lean Practitioner 
training is a great example. In the Autumn, our 16 Master 
Lean Practitioners completed their second round of 
training and conducted their pilot in Bedlington, 
supported by the CEO. 
Globally we pull together our leading experts to share 
knowledge and experience and to help shape the 
direction of travel. A good example of this was the 
two-day R&D conference held in November where our 
brightest minds discussed and shared their views on  
the future and our opportunities, and developed the 
internal network.
Building on the momentum we have generated during 
2015, in 2016 we will continue to remain focused on 
developing our people while strengthening employee 
engagement to build a stronger and more successful  
One TT. 
The 2015 Strategic Report, from page 1 to page 41, has 
been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors  
on 9 March 2016.
Richard Tyson
Chief Executive Officer
Mark Hoad
Chief Financial Officer
9 March 2016
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
29 Transportation 
Sensing and Control
The Transportation Sensing and Control division develops both 
sensors and control solutions for automotive OEMs and tier one 
suppliers including powertrain providers for passenger cars and trucks. 
TT develops a wide range of products for multiple applications on a 
vehicle, from power controls, gear position and pedal sensors to fluid 
and emission sensors, with almost all of them focused on the safety and 
driver assistance features required by our customers.
30
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Divisional review Revenue
£205.8m
Operating loss
1
£(1.4)m
Revenue in the Transportation Sensing and Control division 
in 2015 was £205.8 million (2014: £230.5 million), a 
decrease of 3 per cent on an organic basis as a result of 
contractual price-downs of circa 2 per cent and modest 
volume reductions. There was an adverse foreign exchange 
impact of £18.6 million.
There was an underlying operating loss for the period of 
£1.4 million compared with a profit in the prior year of 
£1.4 million, but the operating performance of the division 
is showing signs of improvement. Having moved from 
profit into loss in the second half of 2014 (H2 2014: loss 
£0.9 million), the performance was stabilised in the first half 
of 2015 (H1 2015: loss £0.9 million) and before exchange 
movements moved back to break-even in the second half 
of the year. Foreign exchange movements increased the 
operating loss by £0.4 million, all of which impacted the 
second half of the year. There was an operating margin 
of minus 0.7 per cent (2014: 0.6 per cent). The reduction 
compared to the prior period was driven by increased 
R&D expense. The impact of price-downs was offset 
by productivity improvement and cost reductions. 
Transportation Sensing and Control made good strategic 
progress in the year through their focus on customer needs. 
There was a series of contract wins in target growth markets 
and with new customers. In the first half we successfully 
displaced an existing tier one manufacturer for the supply  
of an advanced next-generation haptic pedal solution for  
a global premium automotive OEM. We delivered wins in 
China with three new contracts for accelerator pedals, an  
oil temperature sensor for a major Chinese transmission 
manufacturer, and a crankshaft sensor leveraging an existing 
product design. We also won a global project for a new 
chassis height sensor based again on an existing TT design, 
with initial launch in Europe and China.
The division also made good progress in product 
innovation, securing a development order from a large 
tier one customer for a new linear sensor for suspension 
systems. We also extended our capabilities in high 
temperature sensors via the purchase of capital 
equipment from a supplier.
We also successfully launched our AdBlue
®
 optical fluid 
sensor, which is used to reduce NOx emissions for diesel 
exhaust systems, a key area of OEM focus to address 
legislative change. Our first-mover advantage was reflected 
in securing our first customers in Korea, India and China.
In March the division’s Salzburg operation won the 
Austrian national award for innovation for its ‘Power Stack’ 
development, a cooled chip stack module with double sided 
soldered semiconductors. The Power Stack module utilises a 
design which optimises electrical mobility by balancing the 
issues of thermal management, weight and size versus 
power and cost – an area of increasing importance with the 
increasing electrification of engines and vehicles in general.
2015 2014 Change Change constant fx
Revenue £205.8m £230.5m (11)% (3)%
Underlying operating profit
1
£(1.4)m £1.4m (200)% (171)%
Operating profit margin
1
(0.7)% 0.6% (130)bps (100)bps
1. Excluding restructuring costs, asset impairments and acquisition related costs.
TT is responding to the demands of the automotive industry 
by migrating its premium LED headlamp platform to the 
mainstream mid-size car market.
Automotive LED headlamp systems generate a lot of  
heat during operation and traditionally this is countered  
by using additional materials for cooling such as heat sinks, 
air-coolers or heat-pipes that add system weight and cost.
TT has counteracted these challenges by delivering a 
high-performance, lightweight thermal management system 
based on its proprietary thick-film-substrate process 
technology, together with highly optimised mechanical 
design, both of which are core competencies of its 
award-winning Salzburg Engineering Centre.
The resulting technology provides the advantage of a 
significantly reduced bill of materials cost and weight for 
cooling LED headlamp systems, enabling our customers to 
offer improved features whilst remaining competitive on 
price and emissions reduction.
Results for Transportation Sensing and Control
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
31 Industrial 
Sensing and Control 
The Industrial Sensing and Control division addresses challenging 
sensing requirements in terms of precision, speed of response, reliability 
or the physical environment in which the products operate. Its position, 
pressure, temperature, flow and fluid quality sensors are used for critical 
applications in a range of end markets including industrial automation 
and process control, medical and aerospace.
32
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Divisional review continued Revenue
£6 1.0m
Operating Profit
1
£11.4m
Divisional revenue of £61.0 million showed an organic 
decline of 10 per cent (2014: £58.8 million), mainly due  
to the non-recurrence of a material one-off order for 
steering position sensors in 2014. Excluding this impact, 
like-for-like revenues increased by 4 per cent. There was a 
favourable foreign exchange impact of £4.1 million and  
a £4.0 million incremental revenue impact from the 
Roxspur acquisition. 
Underlying operating profit for the year was 11 per cent 
lower at £11.4 million (2014: £12.8 million). Excluding a 
favourable foreign exchange impact of £0.9 million, the 
reduction amounted to 18 per cent. The absence of the 
prior year one-off order which accounted for £4.0 million 
of operating profit, was partially offset through new 
orders and some initial modest benefits from the transfer 
of activity from Fullerton to Mexicali, which was 
completed in the second half of the year. The incremental 
contribution of Roxspur was £0.3 million. Operating 
margins reduced by 310 basis points to 18.7 per cent 
(2014: 21.8 per cent). 
The division secured a number of key programme wins in 
the year as a result of its focus on providing engineered 
solutions for challenging applications. In our core 
industrial markets we shipped the first production order 
for our latest phase diode array, a critical component 
used in robotic position sensors. Working closely with 
a major customer we designed a custom optical sensor 
with increased ambient light immunity to meet a specific 
application need, resulting in the award of business on 
their next generation platform which is expected to be 
in volume production from 2016 for a minimum of four 
years. The division also secured a number of new wins 
2015 2014 Change Change constant fx
Revenue £61.0m £58.8m 4% (3)%
Underlying operating profit
1
£11.4m £12.8m (11)% (18)%
Operating profit margin
1
18.7% 21.8% (310)bps (330)bps
1. Excluding restructuring costs, asset impairments and acquisition related costs.
Results for Industrial Sensing and Control
TT’s service and calibration business, offering both on-site 
and laboratory calibration and testing services, expanded 
further into Europe in 2015.
TT serves more than 200 customer sites and is able to 
provide in-house calibration to either UKAS or traceable 
national standards covering temperature, flow, pressure  
and electrical parameters.
The service is particularly valuable for customers serving  
the aerospace supply chain. The aerospace prime contractors 
demand that their global supplier base conforms to 
NADCAP/AMS 2750 specification, the driving standard for 
aerospace manufacturing. TT has developed knowledge and 
expertise in this area for over 20 years and with a training 
programme aligned with the evolving standards, is well 
positioned to consolidate its global position.
In 2015, we were also awarded Safecontractor status, which 
recognises our commitment to safety, quality and excellent 
on-site working.
with its position and torque sensors used in electronic 
power steering systems (‘EPS’), by focusing on the 
recreational and off-road vehicle markets where the 
deployment of EPS systems is increasing. During 2015 
we secured a number of new multi-year programmes 
with customers in the USA and Asia. 
The integration of the Roxspur business is now complete 
and we are starting to see the benefits of leveraging our 
wider electronics expertise with the business developing 
a new range of pressure products, the first of which is now 
available to customers. Roxspur has been impacted by the 
broader slowdown in the oil and gas sector and as a result 
the £2.5 million contingent consideration will not now 
become payable.
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
33 Advanced 
Components
The Advanced Components division creates specialist, high 
performance, ultra-reliable, highly engineered electronic components 
for circuit protection, power management, signal conditioning and 
connectivity applications in harsh environments. It serves customers in 
the industrial, automotive, aerospace, defence and medical markets and 
focuses on creating value by developing innovative electronic solutions 
to challenging problems for our customers’ electronic circuits or systems.
34
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Divisional review continued Advanced Components revenues declined by 4 per cent  
to £95.3 million (2014: £98.8 million) with an organic 
reduction of 7 per cent reflecting a weaker second half 
performance from the resistors market and the prior 
year’s £2 million of non-recurring revenues associated 
with the closure of the Smithfield USA facility. There was 
a positive foreign exchange impact of £3.1 million.
There was a reduction in underlying operating profit 
to £6.0 million (2014: £9.5 million). The reduction was  
a result of the absence of the high-margin non-recurring 
orders; increased depreciation from 2014 investments 
and the reduction in demand for resistors products. There 
was a £0.1 million favourable foreign exchange impact. 
Operating margins decreased by 330 basis points to  
6.3 per cent (2014: 9.6 per cent).
Advanced Components released a number of new 
products during the year, further enhancing its position 
as a leader in circuit protection, detection and power 
management. Successful launches included a high power 
current sense resistor for the industrial, medical and 
automotive markets in motor drive, battery monitoring 
and process control applications; passive components 
which have been ordered by all three manufacturers of 
state of the art smart meters; and, high-performance 
custom inductors for a major tier one automotive supplier 
to the truck market. 
In late 2014, Advanced Components extended its  
long term agreement with Controls and Data Services.  
In support of this agreement, a new clean room facility 
to supply multi-chip modules for fuel management 
systems on aircraft engines was constructed during the 
year and opened in early 2016. This has also positioned 
the division well to accept the transfer of production  
from Fullerton, USA as part of the additional footprint 
rationalisation, establishing Bedlington as a centre of 
excellence for such products.
The acquisition of Aero Stranrew in December was an 
important step in the development of the division. Aero 
Stanrew solves complex technical challenges in product 
areas and for a customer base which overlap with a 
number of our businesses. The combination of the two 
businesses provides the opportunity to accelerate our 
strategy by offering a wider range of capability to a 
broader base of tier one customers and increase our 
exposure to aerospace and defence. For the calendar 
year ending 31 December 2015, Aero Stanrew delivered 
revenues of £17.4 million and EBITDA of £3.6 million. 
Revenue
£95.3m
Operating Profit
1
£6.0m
2015 2014 Change Change constant fx
Revenue £95.3m £98.8m (4)% (7)% 
Underlying operating profit
1
£6.0m £9.5m (37)% (38)%
Operating profit margin
1
6.3% 9.6% (330)bps (320)bps
1. Excluding restructuring costs, asset impairments and acquisition related costs.
Results for Advanced Components
TT’s MCA components are being increasingly used in 
high-profile space applications. This unique space saving, 
cost effective technology offers a light-weight and improved 
reliability alternative to conventional discrete circuits and 
recently secured an order for the new Jason-3 satellite. 
Jason-3 is the fourth in a series of US-European satellites 
missions that are intended to measure the height of the 
ocean surface. The mission will extend the time series of 
ocean surface topography measurements, the data then 
collected by the satellite from its secure orbit of 1336 km 
above the Earth will provide scientists with critical 
information regarding circulation patterns. It is expected 
that being able to measure with such accuracy will enable 
better projected forecasting of climate change implications 
and potential flooding risks to vulnerable regions around 
the globe.
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
35 Integrated 
Manufacturing Services
The IMS division draws on its manufacturing design engineering 
capabilities, global facilities and world-class quality standards to provide 
highly complex electronic manufacturing solutions to customers in the 
aerospace and defence, medical, and high technology industrial sectors. 
The business has broad capabilities ranging from printed circuit board 
assembly to environmental test and full systems integration. This global 
suite of end-to-end solutions is focused exclusively on low volume, high 
mix business. 
36
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Divisional review continued Revenue in IMS increased to £147.8 million  
(2014: £136.2 million) an organic increase of 4 per cent 
driven by strong demand in the USA and China. There  
was a positive foreign exchange impact of £6.2 million.
Underlying operating profit for the year increased by  
4 per cent to £5.7 million (2014: £5.5 million) and 
reduced by 11 per cent on a constant currency basis. 
Foreign exchange movements increased operating profit 
by £0.8 million. Operating margins reduced by 10 basis 
points to 3.9 per cent (2014: 4.0 per cent). There was a 
substantial adverse mix impact in the first half of the year, 
but as expected this largely reversed in the second half of 
the year. The reduction in underlying operating profit was 
a result of a higher allocation of central costs related to 
the increase in revenues.
The growth in revenues in China were supported by 
contract wins supplying into metro train systems and 
narrow body aircraft domestically, together with the 
benefit of a global contract renewal with one of the 
division’s largest customers. This contract renewal also 
supported demand in the USA, along with a production 
extension for a major defence customer.
In the first half, IMS was chosen by L3 as a partner to 
support the design and prototyping for a new product 
to help aircraft operators take advantage of the Next 
Generation Air Transportation System traffic management 
standards. Following this award, IMS successfully 
demonstrated its ability to transfer production from 
the USA to China, positioning it well to support future 
demand growth in the region.
Revenue
£147.8m
Operating Profit
1
£5.7m
2015 2014 Change Change constant fx
Revenue £147.8m £136.2m 9% 4% 
Underlying operating profit
1
£5.7m £5.5m 4% (11)%
Operating profit margin
1
3.9% 4.0% (10)bps (50)bps
1. Excluding restructuring costs, asset impairments and acquisition related costs.
Results for Integrated Manufacturing Services
Enhanced customer focus and R&D with Delta Electronics 
Inc. Industrial Business. We have enabled Delta to adopt a 
market-leading position with our optoelectronics technology, 
providing power electronics/energy management solutions.
We have a strong track record with leading industrial 
automation business, Delta, after 10 years working with 
them on resistor technology from our Advanced Components 
business. When Delta was looking for an encoder chip to get 
them in a market-leading position, they approached TT and 
we worked with their team from concepts through to the 
design of the end product.
This was not an existing portfolio product but targeted  
R&D, operational efficiency and team commitment  
ensured we developed the best solution that met Delta’s 
requirements. Delta and TT have a strong partnership  
based on engineering expertise, trust and collaboration  
and the engineering teams worked together on challenging 
requirements with a series of specification changes.  
This was supported by Sales and Operations teams in  
TT locations in Texas, Taiwan and Singapore, who also 
worked closely, over a 4 year period to make this happen.
For TT, the success of delivering for Delta and developing 
new technology helps put us into the servo motor and 
robotics industry, which is a fast growing market, and 
establishes us as a market player in the encoder market 
which is the heart of the servo motor assembly. 
IMS continued to maintain its accreditations, successfully 
passing a number of major customer audits as well as 
renewing its NADCAP certifications across the division. 
IMS also continued to be recognised by its customers, 
receiving the Carestream Supplier of the Year award in 
Suzhou, China and Cubic Defense’s Supplier Excellence 
Award in Perry, Ohio.
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
37 Encouraging cash flow 
performance and a 
strong balance sheet
Mark Hoad
Chief Financial Officer
Financial Headlines 
 – Organic revenue decline of 3%; flat excluding prior year  
one-off contracts in challenging markets
 – Underlying operating profit in line with expectations
 – OIP delivering benefits ahead of schedule offsetting general  
industrial weakness 
 – Strong cash flow performance with excellent cash conversion 
 – Balance sheet strength maintained post acquisition of Aero Stanrew
KPIs
Page 15
38
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Financial review As set out in the Chief Executive Officer’s review  
(on pages 6 to 9), the trading performance in 2015 was 
 a marked reduction from 2014 with underlying operating 
profit down 26 per cent as reported and down 30 per cent 
at constant exchange rates. 
External revenue and underlying operating profit were, 
however, in line with our expectations for the year.  
As part of the strategic priority of financial discipline  
and performance management, quality forecasting and 
delivering on our commitments are at the heart of what  
we are determined to embed in our business operations.
Cash flow was a significant area of focus throughout the 
year. We placed a lot of emphasis on the need to bring 
cash consumption under control, and to be disciplined in 
the way the divisions invest capital and I have been very 
pleased with the way that the businesses have responded.
In 2014 we saw a significant free cash outflow of  
£22.5 million, so it is very encouraging that our focus  
on cash meant that we ended the year with a free cash 
inflow of £5.1 million. The improvement came across  
all areas of the cash flow statement with tight control  
over capital expenditure, working capital and  
restructuring costs. 
This improvement in our net debt position was a key 
factor in concluding we were in a position to proceed  
with the acquisition of Aero Stanrew Group Limited  
in December.
Cash conversion, which measures how effective we are  
at converting operating profit into operating cash flow,  
is a key metric for us and the full year performance  
of 136 per cent (2014: 3 per cent) was excellent. The 
improvement in cash conversion reflected tighter control 
of capital expenditure and a £4.6 million working capital 
inflow (2014: outflow £16.8 million). Net capital 
expenditure totalled £16.8 million (2014: £28.0 million) 
and capitalised development expenditure was reduced  
to £1.3 million (2014: £6.8 million), equivalent in total  
to 0.9 times underlying depreciation and amortisation 
(2014: 1.6 times).
Having got a grip on the cash performance of the 
business, we have exited the year having completed  
the Aero Stanrew acquisition but with the balance  
sheet still strong. Net debt at the end of the period  
was £56.1 million (2014: £14.3 million) and net debt  
to underlying EBITDA on a reported basis was 1.3 times 
(2014: 0.3 times), and 1.2 times including the pro-forma 
impact of Aero Stanrew.
Other Financial Matters
Exchange Rates
The exchange rates used to translate the key non-Sterling flows and balances were:
Exchange rates 2015 2014 2013
Euro – average rate 1.37 1.24 1.18
Euro – closing rate 1.36 1.28 1.20
USD – average rate 1.53 1.65 1.57
USD – closing rate 1.47 1.56 1.66
Non-underlying Items
These items are presented separately in the income 
statement where the Directors believe that they require 
separate disclosure by virtue of their nature, size or 
incidence in order to obtain a clear and consistent 
presentation of the Group’s underlying business 
performance. 
Total restructuring costs, asset impairments and 
acquisition related costs amounted to £5.4 million  
(2014: £33.5 million). Included within this charge were 
restructuring costs of £2.9 million (2014: £22.2 million) 
which related principally to the Operational Improvement 
Plan and costs related to organisational and leadership 
team changes.
Asset impairment costs of £1.7 million  
(2014: £9.4 million) were incurred, relating mainly  
to the North American resistors business, reflecting  
the downturn in activity experienced in the second  
half of the year.
Acquisition related costs amounted to £0.8 million  
(2014: £1.9 million) and included acquisition-related 
costs, non-cash amortisation of acquisition intangibles, 
and the reversal of contingent consideration on the 
Roxspur acquisition and deal costs. 
The cash outflow in the year associated with these items 
was £10.1 million (2014: £13.0 million).
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
39
“ Cash flow was a significant  
area of focus in 2015, and  
cash conversion was excellent  
at 136%.” Acquisitions and Disposals
On 18 December 2015 the Group announced the 
acquisition of Aero Stanrew Group Limited (“Aero 
Stanrew”) for a consideration of £43.8 million with  
£1.6 million of cash in the business.
Aero Stanrew is a leader in the design and production  
of electromagnetic components and electronic systems  
for harsh environments and safety critical applications. 
The business is primarily focused on the commercial 
aerospace and defence markets with sole-source positions 
on key growing platforms, providing good visibility of 
future revenues. The fair value of assets acquired was  
£21.4 million (including intangible assets of £18.9 million) 
resulting in goodwill of £22.4 million being recognised 
on acquisition.
Interest
There was a £0.9 million increase in the net interest 
expense to £2.5 million (2014: £1.6 million) primarily as a 
result of higher interest costs associated with higher debt. 
Whilst interest cover reduced to 19.9 times (2014: 64.4 
times) as a result of the increased interest cover and 
reduced EBITDA, it remained significantly above the 
covenant minimum level of 4.0 times.
Tax and Earnings Per Share
The underlying effective tax rate of 27.0 per cent was 
slightly higher than the prior year (2014: 25.7 per cent) 
and basic underlying earnings per share decreased by  
32 per cent to 8.8 pence (2014: 12.9 pence), and by  
36 per cent at constant currency.
The basic earnings per share from continuing operations 
was 6.5 pence (2014: loss 6.6 pence).
Dividends
The Board is recommending an unchanged final dividend 
of 3.8 pence (2014: 3.8 pence) which, when combined 
with the interim dividend of 1.7 pence, gives  
an unchanged total dividend of 5.5 pence per share for 
the full year (2014: 5.5 pence per share).
Pensions
The Group operates one significant defined benefit 
scheme in the UK and overseas defined benefit  
schemes in the USA. These schemes are closed  
to new members and are closed to future accrual. Given 
the material nature of the UK scheme, the Group has 
developed a comprehensive strategy to manage the 
financial risk associated with it:
 – Maintaining a long term working partnership with the 
Trustee to ensure strong governance of risks within the 
UK scheme. The UK scheme is a long term undertaking 
and is managed accordingly, in order to provide security 
to members’ benefits and value for money to the Group.
 – A prudent investment strategy is pursued by seeking 
risk-rewarded long term returns whilst removing the 
majority of liability mismatching unrewarded risks.  
As such, the Group has in place financial hedging that 
removes the majority of interest rate yield and inflation 
risk. This reduces the expected impact of a 25bps fall in 
yields from a circa £13 million increase in deficit down to 
a circa £5 million increase, thereby reducing volatility. 
This strategy has been in place for a number of years 
protecting the UK scheme’s position since December 
2013 when yields commenced a prolonged decline.
 – The Group recognises that seeking rewarded risk returns 
in its investment strategy could lead to short term 
fluctuations in funding levels depending on market 
conditions. The Group considers that by maintaining  
a good relationship with the Trustee, it will be able to 
utilise flexibility in the funding regime to even out the 
impact of short term market underperformance to 
enhance predictability of Group pension contributions. 
This creates a suitable balance between the needs of 
the UK scheme, the Group and the members.
The assets and liabilities of the Group’s defined benefit 
schemes are summarised below:
£million 2015 2014
Fair value of assets 435.0 458.2
Liabilities (453.1) (468.7)
Deficit – UK scheme (18.1) (10.5)
Overseas schemes (3.0) (1.9)
Total Group deficit (21.1) (12.4)
40
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Financial review continued The triennial valuation of the UK scheme as at April  
2013 showed a deficit of £19.1 million compared with 
£39.4 million at April 2010, representing a funding level  
of 96 per cent compared with 89 per cent previously.  
It was agreed with the Trustee that the existing recovery 
plan is sufficient to address the deficit; contributions of 
£4.3 million were paid during the year and will increase 
by £0.2 million to £4.5 million in 2016. In addition, 
the Company set aside £3.0 million to be utilised in 
agreement with the Trustee for reducing the long-term 
liabilities of the scheme. The next triennial valuation 
is due to be undertaken during the coming year with 
a valuation date of 31 March 2016.
Financial Risk Management and Treasury Policies
The main financial risks of the Group relate to funding and 
liquidity, interest rate fluctuations and currency exposures. 
A central treasury department that operates according to 
objectives, policies and authorities approved by the Board, 
manages these risks.
The overall policy objective is to use financial instruments 
to manage financial risks arising from the underlying 
business activities and therefore the Group does not 
undertake speculative transactions for which there is no 
underlying financial exposure. More details are set out 
in note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Funding and Liquidity
The Group’s operations are funded through a 
combination of retained profits, equity and borrowings. 
Borrowings are generally raised at Group level from a 
group of relationship banks and then lent to operating 
subsidiaries. The Group maintains sufficient available 
committed borrowing facilities to meet any forecasted 
funding requirements.
Net debt at the end of the year was £56.1 million  
(2014: net debt £14.3 million). During the year the UK 
revolving credit facility commitment has been increased 
from £45.0 million to £75.0 million and the US Bi-laterals  
from $40 million to $60 million giving total long-term 
committed facilities of £115.7 million. These facilities 
mature in August 2017. At the year end £20.3 million  
of the total long-term borrowing commitments of  
£115.7 million remained undrawn.
The main financial covenants in the long-term bank 
facilities restrict net debt to below 2.75 times EBITDA 
before exceptional items and EBITDA before exceptional 
items is required to cover net finance charges by 4.0 times.
Covenant December 2015
Net debt/underlying 
EBITDA
< 2.75 1.3 times
†
Underlying EBITDA/ 
net finance charges
> 4.00 20.0 times
†
1.2 times including pro-forma adjustment for Aero Stanrew
In addition to the main Group revolving credit and US 
bilateral facilities, the Group maintains uncommitted 
facilities for daily working capital fluctuation purposes.
The rationale for preparing the financial statements  
on a going concern basis is set out on page 48.
Mark Hoad
Chief Financial Officer
9 March 2016
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
41 Navigating our journey
Neil Carson
Chairman
Introduction
As you will have seen elsewhere in this report, 2015 was 
a year in which TT Electronics embarked on a journey 
of refocusing and rebuilding its business, with a view to 
achieving long-term sustainable growth. In navigating this 
journey, the Board remains committed to maintaining the 
highest standards of corporate governance, which we 
consider to be of paramount importance to the future 
success of the Group. 
In relation to the Group’s corporate governance 
processes, the Board confirms its belief that it was in full 
compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (“the Code”) during 2015. In this 
regard, last year’s Annual Report highlighted our 
commitment to improving the Group’s risk management 
structure in support of our corporate governance 
processes. I am pleased to report that following a high 
level review, we have implemented a new risk 
management structure across the Group, which is 
designed to be more responsive to the dynamic business 
environment in which the Group operates. From a wider 
governance perspective, we have listened to feedback 
from our institutional shareholders and have introduced 
a mandatory two year holding period for shares held  
by Executive Directors under the Company’s Long T erm 
Incentive Plan, beyond the current three year vesting period. 
During 2015, we also restructured the Board schedule of 
activities to ensure that the Group’s key strategic priorities 
received the requisite level of Board attention. For 
instance, it was agreed that the activities of the Corporate 
Governance Committee would be subsumed within the 
overall responsibilities of the Board; in addition, increased 
time was allocated to specific growth priorities including 
M&A, the Operational Improvement Plan, supply chain 
management, R&D and risk management, as described 
elsewhere in this report. The Board also continued to 
structure meetings so as to allow Non-Executives to meet 
with as wide a range of employees as possible, beyond the 
Executive Management Board. As part of this process, the 
Board held one of its principal meetings in Salzburg during 
2015, where the Non-Executives were able to experience 
the operational dynamics of the AB Mikroelektronik 
business at first hand. 
On Board composition, as we outlined in last year’s report, 
Mark Hoad joined the Group as Chief Financial Officer at 
the beginning of 2015, thus completing the process of 
restructuring the EMB first initiated by Richard T yson in 
2014. The only other Board level change undertaken during 
2015 was my appointment as Chairman of TT Electronics, 
which took place immediately following the Company’s 
Annual General Meeting in May. As I point out in my 
Chairman’s statement, I am very much indebted to my 
predecessor, Sean Watson, for the leadership he 
demonstrated during his seven year tenure with the Board. 
In particular, I am grateful for the work he initiated prior 
to my appointment, which has laid a solid foundation 
of governance for the Group to build upon in the future. 
With our current structure, the Board is comprised of 
a strong team of executive and non-executive directors, 
drawn from a wide-range of international businesses, 
including the automotive, industrial and aerospace and 
defence sectors. The Board also has significant experience 
of working with businesses targeted at delivering growth 
in highly innovative sectors, involving complex supply 
chains and diverse customer relationships. It is our belief 
that this diversity of experience provides an excellent 
platform for meaningful discussion, constructive challenge 
and effective decision making at Board level. 
42
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance and Directors’ Report / Chairman’s introduction to governance Diversity, in its widest sense, is considered to be a key 
business enabler across the Group, and the Board seeks to 
ensure that equal opportunity is afforded to all, regardless 
of gender, age, ethnic background or religious belief. 
The Board also believes that of equal importance is the 
need to ensure that all staff skills and competencies are 
matched to the strategic and operational needs of the 
business in our core markets. 
Of course, one of the key responsibilities of any Board 
is to continually assess and refresh its composition in 
order to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills 
and experience is maintained. With this in mind, we 
have embarked on a recruitment process which is likely 
to culminate in the introduction of a new Non-executive 
Director later in the year. 
I have been encouraged by progress made in the past 
year, particularly in how our improved risk management 
processes and new strategic initiatives are enhancing the 
overall governance processes across the Group. I very 
much look forward to working with the Board, the EMB 
and our wider group of talented and dedicated employees 
to continue this process of improvement and to provide 
investors with more detailed perspectives on the 
opportunities for the business.
Neil Carson
Chairman
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
43
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 1. Neil Carson – Chairman
Age 
58
Joined TT 
May 2015
Amec Foster Wheeler plc and Paypoint 
plc; and Honorary President of SCI 
(the Society of Chemical Industry). 
Formerly Chief Executive of Johnson 
Matthey plc and a founder member of 
the Prince of Wales’ Corporate Leaders 
Group on Climate Change. After 
completing an engineering degree, 
Neil joined Johnson Matthey in 1980 
where he has held a number of senior 
management positions in both the 
United Kingdom and the United States.
Committees
Nominations (Chairman), 
Remuneration
Experience
Currently Senior Independent 
Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee of both
2. Richard Tyson – Chief Executive Officer
Age 
45
Joined TT 
2014
2014 and a member of their Executive 
Committee. Previously responsible for 
TRW Aeronautical Systems (formerly 
part of Lucas Industries) European 
aftermarket business before joining 
Cobham plc in 2003 to run its flight 
refuelling division.
Committees
Corporate and Social Responsibility 
(Chairman), Risk (Chairman)
Experience
President of the Aerospace & Security 
Division of Cobham plc from 2008 to
3. Mark Hoad – Chief Financial Officer
Age 
45
Joined TT 
January 2015
Prior to joining BBA as Group Financial 
Controller in May 2005, he spent nine 
years in a variety of management roles 
at RMC Group plc with periods in 
Germany, Croatia and Australia.
Committees
Risk
Experience
A Chartered Accountant, Mark was Group 
Finance Director of BBA Aviation plc, a 
FTSE 250 company, from 2010 to 2014. 
4. John Shakeshaft – Senior Independent Non-executive Director
Age 
61
Joined TT 
2007
Director and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee of Kinnevik AB; Chairman 
of Valiance Investment Funds; Deputy 
Chairman of the Council of Cambridge 
University and a Trustee of the London 
Symphony Orchestra. Formerly a 
Managing Director at ABN AMRO and 
Lazard Brothers, having held senior 
positions within Barings, Morgan 
Stanley and Morgan Grenfell. Joined 
the City in 1986 following a number of 
overseas postings with HM Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office.
Committees
Remuneration (Chairman), Audit, 
Nominations, Corporate and  
Social Responsibility
Experience
Currently chairman of Ludgate 
Environmental Fund Limited; Chairman 
of The Economy Bank NV; Chair of the 
Investment Committee of Corestone, AG; 
44
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance and Directors’ Report / Board of Directors 5. Michael Baunton CBE – Independent Non-executive Director
Age 
65
Joined TT 
2010
Society of Motor Manufacturers and 
Traders’ Industry Forum) and 
Non-Executive Chairman of VTL Group, 
Sertec Group Holdings Limited and 
ACAL Energy Ltd. Awarded a CBE in 
2004 for services to the automotive 
and engineering industries in the UK. 
Previously held senior executive roles 
with companies including Caterpillar 
Inc, Perkins Engines Company Limited 
and T enneco Inc.
Committees
Audit, Nominations, Remuneration
Experience
Currently Chairman of the Board of 
SMMT Industry Forum Limited (the 
6. Stephen King – Independent Non-executive Director
Age 
55
Joined TT 
2011
Formerly non-executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee of 
The Weir Group plc. Group finance 
director of De La Rue plc from 2003 to 
2009 and, prior to that, finance director 
of Aquila Networks plc (formerly 
Midlands Electricity plc). A Chartered 
Accountant, Stephen has also held 
senior financial positions in Lucas 
Industries plc and Seeboard plc and 
was also a non-executive director of 
Camelot plc from 2008 to 2009.
Committees
Audit (Chairman), Nominations
Experience
Currently Group Finance Director of 
Caledonia Investments plc and Chairman 
of the Audit Committee of the Board of 
Bristow Group Inc. 
7 . Lynton Boardman – General Counsel & Company Secretary
Age 
49
Joined TT 
2012
Formerly Head of Legal (Europe, Middle 
East and Africa) at Syngenta Crop 
Protection and then General Counsel 
and Company Secretary of QinetiQ 
Group plc from 2002 to 2011.
Committees
Corporate and Social Responsibility 
Risk
Experience
A qualified solicitor, having 
practiced with Simmons & Simmons, 
MacFarlanes and Burges Salmon LLP. 
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
45
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance 
Statement
The Company is committed to achieving and maintaining 
the highest standards of corporate governance. The main 
and supporting principles of good corporate governance 
set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 
(“Code”) have been complied with throughout the year 
ended 31 December 2015. Details and explanations 
of the application of the principles of corporate 
governance are set out in the following pages of 
this Governance section. 
Details of TT Electronics’ Board of Directors are set out on 
pages 44 and 45 of this report. Pages 46 to 48 provide 
further information on how leadership at the Board level 
is discharged. Most importantly, the Board comprises a 
majority of independent Non-executive Directors, with 
the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer having been clearly articulated. 
The Board recognises that, following nine years of service 
as a Director, John Shakeshaft would no longer be 
considered to be independent under the Code, and has 
taken steps to refresh the Board through the recruitment 
process described above. 
The Board believes that its composition, the structure of 
its principal committees and the processes it has in place 
to discharge its primary areas of responsibility meet the 
requirements of “Leadership” and “effectiveness” under 
the Code. 
Relations with shareholders
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer 
meet institutional investors immediately after publication 
of the annual and interim results, and on an ongoing basis 
as required. In 2015, this included investor roadshows 
held over a total of 15 days in respect of the annual and 
interim results. Sean Watson, and latterly, Neil Carson as 
Chairman, and John Shakeshaft, as senior independent 
non-executive Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee, also have undertaken 
consultation on certain matters with major shareholders 
from time to time. In 2015, this included engagement on 
key areas of remuneration policy, including the proposal 
to increase the holding period for shares vesting under 
the Long T erm Incentive Plan to five years for Executive 
Directors. Through these Directors, the Company 
maintains a regular dialogue with institutional 
shareholders and analysts. Feedback is reported to the 
Board so that all Directors develop an understanding of 
the views of major shareholders about the Company. 
Trading updates and press releases are issued as 
appropriate and the Company’s brokers provide briefings 
on shareholder opinion and compile independent 
feedback from investor meetings. Information offered at 
the analysts’ meetings together with our financial press 
releases are available on the Group’s website. The Annual 
General Meeting is used by the Directors to communicate 
with both institutional and private investors.
In addition, in June 2015 the Executive Directors 
(supported by the EMB) conducted a Capital Markets Day, 
which expanded upon the key strategic priorities for the 
Group and the operating Divisions, to provide investors 
with a more detailed perspective on the future 
opportunities for the business.
The Board
Subject to the Company’s Articles of Association, UK 
legislation and any directions given by special resolution, 
the business of the Company is managed by the Board. 
The Board’s main roles are to provide leadership to the 
management of the Group, determine the Group’s strategy 
and ensure that the agreed strategy is implemented. The 
Board has also reserved certain specific matters to itself for 
decision. These include financial policy and policy relating 
to acquisition and disposal. The Board appoints its 
members and those of its principal Committees having 
received the recommendations of the Nominations 
Committee. It also reviews recommendations of the 
Board Committees and the financial performance and 
operation of the Group’s businesses. It regularly reviews 
the identification, evaluation and management of the 
principal risks faced by the Group and the effectiveness 
of the Group’s system of internal control.
During 2015, the Board comprised two executive Directors 
and four non-executive Directors at any point in time. 
All of the Directors served throughout the year with the 
exception of Sean Watson (who stepped down from his 
position of Chairman on 12 May 2015) and Neil Carson 
who succeeded Sean Watson as Chairman and member 
of the Board on 13 May 2015. John Shakeshaft is the 
senior independent non-executive Director.
Board and Committee meetings are scheduled in line with 
the financial calendar of the Company, thereby ensuring 
that the latest operating data is available for review and 
sufficient time and focus can be given to matters under 
consideration. During the year there were seven principal 
Board meetings on scheduled dates for which full notice 
was given.
Beyond these principal meetings, the Board held two 
strategy meetings during the year, both of which were 
fully attended. Additional meetings are held as and when 
required and, during 2015, four such meetings took place 
(to discuss the appointment of Neil Carson, to agree the 
content of the trading statement and to discuss the 
acquisition of Aero Stanrew Group Limited). The Board 
has held two principal meetings to date during 2016. Full 
details of each Director’s Board and Committee meeting 
attendance are given on page 48 and in the relevant 
Committee report.
46
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance and Directors’ Report / Leadership Directors
Directors’ biographies including the Committees on which 
they serve and chair are shown on pages 44 and 45. 
At the time of his appointment as Chairman, Neil Carson 
was considered to be independent in accordance with the 
provisions of the Code. All the remaining non-executive 
Directors are also considered to be independent as 
defined by the Code.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association 
each Director is required to offer himself for re-election at 
the first Annual General Meeting held following his initial 
appointment and thereafter, every three years. However, 
continuing the best practice first adopted at the 2013 
AGM, all Directors will retire and, being eligible, offer 
themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM. 
Following formal performance evaluation, the Board 
has concluded that the performance of each Director 
continues to be effective and to demonstrate 
commitment to the role.
Directors’ interests
The Directors of the Company at 31 December 2015 held 
interests in the following numbers of the Company’s 
Ordinary shares of 25 pence each on 1 January 2015, 
31 December 2015 and 7 March 2016:
7 March 2016
Ordinary 
shares
31 December 
2015
Ordinary 
shares
1 January
 2015*
Ordinary
shares
Neil Carson** 100,000 100,000 50,000
Richard Tyson 120,661 120,661 14,880
Mark Hoad 40,000 40,000 40,000
John Shakeshaft 57,142 57,142 57,142
Michael Baunton 81,554 81,554 81,554
Stephen King 100,000 100,000 100,000
* Or date of appointment, if later.
** Neil Carson was appointed as a Director on 13 May 2015.
The interests of the Directors in the Company’s share 
options and Long T erm Incentive Plan are shown in the 
Directors’ remuneration report on pages 66 to 67.
The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and 
the Chief Executive Officer has been defined, formalised in 
writing, and approved by the Board:
The Chairman maintains responsibility for the leadership 
and effectiveness of the Board and setting its agenda; 
ensuring that all Directors receive accurate, timely and 
clear information on financial, business and corporate 
matters to enable them to participate effectively in Board 
decisions; facilitating the effective contribution of 
non-executive Directors in particular; ensuring constructive 
relations between executive and non-executive Directors; 
and ensuring effective communication with shareholders. 
He is also responsible for ensuring that the performance 
of individual Directors, the Board as a whole and its 
Committees are evaluated at least once a year.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the 
operations of the Group. In particular, he is responsible 
for developing Group objectives and strategy, having 
regard to the Group’s responsibilities to its shareholders, 
customers, employees and other stakeholders and, 
following presentation to, and approval by, the Board, for 
the successful implementation and achievement of those 
strategies and objectives. His other areas of responsibility 
include managing the Group’s risk profile, including its 
health and safety performance; ensuring that the Group’s 
businesses are managed in line with strategy and 
approved business plans, and comply with applicable 
legislation and Group policy; ensuring effective 
communication with shareholders; and setting Group 
human resource policies, including management 
development and succession planning for the senior 
executive team.
Board procedures
All Directors have access to the advice and services of 
the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary and 
are offered training to fulfil their role as Directors, both 
on appointment and subsequently. There is an agreed 
procedure for any individual Director to take independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense if he 
considers it necessary.
In accordance with the provisions on conflicts of interest 
in the Companies Act 2006, the Company has put in place 
procedures for the disclosure and review of any conflicts, 
or potential conflicts, of interest which the Directors may 
have and for the authorisation of such conflicts by the 
Board. In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or 
potential conflict, the Directors must have regard to their 
general duties under the Companies Act 2006. 
The authorisation of any conflict, and the terms 
of authorisation, may be reviewed at any time and, in 
accordance with best practice, a review of Directors’ 
conflicts of interests is conducted annually.
Each member of the Board, including the Senior 
Independent Director, has the right to include items on 
the Board agenda or the agenda of the Committees on 
which they sit.
Board Committees
The Board has established a number of Committees, 
each with its own delegated authority defined in terms 
of reference. These terms are reviewed periodically and 
the Board receives reports and copies of minutes of 
Committee meetings. The Board appoints the members 
of all principal Board Committees, having received the 
recommendations of the Nominations Committee.
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
47
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal Committees
The principal committees are the Nominations, 
Audit and Remuneration Committees. Details of the 
Nominations and Audit Committees, including brief 
descriptions of their terms of reference (full details of 
which are available for inspection by shareholders at 
the Annual General Meeting and on the Group’s website) 
and duties, together with a summary of significant events 
which have taken place during the year, can be found on 
pages 50 to 55. Details of the Remuneration Committee 
and its activities are contained within the Remuneration 
report on pages 56 to 57.
Board meeting attendance 2015
Seven principal Board meetings were held during 2015. 
Details of attendance are set out below:
Sean Watson 3 of 3
Neil Carson 4 of 4
Richard Tyson 7 of 7
Mark Hoad 7 of 7
Michael Baunton 7 of 7
Stephen King 7 of 7
John Shakeshaft 7 of 7
Additional meetings of the Board and its principal 
Committees take place as and when required throughout 
the year. During 2015 there were four such meetings. By 
necessity, these meetings are often convened at shorter 
notice than would be the case for principal meetings. John 
Shakeshaft was unable to attend two of these meetings.
Beyond the principal Board meetings, the Board held two 
meetings during the year which were devoted to strategic 
initiatives, both of which were fully attended. 
Directors’ attendance at meetings of the principal 
Committees on which they serve are detailed in the 
Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Committee 
reports on pages 50, 52 and 56.
Other Committees
Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee
The Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee is 
chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and also comprises 
one independent non-executive Director and up to three 
senior executives from within the Group. The Committee 
met three times during 2015, with one meeting 
(postponed from 2015) having been held to date during 
2016. The Board regularly receives reports on its activities.
During 2015, the remit of the Committee was amended, 
such that issues relating to Ethics, Compliance and the 
Environment are conducted by the Committee, with 
Health and Safety considerations now falling under the 
remit of a separate Health and Safety Council, under the 
Chairmanship of the EVP Operations, Michael Robinson. 
The Health and Safety Council consists of representatives 
from all divisions, conducts site-based Health and Safety 
audits and meets regularly to share best practice. 
Further information on the activities of the Corporate and 
Social Responsibility Committee is given in the Resources, 
relationships and responsibilities section on pages 26 to 29.
Risk Committee
The Risk Committee assists the Board and the Audit 
Committee in fulfilling their responsibilities by: providing 
a framework for managing risks throughout the Group; 
monitoring risk appetite and exposure through regular 
reviews of principal risks; reviewing the effectiveness of 
risk management processes and controls; and providing 
an appropriate level of reporting on the status of risk 
management within the Group.
The composition of the Risk Committee is the same as 
that of the Executive Management Board and meetings 
are scheduled on a quarterly basis to align with meetings 
of the EMB. The Committee met four times during 2015. 
No meetings have been held to date in 2016.
Further information on the Group’s risk management 
activities and framework is given in the Risk management 
section on pages 22 and 23 and in the Review of internal 
controls on page 51.
Corporate Governance Committee
The Corporate Governance Committee was previously 
responsible for monitoring the Group’s compliance with 
good corporate governance.
The Committee met once during 2015, during which time 
it reviewed the reports and AGM voting recommendations 
from various investor bodies, as well as individual 
shareholder feedback, and noted suggested areas for 
improvement, particularly in relation to matters 
concerning remuneration policy.
With effect from August 2015, the activities of the 
Committee were transferred to the Board of Directors.
Going concern
The Directors have reviewed the budgets for 2016 and  
the projections for 2017 developed during the 2015 
annual strategic planning cycle. The Directors have 
assessed the future funding requirements of the Group 
and compared them with the level of available borrowing 
facilities, recognising that the main committed facility  
was re-negotiated during 2012 for a period of five years  
to August 2017. Based on this, the Directors are satisfied 
that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
 in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For 
this reason they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Approved by the Board on 9 March 2016 and signed on 
its behalf by:
Lynton Boardman
Group General Counsel & Company Secretary
48
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance and Directors’ Report / Leadership continued Board and Committee performance evaluation
In accordance with the Code, the Board conducted an 
evaluation of its performance and that of its principal 
Committees during 2015. The potential use of external 
facilitation of the Board performance evaluation process 
was considered during the year, but was not considered 
appropriate in light of changes at the Executive Director 
level at the end of 2014 and the change of Chairman 
during 2015. External evaluation will remain on the 
agenda for consideration by the Board during 2016.
The Board performance evaluation programme was  
led by the Chairman and each Director completed a 
questionnaire which was used to score and comment 
on a number of performance criteria. These individual 
responses were then compiled into a single report by the 
Group General Counsel & Company Secretary and this 
was circulated to the Board for discussion and detailed 
review. It was concluded that significant progress had 
been made during the year in terms of the evolution of 
the Group’s strategy, the focus of the Board’s attention 
on key priority areas (such as Health and Safety) and 
the strengthening of the Executive team. The Board 
also noted the improvements made in the year in terms 
of Board communication, the quality of the papers 
submitted to the Board and the ongoing development of 
the Group’s risk management process. It was recognised, 
however, that continued focus was required on the 
following areas in particular:
 – risk management, in an attempt to maintain the 
positive progress made in the past year on that front;
 – Board training and ensuring that Board papers 
continued to be focused on key areas of strategic 
priority;
 – CSR initiatives, to ensure that the Group’s focus in this 
area aligned with strategy (including STEM initiatives 
and the wider concept of employees “giving something 
back”); and
 – increased use of the Annual Report to provide effective 
investor engagement.
 
It was specifically agreed that the non-executive Director 
induction programme would be reviewed and 
strengthened during 2016.
Directors’ performance evaluation
In accordance with the Code, the performance 
of individual Directors was also evaluated.
Each of the non-executive Directors completed a 
self-assessment questionnaire which required them 
to score their own performance against a number of 
criteria. The Chairman then held private discussions 
with each non-executive Director and this provided an 
opportunity to discuss any issues which had arisen in 
respect of either their individual assessments or those 
of the Board and its principal Committees. In respect of 
the Chairman’s performance, the other non-executive 
Directors, led by the senior independent non-executive 
Director, and with input from the Chief Executive Officer, 
met privately to discuss this, with the outcomes being 
fed back to the Chairman by the Senior Independent 
Director for discussion and action.
At the beginning of the year, each executive Director was 
set challenging performance objectives, progress against 
which was then reviewed as the year progressed. Both the 
executive Directors take part in the Group’s performance 
management programme under which they each receive 
detailed feedback from their colleagues. This, together 
with a review of progress against agreed goals and 
objectives, is used to assess performance and to set clear 
objectives and developmental plans for the following year 
which are closely aligned with the Group’s strategic 
priorities and values. The Chief Executive Officer meets 
with the Chief Financial Officer at the beginning of each 
year to discuss and review performance against objectives. 
The performance evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer 
was conducted by the Chairman, taking account of the 
output from the Group’s performance management 
programme together with feedback provided by the 
other non-executive Directors at a private meeting held 
to discuss this and any other matters which the non-
executive Directors wished to raise. 
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
49
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Effectiveness Remit
The Nominations Committee’s remit includes: the 
structure, size and composition of the Board as a whole; 
the overall leadership needs of the organisation; 
consideration of succession planning for Directors (having 
due regard to the length of service of non-executive 
Directors) and EVPs; and the search for and selection of 
suitable candidates for the appointment of replacement 
or additional Directors.
Committee meetings in 2015
During 2015 the Committee held three formal meetings.
The Committee has held one formal meeting to date 
during 2016.
2015 review
The Committee seeks to ensure that the Board of TT 
Electronics is balanced and effective with diverse skills, 
knowledge and experience. Diversity and gender 
inclusiveness span the whole Group and are important 
and enduring considerations in the search for and 
selection of Board members.
During 2015, (following a year of integration resulting from 
changes to the Executive team) the focus of the Committee 
shifted to the Non-Executive elements of the Board.
The Committee is rigorous in seeking talent and is focused 
on ensuring that the Group has the best possible Board 
available to promote its interests. During 2015 the 
Committee engaged external search consultants to assist 
in the identification and selection of prospective 
candidates to ensure a robust, measurable and orderly 
process. This resulted in the appointment of Neil Carson 
who met with members of the Committee as part of 
the selection process. Neil had previously been CEO 
of Johnson Matthey plc for ten years and had already 
gained experience at a non-executive level at Amec 
Foster Wheeler and Paypoint plc. 
In addition, and in light of the fact that 2016 would 
represent J C Shakeshaft’s ninth anniversary as an NED, 
with the result that (from a Corporate Governance 
perspective) he would no longer be considered an 
“independent” member of the Board, the Committee 
engaged external search consultants to recruit a new 
NED as part of the Group’s commitment to facilitate a 
regular refreshing of core skills and diversity of experience.
The Committee continues to consider that diversity 
quotas at Board level are inappropriate and is committed 
to recruiting the best talent available, based on merit and 
assessed against objective criteria of skills, knowledge, 
independence and experience. Its primary objective is 
to ensure that TT Electronics maintains the strongest 
possible leadership.
The Board attaches a high degree of importance to 
diversity at all levels across the Group, although of 
equal importance is the need to ensure that staff skills 
and competencies are matched to the strategic and 
operational needs of the business in its core markets. 
Details of the number of employees, senior managers 
and Directors of each gender are given in the Resources, 
relationships and responsibilities section on page 28.
Performance evaluation
The Committee carried out an assessment of its 
performance in 2015 based on a review of its activities 
during the year against its terms of reference.
It was concluded that the Committee had performed 
satisfactorily and is structured appropriately to provide 
effective support to the Board.
Neil Carson
Chairman, Nominations Committee
Membership:
Neil Carson (Chairman)
Michael Baunton
Stephen King
John Shakeshaft
Committee meeting attendance 2015
Neil Carson 2 of 2
Sean Watson 1 of 1
Michael Baunton 3 of 3
Stephen King 3 of 3
John Shakeshaft 3 of 3
Non-executive Directors’ lengths of service
John Shakeshaft
Michael Baunton
Stephen King
First three year term First additional three year term Second additional three year term
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
Neil Carson
Chairman, 
Nominations  
Committee
50
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance and Directors’ Report / Nominations Committee Review of internal controls
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
2014, the Directors have overall responsibility for the 
Group’s systems of risk management and internal control 
and for reviewing their effectiveness at least annually. 
These systems have been in place for the full financial year. 
The Group remains committed to a policy of maintaining 
appropriate internal control over all of its activities. Controls 
are designed to provide the Directors with reasonable 
assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions are 
properly authorised, and that material errors and 
irregularities are prevented or, if controls are failing, are 
discovered and mitigated on a timely basis. The systems 
of control are reviewed regularly and improved where 
necessary to meet the Group’s requirements, as described 
above. Business risk evaluation takes place at operating 
company, divisional and Group levels through regular 
performance reviews and as part of the annual budget 
preparation process. Having identified risks, operating 
companies and divisions then monitor, review and update 
the associated controls to mitigate the risks appropriately.
Further details of the Group’s exposure to risk and 
processes in place to manage the same are set out 
on pages 22 to 25.
The risk management procedures and systems of 
internal control are designed to identify and assess 
principal risks which the Group faces and to manage 
them appropriately. However, such systems can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute protection against 
material misstatement or loss.
Principal features of the system of internal control
The Directors meet as a Board at least every other month 
to monitor financial performance, give direction on 
significant strategic and financial issues and review 
the principal risks of the Group.
The Chief Executive Officer chairs a Committee 
(“Executive Management Board”) consisting of the 
Executive Directors, Divisional Executive Vice Presidents 
(ie. heads of divisions) and other senior functional roles 
(eg. Operations, Legal, HR and Corporate Development/
Strategy). The Executive Management Board meets on 
a monthly basis and reviews business performance and 
the outlook for the Group as a whole, and agrees 
and implements any actions as necessary. In addition, 
it is responsible for monitoring and driving delivery of 
the Group’s key priorities and acts as a forum to raise 
and debate significant operational issues.
Each operating company within the Group operates within 
the policies, rules and procedures determined by the 
Directors and communicated through an internet based 
Group Policies hub. The Directors exercise control over 
operating companies through divisional senior executives 
who monitor and oversee the activities, financial 
performance and controls of each operating company 
and seek to ensure that these companies comply with 
Group accounting policies in the process for preparation 
of consolidated financial statements. The directors of 
operating companies and heads of business units are held 
accountable for the effectiveness of the implementation 
and maintenance of controls within their companies. 
This provides constant and consistent management.
The Group has appropriate financial planning and 
reporting systems. Management accounts are prepared 
monthly by each operating company comparing actual 
performance with budget, forecast and prior year. The 
financial performance of each business unit is subjected 
to in-depth formal review at monthly meetings. A key 
purpose of these reviews is the early identification of 
potential business risks and agreement on suitable and 
prompt courses of action. Operating companies prepare 
strategic plans and annual budgets and forecasts which 
are consolidated up to a divisional and Group level and 
are reviewed and approved by the divisional senior 
executives, Group management and the Board.
The Group has in place comprehensive control and 
approval procedures which include appropriate 
authorisation levels. Capital investment and other major 
items of expenditure are made only after compliance with 
appraisal procedures and, if above set levels, only with the 
approval of the executive Directors and the Board.
Accounting and reporting policies and practices require 
that the Group’s accounting records are prepared 
accurately and in compliance with Group policy and 
relevant accounting standards.
The Risk and Assurance function reviews the internal 
control environment according to the annual internal 
audit plan agreed with the Audit Committee. In 2015, it 
was agreed that in order to improve the levels of service 
provided to the business, the Internal Audit function 
would be outsourced to PwC, thereby allowing the Group 
to access enhanced levels of resource and expertise that 
would not be available from an internally-resourced 
model. The reporting line for this directed outsource 
arrangement is through the Chief Financial Officer. It was 
expressly agreed that responsibility for determining the 
priority areas to be covered by the Internal Audit work 
programme, as well as follow-on mitigation and 
remediation activities, would remain with the Group (with 
oversight from the Audit Committee), which would include 
monitoring the delivery of such services (and reporting 
back to the Audit Committee) on a periodic basis.  
Certain key functions, including treasury, taxation, 
pensions, provision of legal advice, risk and insurance 
are controlled at the Group’s head office and are 
monitored by the Executive Directors.
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the 
systems of risk management and internal control during 
the year to 31 December 2015 and during the period 
since then to the date of this report. They have made, 
and will continue to make, improvements where necessary.
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
51
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Accountability Remit
The Committee’s duties include reviewing and advising 
the Board on:
 – the integrity of the financial statements;
 – the appointment and remuneration of external auditors 
and their effectiveness in line with the requirements of 
the Code;
 – the nature and extent of non-audit services provided 
by the Auditors to ensure that their independence and 
objectivity are maintained;
 – changes to accounting policies and procedures, 
decisions of judgement affecting financial reporting, 
compliance with accounting standards and with the 
Companies Act 2006;
 – internal control and risk management processes, 
including principal risks and internal control findings 
highlighted by management or internal and 
external audit;
 – reviewing the Company’s internal financial controls 
and monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the 
internal audit function;
 – the content of the Auditors’ transparency report, 
concerning Auditor independence in providing both 
audit and non-audit services;
 – the scope, performance and effectiveness of the internal 
audit and other internal control functions and the 
Auditors’ assessment thereon; and
 – the Company’s procedures for responding to any 
allegations made by whistleblowers.
The Code requires that at least one member of the Audit 
Committee has recent and relevant financial experience. 
Stephen King fulfils this requirement.
Committee meetings in 2015
During 2015 the Committee held four scheduled 
meetings.
The Committee met three times with the Group’s 
Auditors, KPMG LLP, without executives of the Company 
being present. During the year, the Committee also met 
once with the head of the internal control function 
without other executives of the Company being present.
The Committee has held one meeting to date 
during 2016.
2015 review
In order that the Audit Committee fulfils its duties 
regarding the integrity of the financial statements and 
other financial data, the Chief Financial Officer and the 
Group Director of Financial Control attend Committee 
meetings, presenting reports and providing analysis and 
explanations for queries raised. The external auditors are 
also attendees and present reports on their audits. They 
address such matters as an overview of the financial 
statements, key accounting judgements, accounting 
policies, audit differences and internal control matters.
The Group’s internal audit activities are conducted under 
a directed outsourced arrangement, which is managed  
by PwC.
Representatives of PwC also attend meetings to update 
the Audit Committee on: progress on the internal  
audit plan; findings and recommendations; and team  
and methodology improvements. A formal review of  
the effectiveness of the internal control function is 
undertaken as part of the year end process. The 
Committee also regularly receives updates on the  
Group’s risk management framework to allow members  
to review principal risks and the effectiveness of risk 
management processes.
In addition to standing agenda items, during 2015 
the Committee also reviewed and considered 
matters including:
 – internal controls issues and the commencement of 
programmes to introduce a new Controls Framework;
 – the outsourcing of the internal audit function;
 – lead auditor change; 
 – export controls;
 – conversion to UK GAAP (FRS 101 exemptions); 
the introduction of the new requirement for the 
“viability” statement;
 – a review of group-wide tax strategy.
Stephen King
Chairman,  
Audit Committee
Membership:
Stephen King (Chairman)
Michael Baunton
John Shakeshaft
Committee meeting attendance 2015
Stephen King 4 of 4
Michael Baunton 4 of 4
John Shakeshaft 4 of 4
52
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance and Directors’ Report / Audit Committee One of the key areas of focus for the Committee during 
2015 was the decision to outsource the Internal Audit 
function to PwC, as described on page 51 of this report.
Whistleblowing matters reported through the Group’s 
multi-lingual, anonymous Ethics and Integrity portal are 
reported to, and considered by, the Committee. During 
the year the Committee received details of several cases, 
each of which has been investigated and appropriate 
action taken.
The Committee has reviewed and challenged the form 
and content of the Group’s Annual Report and accounts 
and financial statements for 2015. In conducting its 
review, the Committee considered reports prepared by 
management and the external Auditors. These reports 
covered analyses of the judgements and sources 
of estimation uncertainty involved in applying the 
accounting policies as described in note 1(h) to 
the financial statements.
The Committee considered and challenged the 
assumptions relating to goodwill, the carrying value of 
fixed assets, the level of provisions held on the balance 
sheet (as detailed below), the Going concern statement 
on page 48 and the “Viability statement” on page 23.  
The Committee also considered and challenged items 
excluded from underlying profit and whether these were 
consistent to the accounting policy of the Group.
Significant issues considered in relation to the 
financial statements
The main areas of judgement and estimation are set out 
in the accounting policies on pages 85 to 91.
The Committee received and reviewed reports from 
management and the external Auditors setting out 
the significant issues in relation to the 2015 financial 
statements, which related to:
 – Underlying profit;
 – Provisions (including taxation and product warranties); 
and
 – Carrying value of goodwill and fixed assets
 – Going concern and viability
These issues (which are considered in more detail below) 
were discussed with management during the year and 
with the external Auditors at the time the Committee 
reviewed and agreed the external Auditors’ Group audit 
plan; when the external Auditors reviewed the half year 
results in August 2015; and also at the conclusion of the 
audit of the financial statements. The Committee is also 
satisfied that the significant assumptions used 
for determining the value of assets and liabilities have 
been appropriately scrutinised, challenged and are 
sufficiently robust.
Underlying profit
As further explained in note 7 to the financial statements, 
the Group reports non-trading income or expenditure 
outside of underlying profit when the size, nature or 
function of an item or aggregation of similar items is such 
that separate presentation is relevant to an understanding 
of its financial position. The Committee challenged the 
items that were excluded from underlying profit and were 
satisfied that these were in accordance with the Group’s 
disclosed accounting policy and gave a true and fair view 
of the Group’s underlying financial position.
The Auditors explained to the Committee the work they 
had conducted and the results of their audit procedures 
on significant items recorded outside underlying profit. 
On the basis of their audit work, the Auditor reported no 
inconsistencies or misstatements to the Group’s disclosed 
accounting policy that were material in the context of the 
financial statements as a whole.
Provisions
(i) Taxation
Provisions held in respect of tax risks are included within 
current and deferred tax liabilities depending on the 
underlying circumstances of the provision. Management 
confirmed to the Committee that the provisions recorded 
at 31 December 2015 represent their best estimate of 
the potential financial exposure faced by the Group. 
The Committee reviewed each significant provision and 
challenged the basis of management‘s judgement and 
concurred with the estimates.
The Auditors explained to the Committee the work they 
had conducted during the year, including how their audit 
procedures were focused on those provisions with the 
highest level of judgement on recognition criteria and/or 
measurement. On the basis of its audit work, the Auditors 
reported no inconsistencies or misstatements that were 
material in the context of the financial statements as 
a whole.
(ii) Product warranty, legal and restructuring
As further explained in note 2 to the financial statements, 
a provision is recognised in the financial statements when 
the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as 
a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow 
of resources, that can be reliably measured, will be 
required to meet the obligation.
Provisions are recognised at an amount equal to 
management’s best estimate of the expenditure required 
to meet the Group’s liability taking into account the time 
value of money, where this is considered material. On 
legal and contractual exposures, the Committee received 
periodic reports from the Group General Counsel & 
Company Secretary outlining the open legal and 
contractual disputes and best estimate of the 
expected costs associated with such matters.
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
53
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Management has confirmed to the Committee that the 
provisions recorded at 31 December 2015 represent their 
best estimate of the potential financial exposure faced 
by the Group. The Committee reviewed each significant 
provision and challenged the basis of management’s 
judgement and concurred with management’s estimates.
The Auditors explained to the Committee the work they 
had conducted during the year, including how their audit 
procedures were focused on those provisions with the 
highest level of judgement on recognition criteria and/or 
measurement. On the basis of their audit work, the 
Auditors reported no inconsistencies or misstatements 
that were material in the context of the financial 
statements as a whole.
Further information about the specific categories of 
provisions held by the Group is set out in note 18.
Carrying value of goodwill and fixed assets
As more fully explained in notes 12 and 13, the total  
carrying amount of goodwill is £94.9 million and fixed 
assets is £89.6 million as at 31 December 2015.
Management has assessed the carrying value of goodwill 
using detailed calculations of value in use for each 
significant cash generating unit and fixed assets where 
impairment indicators existed to ensure that the carrying 
values are supported by forecast future discounted cash 
flows. The Committee reviewed and challenged 
management’s assessment of value in use, the basis of  
key assumptions and sensitivities as outlined in notes 12 
and 13 and concurred with management’s assessment. 
The Auditor explained to the Committee the results of  
their review of the estimate of value in use including  
their challenge of management’s underlying cash flow 
projections, the key growth assumptions, discount rates  
and sensitivity analysis. On the basis of their audit work,  
no additional impairments that were material in the 
context of the financial statements as a whole were 
identified by the Auditors.
Going concern/Viability statement
The Committee considered the reports provided by 
management setting out the basis upon which the 
Directors provided the going concern and viability 
statements, including appropriate sensitivity analysis.
Misstatements
Management has confirmed to the Committee that 
they were not aware of any material misstatements or 
immaterial misstatements made intentionally to achieve 
a particular presentation. The external Auditors reported 
to the Committee the misstatements that they had found 
in the course of their work and that no material amounts 
remain unadjusted. The Committee confirms that it is 
satisfied that the external Auditors have fulfilled their 
responsibilities with diligence and professional scepticism.
After reviewing the presentations and reports from 
management and consulting where necessary with 
the Auditors, the Audit Committee is satisfied that the 
financial statements appropriately address the critical 
judgements and key estimates (both in respect of the 
amounts reported and the disclosures). 
Fair, balanced and understandable
In accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance 
Code, the Board requested that the Committee advise 
them on whether it believed that the Group’s Annual 
Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategic plan. Procedures are in place 
to facilitate the appropriate and timely review of the 
drafts of the Annual Report and for input and challenge 
from all independent non-executive Directors, external 
auditors and other external advisers. On careful review of 
the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 
and the basis for the statement made by the Board on 
“Fair, balanced and understandable” on pages 74 and 75, 
the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that, 
taken as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategic plan.
Auditors’ independence, objectivity and 
effectiveness
The independence of the Auditors is assessed annually 
by the Audit Committee in order to ensure that suitable 
policies and procedures are in place to safeguard the 
Auditors’ independence and objectivity, having regard 
to length of tenure, provision of non-audit services and 
the existence of any conflicts of interest. KPMG were 
appointed in July 2010, at which time their independence 
had been considered. At the time of the latest annual 
assessment, the provision of non-audit services was 
reviewed, together with KPMG LLP’s Transparency Report, 
and KPMG LLP confirmed that no conflicts of interest 
existed of which the Audit Committee should be aware.
The Committee has formally reviewed the independence 
of the Auditors as part of the 2015 review. KPMG LLP 
have provided a letter to the Committee confirming that 
they remain independent within the meaning of the 
regulations on this matter and in accordance with their 
professional standards.
The Committee also reviewed the effectiveness of 
the Auditors during the year. The use of an evaluation 
questionnaire and an auditor assessment survey 
(completed by heads of finance across the Group’s 
operations), together with information provided by the 
Auditors, assisted in ensuring that a comprehensive 
assessment was undertaken. Areas for improvement were 
identified and communicated to the Auditors for action.
54
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance and Directors’ Report / Audit Committee continued The Audit Committee has recommended to the Board 
that KPMG LLP continue in office as Auditors.
In accordance with audit regulatory rotational requirements, 
Mike Barradell replaced Tony Sykes as lead audit Partner 
for KPMG LLP for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Policy on non-audit services
The Company has an established policy regarding the 
provision of non-audit services by external auditors. 
This states that non-audit services may be obtained from 
the most appropriate source having regard to expertise, 
availability, knowledge and cost. Non-audit services where 
fees are expected to exceed £25,000 should be approved, 
in advance, by the Chairman of the Audit Committee or in 
his absence by another member of the Audit Committee. 
There is also a restriction such that fees for non-audit 
services will not exceed those for audit services, paid to the 
same service provider for more than two consecutive years, 
unless specifically recommended by the Audit Committee 
and agreed by the Board. The overriding preference of the 
Committee is not to engage the Auditors for additional 
non-assurance services, unless there are compelling reasons 
to the contrary, such as capability, time or cost.
In 2015, audit service fees paid to KPMG LLP were  
£0.9 million, whilst non-audit service fees paid to KPMG 
totalled £0.3 million. This comprised non-audit service fees 
relating to the provision of corporate finance services 
(£0.1 million) and taxation services (£0.2 million), 
including taxation compliance advice. During 2015, 
non-audit service fees paid to KPMG LLP represented  
33 per cent of audit service fees paid to KPMG LLP during 
the same period (down from 75 per cent in 2014). The 
decrease was primarily a result of a non-recurring, one-off 
pensions project and other advisory services provided by 
KPMG LLP during 2014. The Committee believes that, 
for these particular areas, KPMG LLP were best placed 
to provide a comprehensive and effective service to 
the Company.
Performance evaluation
The Committee carried out an assessment of its 
performance in 2015 based on a review of its activities 
during the year against its terms of reference. It was 
concluded that the Committee had performed effectively 
and is structured appropriately to provide effective 
support to the Board. Areas for development which 
emerged from the performance assessment were 
identified and appropriate focus will be given to these 
during the forthcoming year.
Stephen King
Chairman, Audit Committee
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
55
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors’ Remuneration 
Report
Committee meeting attendance 2015
During 2015 the Committee held eight scheduled 
meetings, all of which were fully attended.
The Chief Executive Officer and the EVP Human Resources 
also attend Committee meetings to provide internal 
support as well as advice on market and regulatory 
developments in remuneration practice and employee 
share schemes. They ensure that the Committee is fully 
informed of general pay policies throughout the Group, 
which are taken into account when determining the 
remuneration of executive Directors and our most senior 
executives. No individual is allowed to participate in any 
matter concerning the details of their own remuneration.
Annual statement
Dear Shareholder
As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am 
pleased to present the 2015 Remuneration Report. 
In accordance with disclosure requirements on director 
remuneration in the UK, this report contains:
 – The Annual statement which summarises and explains 
the major decisions and changes in respect of Directors’ 
remuneration;
 – The Directors’ remuneration policy which sets out the 
remuneration policy for the Company’s Directors which 
was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM; and
 – The Annual report on remuneration which describes all 
aspects of remuneration practices covering the 
Company’s Directors in relation to the year ended 
31 December 2015.
The Directors’ remuneration policy was approved by 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 
9 May 2014 and is subject to a binding shareholder 
vote every three years or sooner if changes are made 
to the policy. The Committee believes that the 
Remuneration Policy continues to incentivise the delivery 
of strong and sustainable financial results and the 
creation of shareholder value. While its disclosure is not 
required this year, for ease of reference, the Policy is 
reproduced in full on pages 58 to 62 and is also available 
to view at the Corporate Governance section of our 
website, www.ttelectronics.com.
Throughout 2015, the Committee has continued to 
promote our primary strategic objective to create 
sustainable long-term growth in shareholder value. We 
believe that remuneration arrangements for the executive 
directors, with a high level of variable pay contingent on 
the delivery of strong cash flow and sustained earnings 
growth, continues to support this strategy.
During the course of the year, we sought feedback on a 
number of issues from our larger investors, which was duly 
considered. The Committee has balanced these particular 
investor perspectives with our responsibility to ensure that 
our remuneration levels continue to enable us to attract, 
motivate and retain a team of the expected quality.
Considering economic and market conditions in 2015, the 
Group’s overall performance in generating profit and cash 
was positive compared to budgets set at the beginning of 
the financial year. Despite this performance, earnings per 
share targets were not met for awards granted in 2013 
under the Long T erm Incentive Plan, nor are the 
John Shakeshaft
Chairman,  
Remuneration  
Committee
Membership:
John Shakeshaft (Chairman)
Michael Baunton
Neil Carson
Committee meeting attendance 2015
John Shakeshaft 8 of 8
Michael Baunton 8 of 8
Neil Carson 3 of 3
Sean Watson 5 of 5
56
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance and Directors’ Report / Directors’ Remuneration Report associated Total Shareholder Return targets for this period 
expected to be met. 
Performance evaluation
The Committee assessed its performance, constitution 
and terms of reference during 2015. The Committee was 
deemed to have performed satisfactorily. 
Emphasis in 2015
The Remuneration Committee carefully considers every 
decision around executive remuneration. Principal areas 
covered during the year included: 
 – assessment of annual bonus levels for executive 
Directors for 2014, payable in 2015;
 – review of the cash targets for bonus arrangements for 2015;
 – evaluation of targets for the executive Directors’ 2016 
annual bonus plan;
 – review of total remuneration levels for executive 
Directors and the next level of senior executives;
 – review of the linkage between risk and reward in relation 
to remuneration structure;
 – review of non-executive Chairman’s fees on recruitment 
of Chairman;
 – vesting of 2012 award under the LTIP;
 – grant of the 2015 award under the LTIP (including 
a review of performance targets);
 – review of the LTIP structure and the current dilution position;
 – review of the Committee’s external advisers;
 – issuance of performance based awards under our 
Restricted Share Plan (RSP) to key individuals below 
executive Directors. Awards were based on TSR and EPS 
measures;
 – review of feedback received from shareholders relating 
to the Remuneration policy; and
 – decision to implement an additional two year post-
vesting holding period for future LTIP awards for 
executive Directors.
With the re-basing of our targeted profit range in 
November 2014, 2015 was a year of transition which saw 
good progress being made with regard to development 
and launch of a new strategic plan. The Operational 
Improvement Plan progressed well ahead of schedule 
with a significantly lower than budgeted cost of 
implementation. The executive successfully extended the 
Group’s aerospace and defence capability with the 
acquisition of Aero Stanrew. In challenging markets, 
revenues for the year ended 31 December 2015 were 
£509.9 million, compared to £524.3 million in 2014. 
Operating profit before exceptional items was slightly 
ahead of plan. Cash performance was exceptionally 
strong during the year, with a cash conversation rate of 
136 per cent. The executive have made good progress 
against the new strategic plan and have managed to 
successfully stabilise the business, creating a platform 
for future growth. 
The Committee considers that the outturn of our 2015 
incentive plans accurately reflects TT’s performance in 
2015. The annual bonus for the Chief Executive Officer 
and the Chief Financial Officer was 90.75 per cent of the 
maximum opportunity. 
Our remuneration principles
The Remuneration Committee tries to ensure that the 
remuneration policy and practices drive behaviour aligned to 
the long-term interests of the Company and our shareholders. 
We offer competitive and equitable rates of pay and benefits 
to ensure it promotes the attraction, motivation and retention 
of high quality executives who are key to delivering the 
Company’s strategy and who will be key to delivering 
sustainable earnings growth and shareholder return.
The Committee’s most recent conclusions are that 
the existing Directors’ remuneration policy is appropriate 
and should continue to operate for 2016 without major 
changes, albeit a full review of the remuneration policy 
will be undertaken in the second half of 2016, ahead of 
the next three-year policy vote in 2017. The Committee 
concluded that:
 – basic salary levels remain appropriately positioned 
in the market;
 – the structure and quantum of the annual bonus 
would remain unchanged in 2016; and
 – the policy of annual awards under the long-term incentive 
plan based on earnings per share and relative total 
shareholder return performance conditions, continues 
to align the senior executive team with shareholders. 
This alignment is strengthened by the operation of share 
ownership guidelines, coupled with the introduction of 
a two year post-vesting holding period for future awards.
In conclusion, the Committee believes that the 
remuneration policy continues to incentivise the delivery 
of strong and sustainable financial results and the 
creation of shareholder value.
Assessment of risk
The Remuneration Committee is continually aware and 
mindful of any potential risk associated with our 
remuneration programmes. We seek to provide a structure 
that encourages an acceptable level of risk taking through 
optimal remuneration mix, key performance metrics, 
calibration and timing. Annual third party evaluations are 
undertaken in order to ensure our reward programmes 
achieve the optimal balance and do not encourage 
excessive risk taking. The Committee and its advisors have 
considered the risks involved in the short and long term 
incentive schemes and are satisfied that the design 
elements and associated governance procedures mitigate 
the risks appropriately.
The Remuneration Committee continues to have 
appropriate dialogue with our shareholders and is mindful 
of the concerns raised by shareholders in 2015, where 
specific circumstances led to the remuneration report 
receiving a 61.81 per cent proxy vote in favour. We 
sincerely hope to receive your continued support at the 
AGM on 11 May 2016.
John Shakeshaft
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
9 March 2016
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
57
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 In formulating the remuneration policy, full consideration 
was given to the principles set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. The Committee regularly reviews the 
policy to ensure it takes account of best practice and the 
particular circumstances of the Company. The Directors’ 
remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at 
the Annual General Meeting held on 9 May 2014 and is 
subject to a binding shareholder vote every three years. 
No changes are currently proposed to the Policy although 
a full review will be undertaken during 2016, with the 
revised policy to be put to the 2017 Annual General 
Meeting for approval.
Policy overview
The Group is committed to the objective of maximising 
shareholder return in the longer term and ensuring that 
a strong link is maintained between performance and 
reward. The remuneration policy aims to be competitive, 
performance based, aligned with shareholder interests 
and relatively simple and transparent.
The Committee aims to approve base salaries, 
commensurate with experience, around market levels 
coupled with highly competitive total rewards, linked 
to performance and aligned with shareholder interests. 
Remuneration packages must meet the objectives of 
attracting, retaining and motivating executives of the 
highest quality in a challenging business environment. 
In recommending a mix of fixed and variable 
remuneration, the Committee is mindful of avoiding 
excessive risks in the pursuit of performance metrics.
Following a review of the current total remuneration policy 
for executive Directors and senior managers, the 
Committee concluded that the following principles remain 
appropriate for 2016.
Competitive: Through a combination of base salaries and 
competitive performance-related incentive mechanisms, 
the Group aims to provide individuals with competitive 
total remuneration in return for superior performance. 
Base salaries are designed to reflect the requirements of 
the role and responsibility, together with the overall level 
of individual performance. In ascertaining appropriate 
salary adjustments, account is also taken of prevailing 
market and economic conditions together with salary 
levels across the Group.
Performance related: The majority of the executive 
Directors’ and senior business unit leaders’ remuneration 
packages are determined based on the performance of 
the Group. A significant proportion of this is aligned with 
shareholder interests, based on earnings growth “EPS” 
and total shareholder return “TSR”. Failure to reach 
set performance thresholds leads to no pay-out under 
the Group’s annual bonus or long-term incentive 
arrangements. In order to provide further alignment with 
the achievement of strategic objectives and delivery of 
value to shareholders, executive Directors have agreed 
to maintain a minimum holding of the Group’s shares 
equal to 100 per cent of their base salary.
Transparency: In order to engender a fair and 
collaborative culture, total remuneration frameworks are 
clear and are openly communicated.
Components of total remuneration
Executive Directors’ total remuneration packages 
comprise:
 – fixed pay, including base salary, pension contribution, 
car or car allowance, private medical insurance, life 
assurance; and 
 – variable pay, comprising annual bonus opportunity, 
participation in a share based Long T erm Incentive Plan 
and participation in an all employee share scheme. 
Consideration of shareholder views
The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder 
feedback received in connection with the Annual General 
Meeting each year at a meeting immediately following 
the AGM and at other times during the year. This 
feedback is considered as part of the Company’s annual 
review of remuneration policy. In addition, the 
Remuneration Committee engages directly with major 
shareholders and their representative bodies should any 
material changes be proposed to the remuneration policy. 
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to 
approve last year’s Remuneration report and any matters 
discussed with shareholders during the year are set out in 
the Annual report on remuneration.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere 
in the Group
The Committee considers the general basic salary increase 
for the broader employee population when determining 
the annual salary increases and remuneration for the 
executive Directors. Employees have not been consulted 
on the design of the Company’s senior executive 
remuneration policy although the Committee will keep 
this under review.
58
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance and Directors’ Report / Directors’ Remuneration Policy Summary remuneration policy
The table below summarises the Directors’ remuneration policy for 2014–2017: 
Element of 
remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Salary – Reflects the value of the 
individual and their role
 – Reflects skills and 
experience over time
 – Provides an appropriate 
level of basic fixed income
 – Avoids excessive risk 
arising from over reliance 
on variable income
 – Reviewed annually, 
effective 1 January
 – T akes periodic 
account of practices 
of companies with 
similar 
characteristics and 
sector comparators
 – There is no prescribed 
maximum annual 
increase. The Committee 
is guided by the general 
increase for the broader 
employee population 
but on occasions may 
need to recognise, for 
example, an increase 
in the scale, scope or 
responsibility of a role
 – Current base salary 
levels are set out on 
page 63
 – Not applicable
Benefits – To aid retention 
and recruitment
 – Company car 
allowance, the 
provision of private 
medical insurance, 
life assurance and 
critical illness cover
 – Not applicable – Not applicable
Bonus – Incentivises annual 
delivery of financial 
and strategic goals
 – Maximum bonus only 
payable for achieving 
demanding targets
 – Paid in cash
 – Not pensionable
 – 100 per cent of salary – A combination of 
growth in Group profit 
before tax and other 
financial metrics 
(majority weighting), 
and personal 
objectives (minority 
weighting)
 – Clawback provisions 
apply
Long Term 
Incentive 
Plan
 – Aligned to main strategic 
objectives of delivering 
sustainable profit growth 
and shareholder return
 – Annual grant of nil 
cost options or 
performance shares 
which normally vest 
after three years, 
subject to continued 
service and 
performance targets
 – 100% of salary 
(normal limit)
 – Discretion to provide 
awards up to 200 per 
cent of salary in 
exceptional 
circumstances such as 
recruitment or retention
 – Dividend equivalents 
may also be payable
 – LTIP performance 
measured over three 
years based on 
financial (e.g. EPS) 
and/or share price 
measures (e.g. 
relative TSR)
 – Clawback provisions 
apply
SAYE – To encourage employee 
share ownership and 
therefore increase 
alignment with 
shareholders
 – All employee saving 
and share purchase 
plan approved by 
HMRC
 – Executives are also 
eligible to 
participate in the 
Group SAYE on the 
same terms as other 
employees
 – In line with prevailing 
HMRC limits
 – Not applicable
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
59
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Element of 
remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Share 
Ownership 
Guidelines
 – To provide alignment 
between executives 
and shareholders
 – Executive Directors 
are required to 
build and maintain 
a shareholding 
equivalent to one 
year’s base salary
 – Not applicable – Not applicable
Pension – Provides modest 
retirement benefits
 – Opportunity for 
executives to 
contribute to their 
own retirement plan
 – Defined 
contribution/salary 
supplement
 – Company contributes 
approximately 15 
per cent of salary
 – Executives salary 
exchange on same 
terms as other 
employees
 – Not applicable
Non-
executive 
Director 
fees
 – Reflects time 
commitments 
and responsibilities 
of each role
 – Reflects fees paid by 
similarly sized companies
 – Cash fee paid
 – Fees are reviewed 
on an annual basis
 – Fee increases for 
Non-executive Directors 
will not normally exceed 
the average salary 
increase awarded to 
executive Directors, 
although increases may 
be above this level if 
there is an increase in the 
time commitment and/or 
responsibility level
 – Not applicable. 
Non-executive 
Directors do not 
participate in variable 
pay arrangements
Notes:
(1)  A description of how the Company intends to implement the policy set out in this table during 2016 is set out in the Annual report on 
remuneration on page 63.
(2)  The following differences exist between the Company’s policy for the remuneration of executive Directors as set out above and its 
approach to the payment of employees generally:
 – A lower level of maximum annual bonus opportunity may apply to employees other than the executive Directors and certain 
senior executives.
 – Benefits offered to other employees generally comprise life assurance, pension and other benefits applicable in the global 
territories in which the Company operates.
 – UK employees participate in the same arrangements as the Directors.
 – Participation in the LTIP is limited to the executive Directors and certain selected senior managers. Other employees are eligible 
to participate in the Company’s share option schemes, details of which are provided on page 120.
  In general, these differences arise from the development of remuneration arrangements that are market competitive for the various 
categories of individuals and the country in which they are employed. They also reflect the fact that, in the case of the executive Directors 
and senior executives, a greater emphasis tends to be placed on performance-related pay. 
(3)   The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus scheme reflect the Committee’s belief that any incentive 
compensation should be appropriately challenging and tied to the delivery of financial metrics and specific individual objectives. 
(4)  The TSR and EPS performance conditions applicable to the LTIP (further details of which are provided on page 65) were selected by the 
Remuneration Committee on the basis that they reward the delivery of long-term returns to shareholders and the Group’s financial growth 
and are consistent with the Company’s objective of delivering superior levels of long-term value to shareholders. The TSR performance 
condition is monitored on the Committee’s behalf by New Bridge Street (“NBS”) whilst the Group’s EPS growth is derived from the 
audited financial statements.
(5)   The Committee operates the LTIP in accordance with the plan rules and the Listing Rules, and the Committee, consistent with market 
practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of the plan.
(6)   All-employee share plans do not operate performance conditions. Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Group SAYE on 
the same terms as other employees. 
(7)   As highlighted above, the Company has a share ownership policy which requires the executive Directors to build up and maintain a 
target holding equal to 100 per cent of base salary. Details of the extent to which the executive Directors had complied with this policy 
as at 31 December 2015 are set out on page 67 .
(8)  For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors’ remuneration policy, authority was given to the Company to honour any 
commitments entered into with current or former Directors (such as the payment of a pension or the vesting/exercise of past share 
awards) that have been disclosed in previous remuneration reports. Details of any payments to former Directors will be set out in the 
Annual Report on remuneration as they arise.
60
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance and Directors’ Report / Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued Illustrations of application of remuneration policy 
The chart below illustrates how the composition of the executive Directors’ remuneration packages varies at different 
levels of performance, both as a percentage of total remuneration opportunity and as a total value for the coming year:
0
400,000
800,000
1,200,000
1,600,000
Minimum
519,170
100% 54.50%
22.75%
22.75%
37.46%
31.27%
31.27%
100% 54.48%
22.76%
22.76%
37.44%
31.28%
31.28%
On-T arget
Richard Tyson
952,670
Maximum
1,386,170
Minimum
396,873
On-T arget
Mark Hoad
728,373
Maximum
1,059,873
Fixed Pay
Annual Bonus
LTIP
Notes:
(1)  The base salary is at 1 January 2016.
(2)   The value of benefits receivable under these scenarios is taken to be the value of benefits received in 2015 (as calculated under the 
Single Total Figure of Remuneration, set out on page 68).
(3)  The on-target level of bonus is taken to be 50 per cent of the maximum bonus opportunity (100 per cent of salary for executive Directors).
(4)   The on-target level of vesting under the LTIP is taken to be 50 per cent (being half of the maximum vesting) of the face value of the normal 
award at grant.
(5)   The maximum value of the LTIP is taken to be 100 per cent of the face value of the award at grant i.e. the values above do not 
incorporate any share price appreciation assumption.
Approach to recruitment and promotions
The remuneration package for a new executive Director 
– basic salary, benefits, pension, annual bonus and 
long-term incentive awards – would be set in accordance 
with the terms of the Company’s prevailing approved 
remuneration policy at the time of appointment.
Salary would be provided at such a level as is required to 
attract the most appropriate candidate and may be set 
initially at a below mid-market level on the basis that it 
may progress towards the mid-market level once expertise 
and performance have been proven and sustained. Annual 
bonus potential will be limited to 100 per cent of salary 
and long-term incentives will be limited to 100 per cent 
of salary, up to 200 per cent in exceptional circumstances. 
In addition, the Committee may offer additional cash 
and/or share-based elements when it considers these to 
be in the best interests of the Company (and therefore 
shareholders) to take account of remuneration 
relinquished when leaving a former employer and would 
reflect the nature, time horizons and performance 
requirements attaching to that remuneration. 
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments 
at the time of appointment.
For an internal executive Director appointment, any 
variable pay element awarded in respect of their prior 
role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, 
adjusted as relevant to take into account the 
appointment. In addition, any other ongoing 
remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment 
may continue, provided that they are put to shareholders 
for approval at the next general meeting of shareholders.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee 
may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation 
expenses as appropriate.
If appropriate, on the recruitment of a new executive, the 
Committee may agree to an initial notice period in excess 
of 12 months, reducing to 12 months over a specified period.
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
61
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Service contracts for executive Directors
The service agreements of the executive Directors are not fixed term and are terminable by either side on 12 months’ 
notice. They include 12 month non-compete clauses and standard provisions for summary termination. These contracts 
make provision, at the Board’s discretion, for early termination by way of payment in lieu of 12 months’ notice. In 
calculating the amount payable to a Director on termination of employment, the Board would take into account the 
commercial interests of the Company and apply usual common law and contractual principles. The Remuneration 
Committee reviews the contractual terms for new executive Directors to ensure these reflect best practice. In summary, 
the contractual provisions are:
Provision Detailed terms
Notice period 12 months
Termination payment Common law and contractual principles apply
Remuneration entitlements A bonus may be payable (pro-rated where relevant) and outstanding share 
awards may vest (see below) 
Change of control No executive Director’s contract contains additional provisions in respect of 
change of control
The annual bonus may be payable with respect to the period of the financial year served although it will be pro-rated 
and paid at the normal pay-out date.
Any share-based entitlements granted to an executive Director under the Company’s share plans will be determined 
based on the relevant plan rules. The default treatment under the LTIP is that any outstanding awards lapse on 
cessation of employment. However, in certain circumstances, such as death, disability, redundancy, retirement, sale or 
transfer of employer or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, ‘good leaver’ status may be applied. 
For good leavers, awards will normally vest on the normal vesting date, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant 
performance conditions, and reduced pro-rata to reflect the proportion of the vesting period actually served. However, 
the Remuneration Committee has discretion to determine that awards vest at cessation (e.g. death) and/or to disapply 
time pro-rating.
The executive Directors may accept outside appointments, with prior Board approval, provided these opportunities do not 
negatively impact on the individual’s ability to perform his duties at the Company. Whether any related fees are retained 
by the individual or are remitted to the Company will be considered on a case by case basis.
Non-executive Directors
The fees of each of the non-executive Directors is determined by the Chairman and the executive Directors, reflecting the 
time commitment required, the responsibility of each role and the fees paid in comparable companies.
62
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance and Directors’ Report / Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued Implementation of the remuneration policy for the year ending 31 December 2016
A summary of how the Directors’ Remuneration Policy will be applied during the year ending 31 December 2016 is set 
out below.
Basic salary and benefits
The Remuneration Committee agreed to increase executive Director base salary levels with effect from 1 January 2016 
broadly in line with the general workforce. Current base salary levels and those which applied during the year ended 
31 December 2015 are as follows:
2016 2015 % increase
Richard Tyson £433,500 £425,000 2%
Mark Hoad £331,500 £325,000 2%
The Group’s employees, in general, are receiving pay rises ranging from 0 per cent to 10 per cent depending on 
location, promotional increases and individual performance.
Pension arrangements
The Company contributes 15 per cent of salary either to a defined contribution arrangement or as a salary supplement 
for each executive Director.
Annual bonus
The maximum bonus potential for the year ending 31 December 2016 will remain at 100 per cent of salary for executive 
Directors and the split of targets continues to be based on the Group’s financial results, being Group Profit Before T ax (up to 
50 per cent of maximum), Group operating free cash flow (up to 25 per cent of maximum), and specific personal objectives 
(up to 25 per cent of maximum) as set at the beginning of the 2016 financial year. Specific targets relating to these 
objectives are considered commercially sensitive for the 2016 financial year.
Long-term incentives
Consistent with past awards, the extent to which LTIP awards which will be granted in 2016 will vest will be dependent 
on two independent performance conditions: the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”); and the Group’s 
earnings per share (“EPS”). 
Award levels; the proportions attributable to TSR and EPS; and the TSR and EPS targets for the 2016 award have yet to 
be determined but will be disclosed in the relevant RNS announcement issued shortly after grant.
Non-executive Directors
The Company’s approach to non-executive Directors’ remuneration is set by the Board with account taken of the time 
and responsibility involved in each role, including where applicable the Chairmanship of Board Committees. A summary 
of current fees is as follows:
2016 2015 % increase
Chairman £175,000 £175,000* 0%
Base fee £41,922 £41,100 2%
Additional fees: 
Audit Committee Chair fee £7,000 £7,000 0%
Remuneration Committee Chair fee £7,000 £7,000 0%
*  from appointment in May 2015. 
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
63
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance and Directors’ Report / Annual Report on Remuneration Implementation of the remuneration policy for the year ended 31 December 2015
Remuneration received by Directors (audited)
Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2015 was as follows:
£’000 Salary/fees
1
Benefits
2
Pension
3
Bonus
4
Other
5
Total
Executive Directors
Richard Tyson 2015 425 21 64 386 255 1,151
2014 188 7 28 46 132 401
Mark Hoad 2015 325 16 49 295 – 685
Chairman
Neil Carson 2015 111 – – – – 111
Non-executive 
Directors
Michael Baunton 2015 41 41
2014 41 41
Stephen King 2015 48 48
2014 48 48
John Shakeshaft 2015 48 48
2014 48 48
Former Directors
Sean Watson 2015 55 55
2014 152 152
1. Salary/Fees
Neil Carson was appointed as Chairman on a fee of £175,000 per annum: the amount shown above has been 
pro-rated from 13 May 2015.
2. Taxable benefits
The Directors taxable benefits consist of a car allowance and insurance benefits.
3. Pensions
Employer contributions are paid at 15 per cent of Base Salary, as pensionand/or a cash supplement. 
4. Annual bonus payments for 2016
The annual bonus payments presented in the table below were based on performance against Group Profit Before T ax 
targets (up to 50% of maximum), Group Free Cash Flow targets (up to 25% of maximum), and specific personal 
objectives (up to 25% of maximum) as measured over the 2015 financial year.
Based on the Committee’s assessment of achievement for both the financial, and personal and strategic objectives, 
the bonus was calculated as follows:
Potential
Required for 
threshold bonus 
(£m)
Required for 
maximum bonus 
(£m)
Out-turn for 
incentive plan 
purposes £m
Actual payout 
(% of salary)
Group Profit Before Tax 50% 17.1 20.9 20.2 40.75%
Group Free Cash Flow 25% (31.7) (27.8) 5.1 25%
Personal and strategic objectives
1
 25% See
1
25%
Total % of salary 100% 90.75%
(1)  Personal and strategic targets set at the beginning of the year based on strategy development, thought leadership and strong personal 
leadership. Three common strategic objectives were set for the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer. These were 
focused around production of a Group level strategy for the next five years for approval by the Board. The Commmittee assessed 
performance against personal and strategic targets set at the beginning of the year and believe the award outlined above is appropriate. 
64
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance and Directors’ Report / Annual Report on Remuneration continued 5. Other 
Details of the compensation payments awarded to Richard Tyson in respect of previous employment were set out 
on page 47 of the 2014 Annual Report and accounts. On 27 April 2015, a proportion of the share award granted 
on 22 August 2014 to Richard Tyson vested. The value of the proportion vesting in 2015 was £255,073 and included 
dividend equivalents. The number of shares transferred post-tax and national insurance was 105,781.
LTIP performance criteria
In 2015, LTIP allocations were awarded to executive Directors. 
Long-term incentives granted during the year 
On 18 March 2015, the following LTIP awards were granted to executive Directors:
Executive
Basis of award 
granted
Share price
at date
of grant
1
Number of shares 
over which award 
was granted
Face value of 
award
£
% of face value 
that would vest
at threshold 
performance
Vesting
determined by 
performance over
Richard Tyson 200% of salary £1.25 680,000 850,000 16.7% TSR and EPS:
Three financial
years to 31
December 2017
Mark Hoad 150% of salary £1.25 390,000 487,500 16.7%
(1)  the share price used to determine the number of shares to be granted was the average share price over the last four trading days prior 
to grant (i.e. £1.25).
Awards to executive Directors during 2015 measured performance on the following basis:
EPS
The performance target attached to 50 per cent of the award is based on earnings per share (“EPS”) performance targets. 
16.7 per cent of the shares subject to this part of the award will vest for EPS for the year ending 31 December 2017 of 
10.0 pence, increasing on a straight-line basis to 66.7 per cent vesting for EPS for the year ending 31 December 2017 
of 11.5 pence, increasing on a straight-line basis to 100 per cent vesting for EPS for the year ending 31 December 2017 
of 12.4 pence.
TSR
The performance target attached to the other 50 per cent of the award is based on total shareholder return 
performance targets against the FTSE SmallCap (excluding Investment Trusts). 16.7 per cent of the shares subject to 
this part of the award will vest at median performance increasing on a straight-line basis to 100 per cent vesting at the 
upper quartile of the comparator group.
Awards will be subject to clawback provisions.
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
65
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Outstanding share awards
The table below sets out details of outstanding share awards held by executive Directors.
As at 31 December 2015, Directors’ interests under the LTIP were as follows:
Date of 
grant
1 January 
2015 
Granted 
during
the year Lapsed Vested
31 
December 
2015
Market
value at 31 
December
 2015
1
£
Market
price at
grant date 
pence
Vesting
date
Richard 
Tyson
22/08/14 223,214
2
223,214 349,330 171 22/08/17
18/03/15 680,000 680,000 1,064,200 125 18/03/18
903,214 1,413,530
Mark Hoad 29/12/14 330,452
3
330,452 517,157 101 01/01/18
18/03/15 390,000 390,000 610,350 125 18/03/18
720,452 1,127,507
(1)  The market value at 31 December 2015 represents the total number of shares awarded multiplied by 156.5 pence being the share price 
on 31 December 2015. The calculation does not take into account the likelihood of vesting.
(2)  In 2014, as previously disclosed, Richard Tyson received an LTIP allocation.The performance target attached to 50 per cent of the award 
was based on earnings per share (“EPS”). 25 per cent of the shares subject to this part of the award will vest if the Company’s EPS 
growth for the financial year ended 31 December 2016 is in excess of RPI by 7% per annum, increasing on a straight-line basis to 100 
per cent vesting if EPS growth in excess of RPI by 12% per annum or more was achieved. The performance target attached to the other 
50 per cent of the award is based on total shareholder return (TSR) performance against the FTSE SmallCap (excluding investment trusts). 
25 per cent of the shares subject to this part of the award will vest at median performance increasing on a straight-line basis to 100 per 
cent vesting at the upper quartile of the comparator group. 
(3)  This award will normally vest on 1 January 2018, subject to achievement of a three year performance condition ending 31 December 
2017 , based on total shareholder return performance targets against the FTSE SmallCap (excluding Investment Trusts). 25 per cent of the 
Shares subject to this award will vest at median performance increasing on a straight-line basis to 100 per cent vesting at the upper 
quartile of the comparator group.
TT Electronics plc sharesave scheme
Date
of grant
1 January 
2015
Granted
during
the year Lapsed Exercised
31 
December 
2015
Potential
gain at 31 
December
2015
1
£
Option
price pence
Exercisable 
between / 
exercised on
Richard 
Tyson
22 Sep 15 – 13,740 – – 13,740 3,504 131 11/11/18 
– 30/04/19
Mark Hoad 22 Sep 15 – 13,740 – – 13,740 3,504 131 1/11/18 
– 30/04/19
27,480 – – 27,480 7,008
(1)  The potential gain at 31 December 2015 represents the total number of shares under option multiplied by 156.5 pence being the share 
price on 31 December 2015 less the option price. The calculation assumes that the executive Director remains employed and completes 
the contract.
Payments to past Directors
No payments were made in 2015 to past Directors, other than the continuation of modest benefits which were 
disclosed last year and were in line with termination provisions.
Payments for loss of office
Consistent with his contractual provisions, a termination payment of £37,968 was made to Sean Watson in respect 
of his unexpired notice period on his stepping down as Chairman with effect from 12 May 2015.
66
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance and Directors’ Report / Annual Report on Remuneration continued Statement of Directors’ shareholdings and share interests (audited)
Executive
Directors
Beneficially 
owned at
1 January 2015
Beneficially
owned at 31
December 2015
Outstanding 
LTIP Awards
Outstanding
share awards 
under all
employee
share plans
Shareholding
as a % of
salary at 
31 December 
2015
Value of 
beneficially 
owned at 
31 December 
2015 £
Basic salary at 
31 December 
2015
£
Richard Tyson 14,880 120,661 903,214 13,740 44.43% 188,834 425,000
Mark Hoad 40,000 40,000 720,452 13,740 19.26% 62,600 325,000
Non-executive Directors
N A P Carson 100,000 – – –
M J Baunton 81,554 81,554 – – –
S A King 100,000 100,000 – – –
J C Shakeshaft 57,142 57,142 – – –
Executive Directors are required to hold shares in the Company worth 100 per cent of salary and must retain 50 per 
cent of the net of tax value of any vested LTIP shares until the guideline is met. 
The closing middle market prices for an Ordinary share of 25 pence of the Company on 31 December 2014 and 2015 
as derived from the Stock Exchange Daily Official List were 101.5 pence and 156.5 pence respectively. During 2015 the 
middle market price of TT Electronics plc Ordinary shares ranged between 103 pence and 163 pence.
Performance graph and table 
The following graph shows the cumulative Total Shareholder Return of the Company over the last seven financial years 
relative to the FTSE SmallCap Index. The FTSE SmallCap Index has been selected for consistency as it is the index 
against which the Company’s Total Shareholder Return is measured for the purposes of the LTIP. In addition, the 
Company is a constituent of the Index.
 
0
100
300
200
400
500
600
700
31-Dec-08 31-Dec-09 31-Dec-10 31-Dec-11 31-Dec-12 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-13
TT electronics plc FTSE SmallCap Index (excluding investment trust)
Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2015, of £100 invested in TT Electronics plc on 31 December 2008 
compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE SmallCap Index (excluding investment trusts). The other points 
plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
67
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Total remuneration figures for Chief Executive
The total remuneration figures for the Chief Executive during each of the last seven financial years are shown in the 
table below. The previous Chief Executive was in this position until 30 June 2014 and was replaced by Richard Tyson 
from 1 July 2014. The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus based on that year’s performance and LTIP 
awards based on three year performance periods ending in the relevant year. The annual bonus payout and LTIP 
vesting level as a percentage of the maximum opportunity are also shown for each of these years.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014* 2014 2015
Total remuneration (£’000) 516 771 1,576 1,684 1,154 249 401 1,151
Annual bonus (%) 30 96 96 50 53 0 25 90.75
LTIP vesting (%) n/a 0 100 94 89.6 39.63 n/a 0
* Relates to previous Chief Executive who was in position until 30 June 2014.
Percentage change in Chief Executive’s remuneration 
The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executive’s total remuneration (excluding the value of 
any LTIP and pension benefits receivable in the year) between the financial year ending 31 December 2014 and 
31 December 2015, compared to that of the average for all eligible employees of the Group.
Salary Benefits Annual bonus
Chief Executive* n/a n/a n/a
Average of other employees 3.1 3.0 –
* Joined 1 July 2014. Two year comparison not applicable.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The following table shows the Company’s actual spend on pay (for all employees) relative to dividends.
2014 2015 % change
Staff costs* (£’m) 149.2 149.8 0.4
Dividends (£’m) 8.7 8.7 0.0
* Excludes agency staff costs.
The dividends figures relate to amounts payable in respect of the relevant financial year.
External appointments
The executive Directors are encouraged to pursue outside appointments provided that such appointments do not in 
any way prejudice their ability to perform their duties. The extent to which any executive Director is allowed to retain 
any fees payable in respect of such outside appointments, or whether such fees are remitted to the Company, will be 
assessed on a case-by-case basis.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration
The Company’s approach to the Chairman’s and executive Directors’ remuneration is determined by the Board  
on the advice of the Remuneration Committee. The members of the Remuneration Committee (all of whom were 
independent non-executive Directors) during the year under review were as follows:
John Shakeshaft (Remuneration Committee Chairman) 
Michael Baunton 
Neil Carson (replacing Sean Watson from 13 May 2015)
Biographical information on the Committee members is set out on pages 44 and 45.
68
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance and Directors’ Report / Annual Report on Remuneration continued External advisors
In order to enable the Committee to make informed decisions on executive remuneration, the Committee retained the 
services of New Bridge Street (“NBS”), independent external consultants, to advise on senior executive remuneration 
matters. NBS, which is part of Aon plc, provides no other services to the Company, although another part of Aon plc 
provides insurance broking and consultancy services. The Committee is entirely comfortable that the provision of these 
services does not in any way prejudice NBS’ position as independent advisers to the Committee. NBS is a member 
of the Remuneration Consultants Group and abides by the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct, 
which requires its advice to be objective and impartial.
The fees paid to NBS for providing advice in relation to executive remuneration over the financial year under review 
amounted to £51,079.
Shareholder voting at AGM
The Committee encourages dialogue with shareholders and will endeavour to consult with major shareholders ahead 
of any significant changes to our remuneration policy.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 12 May 2015, the resolution pertaining to the Directors’ remuneration report was 
passed on a show of hands. Proxy votes cast in respect of this resolution were as follows:
Number of votes For Discretionary Against Withheld Total vote
Remuneration report 69,725,997 119,435 42,341,911 605,884 112,793,227
The Board recognises that the number of votes cast against the resolution to approve the Annual Report on 
Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2014 was significant. This was largely as a result of the specific 
circumstances surrounding the Board changes and the lack of a post vesting LTIP holding period (which has now been 
introduced for future awards) for executive Directors. Shareholders will be aware that 2014 was a challenging year 
for TT Electronics against expectations. To recruit a new executive team and to respect contractual termination 
agreements, the Remuneration Committee was mindful of the need to take strong and effective decisions, balancing 
the immediate needs of the Company with longer term shareholder expectations. The Board has spoken with major 
shareholders and has noted a number of concerns in respect of how the policy was operated and while the current 
remuneration policy is considered to remain appropriate, a post-vesting holding period has been introduced for future 
LTIP awards.
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
69
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors’ report
This Annual Report includes the Directors’ report and 
the audited ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 
31 December 2015. Certain information required to be 
disclosed in the Directors’ report is provided in other 
sections of this Annual Report. This includes the overview, 
the operating and ﬁnancial reviews, the corporate 
governance and remuneration reports and speciﬁc 
elements of the ﬁnancial statements noted below and, 
accordingly, these are incorporated into the Directors’ 
report by reference.
Strategic report
Details of the Group’s activities and future plans are set 
out in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 41 of this report. 
Subsidiary undertakings are listed on pages 129 to 130.
Results and dividends
The Group’s proﬁt on ordinary activities after taxation 
was £10.4 million (2014: loss of £10.5 million). 
The audited ﬁnancial statements of the Group and the 
Company are set out on pages 76 to 131. Further details 
of the Group’s activities are set out in the Strategic report 
on pages 1 to 41.
The Directors are recommending a ﬁnal dividend of 
3.8 pence per share for the year ended 31 December 
2015 (2014: 3.8 pence) to be paid on 2 June 2016 
to shareholders on the register at 20 May 2016 which, 
together with the interim dividend of 1.7 pence per 
share paid on 29 October 2015 (2014: 1.7 pence), 
makes a total for the year of 5.5 pence (2014: 5.5 pence).
Acquisitions and disposals
On 18 December 2015, the Group acquired Aero Stanrew 
Group Limited.
Directors
Rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are 
set out in the Company’s Articles of Association. Directors 
are appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the 
Nominations Committee. Directors may also be appointed 
or removed by the Company by ordinary resolution at a 
general meeting of holders of Ordinary shares. The ofﬁce 
of a Director shall be vacated if his resignation is requested 
by all the other Directors, not being fewer than three in 
number. Further details of the activities of the Nominations 
Committee are set out on page 50.
There are no agreements between the Company and its 
Directors or employees providing for compensation for 
loss of ofﬁce or employment that occurs as a result of a 
takeover bid except that provisions of the Company’s 
share plans may cause options and awards granted 
under such schemes to vest on takeover, subject to the 
satisfaction of any performance conditions. Further details 
of the executive Directors’ service contracts can be found 
in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 62. Copies 
of the executive Directors’ service contracts and letters of 
appointment of the non-executive Directors are available 
for inspection by any person at the Company’s registered 
ofﬁce during normal business hours on any weekday 
(public holidays excepted) and at the Annual General 
Meeting from 15 minutes before the start of the AGM 
until its conclusion.
The Group maintains Directors’ and Ofﬁcers’ liability 
insurance. The Directors of the Company also beneﬁt from 
a qualifying third party indemnity provision in accordance 
with Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and the 
Company’s Articles of Association. The Company has 
provided a pension scheme indemnity within the meaning 
of Section 235 of the Companies Act 2006 to directors of 
associated companies.
Auditors
KPMG LLP (previously KPMG Audit Plc) were appointed as 
Auditors in 2010 following a competitive tender process. 
KPMG LLP have expressed their willingness to continue 
in ofﬁce as Auditors and a resolution will be proposed 
to re-appoint them at the Annual General Meeting.
The Auditors’ responsibilities are set out on page 79 and 
should be read in conjunction with those of the Directors 
as set out at the end of this report.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be 
held on 11 May 2016 at The City Centre (formerly City 
Marketing Suite), 80 Basinghall Street, London EC2V 5AR 
at 11.30 am. The Notice of the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting accompanies this document.
Research and development
The Group carries out research and development in 
order to develop new products and processes and to 
substantially improve existing products and processes. 
Further details are given in note 14 to the Consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements.
Signiﬁcant agreements relating to change of control
The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by 
various banking groups. Some of these facility agreements 
include change of control provisions which, in the event of 
a change in ownership of the Company, could result in 
renegotiation or withdrawal of these facilities.
There are a number of other agreements that may be 
renegotiated upon a change of control of the Company. 
None is considered to be signiﬁcant in terms of their 
potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Greenhouse gas emissions
For the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group’s 
greenhouse gas emissions (detailed below) were 
calculated via the Group’s management accounting 
system, veriﬁed by third party supplier invoicing, using the 
70
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance and Directors’ Report / Other statutory disclosures factors for converting energy usage to carbon dioxide 
equivalent emissions published by DEFRA in June 2015.
Carbon dioxide equivalent 
(tonnes)
2015 2014**
Emissions resulting from 
operations and combustion 
of fuel*
3,562 3,406
Emissions resulting  
from the purchase of
electricity, heat, steam  
or cooling
39,464 37,736
Total 43,026 41,142
*   These ﬁgures represent all material emissions. Greenhouse gases 
emitted as a result of the manufacturing process are not included 
within this ﬁgure since these represent a negligible proportion  
(less than 1.25 per cent) of our emissions overall. For ease of 
calculation, combustion of fuel from some vehicles owned or 
operated by the Group (company cars) has been calculated 
based on the presumption that company cars fall within the  
‘large’ category and, as a result, has potentially been overstated.
Intensity ratio
The Group has chosen to adopt emissions per £1 million 
of revenue as its intensity ratio.
For 2015, emissions were 84.38 tonnes of carbon dioxide 
equivalent per £1 million of revenue (2014: 78.47).
**   2014 ﬁgures were calculated using the factors for converting 
energy usage to carbon dioxide equivalent emissions published 
by DEFRA in June 2013.
Employment
The Group is committed to the fair and equal treatment 
of all its employees regardless of gender, race, age, 
religion, disability or sexual orientation. Where existing 
employees become disabled, the policy of the Group 
is to provide continuing employment and training 
wherever practicable.
The Group makes signiﬁcant efforts to ensure that 
high standards of employee welfare are maintained 
worldwide in all its operations, irrespective of geography 
and local market conditions. Together with many other 
global companies operating in its sector, the Group is a 
member of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition, 
a leading industry organisation promoting best practices 
in corporate responsibility, which is committed to raising 
standards of employee welfare in all jurisdictions and at all 
levels of the supply chain for electronic products. Further 
details on the Group’s policies relating to its employees 
are given on pages 26 to 29.
Political contributions
No political contributions were made by the Group during 
the year.
Share capital
The Company’s issued share capital comprises a single 
class of share capital which is divided into Ordinary shares 
of 25 pence each. All issued shares are fully paid. The 
share capital during the year is shown in note 23 to 
the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. The rights and 
obligations attaching to the Company’s Ordinary shares 
are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association, a 
copy of which can be obtained from Companies House 
in the United Kingdom or by writing to the Group General 
Counsel & Company Secretary. Subject to applicable 
statutes, shares may be issued with such rights and 
restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution 
decide, or (if there is no such resolution or so far as it does 
not make speciﬁc provision) as the Board may decide.
Holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to speak at 
general meetings of the Company, to appoint one or 
more proxies and, if they are corporations, to appoint 
corporate representatives and to exercise voting rights. 
Holders of Ordinary shares may also receive a dividend 
and on a liquidation may share in the assets of the 
Company. In addition, holders of Ordinary shares are 
entitled to receive the Company’s Annual Report and 
Accounts. Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders 
of Ordinary shares may require a general meeting of the 
Company to be held or the proposal of resolutions at 
Annual General Meetings.
Authority to allot shares and disapply statutory 
pre-emption rights
The Directors will be seeking to renew their authorities 
to allot unissued shares and to disapply statutory 
pre-emption rights at the Annual General Meeting to be 
held on 11 May 2016. During 2015, this authority was 
used primarily in connection with the allotment of shares 
resulting from the operation of the Group’s share 
schemes. Additionally, in December 2015, 2.576 million 
shares were issued as partial consideration for the 
acquisition of Aero Stanrew Group Limited. 
Purchase of own shares
At the Annual General Meeting held on 12 May 2015, 
the Company was given authority to purchase up to 
15,902,791 of its Ordinary shares until the date of its 
next AGM. Other than market purchases made by the 
Employee Beneﬁt Trust, no purchases were made during 
the year by the Company. The Directors will be seeking a 
new authority for the Company to purchase its Ordinary 
shares at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Further details regarding the authority to allot shares and 
disapply statutory pre-emption rights and the purchase of 
own shares are set out in the Notice of the Annual General 
Meeting which accompanies this document and is 
available to view on the Company’s website.
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
71
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Shares held by the Employee Beneﬁt Trust
The Company has established an employee beneﬁt trust (“EBT”), the trustee of which is Sanne Trust Company Limited, 
part of Sanne Group. As at 31 December 2015, the trustee held held 25,335 shares with a nominal value of £6,333.75 
and an aggregate purchase price of £1.36 per share, representing 0.02 per cent of the total issued share capital at that 
date. These shares will be used to satisfy awards made under the TT electronics plc Restricted Share Plan (“RSP”), the  
TT electronics plc Long T erm Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) or other employee share schemes. The maximum number of shares 
held by the EBT during the year was 131,116, of which 105,781 shares were used to satisfy a share award for Richard 
Tyson. Details of this award are shown on page 47 of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts. The voting rights in 
relation to these shares are exercisable by the trustee; however, in accordance with investor protection guidelines the 
trustee abstains from voting. A dividend waiver is in place under which the trustee waived its right to receive dividends 
on the shares it held during the year and any future dividends. The executive Directors as employees of the Company 
are potential beneﬁciaries of shares held by the EBT. 
Substantial shareholding notiﬁcations
The Company had been notiﬁed of the following voting rights attaching to TT Electronics plc shares in accordance with 
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules at 7 March 2016 and 31 December 2015.
7 March 2016 31 December 2015
Number % Number %
Aberforth Partners LLP 17,645,763 11.0 17,645,763 11.0
Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 15,557,726 9.7 15,557,726 9.7
FIL Limited (Fidelity International) 15,068,341 9.4 15,068,341 9.4
UBS Global Asset Management 9,301,055 5.8 9,301,055 5.8
Delta Lloyd NV and group companies 8,374,810 5.2 8,374,810 5.2
Tameside MBC re: Greater Manchester Police 8,108,219 5.1 8,108,219 5.1
Schroders plc 7,931,600 4.9 7,931,600 4.9
Tweedy, Browne Company LLC 7,664,336 4.9 7,664,336 4.9
Norges Bank – – 5,610,769 3.5
So far as has been ascertained, no other person or 
corporation holds or is beneﬁcially interested in any 
substantial part of the share capital of the Company.
Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the 
Company, every holder of Ordinary shares present in 
person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote and 
on a poll every member present in person or by proxy and 
entitled to vote has one vote for every Ordinary share held. 
Further details regarding voting at the Annual General 
Meeting can be found in the Notice of the Annual General 
Meeting which accompanies this document. None of the 
Ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to 
control of the Company. Electronic and paper proxy 
appointments and voting instructions must be received by 
the Company’s Registrars not later than 48 hours before a 
general meeting. A shareholder can lose his entitlement to 
vote at a general meeting where that shareholder has 
been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to 
provide the Company with information concerning 
interests in those shares.
The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a 
certiﬁcated share which is not fully paid, provided that 
the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the 
Company from taking place on an open and proper basis. 
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a 
certiﬁcated share unless the instrument of transfer: (i) is 
lodged, duly stamped (if stampable), at the registered 
ofﬁce of the Company or any other place decided by 
the Directors accompanied by the certiﬁcate for the 
share to which it relates and/or such other evidence as 
the Directors may reasonably require to show the right 
of the transferor to make the transfer; (ii) is in respect of 
only one class of shares; (iii) is in favour of a person who 
is not a minor, bankrupt or a person in respect of whom 
an order has been made on the grounds that such 
person is suffering from a mental disorder or is otherwise 
incapable of managing their affairs; or (iv) is in favour 
of not more than four transferees.
72
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance and Directors’ Report / Other statutory disclosures continued Transfers of uncertiﬁcated shares must be carried out 
using CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a 
transfer of an uncertiﬁcated share in accordance with 
the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
The Directors may decide to suspend the registration of 
transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register 
of shareholders. The Directors cannot suspend the 
registration of transfers of any uncertiﬁcated shares 
without obtaining consent from CREST.
There are no other restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary 
shares in the Company except: certain restrictions may 
from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations (for 
example insider trading laws); pursuant to the Company’s 
share dealing code whereby the Directors and certain 
employees of the Group require approval to deal in the 
Company’s shares; and where a shareholder with at least 
a 0.25 per cent interest in the Company’s certiﬁcated 
shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has 
failed to provide the Company with information 
concerning interests in those shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer 
of Ordinary shares or on voting rights.
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be 
amended by special resolution approved at a general 
meeting of the shareholders.
UK Corporate Governance Code
The Code is available to view at the website of the 
Financial Reporting Council, www.frc.org.uk.
Disclosure of information to Auditors
To the best of each Director’s knowledge and belief, there 
is no audit information relevant to the preparation of the 
Auditors’ report of which the Auditors are unaware and 
each Director has taken all the steps which might 
be expected to be aware of such relevant information 
and to establish that the Auditors are also aware of 
that information.
Cross reference to information required to be 
disclosed by Listing Rule 9.8.4R
For the purposes of Listing Rule 9.8.4R, the table below 
details where to ﬁnd applicable information within this 
Annual Report:
Listing Rule Description Location
9.8.4(13) Current and future 
dividend waiver
Page 72. Shares held 
by the Employee 
Beneﬁt Trust
Approved by the Board on 9 March 2016 and signed on 
its behalf by:
Lynton Boardman
Group General Counsel & Company Secretary
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
73
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Report and the Group and parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law  
and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and 
parent company financial statements for each financial 
year. Under that law they are required to prepare the 
group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected  
to prepare the parent company financial statements in 
accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 
Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under company law the directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group 
and parent company and of their profit or loss for that 
period. In preparing each of the group and parent company 
financial statements, the directors are required to:
 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply  
them consistently; 
 – make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; 
 – for the group financial statements, state whether they 
have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU; 
 – for the parent company financial statements, state 
whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the parent company financial 
statements; and 
 – prepare the financial statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
group and the parent company will continue in business. 
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the parent Company’s transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position  
of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that 
its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. They have general responsibility for taking such 
steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the 
assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors  
are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, 
Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and 
Corporate Governance Statement that complies with  
that law and those regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance  
and integrity of the corporate and financial information 
included on the company’s website. Legislation in the  
UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in  
other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect 
of the Annual Report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 – the financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
 – the Strategic report/Directors’ report includes a fair 
review of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the issuer and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as  
a whole, together with a description of the principal  
risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider the Annual Report and accounts, taken  
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the Group’s position and performance, business 
model and strategy.
74
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance and Directors’ Report / Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities  
in respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements The coordination and review of Group-wide input into  
the Annual Report is a key element of the control process 
upon which the Directors rely and is an exercise which 
spans a period wider than the timetable for compiling  
the Annual Report itself. This control process incorporates 
the controls the Group operates throughout the year to 
identify key financial and operational issues and includes:
 – Strategy meetings, held at least twice a year, at which 
the entire Board is present, resulting in a clear 
agreement of the Group’s strategy. 
 – This includes the identification of the key milestones and 
the related Key performance indicators to be monitored 
and measured throughout the period.
 – Monthly reviews of business performance conducted by 
executive management (in consultation with divisional 
management), supplemented by reports highlighting 
key issues and analysis of the main variances from 
budget and prior year.
 – Preparation of a detailed budget, reviewed and agreed 
by management and then the Board, which is used to 
calibrate strategy implementation and against which 
actual performance is measured.
 – A timetabled process coordinating input from each 
division, identifying significant market issues and key 
elements of performance for each business area, and 
appropriately incorporating them into the structure of 
the Annual Report.
 – The identification of key risks from the risk management 
process, for inclusion within the Annual Report, ensuring 
a consistency of approach with regard to the risks and 
the ongoing review programme.
 – A planned Audit Committee sign-off process which 
incorporates meetings of the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee with the executive Directors, the Head of 
Risk and Assurance and external Auditors to identify  
and timetable potential issues of significance to  
be addressed.
 – A process for internal distribution and comment on the 
Annual Report, including those of the members of the 
Board, the Executive Management Board, key advisers 
and external Auditors
By order of the Board:
Lynton Boardman
Group General Counsel & Company Secretary
9 March 2016
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
75
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified 
We have audited the financial statements of TT 
Electronics plc for the year ended 31 December 2015  
set out on pages 80 to 131. In our opinion: 
 – the financial statements give a true and fair view of the 
state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2015 and of the group’s profit for 
the year then ended; 
 – the group financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union; 
 – the parent company financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting 
Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure 
Framework; and
 – the financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with the requirements of the Companies  
Act 2006; and, as regards the group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial 
statements the risks of material misstatement that had 
the greatest effect on our audit were as follows:
The presentation of ‘underlying’ profit (£21.7 million)
Refer to page 53 (Audit committee section of the 
Directors’ Report and Notes 1c and 7 (accounting  
policy and financial disclosures)).
The risk: The group discloses its earnings in accordance 
with the requirements of Adopted IFRS. It also presents  
a measure of underlying earnings as defined in note 7, 
which excludes a number of separately disclosed items  
of income and expenditure. In 2015 this mainly related to 
the continued restructuring of the Group’s manufacturing 
operations (Operational Improvement Plan), acquisition 
related costs (Aero Stanrew Limited) and asset 
impairments. There is a risk that items disclosed outside 
underlying profit and are not in line with the accounting 
policy of the company.
Alternative performance measures can provide readers 
with appropriate additional information if properly used 
and presented which can assist them in gaining a better 
understanding of the group’s financial performance and 
strategy. However, when improperly used and presented, 
these kinds of measures might prevent the Annual Report 
being fair, balanced and understandable by hiding the 
real financial position and results or by making the 
profitability of the reporting entity seem more attractive.
There is also a risk that provisions created through charges 
outside underlying profit are not utilised in the manner 
intended, and that surplus amounts are not credited back 
outside underlying profit. 
Our response: Our procedures included comparing  
a sample of the items excluded to supporting 
documentation to assess if they have been appropriately 
excluded from underlying profit based on the company’s 
accounting policy. 
We considered whether the policy has been applied 
consistently between periods by comparing the items 
excluded in the two years ended 31 December 2015  
and on the basis of our understanding of the results 
gained throughout the audit process. 
We also assessed (i) the utilisation of amounts of charged 
outside underlying profit and the appropriateness of any 
subsequent reversals of provisions for surplus amounts 
that were initially charged outside underlying profit.  
This assessment was performed by reconciling the 
movements in provisions to underlying accounting  
records and supporting documentation; (ii) the extent  
to which the relative prominence given to underlying 
financial information and related commentary and 
Adopted IFRS financial information could be misleading; 
and (iii) whether the underlying financial information is 
not otherwise misleading in the form and context in which 
it appears.
Product related and restructuring provisions  
(included within provisions of £12.8 million).
Refer to pages 53 to 54 (Audit Committee section of the 
Directors’ Report and Notes 1h, 2u and 18 (accounting 
policy and financial disclosures)).
The risk: The group’s products are used in a variety of 
complex applications and if they do not perform in the 
manner specified, the group may be exposed to claims 
from customers. Assessing if such claims are valid and,  
if so, estimating the likely outflow of economic benefit, 
which could be material to the financial statements, 
requires judgment and involves making estimates and 
assumptions which may prove to have been inaccurate. 
The group is continuing to reorganise a number of  
its operations, giving rise to material redundancy and 
other restructuring charges. The timing of recognition  
of the associated provisions in accordance with the 
requirements of the relevant accounting standard  
also involves judgment.
76
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements  / Independent auditor’s report to  
the members of TT Electronics plc only Our response: Our audit procedures over the 
completeness of product related claims included 
corresponding with the group’s external counsel, 
inspecting correspondence with customers and other 
regulatory bodies, discussions with the group’s internal 
legal counsel and Business Unit management to identify 
actual and potential customer claims. Our audit 
procedures over the recognition and measurement of 
product related provisions included considering relevant 
available information used by the Directors to assess the 
validity of claims and challenging the basis of the 
estimates using our understanding of the status of 
ongoing claims and disputes gained throughout the  
audit process. 
Our audit procedures over the timing of recognition  
of redundancy and restructuring provisions included; 
critically assessing whether the restructuring programmes 
and commitments were sufficiently advanced to  
trigger the need for a provision in accordance with 
relevant accounting standards; considering the 
commitments made via public announcements and  
other communications with those to be affected; and 
testing the accuracy of provisions through agreeing 
individual provisions to supporting information
We also assessed whether the Group’s disclosures in 
respect of these provisions and the movements in the  
year were appropriate.
Carrying value of goodwill (£94.9 million) and property, 
plant and equipment (£89.6 million).
Refer to page 54 (Audit Committee section of the 
Directors’ Report and Notes 1h, 2g, 2k, 12 and 13 
(accounting policy and financial disclosures)).
The risk: The group has generated significant goodwill  
on acquisitions and has capitalised property, plant and 
equipment (PPE) whose recoverability is dependent  
on the ability of the businesses to which it relates  
to generate sufficient future economic benefits. 
There is a risk that a significant reduction in profitability 
due to competitive forces or a slowdown in customer 
demand for products using components supplied by the 
group may result in an impairment or further impairment.  
As set out in note 13, the most significant risk of goodwill 
impairment relates to the carrying value of goodwill 
associated with Roxspur where the recoverable amount 
exceeds the book value of £2.1 million by £12.6 million. 
The most significant risk of PPE impairment relates to  
a site in the North American resistors business with  
a carrying value of £2.7 million against which an 
impairment charge of £1.2 million has been recognised  
in the current year. 
Impairment reviews are based on discounted cash flow 
projections reflecting a number of assumptions and 
estimates which require judgment and are inherently 
uncertain. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in 
forecasting and discounting future cash flows, this is  
one of the key judgemental areas upon which our audit  
is focused.
Our response: Our audit procedures included testing the 
principles of the group’s discounted cash flow models for 
each significant cash generating unit and assessing the 
sensitivity of the impairment calculations to changes in 
the key assumptions. We challenged the key assumptions 
in the impairment calculations driving projected future 
economic benefits (relating to sales and margins during 
the projection period, long term growth rates and  
discount rates). 
Our challenge was based on our assessment of the 
historical accuracy of the group’s impairment forecasts;  
a comparison of the group’s assumptions to externally 
derived macro-economic data including expected industry 
growth, inflation rates and country specific growth rates 
(where possible) as well as our own assessments. Our  
own assessments were based on our understanding of  
the specific trading challenges being faced by the business 
at risk and its relative performance in the context of the 
overall market performance. 
We also assessed whether the group’s disclosures set out 
in notes 12 and 13 about the sensitivity of the outcome 
of the impairment assessment to changes in key 
assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation 
of goodwill. 
Tax provisioning (included within income tax payable  
of £7.4 million)
Refer to page 53 (Audit Committee section of the 
Directors’ Report and Notes 1h, 2t and 8 (accounting 
policy and financial disclosures)).
The risk: Accruals for tax contingencies require the 
directors to make judgments and estimates in relation  
to tax issues and exposures given that the group operates 
in a number of tax jurisdictions, the complexities of 
transfer pricing and other international tax legislation and 
the time taken for tax matters to be agreed with the tax 
authorities there is a risk that the Directors have not made 
adequate provisions for tax contingencies. 
Our response: Our audit procedures included the use of 
our own international and local tax specialists to assess 
the group’s tax positions, to inspect its correspondence 
with the relevant tax authorities and to analyse and 
challenge the assumptions used to determine tax 
provisions based on our knowledge and experiences  
of the application of the international and local  
legislation by the relevant authorities and courts. 
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
77
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 We also considered the adequacy of the group’s 
disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
We continue to perform procedures over the capitalisation 
and recovery of development costs. However, following 
the impairment charge of £8.4 million recognised in prior 
year (see note 14) and the significant reduction in the net 
book value of capitalised development costs, we have not 
assessed this as one of the risks that had the greatest 
effect on our audit and, therefore, it is not separately 
identified in our report this year.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview  
of the scope of our audit
The materiality for the group financial statements as  
a whole was set at £1 million, determined with reference 
to a benchmark of group profit before tax of £18.4 million 
(of which it represents 5.4% (2014: 5.4%)) normalised  
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the group’s results:
Number of
components
Group
revenue
Group profit
before tax
Total 
assets
Audits for group reporting purposes 60 86% 90% 84%
Specified risk focused audit procedures  
on significant working capital balances,  
non-current assets, revenue, cost of sales  
and administrative expenses.
4 1% 4% 8%
Total 64 87% 94% 92%
to exclude restructuring costs of £2.9 million and asset 
impairments of £1.7 million as disclosed in note 7.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected  
or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding  
£0.05 million for items impacting the income  
statement and £0.1 million for items in respect  
of balance sheet misclassifications in addition to  
other identified misstatements that warranted  
reporting on qualitative grounds. 
Of the group’s 114 reporting components, we subjected 
60 to audits for group reporting purposes and 4 to 
specified risk-focused audit procedures. The latter were 
not individually financially significant enough to require 
an audit for group reporting purposes, but did present 
specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
The remaining 13% of total group revenue, 6% of  
group profit before tax and 8% of total group assets is 
represented by 50 reporting components, none of which 
individually represented more than 7% of any of total 
group revenue, group profit before tax or total group 
assets. For these remaining components, we performed 
analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our 
assessment that there were no significant risks of material 
misstatement within these.
The group audit team instructed component auditors  
as to the significant areas to be covered, including the 
relevant risks detailed above and the information to  
be reported back. The group audit team approved the 
component materialities, which ranged from £0.01 million 
to £0.95 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk 
profile of the group across the components. 
The group audit team visited components in the USA, 
Germany, Austria, Mexico and the UK. T elephone 
conference meetings were also held with significant 
component auditors. At these visits and meetings,  
the findings reported to the group audit team were 
discussed in more detail, and any further work required  
by the group audit team was then performed by the 
component auditor. 
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed  
by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion: 
 – the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006; and 
 – the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with  
the financial statements.
78
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements / Independent auditor’s report to  
the members of TT Electronics plc only continued 5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures 
of principal risks
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit,  
we have nothing material to add or draw attention  
to in relation to: 
 – the directors’ statement of viability on page 23, 
concerning the principal risks, their management,  
and, based on that, the directors’ assessment and 
expectations of the group’s continuing in operation  
over the 3 years to December 2018; or 
 – the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements 
concerning the use of the going concern basis of 
accounting. 
6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters 
on which we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to 
you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our 
audit, we have identified other information in the annual 
report that contains a material inconsistency with either 
that knowledge or the financial statements, a material 
misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
 – we have identified material inconsistencies between  
the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the 
directors’ statement that they consider that the annual 
report and financial statements taken as a whole is  
fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
group’s position and performance, business model  
and strategy; or
 – the Audit Committee section of the Director’s Report 
does not appropriately address matters communicated 
by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report 
to you if, in our opinion: 
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
 – the parent company financial statements and the part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are 
not in agreement with the accounting records and 
returns; or 
 – certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made; or 
 – we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 – the directors’ statement, set out on pages 48 and 23 in 
relation to going concern and longer-term viability; and 
 – the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on 
page 42 relating to the company’s compliance with the 
eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance 
Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above 
responsibilities. 
Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 74, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
A description of the scope of an audit of financial 
statements is provided on the Financial Reporting 
Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. 
This report is made solely to the company’s members  
as a body and is subject to important explanations and 
disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on  
our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, 
which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full 
and should be read to provide an understanding of the 
purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and 
the basis of our opinions.
Mike Barradell (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London
E14 5GL
9 March 2016
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
79
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 80
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements / Consolidated income statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2015 
  
£million (unless otherwise stated) Note 2015 2014 
Revenue 3a 509.9 524.3 
Cost of sales   (417.5) (444.3) 
Gross profit 92.4 80.0 
Distribution costs (29.0) (29.7) 
Administrative expenses (48.2) (56.0) 
Other operating income   1.1 1.4 
Operating profit/(loss) 16.3 (4.3) 
Analysed as:       
Underlying operating profit 3a 21.7 29.2 
Restructuring 7 (2.9) (22.2) 
Acquisition related costs 7 (0.8) (1.9) 
Asset impairments 7 (1.7) (9.4) 
Finance income 5 1.8 1.1 
Finance costs 5 (4.3) (2.7) 
Profit/(loss) before taxation 13.8 (5.9) 
Taxation 8 (3.4) (4.6) 
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to owners of the Company 6 10.4 (10.5) 
      
EPS attributable to owners of the Company (p) 
Basic 10 6.5 (6.6) 
Diluted 10 6.5 (6.6) 
 
 
Financial Statements / Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
81
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income  
for the year ended 31 December 2015 
  
£million Note 2015 2014 
Profit/(loss) for the year 10.4 (10.5) 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year after tax 
Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement: 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 2.5 1.9 
Loss on hedge of net investment in foreign operations (1.2) (0.6) 
Loss on cash flow hedges taken to equity less amounts taken to income statement (0.1) (1.7) 
Items that will never be reclassified to the income statement: 
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes 22 (11.4) 4.6 
Remeasurement of other post-employment benefits 0.1 (0.3) 
Tax on remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes 21 1.9 (1.1) 
Tax on remeasurement of other post-employment benefits 21 – 0.1 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year   2.2 (7.6) 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) is entirely attributable to the owners of the Company. 
 
Financial Statements / Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2015 82
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Consolidated balance sheet 
at 31 December 2015 
 
£million Note 2015 2014 
ASSETS 
Non-current assets 
Property, plant and equipment 12  89.6  94.0  
Goodwill 13  94.9  69.4  
Other intangible assets 14  36.6  18.3  
Deferred tax assets 21  4.9  5.6  
Total non-current assets   226.0  187.3  
Current assets 
Inventories 15  79.9  78.9  
Trade and other receivables 16  72.2  70.7  
Income taxes receivable – 0.9  
Derivative financial instruments 0.2  0.4  
Cash and cash equivalents   40.9  39.4  
Total current assets   193.2  190.3  
Total assets   419.2 377.6  
LIABILITIES 
Current liabilities 
Borrowings 19  1.8  53.7  
Derivative financial instruments 1.3  1.3  
Trade and other payables 17  83.7  81.6  
Income taxes payable 7.4  10.0  
Provisions 18  12.6  18.9  
Total current liabilities   106.8  165.5  
Non-current liabilities 
Borrowings 19  95.2 – 
Deferred tax liability 21  4.3  5.6  
Pensions 22  21.1  12.4  
Provisions 18  0.2  0.2  
Other non-current liabilities 17  4.2  6.1  
Total non-current liabilities   125.0  24.3  
Total liabilities   231.8  189.8  
Net assets   187.4  187.8  
EQUITY 
Share capital 23  40.5  39.8  
Share premium 23  5.2  1.5  
Share options reserve 3.6  1.9  
Hedging and translation reserve 18.1  16.9  
Retained earnings   118.0  125.7  
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 185.4  185.8  
Non-controlling interests   2.0  2.0  
Total equity   187.4  187.8  
Approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2016 and signed on their behalf by: 
 
 
Richard Tyson  Mark Hoad 
Director  Director 
 
Financial Statements / Consolidated balance sheet
at 31 December 2015 Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
83
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 31 December 2015 
 
£million 
Share 
capital 
Share 
premium 
Share 
based 
payments 
reserve 
Hedging and 
translation 
reserve 
Retained 
earnings 
Sub- 
total 
Non-
controlling 
interest Total 
At 1 January 2014 39.7  1.4  1.2  17.3  141.7  201.3  2.0  203.3  
Loss for the year –  –  –  –  (10.5) (10.5) –  (10.5) 
Other comprehensive income 
Exchange differences on translation 
of foreign operations –  –  –  1.9  –  1.9  –  1.9  
Net loss on hedge of net investment in 
foreign operations –  –  –  (0.6) –  (0.6) –  (0.6) 
Net loss on cash flow hedges taken to equity 
less amounts taken to income statement –  –  –  (1.7) –  (1.7) –  (1.7) 
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes –  –  –  –  4.6  4.6  –  4.6  
Remeasurement of other post-employment benefits –  –  –  –  (0.3) (0.3) –  (0.3) 
Tax on remeasurement of defined benefit pension 
schemes –  –  –  –  (1.1) (1.1) –  (1.1) 
Tax on remeasurement of other post-employment 
benefits –  –  –  –  0.1  0.1  –  0.1  
Total other comprehensive income –  –  –  (0.4) 3.3  2.9  –  2.9  
Transactions with owners recorded directly in equity 
Equity dividends paid by the Company –  –  –  –  (8.7) (8.7) –  (8.7) 
Share-based payments –  –  0.8  –  –  0.8  –  0.8  
Deferred tax on share-based payments –  –  (0.1) –  –  (0.1) –  (0.1) 
New shares issued 0.1  0.1  –  –  (0.1) 0.1  –  0.1  
At 31 December 2014 39.8  1.5  1.9  16.9  125.7  185.8  2.0  187.8  
Profit for the year –  –  –  –  10.4  10.4  –  10.4  
Other comprehensive income 
Exchange differences on translation 
of foreign operations –  –  –  2.5  –  2.5  –  2.5  
Net loss on hedge of net investment in 
foreign operations –  –  –  (1.2) –  (1.2) –  (1.2) 
Net loss on cash flow hedges taken to equity 
less amounts taken to income statement –  –  –  (0.1) –  (0.1) –  (0.1) 
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes –  –  –  –  (11.4) (11.4) –  (11.4) 
Remeasurement of other post-employment benefits –  –  –  –  0.1  0.1  –  0.1  
Tax on remeasurement of defined benefit pension 
schemes –  –  –  –  1.9  1.9  –  1.9  
Total other comprehensive income – – – 1.2  (9.4) (8.2) – (8.2) 
Transactions with owners recorded directly in equity 
Equity dividends paid by the Company –  –  –  –  (8.7) (8.7) –  (8.7) 
Share-based payments –  –  1.6  –  –  1.6  –  1.6  
Deferred tax on share-based payments –  –  0.1  –  –  0.1  –  0.1  
New shares issued 0.7  3.7  –  –  –  4.4  –  4.4  
At 31 December 2015 40.5  5.2  3.6  18.1  118.0  185.4  2.0  187.4  
 
Financial Statements / Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2015 84
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Consolidated cash flow statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2015 
 
£million Note 2015 2014 
Cash flows from operating activities 
Profit/(loss) for the year 10.4  (10.5) 
Taxation  3.4  4.6  
Net finance costs 2.5  1.6  
Restructuring 2.9  22.2  
Acquisition related costs 0.8  1.9  
Asset impairments   1.7  9.4  
Underlying operating profit    21.7  29.2  
Adjustments for: 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12  15.9  16.5  
Amortisation of intangible assets 14  4.4  5.8  
Other items 1.0  1.0  
Decrease in inventories 2.2  2.6  
Decrease in receivables 3.5  5.5  
Decrease in payables   (1.1) (24.9) 
Underlying operating cash flow  47.6  35.7  
Special payments to pension funds (4.3) (4.1) 
Restructuring and acquisition related costs   (10.1) (13.0) 
Net cash generated from operations 33.2  18.6  
Net income taxes paid   (7.9) (5.4) 
Net cash flow from operating activities   25.3  13.2  
Cash flows from investing activities 
Interest received 0.1  0.1  
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 12  (15.1) (24.9) 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and grants received 0.8  1.2  
Development expenditure 14  (1.3) (6.8) 
Purchase of other intangibles 14  (2.5) (4.3) 
Acquisitions of businesses 4 (39.8) (8.4) 
Cash with acquired businesses 4  1.6  0.4  
Deferred consideration paid – (0.5) 
Net cash flow used in investing activities   (56.2) (43.2) 
Cash flows from financing activities 
Issue of share capital 23  0.5  0.1  
Interest paid (2.2) (1.0) 
Repayment of borrowings (2.9) – 
Proceeds from borrowings 44.6  24.9  
Other items 24  –  (0.5) 
Finance leases (0.1) (0.1) 
Dividends paid by the Company   (8.7) (8.7) 
Net cash flow from financing activities   31.2  14.7  
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 0.3  (15.3) 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 25  39.4  54.5  
Exchange differences 25  0.6  0.2  
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 25  40.3  39.4  
Cash and cash equivalents comprise 
Cash at bank and in hand 40.9  39.4  
Bank overdrafts 19  (0.6) –  
    40.3  39.4  
  
Financial Statements / Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
85
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
1 Basis of preparation 
a) Basis of accounting 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis modified by the revaluation of financial assets and 
derivatives held at fair value and by the revaluation of certain property, plant and equipment at the transition date to International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS). The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)  
of the IASB, as adopted by the European Union, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
The financial statements set out on pages 80 to 122 have been prepared using consistent accounting policies.  
Adoption of new and amendments to published standards and interpretations effective for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015 
did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.  
b) Basis of consolidation  
The consolidated financial statements set out the Group’s financial position as at 31 December 2015 and the Group’s financial performance 
for the year ended 31 December 2015. 
Subsidiaries are those enterprises controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the subsidiary and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the subsidiary. Subsidiaries are consolidated 
from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out  
of the Group. 
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full. 
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no 
evidence of impairment. 
c) Underlying measures 
To assist with the understanding of underlying performance, the Group has included within its published financial statements non-GAAP 
measures including underlying operating profit and underlying earnings per share. These are considered by the Board to be the most 
meaningful measures under which to assess the true operating performance of the Group. 
d) Underlying profit 
This has been defined as operating profit from continuing operations excluding the impacts of business acquisition and divestment related 
activity, restructuring costs, impairments of intangible assets and other items deemed by the Directors to be of a non-recurring nature.  
Business acquisition and divestment related items excluded from underlying profit and underlying earnings per share include the amortisation 
of intangible assets recognised on acquisition, the writing off of the pre-acquisition profit element of inventory written up on acquisition,  
other direct costs associated with business combinations and adjustments to contingent consideration related to acquired businesses. 
e) Going concern 
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out within 
the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 41. The Strategic Report analyses the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities. In addition, note 20 to the financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its 
capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and 
liquidity risk. 
The Group had a net debt balance of £56.1 million at 31 December 2015 (2014: £14.3 million), with available undrawn committed and 
uncommitted facilities of £69.0 million. Given the considerable financial resources available, together with long-term partnerships with a 
number of key customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and industries, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed  
to manage its business risks successfully. 
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources and financial headroom to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing  
the annual financial statements. Further details are contained in the Directors’ report on page 48. 
f) New standards and interpretations not yet adopted 
The Group is in the process of assessing the impact of IAS12 Income Taxes which will be effective for periods beginning 1 January 2017,  
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contacts With Customers and the revised issuance of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which will be effective for periods 
beginning 1 January 2018 and IFRS 16 Leases which will be effective for periods beginning 1 January 2019. 
A number of other new standards, amendments and interpretations are effective for periods beginning 1 January 2016 and have not yet  
been applied in preparing these Financials Statements. None of these are expected to have a significant effect on the Financial Statements  
of the Group. 
Financial Statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements 86
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
1 Basis of preparation (continued) 
g) Change in accounting policies 
There have been no changes to accounting policies during the year. Adoption of new and amendments to published standards and 
interpretations effective for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015 did not have any impact on the financial position or performance 
of the Group.  
h) Significant accounting judgements and estimates 
Judgements 
Determining many of the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements involves the use of judgements. These judgements are 
based on management’s best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances having regard to prior experience, but actual results may 
differ from the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements. Other than the key sources of estimation uncertainty shown below, 
the Directors believe that there were no material transactions or events during the year which required critical judgements in applying the 
Group’s accounting policies.  
Estimation uncertainty  
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of 
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual outcomes could differ from these estimates. In particular, information about 
significant areas of estimation uncertainty made by the Directors in preparing the consolidated financial statements is shown below: 
– Note 8 – Taxation. Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax audit issues  
and exposures. Amounts accrued are based on management’s interpretation of country-specific tax law and the likelihood of settlement.  
Tax benefits are not recognised unless the tax positions are probable of being sustained. Once considered to be probable, management 
reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis of 
potential settlement through negotiation and/or litigation. All such provisions are included in current liabilities; 
– Note 12 – Property, Plant and Equipment. Where indicators of impairment exist the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment  
has been tested by comparing the value in use to the net book value of the asset. 
– Note 13– Impairment of goodwill. The carrying amount of goodwill has been tested for impairment by estimating the value in use  
of the cash-generating units to which it has been allocated. Note 13 outlines the significant assumptions made in performing the 
impairment tests; 
– Note 14 – Other intangible assets. The recoverability of capitalised development costs is dependent on assessments of the future 
commercial viability of the relevant products and processes;  
– Note 18 – Provisions. The Group makes appropriate provision on a consistent basis for risks of product liability, litigation, restructuring,  
credit risk and other normal trading exposures with estimates being made regarding the timing of future payments; 
– Note 21 – Deferred tax. The recognition of deferred tax assets is dependent on assessments of future taxable income in the relevant 
countries concerned; and 
– Note 22 – Defined benefit pension obligations. The defined benefit pension obligations are calculated using a number of assumptions, 
including future inflation, salary increases and mortality and the obligation is then discounted to its present value using an assumed  
discount rate.  
 
Financial Statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
87
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
The following significant accounting policies have been applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. These accounting 
policies have been consistently applied across the Group. 
a) Revenue  
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the right to consideration, usually the invoiced value, for the provision of goods and services to 
external customers excluding value added tax and other sales related taxes and is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of 
ownership have transferred to the customer. In most cases this coincides with the transfer of legal title of the goods. Revenue for services 
is recognised as the services are rendered. 
b) Finance income 
Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested and foreign exchange gains. Interest income is recognised as it accrues. 
c) Finance costs 
Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings which are not capitalised under the borrowing costs policy, the calculated interest 
income on pension assets net of the calculated interest expense on pension liabilities and foreign exchange losses. 
d) Discontinued operations  
The Group reports a business as a discontinued operation when it has been disposed of in a period, or its future sale is considered to be highly 
probable at the balance sheet date, and results in the cessation of a major line of business or geographical area of operation.  
e) Dividends 
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by shareholders. Dividends receivable are recognised when the 
Group’s right to receive payment is established. 
f) Business combinations 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. Goodwill on business combinations is recognised as the fair value  
of the consideration transferred less the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and is recognised as an asset in the 
consolidated Balance Sheet. Costs relating to the acquisition are recognised as expenses in the consolidated income statement as incurred. 
Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests that do not result in a change of control are accounted for as transactions with owners  
in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions. The adjustments to non-controlling interests 
are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary. Any difference between the price paid or received and the amount  
by which non-controlling interests are adjusted is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent. 
g) Property, plant and equipment  
Initial measurement 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of a tangible fixed asset 
comprises its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working condition for its intended use. The cost of 
self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads. 
Depreciation 
The cost of each item of property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life. Depreciation is charged to the income statement 
so as to write-off the cost less estimated residual value on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset. Depreciation 
commences on the date the assets are ready for use within the business and the asset carrying values are reviewed for impairment when  
there is an indication that they may be impaired. Freehold land is not depreciated. 
The depreciation rates of assets are as follows 
Freehold buildings 50 years 
Leasehold buildings 50 years (or over the period of the lease, if shorter)  
Plant and equipment 3 to 10 years 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets that take a substantial period of time 
to get ready for their intended use are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective asset.  88
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) 
h) Investment property 
Property held to earn rental income rather than for the purpose of the Group’s principal activities is classified as investment property. 
Investment property is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. The depreciation policy  
is consistent with that described for other Group properties. The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted, 
if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. 
Investment properties are derecognised when either they have been disposed of or when the investment property is permanently withdrawn 
from use and no future economic benefit is expected from its disposal. The difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset is recognised in the income statement in the period of derecognition. 
i) Leases  
Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased items, are capitalised at the 
commencement of the lease. Plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair  
value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet. Lease 
payments are apportioned between the finance charge and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on  
the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income. Capitalised lease assets are depreciated over  
the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term. All other leases are treated as operating leases and the cost is expensed 
to the income statement as incurred. 
j) Government grants  
Government grants relating to non-current assets are treated as deferred income and credited to the income statement by equal instalments 
over the anticipated useful lives of the assets to which the grants relate. Other grants are credited to the income statement over the period  
of the project to which they relate.  
k) Goodwill  
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a business, representing the difference between the cost of acquisition and the fair value of the 
identifiable net assets acquired, is capitalised and is tested annually for impairment. Goodwill is not amortised, and any impairment 
losses are not subsequently reversed. The net book value of goodwill at the date of transition to IFRS has been treated as deemed cost. 
On the subsequent disposal or discontinuance of a previously acquired business, the relevant goodwill is dealt with in the Consolidated  
income statement except for the goodwill already charged to reserves.  
Negative goodwill arising on the acquisition of a business is credited to the Consolidated income statement on acquisition as part of 
acquisition costs reported outside underlying profit. 
l) Other intangible assets 
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are stated in the balance sheet at their fair value at the date of acquisition  
less accumulated amortisation.  
Expenditure on research activities undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding is 
recognised in the income statement as incurred. Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or 
design for the production of new or substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process is technically and 
commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of 
materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads. Other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement  
as incurred. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. The carrying values  
of intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever there is an indication that they may be impaired.  
Acquired computer software licences for use within the Group are capitalised as an intangible asset on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire 
and bring to use the specific software. Costs that are directly associated with the implementation of identifiable and unique software products 
controlled by the Group, and that will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible 
assets. Capitalised software development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation. 
The amortisation rates for intangible assets are: 
Acquired patents and licences up to 10 years  
Product development costs  5 years  
Customer relationships  3 to 15 years  
Order backlog up to 2 years 
Software 3 to 5 years 
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis.  
Financial Statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
89
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) 
m) Deferred taxation  
Deferred taxation is provided on taxable temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and their corresponding tax bases. No provision is made for deferred tax which would become payable on the distribution of 
retained profits by overseas subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that 
the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is measured using the tax rates expected to apply when the 
asset is realised or the liability settled based on tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. However, deferred tax  
is not provided on the initial recognition of goodwill, nor on the initial recognition of an asset or liability unless the related transaction is a 
business combination or affects tax or accounting profit. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can 
be utilised or that they will reverse. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will 
be realised.  
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the 
deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. 
n) Inventories  
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost, including related overheads, and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where 
applicable, direct labour costs and the overheads incurred in bringing inventories to their present location and condition. Cost is calculated 
on a weighted average cost basis.  
o) Trade and other receivables  
Trade receivables are carried at original invoice price (which is the fair value of the consideration receivable) less provision made for impairment 
of these receivables. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be 
able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. The amount of the provision is the difference between the 
original carrying amount and the recoverable amount, being the present value of expected cash flows receivable. The amount of the provision 
is recognised in the income statement. 
p) Financial instruments 
Recognition 
The Group recognises financial assets and liabilities on its balance sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the 
instrument. 
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to set 
off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 
Measurement 
When financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised, they are measured at fair value being the consideration given or received plus 
directly attributable transaction costs.  
In determining estimated fair value, investments are valued at quoted bid prices on the trade date.  
Loans and receivables comprise loans and advances other than purchased loans. Originated loans and receivables are initially recognised in 
accordance with the policy stated above and subsequently remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Allowance for 
impairment is estimated on a case-by-case basis. 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate derivatives to hedge risks 
associated with foreign exchange fluctuations and interest rate risk. These are designated as cash flow hedges. At the inception of the hedge 
relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management 
objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the 
Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows 
of the hedged item. 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in equity. 
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the income statement, 
in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item. However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the 
recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity 
and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.  90
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, 
or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is 
recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected 
to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
Derecognition 
A financial asset is derecognised when the Group loses control over the contractual rights that comprise that asset. This occurs when the rights 
are realised, expire or are surrendered. A financial liability is derecognised when it is extinguished. Originated loans and receivables are 
derecognised on the date they are transferred by the Group. 
Impairment of financial assets 
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is 
impaired. A financial asset or group of financial assets is deemed to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as  
a result of one or more events that has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (an incurred “loss event”) and that loss event has an 
impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated. 
q) Cash and cash equivalents  
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, short-term deposits held on call or with maturities of less than three months 
at inception and highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and are subject to insignificant risk of 
changes in value, and bank overdrafts.  
r) Borrowings  
Borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial 
recognition, borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
s) Trade payables  
Trade payables are carried at the amounts expected to be paid to counterparties.  
t) Income tax 
Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it 
relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case it is recognised in equity. Current tax expense is the expected tax payable 
on the taxable income for the year and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. 
u) Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an 
outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount. If the effect of the time value 
of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in 
the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost. 
v) Employee benefits 
The Group operates defined benefit post-retirement benefit schemes and defined contribution pension schemes. 
Defined benefit plans 
The liability recognised in the balance sheet for defined benefit schemes is the present value of schemes’ liabilities less the fair value 
of schemes’ assets. The operating and financing costs of defined benefit schemes are recognised separately in the income statement. 
Operating costs comprise the current service cost, any gains or losses on settlement or curtailments, and past service costs where benefits have 
vested. Net interest income and expense on net defined benefit assets and liabilities is determined by applying discount rates used to measure 
defined benefit obligations at the beginning of the year to net defined benefit assets and liabilities at the beginning of the year and is included 
in finance income and costs. Remeasurements arising from defined benefit plans comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets 
(excluding interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest). The Group recognises them immediately in other 
comprehensive income and all other expenses related to defined benefit plans in employee benefit expenses in profit or loss.  
Defined contribution plans 
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and will 
have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are 
recognised in the income statement in the periods during which services are rendered by employees.  
Financial Statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
91
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) 
Termination benefits 
Termination benefits are recognised as an expense when the Group is committed demonstrably, without realistic possibility of withdrawal,  
to a formal detailed plan to either terminate employment before the normal retirement date, or to provide termination benefits as a result 
of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. Termination benefits for voluntary redundancies are recognised as an expense if the 
Group has made an offer of voluntary redundancy, it is probable that the offer will be accepted, and the number of acceptances can be 
estimated reliably.  
Short-term employee benefits 
Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided. A liability 
is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or profit-sharing plans if the Group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee, and the obligation can be estimated reliably. 
Share-based payments  
Certain employees of the Group receive part of their remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees 
render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares (equity-settled transactions). The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees 
is measured at fair value at the date at which they are granted. The fair value of share awards with market-related vesting conditions is 
determined by an external consultant and the fair value at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on 
the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest. The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each balance sheet 
date up to the vesting date at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual outcome of awards which have vested. No adjustment 
is made to the fair value after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised. 
w) Own shares 
Own equity instruments which are re-acquired (own shares) are recognised at cost and deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognised in 
the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Group’s own equity instruments. Any difference between the carrying 
amount and the consideration paid to acquire such equity instruments is recognised within equity. 
x) Foreign currency translation 
The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined with reference to the currency of the primary economic environment in 
which it operates. Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling  
at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling 
at the balance sheet date. Exchange gains and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions translated at the rate prevailing at the 
date of the transactions, or the translation of monetary assets and liabilities at period end exchange rates, are taken to the income statement. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost are translated to the functional 
currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. 
On consolidation, income statements of subsidiaries are translated into sterling, at average rates of exchange. Balance sheet items are 
translated into sterling at period end exchange rates. Exchange differences on the retranslation are taken to equity. Exchange differences 
on foreign currency borrowings financing those net investments are also dealt with in equity and are reported in the statement of 
comprehensive income. All other exchange differences are charged or credited to the income statement in the year in which they arise. 
On disposal of an overseas subsidiary any cumulative exchange movements relating to that subsidiary held in the translation reserve are 
transferred to the consolidated income statement.   92
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
3 Segmental reporting 
As part of the organisational change announced in November 2014, the Group is now organised into four divisions, as shown below,  
according to the nature of the products and services provided. Each of these divisions represent an operating segment in accordance  
with IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’ and there is no aggregation of segments. The chief operating decision maker is the Board of Directors.  
The operating segments are: 
– Transportation Sensing and Control – The Transportation Sensing and Control division develops both sensors and control solutions for 
automotive OEMs and tier one suppliers including powertrain providers for passenger cars and trucks. The division develops a wide range  
of sensors for multiple applications on a vehicle, from gear position and pedal sensors to fluid and emission sensors and with almost all  
of them focused on safety and driver assistance features required by our customers; 
– Industrial Sensing and Control – The Industrial Sensing and Control division addresses challenging sensing requirements in terms of 
precision; speed of response; reliability or physical environment in developing position, pressure, temperature, flow and fluid quality sensors 
which are used for critical applications in a range of end markets including industrial automation, industrial process control, medical and 
aerospace sectors; 
– Advanced Components – The Advanced Components division creates specialist, high performance, ultra-reliable, highly engineered 
electronic components for circuit protection, power management, signal conditioning and connectivity applications in harsh environments. 
The division serves customers in the industrial, automotive, aerospace, defence and medical markets and focus on creating value by 
developing innovative electronic solutions that solve especially challenging problems for our customers electronic circuits or systems; and 
– Integrated Manufacturing Services – The IMS division draws on its manufacturing design engineering capabilities, global facilities and world-
class quality standards to provide highly complex electronic manufacturing solutions to customers in the aerospace and defence, medical, 
and high technology industrial sectors. The division has broad capabilities ranging from printed circuit board assembly to environmental  
test and full systems integration. This global suite of end-to-end solutions is focused exclusively on low volume, high mix business. 
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies as shown in note 2. 
The key performance measure of the operating segments is underlying operating profit. The Group reports non-trading income or expenditure 
outside underlying profit when the size, nature or function of an item or aggregation of similar items is such that separate presentation 
is relevant to an understanding of its financial position, see accounting policy in note 1d). Segment operating profit represents the profit 
earned by each segment after allocation of central head office administration costs and is reviewed by the chief operating decision maker.  
Group financing (including finance costs and finance income) and income taxes are managed on a Group basis and are not allocated 
to operating segments. 
Goodwill is allocated to the individual cash generating units which are smaller than the segment which they are part of. 
a) Income statement information – continuing operations 
 
        2015 
£million 
Transportation 
Sensing and 
Control 
Industrial 
Sensing and 
Control 
Advanced 
Components 
Integrated 
Manufacturing 
Services Total 
Sales to external customers 205.8  61.0  95.3  147.8  509.9  
Segment underlying operating profit  (1.4) 11.4  6.0  5.7  21.7  
Adjustments to underlying operating profit (note 7)         (5.4) 
Operating profit 16.3  
Net finance costs         (2.5) 
Profit before taxation         13.8  
 
Financial Statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
93
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
3 Segmental reporting (continued) 
 
        2014 
£million 
Transportation 
Sensing and 
Control 
(represented
1
) 
Industrial Sensing 
and Control 
(represented
1
) 
Advanced 
Components 
Integrated 
Manufacturing 
Services Total 
Sales to external customers 230.5  58.8  98.8  136.2  524.3  
Segment underlying operating profit  1.4  12.8  9.5  5.5  29.2  
Adjustments to underlying operating profit (note 7)         (33.5) 
Operating loss (4.3) 
Net finance costs         (1.6) 
Loss before taxation         (5.9) 
1. In 2014 the results of Transportation and Industrial Sensing and Control were disclosed as a single segment within a combined Sensing and Control division. 
There are no significant sales between segments.  
b) Segment assets and liabilities 
 
  Assets   Liabilities 
£million 2015 2014 2015 2014 
Transportation Sensing and Control 102.5  113.5  38.9  45.6  
Industrial Sensing and Control 82.9  81.2  11.7  15.3  
Advanced Components 104.5  57.2  18.9  16.3  
Integrated Manufacturing Services 83.3  79.4  31.2  29.6  
Segment assets and liabilities 373.2  331.3  100.7  106.8  
Pensions and other post-employment benefits –  – 21.1 12.4  
Unallocated assets and liabilities 46.0  46.3  110.0 70.6  
Total assets/liabilities 419.2  377.6  231.8 189.8  
  
Capital 
expenditure   
Depreciation and 
amortisation 
£million 2015 2014 2015 2014 
Transportation Sensing and Control 7.5  21.4  11.4  14.9  
Industrial Sensing and Control 2.6  2.3  1.5  1.7  
Advanced Components 6.0  7.8  4.9  3.7  
Integrated Manufacturing Services 2.8  4.5  2.5  2.0  
Total 18.9  36.0  20.3  22.3  
Unallocated assets of £46.0 million (2014: £46.3 million) include deferred tax of £4.9 million (2014: £5.6 million), cash of £40.9 million  
(2014: £39.4 million), derivative financial instruments of £0.2 million (2014: £0.4 million) and income tax of nil (2014: £0.9 million). 
Unallocated liabilities of £110.0 million (2014: £70.6 million) include borrowings of £97.0 million (2014: £53.7 million), derivative  
financial instruments of £1.3 million (2014: £1.3 million), deferred tax of £4.3 million (2014: £5.6 million) and income tax of £7.4 million 
(2014: £10.0 million).  94
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
3 Segmental reporting (continued) 
c) Geographic information 
Revenue by destination 
The Group operates on a global basis. Revenue from external customers by geographical destination is shown below. Management monitor 
and review revenue by region rather than by individual country given the significant number of countries where customers are based. 
 
£million 2015 2014 
United Kingdom 82.6  86.4  
Rest of Europe 234.5  256.0  
North America 101.9  101.0  
Central and South America 2.4  3.4  
Asia 84.6  74.5  
Rest of the World 3.9  3.0  
Total revenue 509.9  524.3  
No individual customer directly accounts for more than 10% of Group revenue. Revenue from services is less than 5% of Group revenues.  
All other revenue is from the sale of goods. 
Non-current assets 
The carrying amount of non-current assets, excluding deferred tax assets and financial assets, analysed by the geographical area is  
shown below: 
 
£million 2015 2014 
United Kingdom 80.2  37.1  
Rest of Europe 42.0  49.0  
North America 80.2  77.2  
Central and South America 4.9  4.6  
Asia 13.8  13.8  
  221.1  181.7  
 
 
Financial Statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
95
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
4 Acquisitions 
On 18 December 2015 the Group acquired Aero Stanrew Group Limited.  
The consideration was paid through a combination of £39.8 million in cash and the issue of 2,575,669 shares (with a fair value of £4.0 million)  
to key members of the management team. 
 
2015 
£million 
Book value at date 
of acquisition 
Fair value 
adjustments 
(provisional) 
Fair value at 
date of 
acquisition 
(provisional) 
Non-current assets 
Property, plant and equipment 1.2  –  1.2  
Identifiable intangible assets 0.1 18.8 18.9  
Current assets / (liabilities) 
Inventory 2.5  0.4  2.9  
Trade and other receivables 4.2  – 4.2  
Cash 1.6  –  1.6  
Trade and other payables (3.2) –  (3.2) 
Income tax payable (0.7) –  (0.7) 
Non-current liabilities 
Deferred tax (0.1) (3.4) (3.5) 
  5.6  15.8  21.4  
Consideration paid/payable 
Cash 39.8  
Fair value of shares 4.0  
Goodwill     22.4  
As consideration exceeds the value of net assets acquired, goodwill of £22.4 million has been recognised on the balance sheet. The goodwill 
represents the Group’s view of the future earnings growth potential of Aero Stanrew and the technical know-how in the business. 
£18.8 million of intangible assets have been recognised representing the fair value of the customer relationships (£16.6 million) and order 
backlog (£2.2 million) acquired. The useful economic life of the customer relationships is 15 years and that of the order backlog is 1.4 years.  
A deferred tax liability of £3.4 million has been recognised on the fair value adjustment to the assets and liabilities acquired. 
On 14 July 2014 the Group announced the acquisition of Roxspur Measurement & Control Limited. Initial net consideration of £8.4 million  
was paid in cash with subsequent adjustments due to the determination of net asset values acquired bringing consideration to £8.3 million.  
As a result of the impact of the broader slowdown in the oil and gas sector a further £2.5 million contingent consideration will not now become 
payable. £0.8 million contingent consideration accrued to date was released through non-underlying profit during the year.  
As consideration payable exceeded the £6.2 million net assets acquired (including identifiable intangible assets of £4.5 million), goodwill of 
£2.1 million was recognised on the balance sheet. The measurements period closed on 14 July 2015 with no further adjustments to provisional 
fair values.  96
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
5 Finance income and finance costs 
 
£million 2015 2014 
Interest expense (2.2) (1.0) 
Foreign exchange losses (1.5) (0.7) 
Net interest on employee obligations (0.4) (0.8) 
Amortisation of arrangement fees (0.2) (0.2) 
Finance costs (4.3) (2.7) 
Interest income 0.1  0.1  
Foreign exchange gains 1.7  1.0  
Finance income 1.8  1.1  
Net finance costs (2.5) (1.6) 
6 Profit for the year 
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations for the year is stated after charging/(crediting): 
£million 2015 2014 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 15.9  16.5  
Amortisation of intangible assets
1
 5.2  6.5  
Net foreign exchange (losses)/gains (0.3) 0.1  
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 417.5  444.3  
Research and development 20.4  18.8  
Staff costs (see note 11) 149.8  149.2  
Restructuring (excluded from underlying operating profit) 2.9  22.2  
Contingent consideration (excluded from underlying operating profit) (0.8)  0.8  
M&A costs (excluded from underlying operating profit) 0.8 0.4 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangibles
2
 1.9  9.6  
Remuneration of Group Auditors: 
– audit of these financial statements 0.3  0.3  
– audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 0.6  0.5  
– taxation compliance services  0.2  0.2  
– other tax advisory services – 0.1  
– other advisory services 0.1 0.3  
Government grants credited (0.4) (0.3) 
Share-based payments
3
 1.7  1.3  
Profit on disposal of property plan and equipment 0.1  0.2  
1. Included within amortisation of intangible assets is £0.8 million (2014: £0.7 million) reported within items excluded from underlying operating profit.  
2. Included within impairment of property, plant and equipment is £0.2 million (2014: £0.2 million) charged to underlying operating profit. 
3. Included within share based payments is £0.2 million (2014:£0.1 million) reported within items excluded from underlying operating profit. 
Financial Statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
97
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
7 Underlying measures 
 
To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included within its published financial statements non-GAAP measures 
including underlying profit and underlying earnings. 
These are considered by the Board to be the most meaningful measures under which to assess the true operating performance of the Group. 
Underlying operating profit  
This has been defined as operating profit from continuing operations excluding restructuring costs, asset impairments and acquisition related 
costs as detailed below. 
 
£million 2015 2014 
Restructuring 
Operational Improvement Plan (1.8) (15.0) 
Other restructuring (0.7) (4.8) 
Charges associated with management changes (0.4) (2.4) 
  (2.9) (22.2) 
Asset impairments 
Impairment charges associated with capitalised development costs – (8.4) 
Other impairments  (1.7) (1.0) 
  (1.7) (9.4) 
Acquisition related costs 
Contingent consideration 0.8  (0.8) 
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations (0.8) (0.7) 
M&A costs (including aborted deals) (0.8) (0.4) 
  (0.8) (1.9) 
Total (5.4) (33.5) 
Restructuring costs £2.9 million (2014: £22.2 million) 
In the year ended 31 December 2015 total restructuring costs of £2.9 million were incurred, of which £1.8 million related to the Operational 
Improvement Plan, £0.7 million related to other restructuring costs and £0.4m related to the change of management structure. 
In the year ended 31 December 2014 total restructuring costs of £22.2 million were incurred, including £15 million relating to the Operational 
Improvement Plan and £7.2 million relating to other restructuring costs including UK site consolidation, costs related to the IMS Romania 
facility and change of management structure. 
Asset Impairments £1.7 million (2014: £9.4 million) 
In the year ended 31 December 2015 asset impairment costs of £1.7 million were incurred, relating mainly to the North American resistors 
business, reflecting the downturn in activity experienced in the second half of the year. 
In the year ended 31 December 2014 £9.4 million of costs were incurred for the impairment of assets, relating mainly to capitalised 
development expenditure.  
Acquisition costs £0.8 million (2014: £1.9 million) 
In the year ended 31 December 2015 acquisition costs amounted to £0.8 million which related to £0.8 million of acquisition related costs,  
£0.8 million of amortisation of acquired intangible assets and a £0.8 million credit relating to the reversal of an accrual for deferred acquisition 
consideration.  
In the year ended 31 December 2014 £1.9 million of acquisition related costs were incurred, including deferred acquisition consideration  
of £0.8 million, £0.7 million relating to amortisation of acquired intangible assets and M&A costs of £0.4 million. 
  98
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
8 Taxation 
a) Analysis of the tax charge for the year 
 
£million 2015 2014 
Current tax  
Current income tax charge 7.1  5.7  
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous year (1.5) (1.7) 
Total current tax charge 5.6  4.0  
Deferred tax 
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences (2.2) 0.6  
Total tax charge in the income statement 3.4  4.6  
UK tax is calculated at 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) of taxable profits. Overseas tax is calculated at the tax rates prevailing in the relevant countries. 
The Group’s effective tax rate for the year from continuing operations was 24.5% (27.0% underlying).  
Included within the total tax charge above is a £1.8 million credit relating to items reported outside underlying profit (2014: £2.5 million). 
b) Reconciliation of the total tax charge for the year 
 
£million 2015 2014 
Profit/(loss) before tax  13.8  (5.9) 
Profit/(loss) before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) 2.8  (1.3) 
Effects of: 
Overseas tax rate differences 0.7  (0.3) 
Items not deductible for tax purposes or income not taxable 0.4  6.6  
Adjustment to current tax in respect of prior periods (1.5) (1.7) 
Impact on deferred tax arising from changes in tax rates 0.1  (0.1) 
Recognition and utilisation of tax losses and other items not previously recognised (0.1) (0.3) 
Current year tax losses and other items not recognised 2.0  2.1  
Adjustment to value of deferred tax assets (1.0) (0.4) 
Total tax charge reported in the income statement 3.4  4.6  
The enacted UK corporation tax rate applicable from 1 April 2015 is 20%, from 1 April 2017 is 19% and from 1 April 2020 is 18%. 
9 Dividends 
 
  
2015  
pence per share 
2015 
£million 
2014  
pence per share 
2014 
£million 
Final dividend for prior year 3.8  6.0  3.8  6.0  
Interim dividend for current year 1.7  2.7  1.7  2.7  
  5.5  8.7  5.5  8.7  
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.8 pence which when combined with the interim dividend of 1.7 pence gives a total dividend for 
the year of 5.5 pence per share. The Group has a progressive dividend policy. The final dividend will be paid on 2 June 2016 to shareholders on 
the register on 20 May 2016. 
Financial Statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
99
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
10 Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of shares 
in issue during the period.  
Underlying earnings per share is based on the underlying profit after tax. 
 
Pence 2015 2014 
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 6.5  (6.6) 
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share 6.5  (6.6) 
The numbers used in calculating underlying, basic and diluted earnings per share are shown below.  
Underlying earnings per share: 
 
£million 2015 2014 
Profit/(loss) for the period attributable to owners of the Company 10.4  (10.5) 
Restructuring 2.9  22.2  
Asset impairments 1.7  9.4  
Acquisition related costs 0.8  1.9  
Tax effect of above items (see note 8a) (1.8) (2.5) 
Underlying earnings 14.0  20.5  
Underlying earnings per share (pence) 8.8  12.9  
The weighted average number of shares in issue is as follows: 
 
Million 2015 2014 
Basic 159.2  158.3  
Adjustment for share awards 0.1  0.5  
Diluted 159.3  158.8  
   100
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
11 Employee information 
The average number of full time equivalent employees (including Directors) during the year from continuing operations was: 
 
Number 2015 2014 
By function 
Production 5,031  5,380  
Sales and distribution 308  333  
Administration 340  379  
  5,679  6,092  
By division 
Transportation Sensing and Control 1,800  1,783  
Industrial Sensing and Control 980  1,044  
Advanced Components 1,434  1,596  
Integrated Manufacturing Services 1,465  1,669  
Total  5,679 6,092  
The aggregate emoluments including those of Directors for the year were: 
 
£million 2015 
2014  
(restated
1
) 
Wages and salaries 117.5 115.9 
Social security charges 27.4  28.9  
Employers’ pension costs 2.4  2.4  
Defined benefit pension cost 0.8 0.7 
Share based payments expense 1.7  1.3  
  149.8 149.2 
1. 2014 has been restated to exclude £4.8 million of agency employee costs. 
Remuneration in respect of the Directors was as follows: 
 
£million 2015 2014 
Emoluments  1.8 1.3  
Further details of individual Directors’ remuneration, pension benefits and share awards are shown in the Directors’ remuneration report on 
pages 56 to 69. 
Key management personnel 
The remuneration of key management during the year was as follows: 
 
£million 2015 2014 
Short-term benefits 4.4 3.3  
Termination payments – 1.0  
Share based payments expense 1.1  0.5  
  5.5  4.8  
In accordance with IAS 24 “Related party disclosures”, key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility 
for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly. Key management personnel comprise the Directors, 
Company Secretary and other members of the Executive Management Board. Their compensation is considered and recommended to the 
Board by the Remuneration Committee.  
Financial Statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
101
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
12 Property, plant and equipment 
 
£million 
Land and 
buildings 
Plant and 
equipment Total 
Cost 
At 1 January 2014 54.6  282.6  337.2  
Additions 2.6  22.3  24.9  
Businesses acquired – 0.2  0.2  
Disposals (2.0) (5.2) (7.2) 
Net exchange adjustment (0.8) (1.7) (2.5) 
At 1 January 2015 54.4  298.2  352.6  
Additions 1.4  13.7  15.1 
Businesses acquired 0.6  0.6  1.2  
Disposals (0.5) (22.3) (22.8) 
Transfers – (2.4) (2.4) 
Net exchange adjustment (0.7) (2.6) (3.3) 
At 31 December 2015 55.2  285.2  340.4  
Depreciation and impairment 
At 1 January 2014 20.1  228.5  248.6  
Depreciation charge 1.7  14.8  16.5  
Impairment 0.3  0.9  1.2  
Disposals (1.3) (5.1) (6.4) 
Net exchange adjustment (0.4) (0.9) (1.3) 
At 1 January 2015 20.4  238.2  258.6  
Depreciation charge 1.8  14.1  15.9  
Impairment – 1.4  1.4  
Disposals (0.4) (21.7) (22.1) 
Transfers – (1.1) (1.1) 
Net exchange adjustment (0.3) (1.6) (1.9) 
At 31 December 2015 21.5  229.3  250.8  
Net book value       
At 31 December 2015 33.7  55.9  89.6  
At 31 December 2014 34.0  60.0  94.0  
Included within land and buildings are three (2014: three) investment properties with a carrying value of £0.8 million (2014: £0.8 million).  
The fair value of these properties is £3.9 million (2014: £4.0 million). 
Included within the impairment charge for the year is £1.2 million (2014: £1.2 million) included within items excluded from underlying profit. 
The Group identified indicators of impairment at one site during the year. The net book value of £2.7 million exceeded the £1.5 million value  
in use and as a result an impairment of £1.2 million was recognised. The key assumptions applied for the value in use calculation were a post-
tax discount factor of 9.6% and an annual growth rate of 1.8% over a ten year projection period. A 10% reduction in revenue would result  
in a £0.1 million increase in the impairment charge. 
Capitalised software with a cost of £2.4 million and accumulated depreciation of £1.1 million has been transferred to intangible assets.  102
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
13 Goodwill 
 
  £million 
Cost 
At 1 January 2014 63.9  
Additions 2.1  
Net exchange adjustment 3.4  
At 1 January 2015 69.4  
Additions 22.4  
Net exchange adjustment 3.1  
At 31 December 2015 94.9  
Goodwill is attributed to the following cash generating units (“CGUs”) in the divisions shown below: 
 
£million 2015 2014 
Industrial Sensing and Control:     
Variable Components  26.0  24.6  
Optoelectronics  19.5  18.4  
Roxspur  2.1  2.1  
Advanced Components:     
Aero Stanrew  22.4  – 
Power and Hybrid  5.2  5.1  
Resistors  2.0  1.9  
Integrated Manufacturing Services:     
TT electronics integrated manufacturing services, USA  8.5  8.1  
TT electronics integrated manufacturing services, Suzhou  5.1  5.1  
New Chapel Electronics, UK  3.4  3.4  
Other  0.7  0.7  
The Group tests goodwill impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The recoverable 
amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding 
the discount rates, growth rates and operating cash projections during the period for which management have detailed plans. Management 
estimate discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the Group’s time value of money and the risks specific  
to the CGU being measured. 
As part of the annual budgeting and strategic planning processes, the Group prepares cash flow forecasts for the following five years. In 2015 
the growth rate assumed after this five-year period is based on long-term GDP projections capped at long term inflation rates of the primary 
market for the CGU, in perpetuity. The long-term inflation rate used was 2% for the UK, US and Chinese businesses (2014: 2% for the UK 
business and 3% for the US and Chinese businesses). 
The growth rates assume that demand for our products remains broadly in line with the underlying economic environment in the long-term 
future. Taking into account our expectation of future market conditions, we believe that the evolution of selling prices and cost measures put 
into place will lead to a sustained improvement in profitability which is higher than in recent years. 
Aero Stanrew was acquired within two weeks of the balance sheet date and therefore the fair value is considered to be equal to the carrying 
values of the assets recognised on acquisition (including goodwill).  
Financial Statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
103
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
13 Goodwill (continued) 
The pre-tax discount rates used to discount the forecast cash flows are: 
 
  2015 2014 
Variable Components 12.9% 9.5% 
Optoelectronics 13.0% 9.5% 
Power and Hybrid 11.9% 10.8% 
Roxspur 11.0% n/a 
TT electronics integrated manufacturing services, USA 13.0% 9.5% 
TT electronics integrated manufacturing services, Suzhou 13.6% 11.5% 
New Chapel Electronics, UK 11.3% 10.8% 
Following detailed review, no impairment losses have been recognised in the current or prior year. 
The goodwill allocated to each of Variable Components, Optoelectronics, Aero Stanrew, Power and Hybrid, Roxspur, TT electronics integrated 
manufacturing services, USA, TT electronics integrated manufacturing services, Suzhou, and New Chapel Electronics are considered to be 
individually significant. After translation using year end foreign exchange rates, these CGUs represent 97% or £92.2 million of the total 
goodwill balance. 
The recoverable amounts exceed the total carrying value of assets for the CGUs by the following amounts: 
£million 2015 2014 
Variable Components 23.6 31.1 
Optoelectronics 26.4 49.8 
Power and Hybrid 22.5 27.3 
Roxspur 12.6 n/a 
TT electronics integrated manufacturing services, USA 11.6 20.5 
TT electronics integrated manufacturing services, Suzhou 51.8 56.4 
New Chapel Electronics, UK 2.7 1.5 
The recoverable amounts associated with these goodwill balances have been determined on a value in use basis using conservative 
assumptions. A value in use test requires comparison of asset carrying values with pre-tax cash flows (which exclude any tax benefit).  
A key assumption in the value in use test is the projected performance of the cash generating units based on cash flow forecasts. The 
recoverable amounts associated with the goodwill balances are based on these performance projections, and based on current forecast 
information do not indicate that any goodwill balance is impaired. If a company’s actual performance does not meet these projections  
this could lead to an impairment of the goodwill in future periods. 
Other key assumptions and sensitivities are as follows: 
Long-term growth rate 
The budget and strategic review for these companies have been extrapolated in perpetuity using long-term GDP projections capped at long 
term inflation rates of the primary market for the CGU in perpetuity. A key assumption in deriving the growth rate is that the businesses will 
grow in line with the underlying economic environment for the foreseeable future. Revenue would need to decrease annually by the following 
amounts for the carrying values to be impaired:  
 
  2015 2014 
Variable Components 9.1% 20.0% 
Optoelectronics 12.2% 24.1% 
Power and Hybrid 14.2% 18.2% 
Roxspur 14.8% n/a 
TT electronics integrated manufacturing services, USA 6.8% 13.7% 
TT electronics integrated manufacturing services, Suzhou 26.0% 27.2% 
New Chapel Electronics, UK 0.4% 2.2% 
  104
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
13 Goodwill (continued) 
Discount rate 
Sensitivity analysis has determined that the discount rate is an influential assumption on the outcome of the recoverable amount calculation. 
For the carrying values to be impaired, the discount rate would need to increase to the following amounts: 
 
  2015 2014 
Variable Components 21.1% 14.6% 
Optoelectronics 22.5% 21.3% 
Power and Hybrids 25.3% 21.3% 
Roxspur 25.5% n/a 
TT electronics integrated manufacturing services, USA 20.0% 17.3% 
TT electronics integrated manufacturing services, Suzhou 47.1% 29.0% 
New Chapel Electronics, UK 17.1% 13.8% 
Cash flows 
Sensitivity analysis has also been performed on the operating cash flow projections. Cash flows can be impacted by changes to sales 
projections, sales prices, direct costs and replacement capital expenditure. In order for the carrying values to be impaired the expected cash 
flows for every year would need to reduce by the following: 
 
  2015 2014 
Variable Components 46.2% 41.8% 
Optoelectronics 48.3% 62.4% 
Power and Hybrids 61.3% 57.5% 
Roxspur 65.7% n/a 
TT electronics integrated manufacturing services, USA 40.6% 52.6% 
TT electronics integrated manufacturing services, Suzhou 75.8% 68.7% 
New Chapel Electronics, UK 40.0% 26.4% 
The Directors have not identified any other likely changes in other significant assumptions that would cause the carrying value of recognised 
goodwill to exceed its recoverable amount. 
Financial Statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
105
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
14 Other intangible assets 
 
£million 
Product 
development 
costs 
Patents, 
 licences and 
other  
Customer 
relationships Total 
Cost 
At 1 January 2014 27.2  11.0  3.5  41.7  
Additions 6.8  4.3  – 11.1  
Businesses acquired –  – 4.5  4.5  
Net exchange adjustment (1.2) 0.1  0.1  (1.0) 
At 1 January 2015 32.8  15.4  8.1  56.3  
Additions 1.3  2.5  – 3.8  
Businesses acquired –  2.3  16.6  18.9  
Disposals – (0.1) – (0.1) 
Transfers –  2.4  – 2.4  
Net exchange adjustment –  0.1  0.1  0.2  
At 31 December 2015 34.1  22.6  24.8  81.5  
Amortisation 
At 1 January 2014 16.1  4.7  2.8  23.6  
Charge for the year 4.1  1.8  0.6  6.5  
Impairment 8.4  –  –  8.4  
Net exchange adjustment (0.7) 0.1  0.1  (0.5) 
At 1 January 2015 27.9  6.6  3.5  38.0  
Charge for the year 1.7  2.7  0.8  5.2  
Impairment –  0.5  –  0.5  
Transfers –  1.1  –  1.1  
Net exchange adjustment –  –  0.1  0.1  
At 31 December 2015 29.6  10.9  4.4  44.9  
Net book value         
At 31 December 2015 4.5  11.7  20.4  36.6  
At 31 December 2014 4.9  8.8  4.6  18.3  
Included within patents, licenses and other are intangible assets under construction with a carrying value of £0.9 million (2014: £0.8 million). 
Included within the amortisation charge for the year is £0.8 million (2014: £0.7 million) included within items excluded from underlying profit. 
Capitalised software with a cost of £2.4 million and accumulated depreciation of £1.1 million has been transferred from property, plant  
and equipment. 
The £8.4 million impairment of product development costs in 2014 followed a detailed appraisal of capitalised development expenditure 
undertaken as part of a wider strategic review. 
15 Inventories 
 
£million 2015 2014 
Raw materials 41.7  42.1  
Work in progress 19.5  19.4  
Finished goods 18.7  17.4  
  79.9  78.9  
Inventories are stated after deduction of a provision for slow moving and obsolete items of £28.2 million (2014: £27.6 million).  
16 Trade and other receivables 
 
£million 2015 2014 
Trade receivables 58.9  58.6  
Prepayments 5.8  6.4  
Other receivables 7.5  5.7  
  72.2  70.7  
Provisions for impairment in respect of trade receivables are shown in note 20(d)(ii).  106
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
17 Trade and other payables  
 
£million 2015 2014 
Current liabilities 
Trade payables 38.5  43.2  
Taxation and social security 4.3  4.0  
Other payables, accruals and deferred income 40.9  34.4  
  83.7  81.6  
 
£million 2015 2014 
Non-current liabilities 
Accruals and deferred income 4.2  6.1  
  4.2 6.1  
18 Provisions 
 
£million 
Operational 
Improvement 
Plan Reorganisation  Legal and other  Total  
At 1 January 2014 2.7  2.1  5.4  10.2  
Utilised (1.8) (0.7) (1.0) (3.5) 
Released (0.3) –  (0.1) (0.4) 
Arising during the year 11.6  0.7  0.5  12.8  
At 1 January 2015 12.2  2.1  4.8  19.1  
Utilised (4.9) (0.6) (0.6) (6.1) 
Released (1.4) – (0.3) (1.7) 
Arising during the year – 0.2  1.7  1.9  
Exchange differences (0.5) 0.1  –  (0.4) 
At 31 December 2015 5.4  1.8  5.6  12.8  
The Operational Improvement Plan provision relates to fundamental restructuring of the manufacturing footprint and sales organisation of the 
Transportation Sensing and Control and Industrial Sensing and Control divisions. The balance as at 31 December 2015 includes the directors’ 
best estimate of costs to complete the Operational Improvement Plan. The release in the year relates to the transfer of manufacturing at 
Werne, Germany to our best cost facilities in Romania and the closure of the facility at Fullerton, USA and transfer of production to Mexico.  
The Reorganisation provision primarily relates to the restructuring programme associated with the closure of the Boone, North Carolina 
operations, costs on site consolidation in the UK and the establishment of a Romania facility for the IMS division. The utilisation in the year 
relates to costs incurred on site consolidation in the UK. 
Legal and other claims represent the best estimate for the cost of settling outstanding product and other claims, and warranty provisions issued 
on the disposal of businesses. The Group has, on occasion, been required to enforce commercial contracts and similarly to defend itself against 
proceedings brought by other parties. Provisions are made for the expected costs associated with such matters, based on past experience of 
similar items and other known factors, taking into account professional advice received, and represent management’s best estimate of the 
likely outcome. The timing of utilisation of these provisions is frequently uncertain, reflecting the complexity of issues and the outcome of 
various court proceedings and negotiations. Contractual and other provisions represent the Directors’ best estimate of the cost of settling 
future obligations although there is a higher degree of judgement involved. Unless specific evidence exists to the contrary, these provisions  
are shown as current.  
No provision is made for proceedings which have been or might be brought by other parties against group companies unless management, 
taking into account professional advice received, assesses that it is more likely than not that such proceedings may be successful. Contingent 
liabilities associated with such proceedings have been identified, but the directors are of the opinion that any associated claims that might  
be brought can be resisted successfully, and therefore the possibility of any material outflow in settlement in excess of amounts provided is 
assessed as remote. 
The total provisions are analysed between current and non-current as follows:  
 
£million   2015 2014 
Non-current 0.2  0.2  
Current   12.6  18.9  
    12.8  19.1  
The timing of the utilisation of these amounts is uncertain as they are subject to commercial negotiation and legal process in different 
jurisdictions. 
Financial Statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
107
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
19 Borrowings 
 
£million  
Maturity 
Currency of 
denomination Current Non-current Total 
31 December 2015 
£75 million multi-currency revolving credit facility 2017 GBP –  55.0  55.0  
2017 EUR –  13.3  13.3  
$40 million USD bilateral revolving credit facility 2017 USD –  20.4  20.4  
$20 million USD bilateral revolving credit facility 2017 USD –  6.8  6.8  
AB Mikroelektronik GmbH loan 2016 EUR 1.3  –  1.3  
Overdrafts 0.6  –  0.6  
Finance leases 0.1  –  0.1  
Loan arrangement fee     (0.2) (0.3) (0.5) 
Total     1.8  95.2  97.0  
31 December 2014 
£45 million multi-currency revolving credit facility 2017 GBP 18.0  –  18.0  
2017 EUR 7.8  –  7.8  
$30 million USD bilateral revolving credit facility 2017 USD 19.3  –  19.3  
$10 million USD bilateral revolving credit facility 2017 USD 4.5  –  4.5  
AB Mikroelektronik GmbH loan 2015 EUR 4.5  –  4.5  
Finance leases 0.1  –  0.1  
Loan arrangement fee     (0.5) – (0.5) 
Total     53.7  – 53.7  
In August 2012, the Group agreed a new five year committed revolving credit facility of £72.1 million and a further uncommitted incremental 
accordion facility of £43.6 million with a club of four banks comprising HSBC, The Royal Bank of Scotland, Santander UK and Barclays Bank, as 
well as two separate bi-lateral agreements with Fifth Third Bank and Comerica Bank, both within the USA. In March 2015 £20.0 million of the 
accordion facility was converted with the remaining £23.6 million converted in December 2015 giving the Group a total committed facility with 
these institutions of £115.7 million. At 31 December 2015 £95.5 million of the revolving credit facility was drawn down. Arrangement fees with 
a gross cost before amortisation of £1.1 million, and amortised cost of £0.5 million, have been netted off against these borrowings.  
The interest margin payable on the facility is based on the Group’s compliance with financial covenants (net debt/EBITDA before exceptional 
items) and is payable on a floating basis above £LIBOR, €LIBOR or $LIBOR depending on the currency of denomination of the loan.  
The loan in AB Mikroelektronik GmbH is an export facility loan and used for working capital purposes. As at 31 December 2015, £1.3 million  
of the £4.0 million facility was utilised (2014: £3.8 million of the £4.2 million facility was utilised and a research loan of £0.7 million was  
fully utilised).  
Under the five year revolving credit there is a limit on inter-group lending outside the guarantee group. As at 31 December 2014 that limit  
was exceeded causing the outstanding loan balance of £49.6 million to become technically repayable on demand and disclosed as a current 
liability. Steps taken during the waiver period granted by the lending banks resulted in compliance with the limit therefore as at 31 December 
2015 the loan balance of £95.5 million became non-current 
Undrawn facilities 
At 31 December 2015 the total borrowing facilities available to the Group amounted to £166.3 million (2014: £165.3 million).  
At 31 December 2015 the Group had available £37.6 million (2014: £36.1 million) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities (comprising  
the main facility £20.3 million (2014: £21.1 million), China £14.6 million (2014: £14.5 million) and Austria £2.7 million (2014: £0.5 million)) 
and £31.4 million (2014: £75.1 million) of undrawn uncommitted borrowing facilities, representing overdraft lines and the accordion facility.  108
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
20 Financial risk management  
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and commodity 
price risk. These risks arise from exposures that occur in the normal course of business and are managed by the Group’s Treasury department  
in close co-operation with the Group’s business divisions and operating companies, under the oversight of a Tax and Treasury Committee 
which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer. The responsibilities of the Group’s Treasury department include the monitoring of financial  
risks, management of cash resources, debt and capital structure management, approval of counterparties and relevant transaction limits,  
and oversight of all significant treasury activities undertaken by the Group. The Group Treasury department operates as a service centre  
to the business divisions of the Group and not as a profit centre. 
A Group Treasury policy has been approved by the Board of Directors and is periodically updated to reflect developments in the financial 
markets and the financial exposure facing the Group.  
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise borrowings, cash and cash equivalents and derivatives used for risk management 
purposes. The Group’s borrowings, surplus liquidity and derivative financial instruments are monitored and managed centrally by the  
Group’s Treasury department.  
The Group’s accounting policies with regard to financial instruments are detailed in note 2(p). 
a) Derivatives, financial instruments and risk management 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage certain exposures to fluctuations in exchange rates, interest rates and commodity 
prices. The Group does not hold any speculative financial instruments. 
The Group is exposed to transactional and translation foreign exchange risk. Transactional foreign exchange risk arises from sales or purchases 
by a Group company in a currency other than that company’s functional currency. Translational foreign exchange risk arises on the translation 
of profits earned in overseas currencies into GBP and the translation of net assets denominated in overseas currencies into GBP, the Group’s 
functional currency.  
To mitigate transactional foreign exchange risk, wherever possible, Group companies enter into transactions in their functional currencies with 
customers and suppliers. When this is not possible, then hedging strategies are undertaken through the use of forward currency contracts for 
up to one year ahead. 
In 2014 the Group used average rate forward currency hedges to mitigate translational foreign exchange risk taking into account the level of 
forecast profits in foreign currencies, natural hedges and the cost of taking out cover. During 2014, the Group took out average rate forward 
contracts hedging GBP against a portion of Euro forecast cash flows for 2014 and generated a gain of £0.1 million on the hedges that matured  
in 2014. There were no average rate forward contracts outstanding at 31 December 2014 and no such average rate forward currency hedges 
were entered into during 2015. 
The Group’s interest rate management policy is to maintain a balance between fixed and floating rates of interest on borrowings and deposits, 
and to use interest rate derivatives when appropriate and pre-approved by the Treasury Committee. To meet this objective the Group has 
entered into a $30 million interest rate swap from floating to fixed in 2014, maturing in 2019. 
During 2014, the Group took out hedges against a portion of the commodity purchases for 2014. In 2014 the Group generated no gain or loss 
on the hedges that matured during 2014. No such hedges were entered into during 2015. 
The forward currency contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity hedges have been designated as cash flow hedges and the mark to market 
valuation of these derivatives at 31 December 2015 is taken to the hedging reserve within equity. At 31 December 2015, the Group had a net 
derivative financial liability of £1.1 million (2014: £0.9 million).  
Financial Statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
109
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
20 Financial risk management (continued)  
b) Foreign exchange risk 
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency is shown below:  
 
£million  GBP USD Euro Other Total 
31 December 2015 
Trade and other receivables 0.2  6.8  1.7  0.3  9.0  
Cash and cash equivalents 0.1  12.4  1.2  0.4  14.1  
Borrowings –  (28.1) (13.7) –  (41.8) 
Trade and other payables (6.0) (4.7) (0.9) (0.8) (12.4) 
  (5.7) (13.6) (11.7) (0.1) (31.1) 
31 December 2014 
Trade and other receivables 0.1  6.7  2.8  0.2  9.8  
Cash and cash equivalents –  6.8  8.1  0.5  15.4  
Borrowings –  (23.8) (7.8) –  (31.6) 
Trade and other payables (4.3) (5.1) (0.7) (0.8) (10.9) 
  (4.2) (15.4) 2.4  (0.1) (17.3) 
A 10% strengthening of GBP against the following currencies at 31 December would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit after tax by 
the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant. 
 
£million 2015 2014 
US dollar (0.8) (0.9) 
Euro (1.2) 0.2  
A 10% weakening of GBP against the above currencies at 31 December would have had an equal but opposite effect on the above currencies 
to the amount shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant. 
The Group finances operations by obtaining funding through external borrowings and, where they are in foreign currencies, these borrowings 
may be designated as net investment hedges. This enables gains and losses arising on retranslation of these foreign currency borrowings to be 
charged to other comprehensive income, providing a partial offset in equity against the gains and losses arising on translation of the net assets 
of foreign operations. 
c) Interest rate risk 
The Group has financial assets and liabilities which are exposed to changes in market interest rates. Changes in interest rates primarily impact 
borrowings by changing their future cash flows (floating rate debt) or their fair value (fixed rate debt) and deposits. The Group’s objective is to 
manage this interest rate exposure through the use of interest rate derivatives. 
The exposure of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities to interest rate risk is as follows:  
 
£million 
Floating 
rate 
Fixed 
rate 
Non-interest 
bearing 
2015 
total 
Financial assets 
Trade and other receivables –  –  62.7  62.7  
Cash and cash equivalents 40.9  –  –  40.9  
Derivative financial instruments – – 0.2  0.2  
Total financial assets 40.9  – 62.9  103.8  
Financial liabilities 
Borrowings (including interest effects of derivatives) (75.2) (21.8) –  (97.0) 
Trade and other payables –  –  (85.9) (85.9) 
Derivative financial instruments – – (1.3) (1.3) 
Total financial liabilities (75.2) (21.8) (87.2) (184.2) 
At 31 December 2015 22% (2014: 37%) of total debt was at a fixed rate when including the effect of derivatives and the balance was at 
floating rate.  110
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
20 Financial risk management (continued) 
 
£million 
Floating 
rate 
Fixed 
rate 
Non-interest 
bearing 
2014 
total 
Financial assets 
Trade and other receivables –  –  62.4  62.4  
Cash and cash equivalents 39.4  – –  39.4  
Derivative financial instruments –  –  0.4  0.4  
Total financial assets 39.4  – 62.8  102.2  
Financial liabilities 
Borrowings (including interest effects of derivatives) (33.6) (20.1) –  (53.7) 
Trade and other payables –  –  (86.3) (86.3) 
Derivative financial instruments –  –  (1.3) (1.3) 
Total financial liabilities (33.6) (20.1) (87.6) (141.3) 
The interest charged on floating rate financial liabilities is based on the relevant benchmark rate (such as LIBOR). Interest on financial 
instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument. 
Considering the net debt position of the Group at 31 December 2015, any increase in interest rates would result in a net loss in the 
consolidated income statement, and any decrease in interest rates would result in a net gain. The effect on profit after tax of a 1% 
movement in £LIBOR, based on the year end floating rate net cash and with all other variables held constant, is estimated to be  
£0.6 million (2014: £0.3 million). 
d) Credit risk 
Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Group’s ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets. 
Investments in cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments are with approved counterparty banks and other financial 
institutions. Counterparties are assessed prior to, during, and after the conclusion of transactions to ensure exposure to credit risk is limited 
to an acceptable level. The maximum exposure with respect to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset  
on the balance sheet. 
Credit risk relating to trade receivables  
The Group’s major exposure to credit risk is in respect of trade receivables. Given the number and geographical spread of the Group’s ultimate 
customers and the solvency of major trade debtors, credit risk is believed to be limited. The Group is not reliant on any particular customer in 
the markets in which it operates and there is no significant concentration of credit risk. The Group regularly monitors its exposure to bad debts 
in order to minimise this exposure. 
The Group has strict procedures in place to manage the credit risk on trade receivables. Customer credit risk is managed by each operating 
company within a division but is subject to Group oversight to ensure that each division’s customer credit risk management system operates  
in a prudent and responsible manner. Credit evaluations are performed for all customers and credit limits are established based on internal 
or external rating criteria. The credit quality of the Group’s significant customers is monitored on an on-going basis, and receivables that are 
neither past due nor impaired are considered of good credit quality. Letters of credit or payments in advance are obtained where customer 
credit quality is not considered strong enough for open credit. 
Trade receivables are denominated in the currencies in which the Group trades. The Group’s policy is that receivables and payables not in the 
functional currency of the subsidiary concerned are covered by forward foreign currency exchange contracts. The exchange risk at Group level 
is therefore restricted to the risk on the translation of overseas assets, liabilities and cash flows into GBP which can be hedged using foreign 
exchange hedges.  
There were no material impairments of trade receivables as at 31 December 2015 or 2014. The solvency of the debtor and their ability  
to repay the receivables were considered in assessing the impairment of such assets. 
Financial Statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
111
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
20 Financial risk management (continued)  
(i) Risk for trade receivables by geographical regions 
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at 31 December by geographic areas was: 
 
£million     2015 2014 
Europe (including UK) 35.8  36.2  
North America 10.3  10.8  
Central and South America 0.4  0.2  
Asia 11.9  11.2  
Rest of the World     0.5  0.2  
      58.9  58.6  
(ii) Impairment losses 
The ageing of trade receivables at 31 December was: 
 
£million Gross 
2015 
Impairment Gross 
2014 
Impairment 
Not past due 50.8  –  48.0  –  
Past due 0 – 60 days 7.5  – 9.6  – 
Past due 61 – 120 days 0.9  (0.3) 1.3  (0.3) 
More than 120 days 0.3  (0.3) 0.1  (0.1) 
  59.5  (0.6) 59.0  (0.4) 
The movement in the provision for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 
 
£million     2015 2014 
At 1 January (0.4) (1.3) 
(Charged)/credited to income statement (0.4) 0.2  
Utilised 0.2  0.7  
At 31 December     (0.6) (0.4) 
(iii) Credit risk related to other financial assets and cash deposits 
Credit risk relating to the Group’s other financial assets, principally comprising cash and cash equivalents, other receivables and derivative 
financial instruments arises from the potential default of counterparties. Credit risk arising from balances with banks and financial institutions 
is monitored by the Group’s Treasury department. Investment of cash and deposits are made only with approved counterparties of high credit 
worthiness and are reviewed on a regular basis to take account of developments in financial markets. 
No material exposure is considered to exist by virtue of the possible non-performance of the counterparties to derivative financial instruments 
and other receivables. 
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December was: 
 
£million     2015 2014 
Other receivables 3.8  3.7  
Cash and cash equivalents 40.9  39.4  
Derivative financial instruments (current assets)     0.2  0.4  
  112
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
20 Financial risk management (continued)  
e) Liquidity risk 
The Group maintains a balance between availability of funding and maximising investment return on cash balances through the use of short-
term cash deposits, credit facilities and longer term debt instruments. Management regularly reviews the funding requirements of the Group. 
The Group’s policy is to centrally manage debt and surplus cash balances. 
At 31 December 2015, the Group had £37.6 million of undrawn committed borrowing facilities (2014: £35.6 million) and £31.4 million  
(2014: £75.1 million) of undrawn uncommitted borrowing facilities. 
Maturity of financial assets and liabilities 
The table below analyses the Group’s financial assets and liabilities, which will be settled on a gross basis, into relevant maturity groups based 
on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows.  
 
£million  On demand 
Less than 
3 months 
3 to 12 
months 
 1 to 5 
years 
Over 5 
years Total 
31 December 2015 
Trade and other receivables –  61.3  1.4  –  –  62.7  
Cash and cash equivalents 40.9  –  –  –  –  40.9  
  40.9  61.3  1.4  – – 103.6  
Borrowings (0.5) (1.3) –  (95.2) –  (97.0) 
Trade and other payables –  (73.6) (8.1) (1.5) (2.7) (85.9) 
  (0.5) (74.9) (8.1) (96.7) (2.7) (182.9) 
At 31 December 2015, the Group had derivative financial instruments hedging a notional contractual amount of £71.1 million of foreign 
exchange, commodity and interest rate cash flows. Of this total amount £50.8 million matures within one year.  
 
£million  On demand 
Less than 
3 months 
3 to 12 
months 
 1 to 5 
years 
Over 5 
years Total 
31 December 2014 
Trade and other receivables 0.9  59.0  2.4  –  –  62.3  
Cash and cash equivalents 38.8  0.6  –  –  –  39.4  
  39.7  59.6  2.4  –  –  101.7  
Borrowings (53.7) –  –  –  –  (53.7) 
Trade and other payables (0.5) (72.8) (8.5) (1.7) (2.8) (86.3) 
  (54.2) (72.8) (8.5) (1.7) (2.8) (140.0) 
 
Financial Statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
113
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
20 Financial risk management (continued)  
f) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities 
The Group has adopted IFRS 13 “Fair Value Measurement” which requires an analysis of those financial instruments that are measured at fair 
value at the end of the year in a fair value hierarchy. In addition IFRS 13 requires financial instruments not measured at fair value but for which 
fair value is disclosed to be analysed in the same fair value hierarchy: 
– Level 1 – quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 
– Level 2 – inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) 
or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and 
– Level 3 – inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (i.e. unobservable inputs). 
Set out below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in the 
financial statements. 
 
  2015   2014 
Fair value 
hierarchy 
Carrying 
value 
 
Fair value 
Carrying 
value 
 
Fair value 
Held at amortised cost 
Cash and cash equivalents n/a 40.9  40.9  39.4  39.4  
Trade and other receivables n/a 62.7  62.7  62.3  62.3  
Trade and other payables n/a (85.9) (85.9) (86.3) (86.3) 
Borrowings n/a (97.0) (97.0) (53.7) (53.7) 
Held at fair value 
Derivative financial instruments (assets) 2 0.2  0.2  0.4  0.4  
Derivative financial instruments (liabilities) 2 (1.3) (1.3) (1.3) (1.3) 
Held at depreciated cost 
Investment properties 2 0.8  3.9  0.8  4.0  
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current 
transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate 
the fair values: 
– cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables approximate to their carrying amounts largely due to the 
short-term maturities of these instruments; 
– the fair value of borrowings is estimated by discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for debt and remaining maturities. 
– the fair value of derivative financial instrument assets (£0.2 million) and liabilities (£1.3 million) are estimated by discounting expected 
future cash flows using current market indices such as yield curves and forward exchange rates over the remaining term of the instrument 
(level 2); and 
– the fair value of investment properties are based on market valuations obtained through third party valuations (level 2). 
g) Capital management 
The over-riding objectives of the Group’s capital management policy are to safeguard and support the business as a going concern through  
the business cycle and to maintain an optimal capital structure by reducing the Group’s overall cost of capital. The Board considers equity 
shareholders’ funds as capital. 
The Group maintains a balance between availability of funding and maximising investment return on cash balances through the use of  
short-term cash deposits, credit facilities and longer term debt instruments, and management regularly reviews the funding requirements  
of the Group. 
Dividends are paid when the Board consider it appropriate to do so, taking into account the availability of funding. The Group has a progressive 
dividend policy. 
The Group is in a net debt position of £56.1 million (2014: £14.3 million). Included within the debt facilities are certain financial covenants 
related to net debt/EBITDA before exceptional items and EBITDA before exceptional items/net finance charges for which compliance 
certificates are produced on a 12 month rolling basis every half year. All financial covenants were fully complied with during the year and  
up to the date of approval of the financial statements.   114
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
21 Deferred tax 
The amounts of deferred taxation assets/(liabilities) provided in the financial statements are as follows: 
 
£million 
As at  
1 January  
2015 
Continuing 
operations 
Recognised on 
acquisition 
Recognised in 
equity/ OCI 
Net exchange 
translation 
As at  
31 December  
2015 
Intangible assets (6.3) 0.1  (3.4) –  (0.2) (9.8) 
Property, plant and equipment (1.2) (0.1) (0.1) –  (0.1) (1.5) 
Deferred development costs (1.4) (0.1) –  –  –  (1.5) 
Retirement benefit obligations 2.6  (0.3) –  1.9  –  4.2  
Inventories 2.1  0.1  –  –  0.1  2.3  
Provisions 3.7  1.5  –  –  0.1  5.3  
Tax losses 1.4  0.1  –  –  (0.1) 1.4  
Unremitted overseas earnings (1.1) (0.2) –  –  –  (1.3) 
Share-based payments (0.1) 0.2  –  0.1  –  0.2  
Short-term timing differences 0.3  0.9  –  –  0.1  1.3  
Deferred tax asset/(liability) –  2.2  (3.5) 2.0  (0.1) 0.6  
 
£million 
As at  
1 January  
2014 
Continuing 
operations 
Recognised on 
acquisition 
Recognised in 
equity/ OCI 
Net exchange 
translation 
As at  
31 December 
2014 
Intangible assets (4.8) (0.3) (0.9) –  (0.3) (6.3) 
Property, plant and equipment (1.7) 0.6  –  –  (0.1) (1.2) 
Deferred development costs (3.3) 1.9  –  –  –  (1.4) 
Retirement benefit obligations 4.4  (0.8) –  (1.0) –  2.6  
Inventories 2.5  (0.6) –  –  0.2  2.1  
Provisions 5.1  (1.6) –  –  0.2  3.7  
Tax losses 0.8  0.6  –  –  –  1.4  
Unremitted overseas earnings (0.9) (0.2) –  –  –  (1.1) 
Share-based payments 0.1  (0.1) –  (0.1) –  (0.1) 
Short-term timing differences 0.4  (0.1) –  –  –  0.3  
Deferred tax asset/(liability) 2.6  (0.6) (0.9) (1.1) –  –  
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances: 
 
£million         2015 2014 
Deferred tax assets 4.9  5.6  
Deferred tax liabilities         (4.3) (5.6) 
Net deferred tax asset         0.6  –  
The Group has recognised deferred tax assets of £0.6 million in a number of entities which have incurred losses in 2014 or 2015. Such assets 
have been recognised due to the availability of suitable taxable profits in future periods to support their recovery. 
Financial Statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
115
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
21 Deferred tax (continued) 
At 31 December 2015, the gross amount and expiry date of losses available for carry forward are as follows: 
 
£million     
Expiring within  
5 years 
Expiring within  
6-10 years Unlimited Total 
Losses for which a deferred tax asset has been recognised –  1.9  3.8  5.7  
Losses for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised 0.4  2.2  33.0  35.6  
Deferred tax asset/(liability)     0.4  4.1  36.8  41.3  
At 31 December 2014, the gross amount and expiry date of losses available for carry forward are as follows: 
 
£million     
Expiring within  
5 years 
Expiring within  
6-10 years Unlimited Total 
Losses for which a deferred tax asset has been recognised –  1.2  4.3  5.5  
Losses for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised 1.1  1.1  35.3  37.5  
Deferred tax asset/(liability)     1.1  2.3  39.6  43.0  
Included within the £35.6 million (2014: £37.5 million) of unrecognised tax losses in the table above is £27.0 million (2014: £23.2 million) of 
tax losses within the Company. Since UK tax legislation does not allow the utilisation of brought forward tax losses of one UK entity against the 
current year tax profits of another UK entity, the use of these tax losses is limited. 
At 31 December 2015, the Group had other items for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised as follows: 
 
£million         2015 2014 
Other temporary differences         15.0  11.1  
At the balance sheet date the aggregate unrecognised deferred tax liability in respect of undistributed earnings of overseas subsidiaries  
is £1.4 million (2014: £1.1 million).  116
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
22 Retirement benefit schemes 
Defined contribution schemes  
The Group operates 401(k) plans in North America and defined contribution arrangements in the rest of the world. The assets of these  
schemes are held independently of the Group. The total contributions charged by the Group in respect of defined contribution schemes 
were £2.4 million (2014: £2.4 million). 
Defined benefit schemes  
During the year the Group operated a significant defined benefit scheme in the UK and schemes in the USA (which include a post retirement 
medical benefit element). The Group’s main scheme is the UK plan which commenced in 1993 and increased in size in 2006 and 2007 through 
the merger of the UK former schemes. The parent company is the sponsoring employer in the UK plan. The UK plan is governed by TTG Pension 
Trustees Limited (the “Trustee”) that has control over the operation, funding and investment strategy in consultation with the Group. 
The Scheme exposes the Group to actuarial risks such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and market (investment)  
risk. The Group is not exposed to any unusual, entity specific or scheme specific risks, but given the material nature of the UK scheme, the Group 
has developed a comprehensive strategy to manage the financial risk associated with it: 
– Maintaining a long term working partnership with the Trustee to ensure strong governance of risks within the UK scheme. The UK scheme is 
a long term undertaking and is managed accordingly, in order to provide security to members’ benefits and value for money to the Group. 
– A prudent investment strategy is pursued by seeking risk-rewarded long term returns whilst removing the majority of liability mismatching 
unrewarded risks. As such, the Group has in place financial hedging that removes the majority of interest rate yield and inflation risk. This 
reduces the expected impact of a 25bps fall in yields from a circa £13 million increase in deficit down to a circa £5 million increase, thereby 
reducing volatility. This strategy has been in place for a number of years protecting the UK scheme’s position since December 2013 when 
yields commenced a prolonged decline. 
– The Group recognises that seeking rewarded risk returns in its investment strategy could lead to short term fluctuations in funding levels 
depending on market conditions. The Group considers that by maintaining a good relationship with the Trustee, it will be able to utilise 
flexibility in the funding regime to even out the impact of short term market underperformance to enhance predictability of Group pension 
contributions. This creates a suitable balance between the needs of the UK scheme, the Group, and the Members. 
The Trustee’s investment strategy mitigates the majority of these risks. Market (investment) risk is addressed by diversification across asset 
classes and managers within those assets classes. With regard to currency risk, the Trustees hedge around 50% of developed market equities, 
100% of alternatives and 100% of bonds (excluding local currency emerging market debt). 
In addition, the Trustee has a framework in place to hedge a proportion of the Scheme’s interest rate and inflation exposures. This framework 
is managed by investing in both physical and, for efficiency, derivative investments; and currently has a target to hedge 75% of the interest 
rate and 80% of the inflation linked liabilities. The target hedge level is kept under review and any change would be in consultation with  
the Group.  
The Trustee does not currently hedge the longevity risk, although prudent assumptions are made regarding anticipated longevity for the 
purposes of the actuarial valuation and Recovery Plan. 
The Trustee, in conjunction with the Group, has a duty to ensure that the UK plan has an appropriate funding strategy in place that meets any 
local statutory requirements. The objective, which has been negotiated and agreed between the Group and the Trustee, is that the UK plan 
should target 100% funding on a basis that should ensure benefits can be paid as they fall due. Any shortfall in the assets relative to the 
funding target will be financed over a period that ensures the contributions are reasonably affordable to the Group. 
The weighted average duration of the UK defined benefit obligation is 17 years. 
UK legislation requires the Trustee to carry out funding valuations at least every three years and to target full funding against a basis that 
prudently reflects the UK plan’s risk exposure.  
The Trustee allocates the UK plan’s assets across a range of investments to help diversify and manage risks. In particular a significant portion 
of the assets are in investments that aim to broadly match the term and nature of the liabilities 
The triennial valuation of the UK scheme as at April 2013 showed a deficit of £19.1m against the Trustee’s funding objective compared  
with £39.4 million at April 2010. It was agreed with the Trustee that the existing recovery plan is sufficient to address the deficit; namely 
contributions of £4.5 million to be paid in respect of 2016. £4.3 million was paid during the year: £3.2 million in respect of 2015 and  
£1.1 million in respect of 2014; a further £1.1 million was paid early in 2016 in respect of 2015. In addition, the Company has set aside  
£3.0 million to be utilised in agreement with the Trustee for reducing the long-term liabilities of the scheme.  
Both the UK and USA schemes are closed to new members and the UK scheme was closed to future accrual in 2010.  
Financial Statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
117
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
22 Retirement benefit schemes (continued) 
An actuarial valuation of the USA defined benefit scheme was carried out by independent qualified actuaries in 2015 using the projected unit 
credit method. Pension scheme assets are stated at their market value at 31 December 2015. 
An analysis of the pension deficit by country is shown below:  
 
£million     2015 2014 
UK 18.1  10.5  
USA 3.0  1.9  
      21.1  12.4  
The principal assumptions used for the purpose of the actuarial valuations for the Group’s primary defined benefit scheme, the UK scheme, 
were as follows: 
 
%     2015 2014 
Discount rate 3.8  3.6  
Inflation rate (RPI) 3.2  3.2  
Increases to pensions in payment (LPI 5% pension increases) 3.1  3.1  
Increases to deferred pensions (CPI)     2.2  2.2  
The mortality tables applied by the actuaries at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 were S1NA tables adjusted by + one year, with  
a 1.25% long-term rate of improvement in conjunction with the CMI 2012 projections. The assumptions are equivalent to life expectancies  
as follows: 
Current pensioner aged 65: 87 years (male), 89 years (female). 
Future retiree upon reaching 65: 89 years (male), 92 years (female). 
A decrease in the discount rate by 0.1% per annum increases the liabilities by approximately £7.8 million. An increase by 0.1% per annum in 
the inflation rate increases the liabilities by approximately £5.3 million; by £1.9 million for pensions in payment and £3.4 million for deferred 
pensions. An increase in the life expectancy of 1 year increases the liabilities by approximately £14.7 million.  
The sensitivities above consider the impact of the single change shown, with the other assumptions unchanged. The inflation sensitivities allow 
for the consequential impact on the relevant pension increase assumptions. The sensitivity analyses have been determined based on a method 
that extrapolates the impact on the defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the 
reporting period. 
The amounts recognised in respect of the pension deficit in the Consolidated balance sheet are: 
 
£million     2015 2014 
Equities 
UK – Quoted 1.7  1.8  
 – Unquoted 16.1  14.1  
Overseas – Quoted 31.5  34.5  
 – Unquoted 79.2  71.1  
Government bonds 
UK – Fixed 39.9  12.2  
 – Index-linked 54.3  20.7  
Overseas 10.3  18.9  
Corporate bonds 83.3  66.4  
Cash and cash equivalents 71.9  71.9  
Derivatives 12.5  125.1  
Other     41.5  28.2  
Fair value of assets 442.2  464.9  
Present value of defined benefit obligation     (463.3) (477.3) 
Net liability recognised in the Consolidated balance sheet     (21.1) (12.4) 
The schemes’ assets are unquoted unless otherwise stated and do not include the Group’s financial instruments nor any property occupied by, 
or other assets used by the Group. Derivatives include liability driven instruments taken out to hedge part of the scheme inflation and interest 
rate risks.   118
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
22 Retirement benefit schemes (continued) 
Amounts recognised in the Consolidated income statement are: 
 
£million 2015 2014 
Scheme administration costs 0.8  0.7  
Net interest cost 0.4  0.8  
The actual return on schemes assets was a loss of £7.4 million (2014: gain of £84.0 million).  
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are: 
 
£million 2015 2014 
Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 477.3  414.6  
Interest on obligation 16.9  18.7  
Effect of changes in financial assumptions (12.5) 61.5  
Benefits paid (19.8) (17.5) 
Transfer from other non-current liabilities 1.4 – 
Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 463.3  477.3  
UK 453.1  468.7  
USA 10.2  8.6  
  463.3  477.3  
Changes in the fair value of the schemes’ assets are: 
 
£million 2015 2014 
Fair value of schemes’ assets at 1 January 464.9  394.1  
Interest income on defined benefit scheme assets 16.5  17.9  
Return on scheme assets, excluding interest income (23.9) 66.1  
Contributions by employer 5.3  5.0  
Pension scheme expenses (0.8) (0.7) 
Benefits paid (19.8) (17.5) 
Fair value of schemes’ assets at 31 December 442.2  464.9  
23 Share capital 
 
£million 2015 2014 
Issued and fully paid 
162,019,120 (2014: 159,008,330) ordinary shares of 25p each 40.5  39.8  
The performance conditions for the Long Term Incentive Plan awards issued in 2012 were not met and, accordingly, no ordinary shares were 
issued during 2015 in connection with the Long Term Incentive Plan. 
The Company issued 435,121 ordinary shares as a result of share options being exercised under the Sharesave scheme and Share Purchase 
plans. The aggregate consideration received was £0.5 million, which resulted in an increase in share premium of £0.3 million. 
On 18 December 2015 the Company issued 2,575,669 ordinary shares (nominal value of £0.6 million) as part of the consideration for the 
acquisition of Aero Stanrew Group Ltd which resulted in an increase in share premium of £3.4 million. 
Financial Statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
119
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
24 Share-based payment plans 
The Company has the following share-based payment plans in operation at 31 December 2015: 
– Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) for senior executives; 
– Restricted Share Plan for certain senior executives; and 
– Sharesave plans for UK, German and Austrian employees; and a Share Purchase plan for US employees. 
a) Long Term Incentive Plans 
Details of the LTIP awards outstanding during the year are as follows: 
 
2015 2014 
  
Number of share 
awards 
Number of share 
awards 
At 1 January 2,543,688  3,629,342  
Granted 4,049,219  1,739,150  
Forfeited (750,720) (1,565,459) 
Vested (352,890) (1,259,345) 
At 31 December 5,489,297  2,543,688  
Exercisable at 31 December – – 
During 2014 and 2015 grants of awards were made under the LTIP for the issue of shares in 2017 and 2018 respectively. The award is a 
contingent right to receive shares in the future, subject to continued employment and the achievement of predetermined performance criteria. 
The performance targets attached to awards require the achievement of earnings per share (“EPS”) and total shareholder return (“TSR”) targets 
as detailed in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 65.  
On 18 March, 7 September and 23 December 2015 grants of awards were made under the LTIP for the issue of up to 3,687,301 shares, 
170,000 shares and 191,918 shares in 2018. On 9 May, 22 August and 31 December 2014 grants of awards were made under the LTIP  
for the issue of up to 1,185,484 shares, 223,214 shares and 330,452 shares in 2017.  
The fair value of the shares was estimated at the grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation model, taking into account the terms and 
conditions upon which the shares were granted. This model simulates the TSR and compares it against the group of comparator companies.  
It takes into account historic dividends and share price fluctuations to predict the distribution of relative share price performance. 
The following table lists the inputs to the model: 
 
  2015     2014 
  
Shares with a  
23 December 2015  
grant date 
Shares with a  
7 September 2015  
grant date 
Shares with a  
18 March 2015  
grant date 
Shares with a  
31 December 2014  
grant date 
Shares with a  
22 August 2014  
grant date 
Shares with a  
9 May 2014  
grant date 
Number of awards 191,918  170,000  3,687,301  330,452  223,214  1,185,484  
Fair value at grant date 137  136  110.6p 64.7p 129.4p 166.2p 
Share price at grant date 158.8  156.8  128.0p 101.5p 168.8p 216.8p 
Exercise price £nil £nil £nil £nil £nil £nil 
Expected volatility 40% 40% 40% 40% 32% 38% 
Expected weighted average  
life at 31 December (years) 3.0  2.8  2.3  3.0  2.7  2.3  
The award of shares is not affected by the risk free rate of interest since no investment is required by the recipient, and therefore no interest 
could be earned elsewhere. Expected volatility is based on historic share price movements. 
On 18 March 2015, 172,896 (9 May 2014: 55,000) notional share awards were granted to senior executives which will ultimately be settled in 
cash. These awards are subject to the same vesting criteria as the 18 March, 7 September and 23 December 2015 (9 May 2014) LTIP grants.  
The performance conditions for the LTIP grants made in 2012 were not met and, accordingly, no ordinary shares were issued during 2015  
in connection with the LTIP.  120
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
24 Share-based payment plans (continued) 
b) Restricted Share Plan 
On 31 October 2013, the Group granted 481,900 shares under a new restricted share plan to certain senior executives. The award is a 
contingent right to receive shares with 40% vesting on completion of a three year period and the remaining 60% vesting six months later 
subject to continued employment with the Group and the achievement of predetermined performance criteria. The performance targets 
attached to the awards require the achievement of three equally weighted performance criteria: Revenue Growth Targets, Profit Margin 
Targets and Return on Capital Employed. 
On 25 March 2014, the Group granted 153,800 shares under the restricted share plan. The award is a contingent right to receive shares with 
40% vesting on the third anniversary of the date of the grant and the remaining 60% vesting in April 2017 subject to continued employment 
with the Group and the achievement of predetermined performance criteria. The performance targets attached to the awards require the 
achievement of three equally weighted performance criteria: Revenue Growth Targets, Profit Margin Targets and Return on Capital Employed. 
The fair value of the shares at grant date 22 August 2014 was 202.0p. 
On 22 August 2014, the Group granted 218,626 shares under the restricted share plan. The award is a contingent right to receive shares with 
57% vesting on completion of a 0.66 year period and the remaining 43% vesting one year later subject to continued employment with the 
Group. The fair value of the shares at grant date 22 August 2014 was 159.8p. 
On 18 March 2015, the Group granted 1,015,000 shares under the restricted share plan. The award is a contingent right to receive shares  
with 50% vesting on the third anniversary of the date of the grant and the remaining 50% vesting in April 2018 subject to continued 
employment with the Group and the achievement of predetermined performance criteria. Half of the award is subject to a performance 
condition based on the absolute earnings per share figure for the financial year ending 31 December 2017. The remaining half of the award  
is subject to a performance condition comparing the Company’s total shareholder return performance against the constituent companies  
of the FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding investment trusts) over a period of three years commencing on the award date. 
On 18 March 2015 50,000 shares were also granted to a senior executive which will ultimately be settled in cash. This award is subject to the 
same criteria as the 18 March RSP grant. 
Details of the restricted share plan awards outstanding during the year are as follows: 
 
2015 2014 
  
Number of share 
awards 
Number of share 
awards 
At 1 January  649,326  481,900  
Granted 1,015,000  372,426  
Forfeited (51,300) (205,000) 
At 31 December  1,613,026  649,326  
Exercisable at 31 December  – – 
c) Sharesave schemes 
The Group operates Sharesave schemes for participating employees in the UK, Germany and Austria under a three-year plan (historically a five 
year plan was offered which was discontinued during 2013). Employees may purchase the Group’s shares at a 20% discount to the market 
price on the day prior to the commencement of the offer up to a maximum contribution value of £6,000 (UK) or €7,200 (Germany/Austria) in 
any one year. Monthly contributions are saved with LloydsTSB plc, via Equiniti Ltd, the Registrars, in the employee’s share savings plan and will 
only be released to employees who remain in the Group’s employment for a period of either three or five years from commencement of the 
savings contract. Options become exercisable on completion of either the three or five year term or within six months of leaving in certain 
circumstances. 
Financial Statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
121
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
24 Share-based payment plans (continued) 
 
  Date price set Market price Option price Options outstanding 
UK 03 September 2010 142.5p 114.0p 145,815  
Germany/Austria 19 April 2011 169.0p 136.0p 32,029  
UK 2 September 2011 162.0p 130.0p 50,584  
Germany/Austria 31 May 2012 162.0p 130.0p 14,322  
UK 31 August 2012 148.0p 119.0p 25,103  
UK 30 August 2013 186.0p 149.0p 211,987  
Germany/Austria 24 June 2014 192.0p 166.0p 53,042  
UK 30 September 2014 167.0p 136.0p 544,515  
Germany/Austria 19 October 2015 131.0p 106.0p 81,238  
UK 22 September 2015 130.0p 131.0p 539,896  
The fair value of the shares at grant date was as follows: 
 
2015 2015 2014 2014 
pence UK 
Germany / 
Austria UK 
Germany / 
Austria 
3 year scheme 42.0  48.0  43.0  53.0  
Details of the Sharesave awards outstanding during the year are as follows:  
 
2015 2014 
  
Number of share 
awards 
Number of share 
awards 
At 1 January  1,834,598  1,328,505  
Granted 631,026  723,452  
Forfeited (401,144) (131,944) 
Exercised (365,969) (85,415) 
At 31 December  1,698,511  1,834,598  
Exercisable at 31 December 164,555  127,072  
The Group operates a Stock Purchase Plan for participating US employees. Under the plan employees may purchase the Group’s shares at a 
15% discount to the market price at the date of acquisition, up to a maximum of $6,500 per annum. Employees save on a monthly basis and 
shares are purchased each quarter. 
The total share-based payment charge for the year (excluding social security charge of £0.3 million (2014: £0.1 million credit) arising from the 
above share scheme plans was £1.7 million (2014: £1.3 million).  
25 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds/(debt) 
 
£million Net cash 
Borrowings and 
finance leases Net (debt)/funds 
At 1 January 2014 54.5  (27.6) 26.9  
Cash flow (15.3) (24.9) (40.2) 
Non-cash items –  (0.2) (0.2) 
Exchange differences 0.2  (1.0) (0.8) 
At 1 January 2015 39.4  (53.7) (14.3) 
Cash flow 0.3  (41.6) (41.3) 
Non-cash items –  (0.2) (0.2) 
Exchange differences 0.6  (0.9) (0.3) 
At 31 December 2015 40.3  (96.4) (56.1) 
Net cash includes overdraft balances of £0.6 million (2014: £nil).  122
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
26 Contingent liabilities  
The Group has contingent liabilities amounting to £0.3 million (2014: £0.3 million) in respect of performance bonds and guarantees entered 
into in the normal course of business. The Group is subject to claims which arise in the ordinary course of business. Other than those for which 
provisions have been made and included within note 18, the Directors consider the likelihood of any other claims giving rise to a significant 
liability to be remote.  
27 Capital commitments 
 
£million 2015 2014 
Contractual commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment 3.9  6.7  
28 Operating leases 
Operating lease payments charged to the income statement are as follows: 
 
£million 2015 2014 
Fixtures and equipment 0.6  0.6  
Land and buildings 3.3  2.8  
The Group has outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:  
 
£million 2015 2014 
In less than one year 3.9  3.5  
Between one and five years 9.7  11.5  
After five years 3.4  8.0  
29 Related party transactions 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.  
No related party transactions have taken place in 2015 or 2014 that have affected the financial position or performance of the Group. 
Key management personnel and Directors’ emoluments are disclosed in note 11. 
 
Financial Statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
123
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial statements – Company accounts 
Company balance sheet 
 
  
£million Note 2015 2014 
Fixed assets 
Tangible assets 2 0.2  1.0  
Intangible assets 2 6.2  5.9  
Investments 3 96.5  49.6  
Deferred tax asset 10 3.6  2.1  
    106.5  58.6  
Current assets 
Debtors 4 135.7  147.0  
Cash at bank and in hand   3.2  3.7  
138.9  150.7  
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (52.4) (11.4) 
Net current assets   86.5  139.3  
Total assets less current liabilities 193.0  197.9  
Pension liability 10 (18.1) (10.5) 
Net assets   174.9  187.4  
Capital and reserves 
Called up share capital 6 40.5  39.8  
Share premium account 6 5.2  1.5  
Profit and loss account 8 129.2  146.1  
Shareholders’ funds   174.9  187.4  
Approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2016 and signed on their behalf by: 
 
Richard Tyson  Mark Hoad 
Director  Director 
 
Financial Statements / Company balance sheet 124
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 31 December 2015 
 
124 
 
 
£million Share capital Share premium 
Profit and loss 
account Total 
At 1 January 2014 39.7  1.4  167.6  208.7  
Loss for the year (restated
1
) –  –  (17.5) (17.5) 
Other comprehensive income 
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes (restated
1
) –  –  6.1  6.1  
Tax on remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes (restated
1
) –  –  (2.0) (2.0) 
Total other comprehensive income –  –  4.1  4.1  
Transactions with owners recorded directly in equity 
Dividends paid by the Company –  –  (8.7) (8.7) 
Share-based payments –  –  0.8  0.8  
Deferred tax on share-based payments –  –  (0.1) (0.1) 
New shares issued 0.1  0.1  (0.1) 0.1  
At 31 December 2014 39.8  1.5  146.1  187.4  
Loss for the year –  –  (0.4) (0.4) 
Other comprehensive income 
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes –  –  (11.4) (11.4) 
Tax on remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes –  –  1.9  1.9  
Total other comprehensive income –  –  (9.5) (9.5) 
Transactions with owners recorded directly in equity 
Dividends paid by the Company –  –  (8.7) (8.7) 
Share-based payments –  –  1.6  1.6  
Deferred tax on share-based payments –  –  0.1  0.1  
New shares issued 0.7 3.7  –  4.4  
At 31 December 2015 40.5  5.2  129.2  174.9  
1. Restated for pensions obligations as described in note 1 a) 
 
Financial Statements / Statements of changes in equity Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
125
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
1 Significant accounting policies 
a) Basis of preparation 
The financial statements of TT Electronics plc (“the Company”) were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced 
Disclosure Framework (“FRS 101”). The amendments to FRS 101 (2013/14 Cycle) issued in July 2014 and effective immediately have  
been applied.  
In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (“Adopted IFRSs”), but makes amendments where necessary in order to comply with 
Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where advantage of the FRS 101 disclosure exemptions has been taken.  
These are the Company’s first financial statements prepared in accordance with FRS 101. In the transition to FRS 101, the Company has 
applied IFRS 1 whilst ensuring that its assets and liabilities are measured in compliance with FRS 101. An explanation of how the transition  
to FRS 101 has affected the reported financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Company is provided below). 
IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions from the full requirements of Adopted IFRSs in the transition period. The following exemptions have been 
taken in these financial statements: 
– Business combinations – Business combinations that took place prior to 1 January 2014 have not been restated. 
– Fair value or revaluation as deemed cost – At 1 January 2014, fair value has been used as deemed cost for properties previously measured  
at fair value. 
In these financial statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures  
– a Cash Flow Statement and related notes;  
– Disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries;  
– Disclosures in respect of capital management;  
– The effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs; 
– Disclosures in respect of the compensation of Key Management Personnel; 
– Comparative movement tables for tangible and intangible fixed assets.  
The Company proposes to continue to adopt the reduced disclosure framework of FRS 101 in its next financial statements. 
The accounting policies set out in Note 2 of the Consolidated financial statements have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently  
to all years presented in the Company financial statements and in preparing an opening FRS 101 IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2014  
(the Company’s date of transition) for the purposes of the transition to FRS 101 Adopted IFRSs.  
There are no reconciling differences between the opening FRS 101 IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2014 for the purposes of the transition  
to FRS 101 Adopted IFRSs and the balance sheet as previously disclosed. 
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that for investment properties on transition to FRS 101 the fair value 
was used as deemed cost for properties previously carried out at fair value. Non-current assets are stated at the lower of previous carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell.  
In these financial statements the Company has changed its accounting policies in respect of the adoption of the FRS 101 equivalent of IAS 19 
(revised). Implementation of the standard had the following impact on the income statement: 
– Under FRS17, interest cost on the defined benefit obligation and an expected return on plan assets were recognised in profit separately. 
Under the FRS 101 equivalent of IAS 19 (revised), these two amounts have been replaced by a single measure called “net interest” calculated 
on the net defined benefit liability. This change affects the difference between actual and expected returns on plan assets, which is 
recognised in full within OCI as part of remeasurements; 
– The reclassification of the administration costs of the defined benefit scheme, including the levy for the Pension Protection Fund, from 
Finance expense to Administrative expenses within operating profit. 
As a result of these amendments, the comparative financial information in the income statement and OCI has been restated for the year 
ending 2014. The effect of the above on the disclosed profit or loss and the statement of changes in equity was to increase loss for the year  
by £3.8 million and reduce remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability in OCI by £3.8 million. 
As a result of the above, the tax expense in the income statement has decreased by £0.8 million and the deferred tax charge in OCI has 
increased by £0.8 million.  
b) Estimation uncertainty 
Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial statements  
and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are as follows: 
– Note 9 – Defined benefit pension obligations. The defined benefit pension obligations are calculated using a number of assumptions, 
including future inflation, salary increases and mortality and the obligation is then discounted to its present value using an assumed discount 
rate. The pension deficit has been calculated using the assumptions set out in note 22 of the Consolidated financial statements; and  
– Note 5 – Accruals. The Company makes appropriate provision on a consistent basis for restructuring and other normal trading exposures with 
estimates being made regarding the timing of future payments. 
Financial Statements / Notes to the Company financial statements 126
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the Company financial statements continued 
126 
 
1 Significant accounting policies (continued) 
c) Going concern 
Details of the Director’s assessment of the Company’s ability to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future are shown in note 
1e) of the Consolidated financial statements and in the Directors report on page 48. 
d) Investments  
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less provision for impairment. 
e) Own shares held by Employee Benefit Trust 
Transactions of the Company-sponsored Employee Benefit Trust are treated as being those of the Company and are therefore reflected in the 
Company’s financial statements. In particular, the Trust’s purchases of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity. 
2 Tangible and intangible fixed assets 
 
£million Intangible assets 
Freehold land 
and buildings 
Plant, equipment 
and vehicles 
Total tangible 
fixed assets 
Cost 
At 1 January 2015 7.7  2.2  1.8  4.0  
Transfers 0.6  –  (0.6) (0.6) 
Additions 2.3 – –  –  
At 31 December 2015 10.6  2.2  1.2  3.4  
Depreciation 
At 1 January 2015 1.8 2.2 0.8 3.0 
Charge for the year 1.7 –  0.2  0.2  
Disposals 0.4  – –  – 
Impairment 0.5  –  –  –  
At 31 December 2015 4.4  2.2  1.0  3.2  
Net book value         
At 31 December 2015 6.2  –  0.2  0.2  
At 31 December 2014 5.9 – 1.0 1.0 
Included within intangible fixed assets are assets under construction with a carrying value of £0.9 million (2014: £0.8 million). 
3 Fixed asset investments  
 
£million 
Subsidiary 
undertakings 
Cost 
At 1 January 2015 87.4  
Additions 64.7  
Returned capital (17.8) 
At 31 December 2015 134.3  
Provisions   
At 1 January and 31 December 2015 37.8  
Net book value   
At 31 December 2015 96.5  
At 31 December 2014 49.6  
The Company’s subsidiary undertakings and their locations are shown in note 13.  
The Company owns 100% of the ordinary share capital or equivalent and 100% of voting rights of all subsidiary undertakings other than 
Rodco Limited, which is non-trading and is 60% owned. Shareholdings are held indirectly for all principal operating subsidiary undertakings.  
During the year the company acquired Aero Stanrew Group Limited for £34.8 million in cash and the issue of 2,575,669 shares (with a fair 
value of £4.0 million). The Company also subscribed for 25,900,000 shares of £1 in its subsidiary TTG Investments Ltd for a total investment  
of £25.9 million. 
During the year the Company was part of a restructuring within TT Electronics Group. As part of this restructuring the Company’s subsidiary 
Dale Electric International Ltd returned their capital invested by the Company. A gain of £8.1m was realised on the transactions as the gross 
consideration received was £25.9m and the carrying value of the investments was £17.8m. 
Financial Statements / Notes to the Company financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
127
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
4 Debtors 
 
£million 2015 2014 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 134.3  146.1  
Prepayments and accrued income 1.4  0.7  
Income tax receivable –  0.2  
  135.7  147.0  
Prepayments and accrued income includes £0.2m (2014: £0.1m) of receivables due after more than one year. 
5 Creditors 
 
£million 2015 2014 
Amounts falling due within one year 
Trade creditors 1.1  2.3  
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 45.7  6.4  
Taxation and social security 0.2  0.2  
Accruals and deferred income 5.3  2.5  
Income tax payable 0.1  –  
  52.4  11.4  
6 Share capital 
 
£million 2015 2014 
Issued, called up and fully paid 
162,019,120 (2014: 159,008,330) ordinary shares of 25p each 40.5  39.8  
The performance conditions for the Long Term Incentive Plan awards issued in 2012 were not met and, accordingly, no ordinary shares were 
issued during 2015 in connection with the Long Term Incentive Plan. 
The Company issued 435,121 ordinary shares as a result of share options being exercised under the Sharesave scheme and Share Purchase 
plans. The aggregate consideration received was £0.5 million, which resulted in an increase in share premium of £0.3 million. 
On 18 December 2015 the Company issued 2,575,669 ordinary shares (nominal value £0.6 million) as part of the consideration for the 
acquisition of Aero Stanrew Group Ltd which resulted in an increase in share premium of £3.4 million. 
7 Share-based payments  
Details of share-based payments are shown in note 24 of the Consolidated financial statements. 
8 Loss for the year  
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its profit and loss account for the year. 
The loss after tax of the Company for the year was £0.4 million (2014: restated loss of £17.5 million). The auditor’s remuneration for audit 
services is disclosed in note 6 to the Consolidated financial statements.  128
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the Company financial statements continued 
128 
 
9 Pension schemes  
Defined benefit scheme 
The triennial valuation of the UK scheme as at April 2013 showed a deficit of £19.1m compared with £39.4 million at April 2010. It was agreed 
with the Trustee that the existing recovery plan is sufficient to address the deficit; namely contributions of £4.5 million to be paid in respect of 
2016. £4.3 million was paid during the year: £3.2 million in respect of 2015 and £1.1 million in respect of 2014; a further £1.1 million was paid 
early in 2016 in respect of 2015. In addition, the Company has set aside £3.0 million to be utilised in agreement with the Trustee for reducing 
the long-term liabilities of the scheme. Further details of the scheme are provided in note 22 to the Group financial statements. 
Defined contribution scheme 
The Company operates a Group personal pension plan for employees and pays contributions to administered pension insurance plans. 
The Company has no further payment obligation once the contributions have been paid. Payments to the defined contribution scheme are 
charged as an expense as they are incurred. The total contributions charged by the Company including employee salary exchange 
contributions in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 were £0.5 million (2014: £0.6 million).  
10 Deferred tax 
The deferred tax asset of £3.6 million (2014: £2.1 million) is made up of an asset of £3.3 million (2014: £2.1 million) in respect of the pension 
liability, the movement in which has been recognised in profit (£0.7 million charge) and equity (£1.9 million credit), and an asset of £0.3 million 
(2014: £nil) in respect of share-based payments, the movement in which has been recognised in profit (£0.2 million and equity (£0.1 million).  
At 31 December 2015, the Company had recognised no deferred tax assets on gross tax losses of £23.2 million (2014: £23.2 million) and gross 
property, plant and equipment timing differences of £3.3 million (2014: £2.6 million). 
11 Commitments under operating leases 
Annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases were £0.1 million, expiring in one year (2014: £0.1 million, expiring between two 
and five years).  
12 Related party transactions 
During 2015 and 2014, the Company did not have any related party transactions other than with wholly owned subsidiaries. 
 
Financial Statements / Notes to the Company financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
129
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
13 Subsidiary undertakings  
The following entities are 100% owned with only ordinary shares in issue, unless otherwise stated. 
 
Name of Subsidiary Undertaking Country of Incorporation 
AB Mikroelektronik GmbH Austria 
TT Electronics Ltd Barbados 
AB Electronics (Suzhou) Co., Ltd China 
AB Elektronik Sensors (Suzhou) Co Ltd China 
TT Electronics Integrated Manufacturing Services (Suzhou) Co., Ltd China 
TT Electronics SAS France 
AB Elektronik GmbH Germany 
AB Elektronik Sachsen GmbH Germany 
Midland Electronics Deutschland GmbH Germany 
TT Electronics GmbH Germany 
TT Electronics Holdings GmbH Germany 
TT Electronics China Limited (99% owned)
(1)
 Hong Kong 
TT Electronics Sensing and Control India Private Limited India 
TT Electronics Srl Italy 
TT Electronics Japan Limited (in liquidation) Japan 
BI Technologies Corporation SDN BHD (ordinary and preference shares) Malaysia 
AB Electronic Manufacturing Mexico S.A. de C.V. Mexico 
BI Technologies S.A. de C.V. Mexico 
Optron De Mexico S.A. de C.V. Mexico 
TT Electronics Integrated Manufacturing Services SRL Romania 
TT Electronics Sensing and Control SRL Romania 
TT Electronics Asia Pte Ltd Singapore 
Aero Stanrew SARL (99.6% owned) Tunisia 
AB Elektronik Ukraine Ukraine 
AB Automotive Electronics Limited United Kingdom 
AB Connectors Limited United Kingdom 
AB Electronic Components Limited United Kingdom 
AB Electronic Products Group Limited
(1)
 United Kingdom 
AB Electronics Limited (in liquidation) United Kingdom 
AB Elektronik Holdco Limited United Kingdom 
ABtest Limited United Kingdom 
Aero Stanrew Group Limited (ordinary and preference shares)
(1)
 United Kingdom 
Aero Stanrew Limited United Kingdom 
Automotive Electronic Systems Limited
(1)
 United Kingdom 
BI Technologies Limited United Kingdom 
Cable Realisations Limited (in liquidation) United Kingdom 
Commendshaw Limited United Kingdom 
Controls Direct Limited United Kingdom 
Crystalate Electronics Limited United Kingdom 
Crystalate Holdings Limited (in liquidation)
(1)
 United Kingdom 
Dale Electric International Limited
(1)
 United Kingdom 
Deltight International Limited (in liquidation)
(1)
 United Kingdom 
Deltight Washers Limited United Kingdom 
E.M.M.E. Limited (in liquidation) United Kingdom 
Linton and Hirst Group Limited United Kingdom 
Magnetic Materials Holdings Limited (in liquidation) United Kingdom 
Midland Electronics Limited United Kingdom 
MMG Linton and Hirst Limited United Kingdom 
New Chapel Electronics Limited United Kingdom  130
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
130 
 
13 Subsidiary undertakings (continued) 
Name of Subsidiary Undertaking Country of Incorporation 
Nulectrohms Limited United Kingdom 
Race Electronics Limited (in liquidation) United Kingdom 
Rodco Limited (60% owned)
(1)
 United Kingdom 
Roxspur Measurement & Control Limited United Kingdom 
Semelab Limited United Kingdom 
Sensit Limited United Kingdom 
The Brearley Group Limited United Kingdom 
The London Electric Wire Company and Smiths Limited (in liquidation) United Kingdom 
TT Asia Holdings Limited United Kingdom 
TT Electronics Europe Limited
(1)
 United Kingdom 
TT Electronics Integrated Manufacturing Services Limited United Kingdom 
TT Electronics Technology Limited United Kingdom 
TT Group Limited United Kingdom 
TT Power Solutions Limited United Kingdom 
TTE Trustees Limited
(1)
 United Kingdom 
TTG Investments Limited
(1)
 United Kingdom 
TTG Nominees Limited
(1)
 United Kingdom 
TTG Pension Trustees Limited
(1)
 United Kingdom 
TTG Properties Limited
(1)
 United Kingdom 
Vactite Limited (in liquidation) United Kingdom 
Welwyn Components Limited United Kingdom 
Welwyn Electronics Limited United Kingdom 
Wolsey Comcare Limited United Kingdom 
AB Elektronik, Inc United States 
AB Interconnect, Inc. United States 
Apsco Holdings, Inc United States 
BI Technologies Corporation United States 
International Resistive Company Inc United States 
International Resistive Company of Texas, LLC United States 
Optek Technology Inc United States 
Shallcross Inc. United States 
TT Electronics Integrated Manufacturing Services, Inc United States 
TT Group Industries, Inc. United States 
(1)
 Shares held directly by TT Electronics plc 
 
Financial Statements / Notes to the Company financial statements continued Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
131
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
 
£million (unless otherwise stated) 2015 2014 2013
(1)
 2012 2011 
Revenue 509.9  524.3  532.2  476.9  509.6  
Operating profit
(2)
 21.7  29.2  30.8  28.7  28.7  
Profit before taxation
(2)
 19.2  27.6  30.1 25.3  24.5  
Earnings/(loss)
(2)
 14.0  20.5  23.0  18.6  17.6  
Earnings/(loss) per share (p)
(2)
 8.8  12.9  14.6  11.9  11.4  
Dividends – paid and proposed 8.9  8.7  8.5  7.8  6.8  
Dividend per share – paid and proposed (p) 5.5  5.5  5.4  5.0  4.4  
Average number of shares in issue 159.2  158.3  157.6  156.1  154.9  
Net cash/(debt) (56.1) (14.3) 26.9  46.7  15.2  
Total equity 187.4  187.8  203.3  191.1  191.4  
Notes 
(1)
 Results for 2013 have been represented to exclude acquisition related items from underlying profit. 
(2)
 Operating profit, profit before taxation, earnings and earnings per share exclude the impact of restructuring costs, asset impairments and acquisition related costs. 
 
Financial Statements / Five-year record Organic revenue growth
Definition: Organic revenue growth is the percentage 
change in revenue from continuing Group operations  
in the current year from the prior year. The effects of 
currency movements, divestments and acquisitions  
made during the current or prior financial year have  
been removed. This KPI measures the underlying growth 
of the business. 
Cash conversion
Definition: Cash conversion is defined as cash generated 
from continuing operations after capital and development 
expenditure, expressed as a percentage of underlying 
operating profit. Cash conversion measures how 
effectively we convert profit into cash and tracks the 
management of our working capital and capital 
expenditure.
Earnings per share (EPS) 
Definition: EPS is calculated as profit before exceptional 
items from continuing operations attributable to 
shareholders, divided by the weighted average number  
of shares in issue during the year. We have chosen EPS  
as a KPI as it is a standard metric to determine corporate 
profitability for shareholders. In addition, it is a measure 
used as one of the performance conditions in the Group’s 
Long T erm Incentive Plan – see further details on page 65.
Employee engagement
Definition: We use our employee survey to measure how 
our employees feel about working in TT using a scale of  
1 (low) to 7 (high) against eight factors (as surveyed by 
Best Companies Ltd).
Return on invested capital
Definition: Return on Invested Capital is defined as 
underlying operating profit for the year divided by average 
invested capital for the year. Average invested capital 
excludes provisions, tax balances and financial assets and 
liabilities, including cash and borrowings. This measures 
how efficiently assets are utilised to generate returns with 
the target of exceeding the cost to hold the assets.
Safety performance
Definition: Safety performance is defined as the number 
of occupational injuries resulting in three or more days’ 
absence per 1,000 employees. This KPI allows us to 
compare our performance with that of our peers. We  
use a UK benchmark published by the Health and Safety 
Executive and apply this to all of our facilities worldwide, 
reflecting our commitment to raising standards globally.
R&D spend
Definition: R&D is defined as the income statement 
charge for research and development activities  
expressed as a percentage of revenue. The charge  
is after accounting for R&D costs capitalised and 
amortised in the year.
132
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Additional Information / Glossary Other terms
Ad Blue® A water/urea based additive
AGM Annual General Meeting
BE TT Build Expertise in TT
Board of Directors The Board of Directors of 
TT Electronics plc
CAD Computer Aided Design
CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate
CEO  Chief Executive Officer
CFO  Chief Financial Officer
CGU Cash Generating Unit
CSR Corporate and Social Responsibility 
DEFRA  Department for Environment,  
Food and Rural Affairs
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, T axes, 
Depreciation and Amortisation
EBT  Employee Benefit Trust
EICC Electronics Industry 
Citizenship Coalition
EMB Executive Management Board
EMS Electronic Manufacturing Services
EPS Earnings Per Share or Electronic 
Power Steering  
(as the context requires)
EU European Union
EVP Executive Vice President 
FRS Financial Reporting Standards
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles
GBP Pounds Sterling (£)
GDP Gross Domestic Product
HMRC HM Revenue and Customs
IAS International Accounting Standards
IASB International Accounting 
Standards Board
IFRIC International Financial Reporting 
Independence Committee
IFRS International Financial 
Reporting Standards
IMS Integrated Manufacturing Services
ITAR International Traffic in 
Arms Regulations
KPI Key Performance Indicator
LIBOR London Interbank Official Rate
LLP  Limited liability partnership
LTIP Long T erm Incentive Plan
M&A Mergers and Acquisitions
Nadcap National Aerospace and Defense 
Contractors Accreditation Program
NBS New Bridge Street
NOx Nitrous oxide
OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer
OIP Operational Improvement Plan
PMI Purchasing Managers Index
R&D  Research and Development
Roxspur  Roxspur Measurement and 
Control Limited
RSP  Restricted Share Plan
STEM Science, T echnology, 
Energy and Mathematics 
the Board  The Board of Directors of 
TT Electronics plc
the Code UK Corporate Governance Code
the Company TT Electronics plc
TSR  Total Shareholder Return
TT TT Electronics plc
UK United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland
USA United States of America
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
133
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 11 May 2016 
at 11.30am at The City Centre (formerly City Marketing 
Suite), 80 Basinghall Street, London EC2V 5AR.
Results
Announcement of 2016 half year results –  
late August 2016. 
Preliminary announcement of 2016 results –  
mid March 2017. 
Annual Report 2016 – to be posted mid April 2017.
Dividends
For the year ending 31 December 2015, the Board has 
recommended a final dividend of 3.8p per share which will 
be paid on 2 June 2016 to shareholders on the register  
on 20 May 2016 (2014: 3.8p). An interim dividend of  
1.7p per share was paid on 29 October 2015 (2014: 1.7p).
Multiple accounts on the shareholder register
If you have received two or more copies of this document, 
this means that there is more than one account in your 
name on the shareholder register. This may be caused by 
either your name or address appearing on each account 
in a slightly different way. For security reasons, the 
Registrars will not amalgamate the accounts without 
your written consent.
If you would like any multiple accounts combined into one 
account, please write to Equiniti Limited at the address 
given below.
Share dealing services
Shareview Dealing is a telephone and internet service 
provided by Equiniti. It offers a simple and convenient 
way of buying and selling TT Electronics plc shares.
Log on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or call 
0845 603 7037 between 8.00 am and 4.30 pm, Monday 
to Friday (except bank holidays), for more information 
about this service and for details of the rates and charges. 
Please note that telephone lines remain open until  
6.00 pm for enquiries.
A weekly postal dealing service is also available and a  
form together with terms and conditions can be obtained 
by calling 0371 384 2248*. Commission is 1.75 per cent 
with a minimum charge of £55.
ShareGift
ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for 
shareholders, administered by The Orr Mackintosh 
Foundation. It is especially for those who may wish to 
dispose of a small parcel of shares whose value makes 
it uneconomical to sell on a commission basis. Further 
information can be obtained at www.sharegift.org or 
from Equiniti.
Shareholder enquiries
Equiniti maintain the register of members of the 
Company. If you have any queries concerning your 
shareholding, or if any of your details change, please 
contact the Registrars:
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
T elephone 0371 384 2396* (or +44 121 415 7047 
if calling from outside the United Kingdom)  
Fax 0371 384 2100*
T extphone for shareholders with hearing difficulties 
0371 384 2255*
Equiniti also offer a range of shareholder information 
on-line at www.shareview.co.uk
* UK calls to 0871 numbers cost 8p per minute plus network extras. 
Lines are open from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday 
(except bank holidays).
Website
Information on the Group’s financial performance, 
activities and share price is available at  
www.ttelectronics.com
134
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Additional Information / Shareholder information Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
135
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Additional Information / Notes Consultancy, design and production
luminous.co.uk
Go online to learn more about our business
www.ttelectronics.com  TT Electronics plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2015
TT Electronics plc  
Clive House
1 2–18 Queens Road
Weybridge
Surrey KT1 3 9XB
Reg No 87249
Tel +44(0) 1932 825300
Fax +44(0) 1932 836450
For more information on our business please visit
www.ttelectronics.com
