 Report
& Accounts 2015
The
complete 
package Report & Accounts 2015 II
Overview
Strategic Report
Setting the scene for our 
business and the markets 
in which we operate
A review of our strategy  
and how we are delivering 
against this
Highlights of the year 1
Chairman’s statement 3
How we do it 4
Chief Executive’s statement 6
Strategy 8
Divisional review 11
Key performance indicators 14
Financial review 16
Principal risks and uncertainties 22
Our people 26
Corporate responsibility 28
Contents
Governance
Financial Statements
An introduction to our 
Board and their priorities 
and how we manage our 
business
Our financial statements 
provide a complete picture  
of our 2015 performance
Board of directors 32
Chairman’s letter 33
Corporate governance report 34
Audit Committee report 40
Remuneration Committee 44
Nomination Committee 45
Directors’ report 47
Remuneration report 53
Independent Auditors report 73
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income  78
Consolidated balance sheet 79
Company balance sheet 80
Consolidated cash flow statement 81
Company cash flow statement 83
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 84
Company statement of changes in equity 85
Notes to the financial statements  86
Five year summary of results 130
Shareholder information 131 1
Express UK parcels delivery
International parcel delivery
Retail logistics
Key brands
Revenue
Parcels
£228.1m
£21.4m*
£240.5m
£12.5m
£16.5m
Mail Courier
Operating Profit
Highlights of the year
Group 
Revenue*
£485.1m
Profit before 
taxation*
£21.0m
*Pre-exceptional and before discontinued operations
-4.2% +0.8%
+3.7%
-4.5%
-19.6%
-1.9%
+2.0%
Sorted mail, Unsorted mail
Packets, imail - Letters,
Data & Postcards
Sameday delivery
Retail Today
istore
£2.2m
-1.7%
Group Performance Report & Accounts 2015 2
Peter Kane, Chairman
“We are in the midst 
of a phase of strategic 
investment to place 
us at a significant 
advantage for the 
medium and  
longer term” 3
The format of our Annual report
Our Annual report comprises three parts; a Strategic Report 
followed by a Governance section and the Financial Statements. 
The Strategic Report includes a review of our business model, 
outlines our strategy and provides detail of the development 
and performance of our business during the year ended 31 
March 2015, followed by an analysis of our trading during 
the year and our financial position at the end of that year, 
consideration of our risk management strategy and our 
Corporate Responsibility report.
The Governance section details how we comply with the 2012 
UK Corporate Governance Code, describing the work of the 
Board and its key committees. It also includes the Director’s 
report, Remuneration Report (including a proposed revised 
policy), and the Auditors Report.
The success of all these are reported within our Financial 
statements which together with the supporting notes provide a 
comprehensive view of the Group’s financial performance and 
position.
Strategy
Our strategy is to grow our revenue and profitability by 
establishing a market leading position in our key markets  
of parcels and mail, with a clear focus on high service  
levels and network efficiency together with product and  
service innovation.
As you will read later in this report, a key factor in our strategy 
is to expand the size of markets available to us, and to gain an 
increasing share of those markets. To achieve this, we have 
introduced a number of new and innovative services over the 
last few years, which are now gaining real traction.
We are also implementing our plans to grow our capacity to 
allow us to take advantage of the opportunities available to us.
I am pleased to say that much progress has been made in 
this regard as we build the necessary platforms for the future 
following our move to a new central hub in Ryton, where 
the installation of automated sortation equipment will see a 
reduction in our sortation costs, at the same time as providing 
increased capacity.
Our teams across our business have done an excellent job in 
planning and managing this substantial change. To date this 
has been delivered on schedule and on budget which is a 
tremendous achievement.
We have made substantial progress over the last few years, 
developing the business to its current position. However, whilst 
more remains to be done, I believe the investments of the last 
few years are about to bear fruit.
Discontinued operations
In January 2015, and following declining profitability in an 
increasingly competitive market, the Board took the decision to 
close the Pallets operation, with trade ceasing in March 2015. 
In accordance with IFRS 5, ‘Non-current assets held for sale and 
discontinued operations’, the results of this business have been 
presented as a discontinued operation in 2015 and  2014.
Dividend
The Board has proposed an increase in the final dividend of 
0.3p, taking the final dividend to 14.5p (2014:  14.2p), resulting 
in a total dividend for the year of 21.8p (2014: 21.3p). This 
represents a full year increase of 2.3%.
The total dividend is covered 1.39 times by the underlying basic 
earnings (2014: 1.50 times).
People
Our people have seen many changes over the last year, 
largely due to the relocation of our central hub and head 
office.  This has resulted in the relocation of some 650 people.  
This process has been handled professionally and I would 
like to personally thank all of those individuals affected for 
the commitment they have shown to UK Mail during such a 
demanding period.
The achievements of the last few years could not have been 
achieved without the hard work, dedication and commitment 
of all those who work for UK Mail. On behalf of the Board I 
would like to express my gratitude to all of our colleagues, be 
they employees, sub-contractors or suppliers to the Group.
Outlook
We operate in markets where there are significant opportunities. 
The Parcels market is growing rapidly and the key initiatives we 
are progressing in Mail will create further opportunities.
We are in the midst of a phase of strategic investment to place 
us at a significant competitive advantage for the medium 
and longer term. This investment, the benefits of which are 
expected to be seen from the second half of the new financial 
year sets us up very well for the next stage of profitable growth. 
The medium and long term outlook for the Group therefore 
remain very positive.
Peter Kane,  
Chairman 
19 May 2015
Chairman’s Statement
UK Mail Group continued to make progress whilst 
undergoing a period of significant investment and 
transition.  Financial highlights for the year include;
• Group revenues up 0.8% *
• Group PBT down 4.2% *
• Underlying basic EPS down 1.3%*, and
• Full year dividend increased 2.3% to 21.8p per share 
* excluding discontinued operations Report & Accounts 2015 4
Our customers range from the 
largest banks, supermarkets, 
telecommunication businesses,  
and government, through to 
mid-range and small independent 
companies and sole traders.  
Key to our business model is the 
development of new products 
and services thus expanding 
the markets available to us and 
increasing our share of those 
markets we are already in, whilst 
delivering the same high level, 
efficient service to our customers.
With over 30 years experience  
in parcel, mail and logistics 
services and with our extensive 
network of 53 sites, 2,700 staff, 
2,400 vehicles including the  
sub-contractor fleet, nationwide 
mail sortation machines  
and automation equipment,  
this enables us to provide 
industry leading service on a 
cost efficient basis. We continue 
to invest significantly in our 
infrastructure to provide the  
basis for future growth.
Our people have the support, 
training and confidence to respond 
and enhance the customer 
experience. We encourage 
our people to be passionate, 
innovative, and empower them to 
make decisions. We develop our 
people with training both internally 
and externally. Our people know 
what is right for our company and 
customers due to the training we 
undertake and the tools we  
provide for the job.
How we do it
Sustained
growth
Financial
discipline
Strong cash
generation
Our customers and markets Our people Our infrastructure
              Our people                                                                                                 Our customers and markets
   Our infrastructure Strategic Report 5
On a daily basis we collect some 230,000 parcels and 11 million items of mail. 
These are sorted overnight into their destinations at our sort centres, largely at 
our central hub. Mail items are then delivered the next day to one of 38 Royal 
Mail centres for final delivery. We deliver parcels to businesses and residential 
locations across the UK. We use advanced technology to track all these items 
through our network to their destinations, providing customers with sophisticated 
reporting of delivery performance.
Royal
Mail Report & Accounts 2015 6
After a strong period of growth, with the volume of parcels 
handled within our business doubling over the past five years, 
UK Mail is in the midst of a period of major investment and 
transition to cement our position as one of the leading players 
in our markets. 
The focus of this investment is on continued product and 
service innovation and the development of a new fully 
automated hub which creates extra capacity and reduces 
operating costs across our business. 
At the same time, our markets are undergoing significant 
change, with material movements in the competitive landscape, 
changes to consumer spending patterns and therefore the 
behaviour of retailers. All this has created some inevitable 
challenges but it also presents real longer-term opportunities 
for UK Mail as one of the best invested and most competitive 
operators in our markets.
The move of our national hub and Birmingham head office to 
the newly constructed site at Ryton near Coventry is the largest 
Guy Buswell Chief Executive
“Our investment in  
a newly constructed, 
fully automated  
hub is the largest  
strategic development 
in UK Mail’s history, 
bringing extra 
capacity and reducing 
operating costs.”
Chief Executive’s Statement
“UK Mail is in the midst of a period 
of a major investment and transition 
at a time when our markets are 
undergoing significant change.”
Guy Buswell, Chief Executive Strategic Report 7
strategic development in the history of our business. The 
financial year just completed has been one of preparing for 
this physical transition, which is proceeding on budget and on 
schedule, albeit a lot of work remains in the next six months to 
complete this key process.  
We continue to benefit from our strong market position in our 
core businesses thanks to our efficient integrated network. The 
collapse of City Link at the end of December 2014 presented 
us with the opportunity to take on significant additional parcels 
volumes. This increase in volume in the fourth quarter took 
our parcel volumes temporarily above our current optimal 
operating capacity, resulting in above normal operating costs 
being incurred, as previously announced. We expect this effect 
will continue until the automation roll-out is fully completed in 
September 2015.
Reported Group revenues for the year at £485.1m were up 
0.8% compared to the previous year. Adjusting for there being 
one less working day than in the previous year, underlying 
Group revenues increased by 1.2%. Group profit for continuing 
operations (pre-exceptional) before tax decreased by 4.2% 
on the previous year to £21.0m. We estimate that each extra 
working day equates to some £0.5m of contribution. Adjusting 
for this factor the underlying decrease in profit before tax was 
some 1.0%.
Our Parcels business continued to deliver a satisfactory 
underlying performance, with good volume growth throughout 
the year. This volume growth was partly driven by an 
increase in home deliveries related to online shopping, with 
a continuation of the mix change towards B2C that we have 
previously seen. In the fourth quarter we achieved strong 
volume growth as a result of account wins following the demise 
of City Link.  
Our Mail business achieved another good increase in 
volumes, with our mail volumes increasing by 4.3% in the year, 
compared to a market that saw an overall volume decline 
of some 3%. This volume growth was again driven by strong 
customer retention and new customer wins. Our Mail business 
remains well positioned in its market with a healthy pipeline of 
new business opportunities. We continue to see good progress 
from imail and our related new product innovations, and we 
have identified a particular opportunity for growth in Packets.
In our Courier business revenues increased by 2.0%. This 
business has been undergoing a period of transition away 
from the traditional same-day courier operation towards an 
operation which provides specialist service support to our 
Parcels business, and this has impacted the performance for 
the year. We would expect this business to develop well as part 
of our Parcels business going forward and it will be reported 
within the Parcels division in the future.
Our Pallets business had endured a challenging few years 
with revenue and profitability declining in an increasingly 
competitive market. We took the decision in January 2015 to 
close this business, and it ceased operating in March 2015. 
This business has been treated as a discontinued operation in 
these results.
Our underlying cash generation remains strong. We have 
invested some £36.1m in the new hub and automation during 
the year, however our cash levels have been carefully managed 
such that our net debt position at the year end was £5.2m 
(2014: net cash of £27.0m).
The Board has proposed that the final dividend be increased 
by 2.1% to 14.5p (2014: 14.2p). The total dividend for the year 
will increase 2.3% to 21.8p (2014: 21.3p) which is covered 1.39 
times by the basic underlying earnings per share.   Report & Accounts 2015 8
Strategy
Our strategy is to grow revenue and profitability by establishing a market leading 
position in our key markets of parcels and mail, with a clear focus on high service 
levels and network efficiency together with product and service innovation. To 
do so, and to facilitate the future growth of the business, we are also creating 
additional capacity, both in our operations and in support areas.
STRATEGY
Our strategy is to grow revenue and profitability by establishing 
a market leading position in our key markets of parcels and 
mail, with a clear focus on high service levels and network 
efficiency together with product and service innovation. To do 
so, and to facilitate the future growth of the business, we are 
also creating additional capacity, both in our operations and  
in support areas.
High Service Levels
High service levels are a vital element for success in our 
industry. Customers and recipients expect their consignments 
to be delivered to the agreed timescale without loss or damage.
We continue to introduce improvements to our business to 
further enhance the service we provide.
A key enhancement has been the implementation of our 
one-hour delivery window, confirming UK Mail as one of the 
industry leaders in the Parcels delivery market. This provides 
customers with advance notification of the timing of a  
delivery, with the facilities to amend the delivery location  
and day, and we are also progressing alternative and  
innovative delivery options.
Network Efficiency
A low cost, efficient network is key to our market position.  
This allows us to win and retain contracts at good profit levels 
in markets that continue to be very competitive.
The key factors in achieving this objective are:
An Integrated Network for our Parcels and  
Mail Businesses
This integration allows us to spread the fixed costs of our 
operation and also drive operational benefits. The integrated 
nature of our network, which is unique in the UK, also allows 
us to offer services our competitors cannot match. We have 
Strategy
Product and 
service 
innovation
High 
service 
levels
Extensive
and
innovative
use of IT
Automation
An integrated
network
Network
capacity/
new hub Strategic Report 9
continued to progress this objective in the current year and 
have now fully integrated our Courier operation into our 
Parcels network providing further efficiencies and enhanced 
delivery options for customers.
Extensive and innovative use of I.T.
In our industry I.T. is a key differentiator. We handle some 
230,000 parcels each night together with some 11m mail items.  
The ability to track the progress of these items through our 
network and to provide customers with information on this 
progress is vital, as is the provision of sophisticated solutions 
centred on the end-consumer experience.
In the year we have continued to invest in our I.T. 
infrastructure, increasing capacity and resilience. We have also 
introduced new data services and information to the end-
customer. We are also enhancing our ability to support and 
drive innovation in our business.  During the year we appointed 
a new I.T. Director who has led the process of developing this 
vital aspect of our business.
Automation
Effective use of automated sortation is vital in our industry, to 
further reduce sortation costs and to increase capacity. Having 
partially automated our operations in 2010, we handled some 
20% of our Parcels volumes through automated facilities at our 
previous hub in Birmingham.
Following the move to the new Ryton hub with its new 
automated sortation equipment, we intend to increase the level 
of automated sortation to some 80% of our Parcels volumes.  
We are taking action to amend the profile of the consignments 
we handle to make the best use of the automated parcel 
sorter. There will however be an element of the consignments 
that we will continue to handle for customers that will not be 
compatible with automated sortation, normally on account 
of their size. The ability to handle such consignments is a key 
differentiator for us compared to those competitors who are 
100% automated.
Product and Service Innovation
The second key factor in our strategy is product and service 
innovation. We are focused on continuing to expand the size 
of the markets available to us and on increasing our share 
of these markets. To do so we have introduced new and 
innovative products and services in both our Parcels and our 
Mail businesses.  This strategy is gaining valuable traction 
helping us to win new customers.
The key areas we are progressing are:
ipostparcels – a leading parcels collection and delivery service 
targeting the internet end - customer/small businesses
Retail Logistics – a parcel delivery service targeting the needs 
of retail businesses
imail – a market leading hybrid (web-to-print) postal service
imailprint – an internet based printing service, linked to imail, 
which can meet localised printing requirements
Packets – a packet collection and delivery service providing cost 
effective solutions in conjunction with Royal Mail’s delivery service Report & Accounts 2015 10
Strategy continued.
Construction of our new hub was completed in February 2015;  
the new hub will be fully operational by the end of the summer 2015.
Creating Capacity
The volumes of parcels delivered to businesses and consumer 
are predicted to increase, driven by the continued strong 
growth in online shopping. We have the opportunity to benefit 
from this market growth together with the potential to grow 
our market share.
To manage this growth we need to grow the capacity in  
our operations. We are taking actions in three key areas  
to achieve this:
New Hub/Network Capacity
Growing network capacity is vital as our core markets continue 
to show strong growth. We are achieving this capacity growth 
through localised expansion of capacity where needed, 
together with the expansion achieved as a result of our new 
central hub at Ryton. The new hub is now live and we will have 
transferred all our Birmingham operations to the site by the 
end of this Summer.
We expect that this new hub together with increased 
automation of our parcels operations will significantly increase 
our central sortation capacity.
Innovation in Delivery Methods
To make the most efficient use of our delivery sites and 
vehicles, as well as to provide a range of delivery options to 
recipients, we are progressing a range of innovations in our 
delivery methods. These include deliveries throughout the day 
and evening, which make best use of our delivery sites and 
vehicles as well as providing flexibility for customers. We are 
also progressing alternative delivery and collection options 
such as retail stores and locker boxes. 
Creating Support Capacity
The number of transactions processed in our business 
on a daily basis, including parcels and mail, has increased 
significantly in the last three years. We have enhanced our 
support capacity to manage this growth, with a key emphasis 
on our I.T. infrastructure.  We are now progressing plans to 
create significant further capacity to support the future growth 
capability of the business.
Strategy Summary 
Over the past three years, very good progress has been made 
in developing the business to its current position, with a clear 
focus on high service levels, network efficiency and product 
innovation. The result is a robust operational platform and 
strong competitive positions in our chosen markets. The 
new products that we have introduced have gained valuable 
traction, and we have become a significantly more consumer-
focused business.  The benefits can be seen in the good results 
we have achieved over that period.
We have spent the last two years preparing for the transition 
of our business as we move to the new hub and introduce 
advanced automation to our parcels business, which to date 
has been achieved to plan and on schedule. This transition 
is now well underway and, while we still have work to do, we 
expect to complete this transition by the end of the first half of 
the current financial year.
This major transition, combined with the other improvements 
we are making in product and service innovation, together with 
the creation of capacity, will provide the platform for further 
growth over the coming years.  Strategic Report 11
Divisional review
Our Parcels business continued to deliver a satisfactory underlying 
performance with volumes increasing by 7.4% compared to last year.
Parcels
Revenues in Parcels, which comprises the Group’s  
business-to-business (B2B), business-to-consumer (B2C) and 
international parcel delivery service, were up 3.7% to £228.1m 
(2014: £219.9m). On an adjusted basis, taking account of the 
one less working day compared to last year, they increased by 
some 4.3%.
We have achieved volume growth in both the B2B and B2C 
market segments in the period overall, with Parcels average 
daily volumes increasing by some 7.4% compared to last year 
with an on-going volume mix change towards the lower margin 
B2C segment.  
Volume growth in the final quarter was particularly strong at 
some 12.9%, largely due to the volume we gained as a result  
of the collapse of City Link. While clearly positive for the 
business for the future, this has caused some inevitable 
challenges as we continue to digest the new client volumes  
and establish, based on profitability, the volumes we want to 
retain for the longer term.  
This has taken our parcel volumes temporarily above our 
current optimal operating capacity, resulting in above normal 
operating costs being incurred in the fourth quarter of the 
financial year. While this will be resolved when the new hub 
becomes fully operational, this impacted the parcels operating 
margin and operating profit for the year.
The Parcels operating margin reduced to 9.4% for the period 
(2014: 10.2%), resulting in a decrease in the Parcels operating 
profit to £21.4m (2014: £22.4m). On an adjusted basis, taking 
account of the one less working day, we estimate operating 
profit declined by some 2.2%.  
We continue to make good progress with our product 
innovations in this division. Today, ipostparcels represents 
one of the lowest-cost and most user-friendly online collection 
and delivery services available in the UK. Revenues and profits 
grew well for this business, and we continue to invest in further 
enhancing the product.
Key to our parcels market position is the provision of value 
added services that customers increasingly demand.  Our 
enhanced next day delivery service, which offers advance-
notice one-hour delivery and collection windows, is now fully 
operational. This now also includes our new ‘You’re Next” 
texting service and ‘Follow my parcel’ facility. This added 
functionality will give our Parcels business an excellent 
opportunity for further customer acquisition, especially within 
its growing B2C customer base.
The immediate priority for our Parcels business is to complete 
the transfer to the new hub, and then roll out automation to 
our target levels. This will allow us to increase capacity, while 
reducing operating costs and further increasing service levels.
*pre-exceptional items
Parcels 
revenue up
3.7%
Parcels operating  
profit down*
4.5%
Mail  
revenue down
Mail operating 
profit down
1.7% 1.9% Report & Accounts 2015 12
Mail
Mail revenues decreased by 1.9% to £240.5m (2014: £245.3m).  
On an adjusted basis, taking account of the one less working 
day compared to last year, they declined by some 1.6%. This 
decline however was largely caused by a mix change towards 
Customer Direct Access (CDA) mail, which carries a substantially 
lower revenue per item. This mix change is largely the result of 
our Mail business winning a very significant public sector CDA 
contract during the year. 
Our average daily mail volumes increased by some 4.7% 
compared to last year, while the overall UK mail market has 
seen a decline in transactional volumes of some 3% per 
annum, demonstrating further market share gains in the 
Downstream Access market. 
Mail operating profits decreased by 1.7% to £12.5m (2014: 
£12.7m). On a like-for-like basis, operating profit adjusted for 
the effect of one less working day was in line with the previous 
year. The operating margin remained at 5.2% (2014: 5.2%).  
The continued Ofcom review into Access pricing, while not 
expected to have any direct impact on UK Mail, continues to 
cause uncertainty in the market and for users of end-to-end 
services in particular. An early resolution of these issues would 
be welcome. 
imail, our web-to-print postal service, continues to show good 
revenue growth. We continue to invest to increase our capacity 
and provide additional services. ‘imailprint’ has now been 
successfully launched. This provides a specialist printing service 
which, rather than being purely mailed as with our current 
service, can produce printed documents for general usage. We 
see this as a medium-term growth opportunity.
A key growth element of the Access Mail market is the rising 
popularity of packets; a segment that we estimate currently 
represents some £200m of the total Access Mail market of 
£1.5bn. While we have made some progress in this area in 
recent years, our market share of the Access packets market 
remains very low and we are now reinvigorating this business, 
investing in specialist automated packets sortation equipment 
and increasing the size of our sales team.  We believe this area 
will be key to growing our mail revenues and profitability in  
the future.
UK Mail remains a market leader with an operational template 
ideally suited to the evolving demands of the mail market. We 
remain focused on growing our business by handling additional 
Divisional review continued.
Our Mail business achieved another good increase in volumes with our 
Mail volumes increasing by 4.4% compared to last year. Strategic Report 13
mail for existing customers and winning volumes from  
other Access operators. We continue to invest for the future, 
and see substantial growth opportunities for the medium and 
longer term. 
Courier
Revenues in our Courier business, which provides same-day 
delivery services, increased by 2.0% to £16.5m (2014: £16.2m).  
Operating margins however decreased to 13.4% (2014: 17.0%) 
leading to a decrease in the operating profit by 19.6% to 
£2.2m (2014: £2.7m). This business has been undergoing a 
period of transition away from the traditional same-day courier 
operation towards one that provides specialist service support 
to our Parcels business, which has resulted in the loss of some 
business in the year.     
Today, our Courier business works increasingly closely with our 
parcels business and now represents a key part of the Retail 
Logistics operation within our parcels business. Given this, we 
have decided to integrate the Courier operation within our 
Parcels business and it will no longer be separately reported.
Pallets
Our Pallets business had endured a challenging few years 
with revenue and profitability declining in an increasingly 
competitive market and, as announced in January, a decision 
was taken to close it. The business ceased operating in March 
2015. The wind down was handled without disruption to our 
customers and with our staff treated professionally and fairly.  
This business has been treated as a discontinued operation in 
the results.
The business, which has been reported as a discontinued 
operation reported a loss after taxation of £10.8m for the 
year (2014: profit after tax £0.7m), which includes the full 
impairment of the goodwill arising on the acquisition together 
with the costs of closure, largely relating to redundancy and 
dilapidation costs.
Central costs
Central costs reduced to £15.1m (2014: £16.0m). We continue 
to invest significantly in I.T., however this investment has been 
offset by savings in other areas.
Guy Buswell,  
Chief Executive 
19 May 2015 Report & Accounts 2015 14
22.6
26.5
21.9
15.6
16.9
(20.3)
10.7
19.2
10.8
11.6
Key performance indicators
The Group uses a number of key performance indicators (KPI’s) to assess the 
development, underlying business performance and position of the Group 
and its divisions. These KPI’s are reviewed periodically to ensure they remain 
appropriate and meaningful measures of the Group’s performance.
The following KPI’s have been restated to exclude discontinued operations (see note 3).
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
Revenue growth % 
Revenue growth of 0.8% reflected 
strong volume growth in both the 
B2B and B2C market segments
0.8
7.6
11.7
9.0
3.3
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
Operating profit margin % *
The operating profit margin decreased 
to 7.4% largely following the ‘above 
normal’ increase in operating costs to 
handle increased volumes following 
the collapse of City Link
7.4
7.9
6.2
6.1
7.1
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
ROACE % *
Return on average capital employed 
decreased from 26.5% to 22.6% in 
the year under review largely as a 
result of the debt taken on to fund 
capital investment
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
Free cashflow £m
Free cash flow decreased by £31.0m 
to an outflow of £20.3m reflecting 
the capital investment in Ryton and 
automation
* excluding exceptional items Strategic Report 15
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
Debtor days
Debtor days are the KPI the  
Board uses to measure and 
monitor the efficiency of cash 
collection from customers.
Debtor days have decreased  
1.3 days to 30.9 days.
30.9
32.2
33.0
31.3
32.9
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
Health & safety compliance %
Health and Safety compliance 
reduced by 1.8% to 94.9% as 
increased consignment volumes 
and managerial changes impacted 
all sites.
94.9
96.7
95.2
93.4
91.2
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
CO2 Emissions (Tonnes)
CO2 emissions is the KPI the  
Board uses to monitor its effect  
on the environment.
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
Waste recycling (land diversion) %
This KPI monitors the amount of 
waste recycled, thereby avoiding 
landfill. The Group now backhauls 
all cardboard and stretch-wrap 
waste resulting in 96.4% of all 
waste generated being recycled.
96.4
95.7
87.9
90.7
76.3
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
ISO 14001 implementation %
ISO 14001 is the key standard  
for Environmental Management  
Systems. It sets out rigorous  
demands for environmental 
management and is externally  
audited on a regular basis.
100
100
100
55
19
53.7
52.1
49.7
59.0
59.9 Report & Accounts 2015 16
Financial Position
The Group has managed its financial position during the year 
to ensure we have maintaned a solid position. Despite the 
significant investment in our new hub and in automation – 
details of which are set out below - we had net debt at the 
end of the year of £5.2m (2014: net cash of £27.0m), having 
funded £45.5m (2014: £27.6m) of capital investment.
Net cash inflow from operations (including discontinued 
operations) totalled £28.6m (2014: £33.2m). Net cash 
outflow for the period was £22.8m (2014: £0.8m) which 
included £nil cash consumed in working capital (2014: £1.6m 
generated), and a net £43.9m (after allowing for the deferred 
compensation received from HS2) expended on capital 
additions (2014: £17.4m).
The Group paid £11.8m (2014: £10.7m) of dividends  
during the period. 
To provide funding for the investment in the new hub  
and automation the Group agreed a £25m five year  
revolving credit facility with Lloyds Bank plc in May 2014.  
This facility, which supports the cash requirements of the 
investment programme, was £10m drawn at 31 March 2015.
The Group has also put in place additional funding facilities 
as detailed in note 27 to further support our investment 
programme and provide adequate working capital facilities.
Revenues of £485.1m from continuing activities were up 0.8% 
compared to the previous year. However, the underlying 
increase was 1.2% after adjusting for the one less trading day 
in the year under review, as compared to the previous year.
This increase was largely the result of strong parcels volume 
growth in both the B2B and B2C market segments. The 
average daily parcels volumes handled by the group was 
some 7.4% greater than the year prior, and was in part 
attributable to volumes gained in the fourth quarter of the 
year following the collapse of City Link.
Whilst reported Mail revenues decreased by 1.9%, this was 
largely the result of a change in mix towards Customer Direct 
Access (‘CDA’) mail, which carries a substantially lower revenue 
per item, as average daily volumes increased by some 4.7% 
compared to the same period last year.
Courier revenues, which increased 2.0% over the previous 
year, reflect the growth in the provision of an increasing 
number of specialist services to our customers. These 
specialist services, which largely relate to our parcels 
operations, now represent a key part of the Retail Logistics 
operation within our parcels business. As part of the refocus 
of the Group’s operations into Parcels and Mail, this operation 
will be integrated within our Parcels unit, and it will no longer 
be separately reported. 
Financial review
“We are now in a period of significant 
investment and transition, as we put 
the infrastructure in place for the next 
phase of growth.”
Steven Glew, Group Finance Director
Revenue from continuing operations 
2015 2014 Change
Segment £m £m %
Parcels 228.1 219.9 3.7%
Mail 240.5 245.3 (1.9)%
Courier 16.5 16.2 2.0%
Total revenue from continuing operations 485.1 481.4 0.8% Strategic Report 17
Reported operating profit (before exceptional items) from 
continuing activities decreased 3.8%, largely driven by 
decreases in both Parcels and Courier. 
The 4.5% decrease in the Parcels operating profits was largely 
the result of the increased volumes exceeding our current 
effective operating capacity. Which resulted in above normal 
operating costs being incurred, most notably in the fourth 
quarter of the year, following the volumes gained following 
the demise of City Link. As a result the operating margin fell 
by 0.8 percentage points to 9.4%.
Whilst reported Mail operating profits showed a 1.7% 
reduction, they were only slightly below last year’s level, when 
adjusted for the effect of one less working day. The 5.2% 
reported operating margin remained stable year-on-year.
The 19.6% decrease in Courier operating profits reflected a 
3.6 percentage point reduction in the operating margin, as 
the business moved away from a traditional same-day courier  
to one that provides specialist service support to our Parcels 
business, which resulted in the loss of some business during 
the year.
Central costs were £0.9m lower than last year, despite 
increased investment in I.T., as savings were made in a 
number of other areas. 
Operating profit before exceptional items from continuing operations 
 
2015 2014 Year-on-year
Operating 
Profit
Operating 
Profit 
Margin
Operating 
Profit
Operating 
Profit 
Margin
Reported 
Operating 
Profit 
change
Change in 
Operating 
Profit 
margin
Segment £m % £m % % %
Parcels 21.4 9.4% 22.4 10.2% (4.5)% - 0.8%
Mail 12.5 5.2% 12.7 5.2% (1.7)% - 
Courier 2.2 13.4% 2.7 17.0% (19.6)% - 3.6%
Total segmental operating profit 36.1 7.4% 37.8 7.9% (4.7)% - 0.5%
Central costs (15.1) - (16.0) - 5.8% -
Operating profit before 
exceptional items from  
continuing operations
21.0 4.3% 21.8 4.5% (3.8)% - 0.2%
Exceptional items
Exceptional items comprised:
2015 2014
£m £m
Cost of automation implementation 0.4 -
National hub relocation costs 2.5 -
HS2 compensation (2.0) -
Net exceptional costs – continuing operations 0.9 -
Impairment charges (including goodwill) 9.0 -
Closure costs (of UK Pallets) 1.4 -
Exceptional costs – discontinued operations 10.4 -
Total exceptional items 11.3 - Report & Accounts 2015 18
Net exceptional costs – continuing operations
The cost of automation implementation represents the costs 
incurred during the final weeks of the year ended 31 March 
2015, as the Group moved towards the implementation and 
roll-out of new automation equipment. These costs largely 
represent contract termination costs. Further amounts are 
expected to be taken as exceptional costs in the 2015/16 
financial year.
National hub relocation costs represent disturbance costs 
associated with the relocation of our National hub and 
offices to Ryton following an agreement reached with the 
Department of Transport (‘DfT’) to acquire the National hub 
and offices in Birmingham. These costs largely comprise 
£0.2m property costs associated with running two sites for  
an approximate period of two months, £1.1m of recruitment 
and redundancy costs, and £1.2m of costs relating to 
short term site operating costs, incurred due to a delay in 
the expansion of our old National hub as a result of this 
compulsory acquisition.
As detailed in note 27, full reimbursement of these costs 
is being sought from the DfT and HS2 Ltd, subject to the 
requirements of the Compensation Code.
HS2 compensation received relates to agreed compensation 
concerning the profit impact of the delay of automation of 
our operation due to the impact of HS2 on the Group’s plans, 
recognised on a pro-rata basis over the affected period. 
Further amounts are expected to be taken as exceptional 
income in the 2015/16 financial year. 
Net exceptional costs - discontinued operations
The Group acquired UK Pallets Ltd for £9.4m in July 2003, 
recognising an initial goodwill asset of some £8.2m. This asset, 
which was initially amortised as required under the then 
applicable UK accounting rules, stood at £7.9m by the time 
the Group made the transition to IFRS on 1 April 2004. Since 
then, this goodwill has been held on the consolidated balance 
sheet of UK Mail Group plc as an intangible asset and tested 
at least annually for impairment.
At the interim stage, and following a deterioration in the 
trading performance of UK Pallets, an impairment charge of 
£7.3m was recognised as an exceptional cost. 
Since then, and as announced in January 2015, a decision was 
made to close the business. The business ceased trading in 
March 2015. Consequently, the remaining amount of goodwill 
arising on acquisition has also therefore been written off, 
resulting in a total goodwill impairment charge of £7.9m 
for the year ended 31 March 2015. Additionally, the Group 
recognised a further £1.1m impairment charge relating to the 
write-off of capitalised software development costs.
The cost of closing UK Pallets principally comprise £0.7m 
of redundancy costs, and £0.7m contract termination and 
additional dilapidation costs.
HS2
In December 2013 we reached agreement with the Secretary 
of State for Transport concerning the relocation of our 
National hub and head office as a result of the proposed 
High Speed Two (HS2) railway. This involves the sale of our 
Birmingham Heartlands site to the Department for Transport 
(DfT) and the relocation to a newly constructed facility at 
Ryton, near Coventry. 
We have agreed specific compensation payments with the DfT 
and HS2 Ltd. Of these amounts, £4.3m 2014 (£11.6m) was 
received in the year with further amounts due to be received 
in the next financial year as they are agreed.
Whilst some of the costs of the move to the new site, 
including the I.T. data centre move and related staff costs 
have already been incurred (as detailed in exceptional items 
above), further costs are anticipated in the next financial year. 
We anticipate that the costs we incur to reinstate our existing 
capability will be fully compensated by the DfT and HS2 Ltd 
(subject to the requirements of the Compensation Code).
Capital additions
Capital additions for the period included our underlying business capital expenditure combined with investment in our new hub 
and automation.
This can be summarised as follows:
Year to 31st March 2015 2014
£m £m
Underlying capital additions 12.0 11.3
Investment in new hub 22.6 13.3
Investment in automation 13.5 3.3
Total capital additions 48.1 27.9 Strategic Report 19
Steven Glew, Group Finance Director
“We have managed 
our finances during 
the year to ensure 
we have maintained 
a solid position - 
despite the significant 
investment in 
our new hub and 
automation.”  Report & Accounts 2015 20
Cash flow and net cash
2015 2014 Change
£m £m £m
Cash generated from continuing operations 28.2 32.8 (4.6)
Tax paid (5.0) (5.2) 0.2
Net capital expenditure in continuing operations (43.5) (16.9) (26.6)
Free cash flow (20.3) 10.7 (31.0)
Dividends (11.8) (10.7) (1.1)
Drawdown on revolving credit facility 10.0 - 10.0
Other movements (0.7) (0.7) -
Decrease in cash from continuing operations (22.8) (0.7) (22.1)
Cash from discontinued operations - (0.1) 0.1
Decrease in cash - total operations (22.8) (0.8) (22.0)
The underlying capital additions include £7.7m on I.T. as we continue to develop our system infrastructure, and £3.9m on our network.
The investment in the new hub in the period comprises the continuing payments for the construction of the National hub and new 
head office at Ryton. The cumulative total expected to be spent on the land and building over the period to March 2016 is some £35m. 
We expect our contribution to the building of the new hub will be some £15m which covers the enhancement of the site and building 
beyond the scale of the current facility. 
The investment in automation reflects the initial payments for the design and development of the hub and network automation 
equipment. As previously guided, the total expected to be spent on this equipment, over the period to September 2015, is some £20m.
Balance sheet 2015 2014 Change
£m £m £m
Non-current assets - goodwill 1.6 9.5 (7.9)
Non-current assets – other 99.4 60.6 38.8
Current assets – excluding cash 76.4 72.6 3.8
Cash * 4.6 27.4 (22.8)
Current liabilities – excluding tax/borrowings (102.6) (83.3) (19.3)
Borrowings * (9.8) (0.4) (9.4)
Tax (0.2) (2.7) 2.5
Non-current liabilities – excluding borrowings (3.3) (11.4) 8.1
Net assets 66.1 72.3 (6.2)
Net (borrowings)/cash * (5.2) 27.0 (32.2)
Net assets decreased by £6.2m to £66.1m (2014: £72.3m).
Following the recognition of a goodwill impairment charge in 
respect of UK Pallets (as reported in exceptional items), the 
remaining £1.6m goodwill (2014: £9.5m) has been tested for 
impairment as detailed in note 10; there being no requirement 
for a resultant adjustment. 
Other non-current assets increased by £38.8m, which 
principally reflects £22.7m build costs in respect of our new 
National Hub and Head offices at Ryton, and £13.4m of 
automation equipment.
A £3.6m increase in Mail Agency for Access (‘AFA’) debtors 
(reported in other debtors) largely accounts for the £3.8m 
increase in current assets (ex cash).
Whilst reported trade receivables of £56.4m (2014: £57.2m) 
remained materially in line with last year, high cash collections 
resulted in a reduction of debtor days to 30.9 days (2014:  
32.2 days).
Current liabilities (excluding tax and borrowings) increased 
£19.3m year-on-year, of which £15.8m relates to an increase 
in the amount owing to trade creditors, a £7.0m increase in 
current deferred compensation from HS2, partially offset by a 
£5.4m reduction in accruals. 
However, the £7.0m increase in current deferred 
compensation is largely offset by a £8.9m reduction in non-
current deferred compensation, which together with a £1.1m 
increase in non-current deferred tax liabilities largely accounts 
for the £8.1m movement in non-current liabilities. Strategic Report 21
The group generated £4.6m less cash from continuing 
operations largely following a £0.9m reduction in the profit for 
the year from continuing operations and the consumption of 
£1.4m cash in working capital compared to the generation of 
£2.1m in the previous year.
The increased investment programme resulting from the 
relocation of our National hub and head office move, together 
with the implementation of automation principally account for 
the £26.6m increase in cash expended on capital.
In order to help fund these costs the Group has drawn £10m 
down under the revolving credit facility. As a result net debt at 
the year end was £5.2m (2014: net cash £27.0m), comprising of 
£4.6m (2014: £27.4m) of cash at bank and in hand and £9.8m 
(2014: £0.4m) total debt. Further information can be found in 
note 29.
Net finance income
Net finance income was £nil (2014: £0.1m).
Additionally £0.3m of interest costs (2014: £nil) was capitalised 
as part of the construction cost of our new National hub and 
head office.
Taxation
As the exceptional goodwill impairment of £7.9m is not tax 
deductible, the Group’s effective tax rate increased to 40.7% 
(2014: 23.3%).
The underlying effective tax rate, excluding exceptional items 
was 21.1% (2014: 23.3%), which largely reflects the headline 
reduction in UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% effective 
from 1 April 2014.
Earnings per share
Underlying basic earnings per share, which excludes both 
discontinued operations and exceptional items, decreased 
1.5% to 30.3p (2014: 30.7p).
Basic earnings per share decreased 71.2% to 9.2p  
(2014: 32.0p).
Dividend
The Board has proposed a 2.1% increase in the final dividend 
to 14.5p (2014: 14.2p), resulting in a total dividend for the year 
of 21.8p (2014: 21.3p), an increase of 2.3%. The final dividend is 
payable on 28 August 2015, to shareholders registered on 31 
July 2015.
The total dividend is covered 1.39 times by the underlying basic 
earnings (2014: 1.50 times). 
Treasury risk management
The treasury function of the Group operates within policies and 
procedures approved by the Board. These procedures cover 
funding, banking relationships, foreign currency, interest rate 
exposures and cash management.
The Group has considered carefully its cash flows and banking 
covenants for the next three years. These have been appraised 
in light of the current economic climate and on a number of 
forecast scenarios. As such, conservative assumptions on 
profitability and working capital performance have been used 
to determine the level of financial resources required by the 
Group and to assess liquidity risk.
The Group continually assesses its actual and forecast cash 
position on a weekly basis. This ensures that in the short term 
the Group’s cash is used optimally. Each month a medium term 
review of the forecast is undertaken to ensure full compliance 
with the banking covenants. Liquidity risk is the risk that the 
Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they 
fall due. The Group’s strong levels of operating cash flow and 
low indebtedness mean that it is not significantly exposed to 
liquidity risk. 
The Group is not significantly exposed to the effects of 
fluctuations in exchange rates since all income is in sterling and 
costs denominated in foreign currency, principally the euro, 
represent less than 1% of all expenditure. 
As discussed above the Group has committed funding in place, 
comprising of a revolving credit and an overdraft facility, which 
the Group does not currently hedge. As a result the Group is 
exposed to a significant rise in interest rates. Further detail can 
be found in note 25.
Steven Glew,  
Group Finance Director 
19 May 2015 Report & Accounts 2015 22
Principal risks and uncertainties
The effective management of risks within the Group is essential  
to the successful delivery of the Group’s objectives.
A successful risk management process considers the potential 
risks in the context of their impact and probability. The Board 
has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group has an 
appropriately balanced approach to risk management and 
internal control whilst achieving the Group’s overall business 
plans and strategic objectives.
During the year, the Board noted the new provisions and 
guidance included within the Financial Reporting Council’s 
(‘FRC’) ‘UK Corporate Governance Code 2014’, (effective for 
reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014),  
and as a consequence undertook a detailed review of its  
risk management process.
Subsequently, a number of improvements were made to  
the Group’s risk management monitoring and review  
process including;
•  Increasing the minimum frequency of reviews from  
half-yearly to quarterly (two of which will be undertaken  
by the Board and two by the Audit Committee);
• Review and approval of the Group’s ‘risk appetite’; and
• The approval of a revised Risk Management policy.
The process requires management of the business to identify, 
evaluate and monitor risks and takes steps to reduce, eliminate 
or manage those risks. 
These risks are scored as to the likelihood of their occurrence 
and the scale of their potential impact, after allowance is made 
for the effectiveness of existing or planned mitigating controls, 
such that the overall Risk Register can be suitably prioritised. 
This register, together with the identification, implementation 
and progression of mitigation plans are reviewed on an on-
going basis in detail by senior management of the Group.
Risk Change in risk Potential Impact Mitigation Assurance
Potential operational and financial 
impact resulting from the relocation of 
the National hub
The Group is in the middle of a relocation 
process to a new National hub at Ryton 
following contractual agreement with HS2 Ltd 
to acquire the National hub at Birmingham. 
Whilst construction has been completed  
the hub will not be fully operational until 
mid-2015.
The Group could be exposed to a number of unforeseen 
costs or expenditure, for which no compensation will  
be received.
Management is distracted from the achievement of day-to-
day objectives to management of the move.
Loss of key personnel affected by an increased commute 
and/or unwillingness to relocate.
Loss of customers should service levels deteriorate
Regular meetings and discussions are held with HS2 Ltd,  
with agreement in principle reached prior to the commitment 
of funds. 
The relocation is being closely managed by a dedicated HS2 
steering group. 
Plans are in place to retain employees during and after  
the move.
Regular monitoring by operational management of service  
level performance.
The Board monitors the HS2 plan on a periodic basis, and 
receives regular reports from the Group Finance Director,  
Head of HR, the Group Operations Director, and the  
steering group.
Contingency plans have been reviewed and approved.
IT Systems failure
Reliance is placed upon the proper 
functioning of IT systems for the effective 
running of operations. 
Any prolonged interruption to the Group’s IT systems could 
have a materially adverse effect on its business.
The Group has a Business Continuity Plan in the event of IT 
systems failure. Networks are protected by firewalls and anti-
virus protection. Systems are backed up, and offsite disaster 
recovery facilities exist in the event that a major issue affects 
one of our key locations.
Executive Director approval is required for any material system 
changes. A full implementation review and/or parallel running 
is/are undertaken by the sponsoring department and IT prior to 
any new system ‘go live’.
Continued investment in IT infrastructure.
Core areas of the Group are subject to certification including  
ISO 27001.
Internal IT department constantly monitors threats to data 
protection by viruses, hacking and breach of access controls.
Deloitte LLP have been appointed as the Group’s ‘internal IT audit’ 
resource to provide specialist expertise. Strategic Report 23
During the year, the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board 
who ultimately retain the responsibility for the Company’s 
risk management framework reviewed the risk management 
process and the most significant risks identified on the Risk 
Register on a regular basis. 
These significant risks are reported in detail to the Audit 
Committee and/or Board on a High Entity Risk Register (‘HERR’), 
of which 24 risks had been identified at the date of this report. 
Further detail of the work undertaken by the Audit Committee 
in this area can be found in the Audit Committee report on 
page 40.
The table below details the principal risks and uncertainties 
faced by the Group and the steps taken to mitigate such risks 
and uncertainties. The Board considers these to be the most 
significant risks, and whilst not directly comparable, they have 
been ranked in terms of relative importance to the Company at 
this time. 
They do not comprise all of the risks identified by the Company, 
nor those presently unknown to management, or those 
currently deemed less material, which may also have an 
adverse effect on the business.
Additionally, the Group, in common with others is exposed to 
a number of financial risks including market risk, credit risk, 
interest risk, liquidity risk, and capital risk, details of which can 
be found in note 25.
Risk Change in risk Potential Impact Mitigation Assurance
Potential operational and financial 
impact resulting from the relocation of 
the National hub
The Group is in the middle of a relocation 
process to a new National hub at Ryton 
following contractual agreement with HS2 Ltd 
to acquire the National hub at Birmingham. 
Whilst construction has been completed  
the hub will not be fully operational until 
mid-2015.
The Group could be exposed to a number of unforeseen 
costs or expenditure, for which no compensation will  
be received.
Management is distracted from the achievement of day-to-
day objectives to management of the move.
Loss of key personnel affected by an increased commute 
and/or unwillingness to relocate.
Loss of customers should service levels deteriorate
Regular meetings and discussions are held with HS2 Ltd,  
with agreement in principle reached prior to the commitment 
of funds. 
The relocation is being closely managed by a dedicated HS2 
steering group. 
Plans are in place to retain employees during and after  
the move.
Regular monitoring by operational management of service  
level performance.
The Board monitors the HS2 plan on a periodic basis, and 
receives regular reports from the Group Finance Director,  
Head of HR, the Group Operations Director, and the  
steering group.
Contingency plans have been reviewed and approved.
IT Systems failure
Reliance is placed upon the proper 
functioning of IT systems for the effective 
running of operations. 
Any prolonged interruption to the Group’s IT systems could 
have a materially adverse effect on its business.
The Group has a Business Continuity Plan in the event of IT 
systems failure. Networks are protected by firewalls and anti-
virus protection. Systems are backed up, and offsite disaster 
recovery facilities exist in the event that a major issue affects 
one of our key locations.
Executive Director approval is required for any material system 
changes. A full implementation review and/or parallel running 
is/are undertaken by the sponsoring department and IT prior to 
any new system ‘go live’.
Continued investment in IT infrastructure.
Core areas of the Group are subject to certification including  
ISO 27001.
Internal IT department constantly monitors threats to data 
protection by viruses, hacking and breach of access controls.
Deloitte LLP have been appointed as the Group’s ‘internal IT audit’ 
resource to provide specialist expertise. Report & Accounts 2015 24
Principal risks and uncertainties continued.
Risk Change in risk Potential Impact Mitigation Assurance
Competitive
The Group operates in highly competitive 
markets and faces competition from 
international, national, regional and local 
companies, as well as the Royal Mail.
Increased competitive activity could lead to an adverse effect 
on results, either through loss of customers or pressure on 
margins, putting growth, profitability and cash flow at risk.
Market activity, and competitor behaviour, and trading 
opportunities are regularly reviewed. 
Dedicated customer account teams exist for larger accounts.
Hierarchical approval for customer rates charged.
The Group seeks to expand the available market through  
the introduction of new products and services. 
The Group’s customers are spread across a large number  
of business sectors and wide geography.
Competitor activity is monitored at both a strategic and tactical 
level to enable suitable actions to be developed in response.
Feedback from customers, including complaints, together with 
the findings from customer satisfaction surveys are routinely 
monitored, discussed and action plans developed as appropriate.
The Group’s performance against KPI’s is reviewed by Operating 
Board Directors and at Main Board meetings.
Business continuity
The Group could be materially affected if 
there was a significant incident such as a 
terrorist incident, fire or flooding, particularly 
at one of the major hubs.
Severe disruption and reputational damage to the  
business, which would ultimately impact on the Group’s 
financial performance.
Business Continuity Plans are in place for each site, and tested 
on a rotational basis.
Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity plans are regularly 
reviewed and tested at frequent intervals.
Legislation and regulation
The Group is subject to numerous laws  
and regulations, with the mail market 
additionally regulated by the Office of 
Communications (‘Ofcom’).
The Group, in common with many 
businesses, is subject to litigation from  
time to time.
Failure to comply or respond could lead to financial loss, 
either from financial penalties or damages, redeployment 
of management resource, or reputational damage to  
the Group.
The Group keeps abreast of forthcoming legislative and 
regulatory changes, and maintains controls and procedures  
to ensure full compliance.
The Group maintains active engagement with Ofcom, 
responding to consultations, when relevant.
The Group maintains both in house and external  
legal expertise.
The Board reviews reports from senior executives including the 
Group Legal Manager.
The Group is subject to various audits and compliance visits  
from both external bodies and in house internal audit and 
security teams. 
Fuel
Fuel shortages or strikes could affect the 
Group’s operations.
Fuel costs could increase significantly more 
than forecast.
Any prolonged interruption to the Group’s fuel supplies  
could have a materially adverse effect on its business.
Higher fuel costs could lead to reduced margins  
and profitability if they cannot be passed on to customers.
The Group has an established fuel contingency plan.
In common with industry practise, the Group operates a fuel 
surcharge mechanism, whereby increases in fuel prices are 
recharged to the majority of the Group’s customer base.
The fuel contingency plan is reviewed and tested at  
frequent intervals.
The Board monitors both the fuel price and the fuel surcharge 
mechanism on a periodic basis.
Key:
increase in risk no change decrease in risk Strategic Report 25
Principal risks and uncertainties continued.
Risk Change in risk Potential Impact Mitigation Assurance
Competitive
The Group operates in highly competitive 
markets and faces competition from 
international, national, regional and local 
companies, as well as the Royal Mail.
Increased competitive activity could lead to an adverse effect 
on results, either through loss of customers or pressure on 
margins, putting growth, profitability and cash flow at risk.
Market activity, and competitor behaviour, and trading 
opportunities are regularly reviewed. 
Dedicated customer account teams exist for larger accounts.
Hierarchical approval for customer rates charged.
The Group seeks to expand the available market through  
the introduction of new products and services. 
The Group’s customers are spread across a large number  
of business sectors and wide geography.
Competitor activity is monitored at both a strategic and tactical 
level to enable suitable actions to be developed in response.
Feedback from customers, including complaints, together with 
the findings from customer satisfaction surveys are routinely 
monitored, discussed and action plans developed as appropriate.
The Group’s performance against KPI’s is reviewed by Operating 
Board Directors and at Main Board meetings.
Business continuity
The Group could be materially affected if 
there was a significant incident such as a 
terrorist incident, fire or flooding, particularly 
at one of the major hubs.
Severe disruption and reputational damage to the  
business, which would ultimately impact on the Group’s 
financial performance.
Business Continuity Plans are in place for each site, and tested 
on a rotational basis.
Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity plans are regularly 
reviewed and tested at frequent intervals.
Legislation and regulation
The Group is subject to numerous laws  
and regulations, with the mail market 
additionally regulated by the Office of 
Communications (‘Ofcom’).
The Group, in common with many 
businesses, is subject to litigation from  
time to time.
Failure to comply or respond could lead to financial loss, 
either from financial penalties or damages, redeployment 
of management resource, or reputational damage to  
the Group.
The Group keeps abreast of forthcoming legislative and 
regulatory changes, and maintains controls and procedures  
to ensure full compliance.
The Group maintains active engagement with Ofcom, 
responding to consultations, when relevant.
The Group maintains both in house and external  
legal expertise.
The Board reviews reports from senior executives including the 
Group Legal Manager.
The Group is subject to various audits and compliance visits  
from both external bodies and in house internal audit and 
security teams. 
Fuel
Fuel shortages or strikes could affect the 
Group’s operations.
Fuel costs could increase significantly more 
than forecast.
Any prolonged interruption to the Group’s fuel supplies  
could have a materially adverse effect on its business.
Higher fuel costs could lead to reduced margins  
and profitability if they cannot be passed on to customers.
The Group has an established fuel contingency plan.
In common with industry practise, the Group operates a fuel 
surcharge mechanism, whereby increases in fuel prices are 
recharged to the majority of the Group’s customer base.
The fuel contingency plan is reviewed and tested at  
frequent intervals.
The Board monitors both the fuel price and the fuel surcharge 
mechanism on a periodic basis. Report & Accounts 2015 26
Our people
The UK Mail People Strategy has continued through 2014/15 with 
the objective of engaging our people to deliver the company vision.
The People Strategy
The Strategy developed initially in 2013 is a three year rolling 
plan, reviewed on an annual basis. In 2014/15 development 
of the strategy was slower than the previous year; a result 
of the significant resources diverted to the people change 
management programme required to relocate circa 650 
employees from the National Hub and head office in 
Birmingham to Ryton, near Coventry. Therefore we will 
undertake a complete strategic review commencing in April 
2015. Nonetheless, our principle aims continue to be to:
•  Recruit, reward and recognise our people, by creating a 
business that puts its people and its customers at the 
centre of all its activities, and recognising that our people 
matter and are key to the business achieving its goals
•  Continually review and improve how we engage and 
communicate so our people understand the part they play 
in the achievement of the Company vision, and to have an 
open, honest and transparent communications strategy
•  As a priority support the learning, development, coaching 
and mentoring of our people, by offering internal 
learning and management development programmes 
demonstrating our commitment to people development, 
thereby continually developing our team and improving 
their leadership capability
•  Work safely by continually reviewing the ‘Safe Operating 
Methods’ we work to, and ensuring risks are managed.  
These reviews demonstrate how we value the safety of  
our employees and customers ensuring that nothing we  
do will cause them any harm
•  Make our business ‘a great place to work’; ensuring  
that we are seen as an ‘Employer of Choice’ within our 
business sector.
Diversity
It remains our policy to ensure that no job applicant, employee, 
customer or contractor receives less favourable treatment for 
any reason. We want to make sure no one is disadvantaged 
by unjustifiable conditions, criteria or practices because of 
their sex, gender, race, colour, ethnic origin, religion, sexual 
orientation, disability, marital status, age, or any other grounds 
of discrimination.
Legislation
We are an equal opportunities employer, and this is about 
having good people and employment practices. Our employees 
are our greatest asset and every line manager and employee 
has a personal responsibility for the implementation of our 
equal opportunities policy.
Our gender split is as follows:
•  1 (14%) female directors including non-executives of  
the company 
•  6 (86%) male directors including non-executives of  
the company 
•  7 (21%) number of female employees who are senior 
managers of the company
•  27 (79%) number of male employees who are senior 
managers of the company
• 627 (23%) number of female employees of the company
• 2,080 (77%) number of male employees of the company
Communication and Engagement
UK Mail completed its first Employee Survey in 2013. The next 
Employee Survey was scheduled to take place in September 
2014; however the decision was taken to postpone the survey 
until the second quarter of 2015 due to the Ryton relocation 
change management programme. Plans are already being 
formulated to prepare for the survey so that we continue 
with the work to increase our staff engagement and morale 
programme, and as part of this since January 2015 we have 
been working on our continuous improvement programme in 
readiness for our ‘pulse check’ Investors in People assessment 
planned for October 2015.
The Employee Consultative Group (‘ECG’) is even more 
established within the business now, following the appointment 
of Area Lead ECG representatives, and more local site 
representatives than ever before. It has played a key role in 
the communication with those employees affected by the 
relocation of the UK Mail National hub and head office to 
Ryton, near Coventry. The ECG representatives and Employee 
Committee that was set up to help the transition have been 
instrumental in ensuring a smooth transitional process in all 
elements of the People work stream.
The ECG Representative numbers for the second year running 
have increased which has helped ensure that all parts of the 
business are represented, and with the increase in these 
numbers the ECG modular Learning and Development 
programme continued to be rolled out.
Recognition and Reward 
Our employee benefit review in conjunction with our benefits 
consulting partner, continues for our contractual and voluntary 
offering, and as part of this we launched in the latter part of 
2014 a new voluntary benefits package. Strategic Report 27
The UK Mail Group Personal Pension Plan continues to operate 
under Pension Auto Enrolment legislation with minimal opt 
outs demonstrating that our people are planning for their 
future retirement. 
We have successfully set up a Pension Governance committee 
with the aim of reviewing how the scheme is running, the 
investment choices offered, and to review both our pension 
provider and Pension Advisor performance. The Committee is 
chaired by our Group Operations Director, and the committee 
members are our Group Finance Director, Head of HR and ECG 
Chairperson, as well as an active pension scheme member. 
The Committee meets three times per year, with one meeting 
specifically dedicated to a pension scheme investment review.
In addition three times a year the UK Mail Group Personal 
Pension Plan newsletter is produced. This newsletter has  
the aim of keeping all pension scheme members completely  
up to date with their pension scheme, any changes in  
pension legislation and to cascade any other useful  
information on pensions.
The ‘I Delivered’ Awards is the UK Mail Recognition scheme, 
which is now in its fifth year. The scheme recognises employees 
for going that extra mile. The next National ‘I Delivered’ Awards 
will be held in July 2015.
Learning and Development
During 2014/15 the Learning and Development directory  
was updated, and the Supervisory Skills, Operational 
Development and ECG Representative development 
programmes continued to run, in addition to the usual 
operational compliance training programmes.
The UK Mail employee incumbent Apprenticeship programme 
continues to run enabling employees to study whilst working 
for a recognised accredited qualification.
Unfortunately, ‘App for that’ – Apprenticeships with UK Mail’ 
which was rolled out in 2013/14 to 15 sites was not expanded 
any further in 2014/15 due to training provider issues. 
However, as part of the People Strategy review in 2015 a review 
of the scheme will be undertaken with a view to re-establishing 
the apprenticeship schemes presence in the business. It should 
be reiterated that UK Mail are committed to this programme 
and the expansion of it during 2015/16.
Our Driver Training programme has had a good first year 
since its inception, and has made an impact in this specialised 
training area. Periodic driver assessments, post incident 
reviews as well as specialised operational training have been 
provided. Moving into 2015/16 this department will continue to 
develop by expanding its remit in to in-house Driver Certificate 
of Professional Competence training, development of a Trainee 
Driver recruitment programme, and a company car driver 
assessment programme in order to help meet the objective of 
employing the best drivers in the sector.
To supplement our commitment to ‘growing our own’ we are 
committed to running a Graduate Training programme within 
the IT department, with indicative discussions regarding the 
development of a general Graduate training scheme covering 
parcel/mail general management. This will be the first scheme 
in over ten years within the UK Mail Group
The UK Mail Work Experience programme continues across 
all sites within the UK, and we remain committed to creating 
better links with local schools and colleges, to offer one week 
work experience placements particularly in the local area 
around Ryton, where our National hub and head office is  
now based.
Health, wellbeing, occupational health and support continues 
to be a priority as part of the people strategy with support 
being provided, when required, for those employees 
unfortunate to be long term sick which includes counselling  
for those requiring emotional support. 
Ryton Relocation
The impact of the relocation of our National hub and head 
office from Birmingham to Ryton, near Coventry took a great 
deal of planning and focus from a people perspective during 
the 2014/15 year.
Within the Head Office function circa 60% of employees 
decided to relocate to the new facility. Within the National 
Hub to date circa 20% of employees are relocating with a 
partnership being in place with a local specialist provider to 
help recruit for the circa 350 vacancies on offer.
Those employees who have decided to relocate are  
being offered support and trial periods in their roles  
at Ryton.
For those employees who have unfortunately decided to not 
make the move then full employee assistance is being offered 
in order to help them secure alternative roles, and retraining. Report & Accounts 2015 28
UK Mail continues to be committed to Corporate Responsibility 
(‘CR’) and regard the integration of sound CR practices (which 
take into account the interests of all our stakeholders be they 
employees, customers, shareholders or the wider community) 
as a long-term, sustainable approach to business. We 
continue to devote significant resources towards improving CR 
standards and practices within the Group. Our CR programme 
has four key elements; environment, health and safety, 
employment and community.
UK Mail is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, 
confirming our commitment to CR. We have committed to 
aligning our operations and strategies with ten universally 
accepted principles in areas such as labour, business integrity, 
employment, human rights and the environment.
Steven Glew is the Board member responsible for CR and the 
strategy is approved at Board level. He, together with the CR 
Steering Committee manages, develops and communicates  
our CR strategy, to provide direction and guidance on all 
aspects of business practice and responsibility. The members 
of the CR Steering Committee are drawn from a number of 
disciplines across the company (human resources, health and 
safety, operations, transport, procurement, communications 
and legal.)
The Board takes account of the significance of social, 
environmental and ethical (‘SEE’) matters to the business of the 
Company. Currently we have identified no social,  
environmental or ethical risks that would have a material 
impact on our business.
The Environment
The Group recognises that it has a responsibility to reduce 
its impact on the environment and seeks to increase the 
environmental sustainability of its operations and those of 
its suppliers. Whilst we recognise that we have an important 
role to play in delivering goods and mail in the UK, we are 
acutely aware of the impact that transport operations have 
on the environment and the Group is committed to reducing 
this impact by the introduction of cost effective solutions and 
changes which result in real benefits to the environment as a 
whole. Our environmental policy is regularly reviewed and is 
available on our company website, www.ukmail.com 
Our 2014/15 CR Targets and Achievements
As we enter year two of our three year programme we  
are making good progress and look to build upon the 
successes of our previous year. Again the main focus is on 
CO² emissions, health and safety, utilities, waste and our 
people. We continue to use 2012/13 as the key baseline from 
which we monitor our improvement. Following the successful 
implementation of ISO14001 we continue to work towards 
OHSAS18001 certification. 
Corporate responsibility
UK Mail continues to be committed to Corporate Responsibility (‘CR’) and 
regard the integration of sound CR practices (which take into account the 
interests of all our stakeholders be they employees, customers, shareholders 
or the wider community).
Our performance in the year against our key targets is as follows:
Actual 2012/13 
(Base Year)
Target 
2015/16
Actual 
2014/15
Actual 
2013/14
Change against 
2013/14
Variance against 
target
1. CO² emissions (tonnes) 49.74k 47.25k 53.72k 52.11k +3.10% +13.70%
CO² emissions by item 0.375kg not set 0.314kg 0.340kg -7.60% N/A
2. Land Diversion (%) 87.88% 95.00% 96.40% 95.70% +0.70% +1.40%
3. Waste to landfill (tonnes) 340.15t 323.14t 124.06t 136.76t -9.30% -61.61%
4. Total waste (tonnes) 2,806.49t 2,666.17t 3,449.26t 3,183.00t +8.36% +29.37%
5. Water consumption (
m3
) 35,840
M3
34,048
M3
37,860
M3
31,509
M3
+20.16% +11.19%
6. HSE audit compliance (%) 95.25% 95.00% 94.88% 96.65% -1.77% -0.12%
7. Workplace fatalities 0 0 0 0 0.00% 0.00%
8. Maintain ISO 14001 corporate 
site compliance (% of the 41 
corporate sites)
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 0.00% 0.00%
9. Staff Turnover (%) 20.17% 20.00% 27.70% 16.43% +11.27% +7.70% Strategic Report 29
Environment
1. UK Mail’s Carbon Emissions
• 2014/15 Achievement – 13.7% adverse to target
• 2015/16 Target – Reduce by 5%
UK Mail’s total carbon emissions were 53.72k tonnes. This is 
overwhelmingly made up of emissions from fuel burn. The 
calculation of these emissions is based on respected industry 
methodology measurements (Carbon Trust and Defra).
Table of UK Mail’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Emission total (tonnes)
CO² emitted from 
transportation activities 
1
48,349
CO² equivalent from facilities 
2
5,368
Total emissions (CO²) 53,717
 
1
  Emissions from transportation activities are internally 
verified. Note that the CO² reported figure for fuel 
emissions is actual CO² which is emitted from all fuel 
dependent assets, including Heavy Good Vehicles, 
C+D Vans, Company Cars and Mechanical Handling 
Machinery. CO² equivalents from franchise or service 
partner operations are not included in the reporting of 
CO² emissions. Emissions calculated using the Defra GHG 
Conversion Factors 2008 Guidelines for conversion of fuel.
2
  Emissions calculated using the Carbon Trust Energy 
& Carbon Conversions 2011 Update Guidelines for 
conversion of grid electricity and gas.
In addition to total emissions, UK Mail also monitors emissions 
per item handled. 
3
3
 This is a measure of how efficiently a single parcel item or 
consolidated mail item (tray or bag of envelopes) is handled 
from the point of collection through to the point of delivery. 
It does not include equivalents from franchise or service 
partner operations.
At 0.314kg emissions per item handled, UK Mail has reduced 
this figure over the last year representing an 7.6% or 26 
gms per item improvement (following 9.3% and 35 gms 
improvements in 2013/14).
We continue to set ourselves challenging emission reduction 
targets which we aim to meet by a number of initiatives, such 
as the introduction of automation which includes a new item 
volume target.
Fuel
UK Mail’s two key objectives remain:
Objective 1: To reduce the distance travelled by our vehicle 
fleet through effective route planning and optimisation of 
vehicle fill.
We continue to use sophisticated route planning software to 
optimise the mileage travelled by our fleet.
Telematics devices are fitted to allow our heavy commercial 
vehicles to provide information on a number of key factors 
such as harsh braking, not driving in the ‘green zone’, idling 
time and speed, all of which can have a negative effect on miles 
per gallon (‘MPG’).
Close management of our telematics devices in all of our 
heavy commercial vehicles has significantly improved driving 
behaviour and fuel consumption per journey. We will continue 
to proactively manage our drivers to ensure we optimise the 
MPG by vehicle and route. 
We continue to use software for our parcel delivery scanners 
which ensure our owner drivers take the most optimum route 
when collecting and delivering parcels. One of the key benefits 
of this software is to significantly reduce the miles driven.
We are also trialling in cab cameras in our heavy commercial 
fleet which will also help us monitor driving behaviour style.
The move to automation in 2015/16 will mean improved 
vehicle loading, resulting in fewer vehicles and less journeys 
made. Also this will significantly reduce the amounts of manual 
handling equipment we operate. It is estimated that at least 
70x pieces of equipment will be returned.
Objective 2: To reduce the fuel consumption of our vehicles 
through a review of the vehicle designs used and other 
effective means. 
We have replaced 88 tractor units in the past year with new 
Euro 6 engines which comply with the latest diesel engine 
emission standards. These all use the additive ad-blue which 
further enhances the overall output and mpg of the vehicle.
During the year we also replaced 77 new trailers all which have 
been fitted with aerodynamics top spoilers and enhanced body 
kits.
We have a Driver Trainer and one of his key objectives will be to 
maximise MPG from our commercial vehicle and company car 
drivers through changing driver behaviour.
Improved tyre husbandry ensures our tyres run to maximum 
performance and lower rolling resistance tyres (to aid MPG) are 
being fitted as standard.
Our CO² emissions, across our company car fleet, has reduced 
to an average of 116g/km. Drivers are encouraged to make 
fewer business journeys by replacing them with conference 
calls and we now have video conferencing on all desk and lap-
top computers. Report & Accounts 2015 30
Energy
We have energy ‘smart’ meters in all of 
our sites. These meters provide regular 
‘on line’ energy usage readings for both 
gas and electricity throughout the day, 
every day. This information enables us 
to identify and reduce unusual energy 
usage, particularly during the periods 
when we are not operational.
We have installed energy efficient  
saving lighting in our new Ryton site  
with movement and light sensors which 
will significantly reduce our lighting  
energy consumption.
During the coming year, we are 
looking at extending the replacement 
lighting initiative at a number of other 
sites. We have also installed energy 
reduction systems at various sites to 
reduce electricity consumption of our 
automation equipment.
We have launched a new 2015/16 Eco 
challenge with the aim of further engaging 
all our employees in energy conservation.
Waste Management
2. Landfill Diversion (Waste which 
does not go to landfill that has now 
gone to a materials recycling facility 
or energy recycling facility or transfer 
stations – sorted/filtered – then 
recycled not in land fill)
• 2014/15 Achievement –  
Increased to 96.40%
• 2015/16 Target – 95%
3. Waste To Landfill (Waste which 
goes directly to landfill)
• 2014/15 Achievement – 61.6% 
adverse to target
• 2015/16 Target – Reduce by 5%
4. Total Waste (the volume of total 
waste generated) every single 
denomination of waste includes 
recycle general waste including 
hazardous waste 
• 2014/15 Achievement – 29.4% 
adverse to target
• 2015/16 Target – Reduce by 5%
We continue to improve the management 
of our waste. UK Mail now backhauls 
all of our cardboard and stretch-wrap 
waste to a regional site in order to make 
recycling more efficient. We now only 
have two waste streams; landfill and 
mixed recyclables. Our landfill diversion 
rates are now over 96%, compared with 
just 5% in 2008.
Although we are sending significantly 
less waste to landfill, our volume of 
waste generated has increased due to 
the growth in our business volumes. Our 
key focus over the next 12 months is to 
reduce this. 
Responsibility for waste management 
within the business transferred to 
the Health, Safety and Environmental 
Department in April 2015 and we will seek 
to enhance the improvements already 
implemented and further reduce the 
business’ impact on the environment by 
reviewing current practices and working 
with our waste management contractor 
to identify potential improvements and 
implement suitable measures. 
5. Water Consumption
• 2014/15 Achievement –  
11.1% adverse to target
• 2015/16 Target – Reduce by 5%
Limited progress has been made in 
reducing our water consumption which 
is up by 11.1% against our target of a 
5% reduction, due to an increase in the 
number of employees. This increase since 
the 2012/13 base year means that the 
usage per employee has increased by 
0.6%.
• 2012/13 – 2,522 employees – 14.21
m3
• 2013/14 – 2,639 employees – 11.93
m3
• 2014/15 – 2,684 employees – 14.11
m3
We have installed water saving devices 
at all sites to reduce consumption and 
waste, as well as a rain water harvesting 
system at our Ryton site.
We have also removed vehicle wash 
facilities at a number of sites to further 
reduce our water usage and have 
installed smart metres at our high 
consumption sites.
Health and Safety
6. Health, Safety and Environmental 
(HSE) Audit Compliance
• 2014/15 Achievement – 94.88%
• 2015/16 Target 95%
The Group fully embraces and endorses 
the legal and moral obligation to 
protect the health, safety and welfare 
of employees and others who may be 
affected by our operations.
Robust policies are deployed to ensure 
training, risk assessment, safe systems 
of work and accident investigations are 
carried out throughout the Company. 
Policies are updated on an on-going 
basis to ensure they reflect the changing 
environment in which we operate. Health 
and safety is discussed at Group Board 
meetings utilising our monthly health and 
safety report, which outlines proactive 
and reactive measures for discussion  
and debate. 
A full HSE audit is conducted at each 
operating location at least annually, 
with locations receiving a score and 
an improvement plan on completion. 
Locations are challenged to achieve a 
“Pass Mark” of 95% and those failing to 
do so undertake a re-audit within six 
months to ensure that improvement plan 
actions have been implemented. 2014/15 
proved to be a challenging year for the 
network dealing with increased volumes 
and the associated issues those volumes 
create. A number of managerial changes 
also impacted on the implementation 
of controls and systems. As a result we 
experienced a decrease in the average 
scores achieved in the year from 96.65% 
to 94.88%. The HSE team will analyse 
the results of all audits to identify trends 
and work with the operations team to 
implement robust solutions to redress 
any issues identified.
Our health and safety intranet site hosts 
management information which includes 
specific procedures and policies such 
as emergency response, safe operating 
methods, risk assessments, accident 
investigation procedures and the 
carriage of dangerous goods, as well as 
communications to promote health and 
safety in the workplace.
7. Workplace Fatalities
• 2014/15 Achievement – 0
• 2015/16 Target – 0
8. ISO 14001 Corporate Sites
• 2014/15 Achievement – 100% - 
Maintained Certification at all sites
• 2015/16 Target – Maintain Certification
Corporate responsibility continued. Strategic Report 31
ISO 14001 is the key certification 
standard for Environmental Management 
Systems. It sets rigorous demands for 
the continuous improvement of our 
environmental management system 
provision and is externally audited 
and verified by an UKAS accredited 
certification body on a regular basis. We 
are pleased to report that we continue to 
hold ISO14001 certification across all of 
our corporate sites. 
ISO 14001 Franchise Sites
• 2014/15 Achievement – work not  
yet started
• 2015/16 Target – 100% Compliance  
at Franchise sites
We plan to extend our ISO14001 
certification to our franchise sites by 
2016. Work on this objective is due to 
commence from April 2015 following 
a number of organisational changes 
affecting franchise sites.
OHSAS18001 at Corporate Sites
• 2014/15 Achievement – accreditation 
has not yet been achieved
• 2015/16 Target – 100% Compliance at 
Corporate Sites
We have an objective to achieve 
OHSAS18001 certification across all of 
our corporate sites, which is the British 
Standard for occupational health and 
safety management systems. Work on 
developing appropriate policies and 
procedures has begun but no progress 
has been made towards seeking 
accreditation. This cannot be completed 
until all policies and procedures have 
been rolled out and fully implemented. 
Employment
9. Staff Turnover
• 2014/15 Achievement – 7.7% adverse 
to target
• 2015/16 Target – 20% turnover
The increased staff turnover largely 
results from the relocation of our National 
hub and offices to Ryton.
Employee involvement
We continue to raise awareness amongst 
our employees by ensuring they 
understand how their actions impact the 
environment. We encourage switching off 
lights, powering off desktop computers, 
laptops, photocopiers, and ensuring 
that office materials and work practices 
increase recycling.
Working with our suppliers
We work closely with our suppliers to 
improve their environmental standards 
and we request details about their 
environmental practices and accreditation 
as part of our supplier selection process. 
Our Supplier Code of Conduct defines 
our minimum standards of business 
activity and shapes the way we work 
with our suppliers for mutual gain. 
We continually work with suppliers to 
develop new products and in the re-
engineering of existing products to use 
more environmentally friendly materials 
and less finite materials such as paper 
and polymer. All of our Bagits are 100% 
recyclable and copier paper reduced to 
75 gms. We are in the process of rolling 
out a new estate of photocopiers which 
will be set to print double-sided. This 
along with the introduction of the driver 
scanning system will mitigate the need 
for driver run sheets which will see the 
amount of copier paper reduce by  
some 10%. We also prefer to work with 
more UK based suppliers who produce  
our high volume products in the UK  
instead of other parts of the world, 
and this significantly reduces the 
transportation involved.
Community
We believe in community investment and 
that UK Mail should play its part as a good 
corporate citizen, supporting charities and 
community activities that affect our staff 
and customers. 
We financially support employees who are 
involved in personal fundraising initiatives 
for causes close to their hearts. During 
the year we donated to a diverse range of 
charities through our Staff Sponsorship 
Scheme, helping fund cancer charities, 
children’s charities, local hospices, 
The British Heart Foundation and Air 
Ambulance, amongst others. 
Our commitment to working both with the 
Department of Work and Pensions, and a 
range of employment partners continues, 
so that we support the long term 
unemployed from welfare to sustained 
employment. Our Work Experience 
Programme continues throughout all our 
sites, and we remain committed to our 
Apprenticeship programme ‘Appforthat’, 
which whilst less active than last year 
remains a key area we wish to support 
during 2015/16. 
We are also keen to further develop our 
relationships with local schools and colleges 
during the coming year to promote work 
experience weeks at UK Mail.
Charity Giving
Throughout the year, UK Mail chose to 
support the NSPCC, one of the UK’s largest 
children’s charities. Since 2012 we have 
raised £105,000 for this cause throughout 
our three year partnership, and the 
money has been donated to the NSPCC’s, 
ChildLine Schools Service. This service 
trains volunteers to visit primary schools 
around the UK, educating children about 
when they should contact ChildLine about 
issues such as abuse or bullying. 
In addition to a donation from UK 
Mail, our employees organised local 
fundraising activities for the NSPCC, 
such as sky dives, bike rides and half 
marathons, or smaller fundraisers such 
as dress down days and cake sales, which 
took place during working hours. We also 
run an employee payroll lottery scheme 
generating money for the charity.
Throughout 2014/15, UK Mail also worked 
in partnership and raised money for The 
Royal British Legion. UK Mail donated 
£10,000 towards the RBL poppy appeal 
in 2014/15. The Legion has been raising 
funds and providing care and support to 
serving members of the Armed Forces, 
veterans and their families since 1921. 
We are proud to be supporting them for 
the year in which they commemorate 100 
years since World War 1 began. 
Finally, we have a policy of supporting 
supplier and client charitable fundraising 
initiatives through donations of monies 
or gifts. 
Steven Glew,  
Group Finance Director 
19 May 2015 Report & Accounts 2015 32
Board of Directors
Guy joined the Company in 1989 and 
was appointed Sales Director in 1992. 
After a period elsewhere in the industry 
he re-joined the Company in 1997 and 
was appointed to the Board in August 
1998. Guy started the company’s Mail 
business in 2002, and became the Chief 
Executive in December 2005. 
Guy Buswell
Chief Executive
Steven was appointed to the Board as 
Group Finance Director in June 2006. 
He has held the positions of Group 
Finance Director at Crown Sports plc, 
Booker plc, and Mothercare plc, having 
previously held a number of senior 
positions with Tesco plc. Steven is a 
Chartered Accountant.
Carl joined UK Mail as Operations 
Director in 2007, having previously held 
a number of senior positions in parcel 
distribution companies across the UK. 
He was appointed to the board in April 
2014 after successfully managing our 
operations for the past seven years.
Carl Moore
Group Operations Director
Peter founded the Company. 
After a period as Chief 
Executive was appointed 
Chairman in July 2001. 
Michael was appointed to the 
Board in September 2009, 
and is currently a member 
of the Audit and Nomination 
Committees and chairs the 
Remuneration Committee. He 
was appointed as the Senior 
Independent Director in June 
2012. Michael is Co-Head 
of Bank of America Merrill 
Lynch’s Investment Banking 
and Corporate Broking 
businesses in the UK and 
Ireland. He is also Chairman 
of Fin Capital Limited.
Michael Findlay
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Bill was appointed to the 
Board in November 2011 and 
chairs the Audit Committee. 
Bill has a wide range of 
financial experience and 
was Chief Financial Officer of 
Intertek Group plc from 1995 
to 2010. He is a Chartered 
Management Accountant 
and is also a Non-Executive 
director and Audit Committee 
Chairman of Exova Group plc. 
Jessica joined the Board as 
a non-executive director in 
September 2012. She is CEO 
of m/SIX, a full-service media 
agency which specialises 
in digital, direct and social 
media marketing, and is a 
Non-Executive Director of 
Quarto plc. Jessica has over 
20 years’ experience in the 
advertising and media industry 
and has previously been a 
non-executive director of 
Jacques Vert plc and TalkTalk 
plc. Prior to this, Jessica was 
managing director of The 
National Magazine Company 
and COO for ACP-NatMag. 
She previously held senior 
positions at Financial Times 
Business, a subsidiary of  
FT Group, and Future 
Publishing Limited. 
Jessica Burley 
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Steven Glew
Group Finance Director
Peter Kane
Chairman
Bill Spencer
Independent  
Non-Executive Director Governance 33
Chairman’s letter
Dear Shareholder,
I am sure that you will appreciate that as a premium listed company, UK Mail is subject to 
the Financial Reporting Council’s (‘FRC’) UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 (the ‘Code’). 
I am equally sure that you will be pleased that I can again confirm that the Board considers 
that it has complied with the majority of the detailed provisions of the Code throughout 
the year and up to the date of this report.
As we all know, the world doesn’t stand still. In September 2014, the FRC issued a new 
UK Code which is effective from 1 October 2014, which will first apply to UK Mail in 
the financial year commencing 1 April 2015. I will provide an update as to the Group’s 
compliance with the 2014 Code in next year’s report.
However, good corporate governance is not simply about the adherence to codes of 
practice but rather about the creation of the right framework such that people are clear as 
their roles, responsibilities and accountabilities. In its simplest form it defines what is and 
what isn’t acceptable, with the Board responsible for ensuring the correct values are set 
for the company. 
It involves responsible and clear leadership, aimed at setting the right standards for others 
to follow, and in winning the hearts and minds of people, rather than a ‘tick list’ mentality.
I can assure shareholders and other readers of this report, that the UK Mail Board remains 
committed to these objectives, continuing to ensure that these values and behaviours are 
consistently applied throughout the Group. 
Good governance doesn’t stop there, and we remain mindful of our wider responsibilities 
to franchises, suppliers, customers, partners and investors, amongst others. You will read 
elsewhere in this Annual Report of examples of this. 
In the report that follows we provide an overview of our corporate governance practices, 
describing how the main principles of the Code have been applied throughout the year. 
The report includes individual reports from the Chairmen of the Audit Committee, the 
Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee which together describe how 
we conduct our business in line with the Code’s provisions and other accepted principles 
of good corporate governance.
Finally, I would encourage you to attend our AGM. The AGM will once again be held at the 
offices of Investec, 2 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7QP at 12:00 noon on 8 July 2015. 
Peter Kane 
Chairman of the Board 
19 May 2015 Report & Accounts 2015 34
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require listed 
companies to disclose how they comply with the principles 
of good governance and code of best practice known as 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 (the ‘Code’), and 
whether there has been compliance with its provisions 
throughout the financial year. A copy of the Code may be 
found on the Financial Reporting Council’s website  
(www.frc.org.uk). 
The Company is a smaller company for the purposes of the 
Code and in consequence certain provisions of the Code 
either do not apply to the Company or may be judged to be 
less relevant to the Company.
The directors consider that the Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Code applicable to it throughout 
the financial year ended 31 March 2015, save for the 
independence of the Chairman (See ‘Board Independence’ 
on page 38).
This statement explains how the Company has applied the 
principles of good governance set out in the Code. 
The governance structure
The Board
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term 
success of the Company and is ultimately accountable 
to shareholders and other stakeholders for the Group’s 
strategy, risk management and performance. Further details 
of the Board’s activities are provided on pages 35 to 39.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee’s primary responsibilities are to 
monitor the integrity of the Group’s financial statements, 
to review internal and external audit activity, and to review 
and monitor the effectiveness of risk management and 
internal controls. Further details on the activities of the Audit 
Committee are provided on pages 40 to 43.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is responsible for board and 
senior executive recruitment and succession planning, 
thereby ensuring the appropriate balance of skill sets 
are present in the boardroom. The Committee also 
makes recommendations to the Board on membership 
of its committees. Further details on the activities of the 
Nomination Committee are provided on pages 45 to 46.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining 
all elements of remuneration for the executive directors 
and senior executives of the Group and for approving 
all incentive plans. Further details on the activities of the 
Remuneration Committee are provided on pages 53 to 72.
Company Secretary
The Company Secretary’s primary responsibility is to ensure 
that good information is provided to the Board and all of its 
committees, and that all necessary compliance issues and 
rules and regulations are followed. The Company Secretary 
reports to the Chairman on all board governance matters. 
All directors have access to the services of the Company 
Secretary and may take independent professional advice at 
the Company’s expense in conducting their duties.
Risk Management Committee
The Risk Management Committee’s primary responsibility 
is to identify, monitor and review the Group’s non-financial 
risks, reporting at least quarterly to the Audit Committee 
and/or Board.
Corporate governance report
Risk 
Management
Remuneration 
Commitee
External Audit
Nomination 
Committee
Operational 
Directors
Administrative 
Committee
Internal Audit
Audi Committee
Non-Executive Directors Company Secretary Executive Directors
Others Shareholders
UK Mail Group plc - Board of Directors Governance 35
Internal audit
The internal audit function, (including externally sourced 
advisors), provides an independent in-house assurance and 
consulting activity designed to add value and improve the 
Company’s operations. It helps the business accomplish its 
objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to 
evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, 
control, and governance processes.
External audit 
The external audit function provides independent audit  
and review. 
Operational directors
The Operational directors have day-to-day responsibility to 
execute the strategy approved by the board and comprise 
of the most senior executive management within the Group 
including the functional heads of Mail and IT, as well as the 
Chief Executive, Group Operations Director and Group  
Finance Director.
Administrative Committee
The Administrative Committee, which comprises a quorum of at 
least two main Board directors, has a delegated responsibility 
from the Board to enter into the legal agreements or contracts 
approved by the Board, on its behalf. All actions undertaken 
are reported at the next subsequent Board meeting.
The Board
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success 
of the Company and is ultimately accountable to shareholders 
and other stakeholders for the Group’s strategy, risk 
management and performance.
The Board has the powers and duties as set out in all relevant 
laws and the Company’s Articles of Association. Amendments 
to the Company’s Articles of Association may be made in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
The Board has also reserved a number of matters for its sole 
consideration. These include;
• the approval of major items of expenditure or commitment, 
including acquisitions;
• major operational projects, including new contract wins;
• financing, including lease/buy decisions and the use of 
derivatives and insurance; and
• policy changes relating to the operational and  
franchise networks 
The Board routinely monitors the various financial, operational 
and commercial risks facing the Company through reports from 
management, and takes full consideration of legislative, health 
and safety, environmental, employment and  
governance issues. In forming decisions the Board considers 
the impact on wider stakeholders including employees, 
suppliers and the environment.
Internal control
The Board of directors has overall responsibility for ensuring 
that the Group maintains a system of internal control to 
provide it with reasonable assurance regarding effective and 
efficient operations, internal financial control and compliance 
with laws and regulations, whilst the role of management is to 
implement the Board’s policies on risk and control and provide 
assurance on compliance with those policies.
In discharging these responsibilities, the Board confirms 
that it has established the procedures necessary to comply 
with the Code, including clear operating procedures, lines of 
responsibility and delegated authority.
The key elements of the review processes and control 
framework across the Group are as follows:
• The Board agrees the corporate strategy and business 
objectives to be followed over both the medium term (a 
three year plan), and in the short-term (annual budgets/
forecasts), which divisional management incorporate into 
their own financial and operational plans;
• Periodic reporting, and subsequent review and  
discussions with relevant management of business 
development, KPI achievement, health and safety, 
operational and financial performance;
• Centralisation of certain key functions such as HR, Legal 
and Treasury enabling the Group to benefit from centres of 
expertise in the most efficient and cost effective manner;
• Proposed capital investment and I.T. project 
implementations require detailed justification, review and 
appraisal, prior to any approvals being granted, and post-
implementation reviews are undertaken;
• Clearly defined hierarchy of responsibilities, including 
authorisation levels, and documentation of operational and 
administrative procedures;
• A Group-wide risk management framework, which accords 
with the Turnbull guidance, and is supported by reports 
by the Head of Internal Audit and Group Risk that the 
significant risks faced by the Group are being identified, 
evaluated and appropriately managed having due regard to 
the balance of risk, cost and opportunity; and
• A whistle-blowing policy which sets out a framework for 
dealing with any allegations of fraud, financial misreporting 
and any other whistle-blowing notification. Report & Accounts 2015 36
The system of Internal Control is designed to manage and 
mitigate, rather than eliminate risks completely, and it should 
be recognised that it can only provide reasonable not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Within that context, the Audit Committee, on behalf of the 
Board, has conducted reviews of the effectiveness of the 
system of internal controls and processes described above,  
as recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code  
2012, and is satisfied that it accords both with the Code and 
Turnbull guidance.
Financial Reporting
In addition to the general risk management and internal control 
processes described above, the Group has also implemented 
internal controls specific to the financial reporting process 
and the preparation of the annual and interim consolidated 
financial statements.
The main control aspects are as follows:
• financial policies and procedures applicable to, and 
consistent for, all business units;
• a detailed reporting calendar including the submission 
of detailed monthly accounts for each business unit in 
addition to the year-end and interim reporting process;
• monthly reconciliation and review of all balance sheet 
accounts; and
• detailed management review at Operating Director and 
Main Board level of the monthly management accounts, 
with an Audit Committee review in respect of the interim 
and year-end Report and Accounts
All financial information published by the Group is subject to 
the approval of the Board, on the recommendation of the  
Audit Committee.
Board meetings 
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Chief Executive and 
Company Secretary, plans the agenda for each Board Meeting. 
That agenda is issued to all Board members (whether attending 
the meeting or not), together with all supporting papers before 
the meeting is held. 
The Company Secretary ensures that the supporting papers 
provide the Board with the appropriate and necessary 
information such that the Board as a whole may discharge their 
duties. However, where a director feels that more information 
may be required he/she may either access the services of the 
Company Secretary or alternatively may take independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense.
Board meetings are normally held at the Slough head office 
of the Group, albeit at least one meeting per annum is held at 
the Ryton head office. Operational management are invited to 
attend board meetings on a regular basis. This, together with 
visits to the sites, helps to provide the individual directors of 
the Board with an opportunity to broaden their knowledge of 
the business, and to meet employees and management of  
the Group.
The Board meets formally not less than ten times a year, with 
other meetings held as necessary. Reports are also supplied to 
directors in months when a Board meeting does not take place. 
Formal minutes recording the activities and decisions of the 
Board and Committee meetings are prepared and circulated to 
each director. If a Director objects to a particular decision this 
is recorded in the minutes of the relevant meeting.
Board composition
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief 
Executive, the Group Finance Director (who is also the 
Company Secretary), the Group Operations Director, and 
three independent non-executive directors. There is a clear 
division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief 
Executive, set out in writing and agreed by the Board. 
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the effective working 
of the Board, ensuring that the board as a whole plays a full 
and constructive part in the development and determination 
of the Company’s strategy and its overall commercial 
objectives. He ensures that the board determines the nature 
and extent of the significant risks the Company is willing to 
accept in the implementation of its agreed strategy. He is also 
responsible for promoting the highest standards of integrity, 
and also manages the relationship and communication with 
shareholders in relation to any governance matters.
The Chief Executive is responsible for all executive 
management matters affecting the Company. His principal 
responsibility is the day-to-day running of the business and 
implementation of Board strategy and policy.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director provides 
a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an 
intermediary for the other directors as necessary. He also acts 
as a line of contact for shareholders if they have concerns 
which are not appropriate for discussion with the Chairman, 
the Chief Executive or the other executive directors.
The non-executive directors challenge and agree the 
Company’s strategy with the Chief Executive and executive 
management and assess their performance against it. 
Non-executive directors are initially appointed for a three year 
term with an expectation that they will continue for at least a 
second term.
Corporate governance report continued. Governance 37
As can be seen from the director’s profiles on page 32, the 
directors have a wide range of skills, knowledge and experience 
and can bring independent judgement to bear on matters of 
strategy, performance, and governance. 
Board induction and development
On appointment, the Chairman agrees a personalised 
induction plan for all new directors, tailored to their experience, 
background and particular area of focus, which is designed 
to develop their understanding of the Group’s culture and 
operations. The programme has evolved over time having been 
modified following feedback, but will usually involve meetings 
with senior management and site visits.
On an annual basis, the Chairman reviews and approves 
individual development plans. Directors are encouraged to 
attend seminars and/or other forums relevant to their role.
Time Commitment
Service agreements and letters of appointment, for both 
the executive and non-executive Directors, are available for 
inspection at the Company’s registered office and at the AGM. 
The letters of appointment for each of the non-executive 
directors state that in accepting the appointment, the Director 
confirms that he/she is able to allocate sufficient time to 
meet the expectations of the role, with an anticipated time 
commitment of approximately 20 days per year.
Executive directors are permitted to take a maximum of one 
non-executive directorship position with another company,  
but any such involvement must be subject to the Board’s  
prior approval.
Board changes during the year
Carl Moore was appointed to the Board as Group Operations 
Director on 8 April 2014, having served as Network Director 
since his appointment in 2007. 
Following his appointment the Board, excluding the Chairman, 
comprises of an equal number of executive and independent 
non-executive directors. 
Details of the current Board members and the composition of 
its committees can be found on pages 37 and 39.
Board membership, meetings and attendance
Board evaluation
An evaluation of the Board, its committees, the individual 
directors and the Chairman was conducted internally. This was 
led by the Chairman, who invited each director to complete a 
survey, the results of which were discussed both collectively as 
a Board, and with each individual director. 
In addition, the Chairman regularly convenes meetings of the 
non-executive directors to assess the performance of the 
Board in the absence of the executive directors. Furthermore, 
both the independence and the performance of the Chairman 
were discussed separately by the non-executives without the 
Chairman present. 
Overall, the Board and its committees remain satisfied that they 
continue to operate effectively, that the information directors 
receive is both of the required quality and provides sufficient 
time for adequate review, and that there are consequently no 
material changes required to existing practices.
Director Date of 
appointment
Position Actual number 
of meetings 
attended
Possible number 
of meetings 
attended
Peter Kane 10 July 2001 Chairman 10 10
Jessica Burley 1 Sept 2012 Independent non-executive director 10 10
Guy Buswell 5 Dec 2005 Chief executive 10 10
Carl Moore 8 Apr 2014 Group operations director 10 10
Michael Findlay 1 Sept 2009 Senior independent non-executive director 10 10
Steven Glew 5 June 2006 Group finance director 10 10
Bill Spencer 1 Nov 2011 Independent non-executive director 10 10 Report & Accounts 2015 38
Board Independence
The Code states that the Board should determine whether 
a director is independent in character and judgement and 
whether there are relationships or circumstances, which 
are likely to affect or could appear to affect, the director’s 
judgement, for example serving on a board for more than 
nine years, or where he/she has had a material business 
relationship with the Company within the last three years.
The Chairman of the company, Peter Kane is not judged to be 
independent due to his significant shareholding. Peter Kane 
was appointed as a director in April 2001, and having now 
served on the Board for more than nine years, is required 
under the provisions of the Code to submit himself for re-
election each year.
The Board considers all of the Company’s other non-executive 
directors to be independent in character and judgement and 
free from any relationships or circumstances which are likely to 
affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
The Board have evaluated Peter’s performance and the 
operation of the Board as a whole, and are satisfied that no 
one individual dominates proceedings.
Directors’ conflicts of interests
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have a statutory 
duty to avoid a situation where they have, or could have, 
a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may 
conflict, with the interests of the Company. Directors of public 
companies may authorise conflicts and potential conflicts 
where appropriate, if the articles of association contain a 
provision to this effect.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its Directors 
and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as 
Directors of the Company. The process for monitoring conflicts 
is as follows:
• changes to the commitments of all Directors are reported 
to the Board;
• the Directors are required to complete a conflicts 
questionnaire on appointment and annually thereafter;
• any conflicts identified are presented to the Board 
for consideration and, as appropriate, authorised in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the articles 
of association; and
• Directors are responsible for immediately notifying the 
Company Secretary if they become aware of any actual or 
potential conflict situation or a change in circumstances 
relating to an existing authorisation
The Board has not identified any conflict of interests during the 
year, and believes that the procedures established to deal with 
conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
Relations with shareholders
Whilst there is a substantial shareholding represented on  
the Board, the Company values its dialogue with both 
institutional and private investors. Two-way communication 
with institutional investors, analysts and private investors is 
actively pursued, and a series of presentations and meetings 
are held throughout the year, carefully recognising statutory 
constraints concerning the disclosure of information.  
Feedback from these meetings is collated by the Company’s 
advisers and circulated to members of the Board to ensure 
that they are kept informed of the views of shareholders.  
In addition, the Chairman periodically attends meetings with 
shareholders, and non-executive directors are invited to  
attend results presentations.
The Group’s annual and half-yearly results, interim 
management statements, trading updates, presentations  
given to analysts and all announcements made through the 
RNS are published on the Company’s website at www.ukmail.
com. A full Annual Report is sent to all shareholders who wish 
to receive one.
All shareholders are given at least 20 working days’ notice of 
the AGM. It is standard practice for all directors to attend the 
AGM to which all shareholders are invited and at which they 
may put questions to the chairmen of the various committees 
or the Board generally. The proxy votes for and against each 
resolution, as well as votes withheld (which may be recorded 
on the proxy form accompanying the notice of AGM) are 
counted before the AGM commences and are made available 
to shareholders at the close of the formal business of the 
meeting. The proxy votes are also announced through the RNS 
and posted on the Company’s website shortly after the close of 
the meeting.
Corporate governance report continued. Governance 39
Board Committees
The Board receives advice and support from three committees, being the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees. 
Membership of these committees as at 19 May 2015 and their principal terms of reference are set out below:
UK Mail Group plc 
Board of directors
Audit Committee
Bill Spencer (Chairman),  
Jessica Burley, Michael Findlay
 
Oversees the Group’s  
financial statements 
Monitors the adequacy of  
internal controls and risk 
management processes
Reviews the critical accounting 
policies and compliance with 
accounting standards
Oversees the selection, 
compensation, independence 
and performance of the Group’s 
external auditors
Monitors the independence and 
performance of the Group’s Head 
of Internal Audit and Group Risk
Remuneration Committee
Michael Findlay (Chairman),  
Jessica Burley, Bill Spencer
 
Sets remuneration for all  
executive directors including 
share-based incentives, pensions 
and other benefits
Monitors the level and structure of 
remuneration for the first layer of 
management below Board level
Approves initial grants and 
subsequent vesting of all share-
based incentives
Responsible for appointing 
remuneration consultants.
Nomination Committee
Peter Kane (Chairman), 
Jessica Burley, Michael Findlay,  
Bill Spencer
 
Leads the process for, and 
recommends all appointments to 
the Board
Reviews succession planning for 
the Board Report & Accounts 2015 40
Audit Committee Report
“The Committees overriding purpose is to provide assurance 
to the Board that the interests of shareholders are suitably 
protected, principally through the oversight of financial 
reporting, risk management, the internal control environment, 
and the audit process”. 
Responsibilities
The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee 
are set out in written terms of reference, available on the 
company’s website www.ukmail.com. These terms are 
considered annually by the Audit Committee and referred to 
the Board for approval. 
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are 
summarised below:
• Monitoring the integrity of the Company’s financial 
reporting including the selection of the most  
appropriate accounting policies and compliance  
with accounting standards;
• Advising the Board on whether the Committee believes 
that the Annual Report when taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy;
• Reviewing the integrity of the risk management and internal 
control framework;
• Monitoring the role and effectiveness of the internal audit 
function; and
• Approval and appointment of the external auditors, 
including their terms of engagement, fees, independence, 
performance and effectiveness
Governance
The Audit Committee is composed of entirely independent 
non-executive directors. The Board has satisfied itself that 
the chairman of the Audit Committee, and the Committee 
collectively, have recent and relevant financial experience due 
to the senior positions they hold or have held in other public 
companies, to enable the Committee to function effectively and 
to discharge its responsibilities.
Other attendees
The Audit Committee retains discretion as to who from outside 
the committee can attend meetings in full but typically invites 
the Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group 
Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and Group Risk, 
externally sourced advisors, and senior representatives of the 
external auditors, although it reserves the right to request 
any of these individuals to withdraw. At least once a year 
the Committee meets separately with the external auditors 
and with the Head of Internal Audit and Group Risk without 
executive management present.
Activities
The committee met four times during the year, and reports of 
these meetings were provided to the subsequent Board meetings. 
The main areas of focus considered by the Committee during 
the year were as follows:
Financial Reporting
During the year the Committee reviewed the Group’s draft 
interim and annual financial reports prior to Board approval. The 
Committee assessed whether suitable accounting policies had 
been adopted and whether management had made appropriate 
estimates and judgements. As part of these reviews the 
Committee received a number of accounting papers prepared 
by management which detail the main financial reporting 
judgements. Additionally, the Committee also reviewed reports 
prepared by the external auditors at both the half year and the 
full year which highlighted its attention. 
Audit Committee membership, meetings and attendance
Director Date of 
appointment
Position Actual number 
of meetings 
attended
Possible number 
of meetings 
attended
Bill Spencer – 
Chairman
1 Nov 2011 Independent non-executive director 4 4
Jessica Burley 1 Sept 2012 Independent non-executive director 4 4
Michael Findlay 1 Sept 2009 Senior independent non-executive director 4 4
Bill Spencer 
Chairman of the Audit Committee Governance 41
Audit Committee Report continued.
Discontinued operations - UK Pallets closure: The 
Committee considered the treatment and disclosure of 
exceptional income and expenditure. In particular, in 
advance of the half-year reporting cycle, and following a 
rapid deterioration in the trading performance of UK Pallets, 
the Committee reviewed and considered a detailed paper 
prepared by management on the work undertaken and the 
assessments made in relation to the impairment testing 
of goodwill, within this Cash Generating Unit (‘CGU’). The 
Committee, having reviewed the underlying assumptions  
used in the model, and in particular the changes to the 
forecast cash flows of this CGU, since the annual impairment 
test undertaken in March 2014, agreed that an impairment 
charge should be recognised as an exceptional item at the 
interim stage.
Following the January 2015 announcement to close UK 
Pallets, the Committee agreed it appropriate to write-off a 
number of other items on cessation of trade as exceptional 
items, principally including redundancies, an intangible asset 
(software system), contract exit and dilapidation costs. 
Exceptional items - National hub relocation: The 
Committee reviewed a further paper detailing exceptional 
costs and compensation relative to the relocation of the 
National hub, and agreed that their quantum and accounting 
presentation were correct.
HS2 costs and compensation: The Committee considered 
and agreed with the accounting treatment and related costs 
disclosure of amounts claimed from HS2 Ltd as compensation, 
whether received or not at the year-end.
Goodwill impairment (Courier CGU): The Committee 
received the annual ‘Goodwill Impairment Review’ papers 
prepared by management, used to support the carrying value 
of goodwill in the Balance Sheet in respect of the Courier CGU. 
The Committee, having reviewed the underlying assumptions 
used in the model against the agreed plans for the business 
unit and the sensitivities to any deterioration in future cash 
flow projections, agreed with management’s conclusion that 
goodwill remained unimpaired in this CGU.
Areas of management judgement: On an on-going basis 
management exercise judgement over the level of provisioning 
required in a number of areas including sales ledger credits, 
claims and bad debts, bonus accruals, insurance reserves, 
dilapidations, the outcome of share-based payment plans, and 
purchase order accruals. The Committee challenged both the 
underlying assumptions made by management, and the work 
undertaken by the external auditors, and after discussion and 
debate agreed with the accounting treatment adopted in the 
preparation of the financial statements.
Going concern: Prior to the publication of both the half-year 
and the full-year results, the Committee considered going 
concern papers prepared by management, and taking into 
account the internal auditors’ review of these papers and their 
assumptions, concluded that management’s recommendation 
to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis 
was appropriate. The papers included the forecast short-term 
and medium-term spending requirements resulting from 
the relocation of the National Hub to Ryton, and the Group’s 
available committed banking facilities over these periods.  
The Committee paid particular focus to the sensitivities to any 
potential delay in both the receipt of compensation payments 
from HS2 Ltd and any prolonged period of deterioration in 
trading, and the options available to management in this 
event, and agreed with management’s recommendation 
that preparation of the accounts on a going concern basis 
remained appropriate.
Fair, balanced and understandable: At the request of the 
Board, the Committee considered whether the Annual and 
Interim Reports were ‘fair, balanced and understandable’, 
and whether they provided the necessary information for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy. In forming this conclusion, the Committee 
considered the overall review and confirmation process 
around the production of the Annual and Interim Reports 
including reports received from subject matter experts (both 
internal and external), executive and senior management, 
internal audit and external auditors.
In reviewing these processes, key considerations included 
ensuring that there was consistency between the accounts 
and the narrative largely provided in the front half of the 
Annual Report, and that there was an appropriate and  
honest balance of reporting both the Group’s failures as  
well as successes.
Risk management and internal control
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, is responsible for 
reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management framework 
within the Group, in relation to the key operational, compliance 
and financial risks the Company faces. The Committee 
therefore reviewed the following;
Risk Management: At the request of the Board, and following 
guidance provided in the Financial Reporting Councils (‘FRC’) 
2014 revision to the UK Corporate Governance Code, the 
Audit Committee received and considered an updated and 
comprehensive Risk Management policy. 
The key recommendations approved by the Committee 
included acceptance of the proposed ‘risk appetite’ matrix, and 
an increase in the frequency of risk reporting to the Board.
Risk Register: The Committee twice reviewed the prime financial 
and non-financial risks, as identified on the Risk Register during 
the year, together with the effectiveness of the Group’s controls 
to manage and mitigate the impact of those risks. 
The significant judgements considered 
by the Committee were: Report & Accounts 2015 42
As part of this work, the Committee reviewed and discussed 
the key risks judged by the Board to have the largest potential 
impact on the Group, further details of which can be found on 
pages 22 to 25.
Internal Control Procedures: The Committee considered 
reports from both the Head of Internal Audit and Group Risk 
and the Group Finance director on the operation of, and 
issues arising from, the Group’s internal control procedures, 
together with observations from the external auditors and 
discussions with senior management.
Whistle blowing and fraud incidents: The Committee 
received whistle blowing and fraud incident reports, and 
reviewed not only the cause of those incidents, and the 
subsequent actions taken by management to resolve and 
prevent recurrence, but the use and internal communication 
of this facility. The Committee agreed that the Group was 
doing all it could to encourage suppliers, sub-contractors or 
employees to raise any malpractice or dishonest concerns in 
complete confidentiality.
Revenue assurance and I.T. systems: The Committee 
received a number of reports on revenue integrity and 
assurance from both management and the internal auditor, 
which were discussed in detail, with subsequent actions set for 
management. The Committee reviewed the progress of the I.T. 
development programme, and determined the priorities and 
outline timetable for the year.
Loss prevention: The Committee reviewed and discussed 
the three year strategic loss prevention plan from the Head of 
Loss Prevention. The Committee agreed that the overall plan 
was appropriate, and that the key areas of focus had been 
properly identified.
The effectiveness of internal controls and the risk 
management framework
The Committee recognises that a robust and effective system 
of internal control is critical to achieving reliable and consistent 
business performance. On behalf of the Board, the Committee 
reviews the effectiveness of the risk management and control 
systems in relation to the key financial, operational and 
compliance controls. The Committee noted continued focus 
and improvement in this area during the year.
The Committee noted that the framework of IT internal control 
continues to be implemented across the Company. Whilst 
the Committee is pleased with the progress achieved to date, 
there remains much still to do and work in these areas will be 
on-going into the new financial year.
Internal audit
The Committee monitored and reviewed the work of the 
internal audit function during the year as follows:
Internal audit plan: The Internal Audit Plan, which is initially 
determined by the Head of Internal Audit and Group Risk 
through a structured process of risk assessment, was reviewed 
by the Committee twice during the year, with a number of 
priorities changed as a result. This included the internal IT 
audit plan, which is undertaken by Deloitte LLP, who act as the 
independent internal IT audit resource for the Company.
Internal audit reports: Members of the Audit Committee 
received Internal Audit Reports on a regular basis throughout 
the year, as and when they were concluded. Twice during 
the course of the year, the Head of Internal Audit and Group 
Risk presented updates to the Committee as to the most 
significant findings resulting from this work, together with a 
status and progress report of the agreed management action 
implementation plans.
The reviews included a discussion surrounding the I.T.  
review work undertaken, and the key findings identified by 
Deloitte LLP.
The Committee also met with the Head of Internal Audit and 
Group Risk in private during the year to provide additional 
opportunity for open dialogue and feedback without 
management present.
External audit
The Committee monitored and reviewed the work of the 
external audit function during the year as follows:
Audit scope: The scope, fee, and performance of the 
external auditors were considered by the Audit Committee. 
The Committee considered the external auditors risk 
assessment (of significant and elevated risks) in relation to 
the Group’s financial statements, which for this year were; the 
accounting treatment and disclosure of HS2 compensation, 
‘the recoverability of goodwill’, ‘the risk of fraud in revenue 
recognition’ and ‘management override of controls’. 
Additionally, the scope and nature of work in respect of the 
discontinued UK Pallets operation was agreed. Throughout the 
year, the Committee monitored these risks and the associated 
work undertaken by the external auditors.
Audit effectiveness: The Committee monitored the 
effectiveness and coverage of external audit, through 
consideration of the content of their report, the degree 
to which the agreed audit plan had been fulfilled, the 
significant control weaknesses identified, (together with their 
recommended solutions to these), the interaction between 
management and the auditors (including the dedication 
of sufficient management time to the audit process), the 
experience and expertise of the auditors, their overall audit 
judgments and findings, and communication with, and 
support, to the Committee. Governance 43
Significant accounting and control issues: The external 
auditors reported twice to the Committee (once after the 
interim review and one after the year-end audit), on the 
significant accounting and control issues identified during 
the course of their work, the key accounting and audit 
judgements made by management, the level of errors noted 
during the audits and made a number of internal control 
recommendations in their management letter.
Accounting and reporting changes: The Committee received 
a number of reports from the external auditors during the 
year regarding developments in accounting and reporting, 
regulatory and corporate governance matters.
Auditor independence: The Committee currently has no set 
policy on the tendering frequency or the tenure of the external 
auditor. The Committee will continue to keep this under review 
in light of the audit tendering provisions in the 2014 Code and 
regulations and will regularly consider the current level of audit 
services that the Company receives along with the fees it pays 
and the value being delivered.
The external audit was last put out to tender in 2011, 
after PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP had been in tenure 
since the year ended 31 March 2003, following which the 
Audit Committee recommended the reappointment of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to the board, which was 
subsequently ratified by shareholders at the 2012 Annual 
General Meeting. A new lead audit partner was appointed 
at this time. The external auditors are required to rotate the 
audit partners responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits 
at least every five years, and employees of the external auditor 
who have worked on the audit in the past two years are not 
appointed to senior financial positions within the Group.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Company’s 
choice of external auditor.
The Committee believes it can receive particular benefit from 
certain non-audit services provided by the external auditors 
due to their wide and intricate knowledge of the Group. 
However, the Committee is also mindful of the potential 
conflict that can result, whether real or perceived, and 
therefore has an approved policy for the provision of non-
audit services which can be viewed on the Company’s website 
www.ukmail.com. 
The policy specifically details a number of services which are 
not permitted to be provided by the external auditor, including 
those activities normally undertaken by management, where 
the auditor would be rewarded through a success fee, or 
where the auditor could be required to audit their own work.
The policy permits the external auditors to provide a number 
of specified non-audit services to the Company without 
reference to the Committee where the work is closely related 
to the performance of the audit, or is a logical extension of the 
audit, or is of an assurance or compliance nature where the 
auditors are in the best place to undertake, and where the fee 
is both less than £50,000 and cumulatively less than 50% of 
that financial year’s audit fee.
During the year, the Committee appointed the Group’s 
auditors to undertake I.T. assurance services in connection 
with the move of the Group’s Data Centre, following the 
relocation of the Group’s National hub and head office. 
This decision was based on the external auditors detailed 
knowledge and understanding of the Group’s I.T. systems. 
The Committee reviewed the non-audit fees paid to the 
Group’s auditors which was noted as compliant with this 
policy. Further details of the amounts paid to the Company’s 
auditors can be found in Note 5 to the financial statements.
The Committee remains confident that the objectivity and 
independence of the auditors is not impaired in any way 
by reason of their non-audit work or other factors and 
has adopted controls to ensure that this independence 
is not compromised. The auditors further confirmed their 
independence to the Committee in a formal statement.
The Committee also met with the external auditors in 
private during the year to provide additional opportunity for 
open dialogue and feedback from the Committee without 
management present.
Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, a 
resolution to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 
auditors to the company will be proposed to shareholders at 
the 2015 AGM to be held on 8 July 2015.
Bill Spencer 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
19 May 2015  Report & Accounts 2015 44
Remuneration Committee
Role and responsibilities
The main roles and responsibilities of the Remuneration 
Committee are set out in written terms of reference, available 
on the company’s website www.ukmail.com. These terms are 
considered annually by the Remuneration Committee and 
referred to the Board for approval. 
The prime responsibility of the Remuneration Committee is to 
determine the policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, 
the executive directors and the operating directors.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to 
the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Company’s 
framework of executive remuneration.
Michael Findlay 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Remuneration Committee membership, meetings and attendance
Director Date of 
appointment
Position Actual number 
of meetings 
attended
Possible number 
of meetings 
attended
Michael Findlay  
– Chairman
1 Sept 2009 Senior independent non-executive director 5 5
Jessica Burley 1 Sept 2012 Independent non-executive director 5 5
Bill Spencer 1 Nov 2011 Independent non-executive director 5 5
 
 
Further details of the Committees’ membership, activites during the year and responsibilities together with details of director’s 
remuneration can be found within the Remuneration Report on page 53.
 
Michael Findlay 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
19 May 2015 Governance 45
Nomination Committee
Peter Kane 
Chairman
Role and responsibilities
The main roles and responsibilities of the Nomination 
Committee are set out in written terms of reference, available 
on the company’s website www.ukmail.com. These terms 
are considered annually by the Nomination Committee and 
referred to the Board for approval. 
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to 
the Board, within these agreed terms of reference.
The main responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are 
summarised below:
Composition of the Board and its committees
The Nomination Committee is responsible for a number 
of matters relating to the composition of the Board and its 
Committees. The Committee meets as necessary to consider 
the size, composition and structure of the Board, and 
succession planning. The Nomination Committee plays a key 
role for appointments to the Board in agreeing the principle job 
description, appointing independent recruitment consultants 
and interviewing the preferred candidates. 
The Committee keeps itself updated on key developments 
relevant to the Company, including the subject of diversity in 
the boardroom. Whilst no specific targets have been set,  
the Nominations Committee confirms that the benefits of 
diversity, including gender diversity, will continue to be a 
consideration when changes to the Board are contemplated, 
whilst ensuring that the primary objective remains ensuring 
that the Board has the appropriate balance of skills, experience 
and independence.
Performance evaluation
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of 
the Board as a whole and its committees, including its own. As 
part of this responsibility the Committee is required to review 
the time commitments required from non-executives on an 
annual basis, through use of a performance evaluation process.
Re-election of directors
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board under 
both the annual re-election and retirement rotation provisions 
in the Company’s Articles of Association, having regard to 
both the overall balance of knowledge, skills and experience 
on the Board and the need for the Board to be progressively 
refreshed, particularly in relation to directors being re-elected 
for a term beyond nine years.
Nomination Committee membership, meetings and attendance
 
Director Date of 
appointment
Position Actual number 
of meetings 
attended
Possible number 
of meetings 
attended
Peter Kane – 
Chairman
10 July 2001 Chairman 1 1
Jessica Burley 1 Sept 2012 Independent non-executive director 1 1
Michael Findlay 1 Sept 2009 Senior independent non-executive director 1 1
Bill Spencer 31 May 2012 Independent non-executive director 1 1 Report & Accounts 2015 46
Nomination Committee continued.
Nomination Committee Activity during the year
The Nomination Committee met once during the year to 
discuss the following matters:
•  A review of the size, structure and composition of  
the Board;
•  Approval of a number of proposed changes to the 
Committees Terms of Reference to accord with current 
corporate Governance best practice;
•  An initial review of the results of the annual Board 
evaluation exercise, prior to a subsequent full Board 
discussion (see page 37);
•  The re-appointment of Bill Spencer for a further period  
of three years from 1 November 2014;
•  A review of the time commitments required of the  
non-executives; and
•  The re-appointment of those directors standing for  
re-election at the AGM
Diversity
The Committee recognises the importance of ensuring there 
is a diversity of background, experience and perspective in its 
Board and within the wider workforce. Since the business was 
first established in 1971 it has supported the progression of 
individuals through the organisation regardless of gender, age, 
background or formal qualifications.
Following the appointment of one female director in 2012, 
and one male director in April 2014, the Board now has 14% 
female representation. Whilst the Board remains supportive 
of the aims of the Davies Report on Women on Boards, it 
does not believe that the setting of a specific target for a small 
Board is necessarily appropriate, as there is a real risk of 
overlooking other well-qualified candidates. 
Therefore, in evaluating potential Board appointments, the 
prime objective of the Nomination Committee will continue 
to focus on finding the candidate that can bring the most 
appropriate skill sets and experience to the Board, whilst 
mindful of the Davies Reports’ aims.
AGM election and re-election of directors
The Nomination Committee is aware of the FRC’s suggestion 
that companies outside the FTSE 350 should consider the 
annual re-election of all directors. On the basis that this is 
neither a requirement of the Code, nor has it been raised as 
an issue by any shareholder, the Nomination Committee has 
chosen not to change its existing practice. 
The Nomination Committee strongly supports the re-
election of the three directors standing for re-election at the 
Company’s forthcoming Annual General Meeting, details of 
which can be found in the Notice of Meeting accompanying 
this Annual Report
Peter Kane 
Chairman 
19 May 2015 Governance 47
Directors’ report
Strategic report 
The Companies Act 2006 requires us to present a fair review 
of the business during the year to 31 March 2015 and of the 
position of the Group at the end of the financial year along 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced 
(known as a ‘strategic report’). The purpose of the strategic 
report is to enable shareholders to assess how the Directors 
have performed their duty under Section 172 of the Companies 
Act 2006 (duty to promote the success of the Company). The 
information that fulfils the requirements of the strategic report 
can be found on pages 6 to 31.
Corporate governance report
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules require certain 
information to be included in a corporate governance 
statement in the Directors’ report. Information that fulfils the 
requirements of the corporate governance statement can be 
found in the Corporate Governance report on pages 34 to 46 
and is incorporated into this Directors’ report by reference.
Results and dividends 
The profit for the financial year of £5.0 million is reported in the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on page 78. 
The directors recommend a final dividend of 14.5p per share 
(2014: 14.2p), payable on 28 August 2015 to shareholders on 
the register on 31
 
July 2015. This gives a total dividend for the 
year of 21.8p per share (2014: 21.3p).
Political donations 
The Group did not make any political donation or incur any 
political expenditure during the year (2014: £nil).
Research and development
The Group is engaged in on-going research and development 
aimed at improving processes and expanding the range  
of service offerings. Research and development expenditure  
is expensed when incurred, or in the case of internal  
software developments capitalised (see note 11), where it 
meets the recognition criteria detailed in note 1 to the  
financial statements.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Details of the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions (as required 
to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013) are set out on 
page 28 of the strategic report.
Directors and their interests
The directors of the Company who were in office during the 
year and up to the date of signing this Annual Report are listed 
in the Corporate Governance Report on page 37.
A list of directors, their interests in the ordinary share capital of 
the Company, their interests in in its long-term incentive and 
share matching plans, together with details of their options 
over the ordinary share capital of the Company are given in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 72. 
Brief particulars of the directors in office as at the date of this 
Report are shown in the Board of Directors section of this 
Annual Report on page 32.
Directors’ indemnities
As at the date of this report, indemnities (which are qualifying 
third-party indemnity provisions as defined in section 234 
of the Companies Act 2006) are in place under which the 
Company has agreed to indemnify the directors of the 
Company and the former directors of the Company who 
held office during the year ended 31 March 2015, to the 
extent permitted by law in and by the Company’s Articles 
of Association, in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of 
their office. The Company maintains insurance against certain 
liabilities which could arise from a negligent act or a breach  
of duty by its directors and officers in the discharge of  
their duties. 
Employment policy 
The Group’s policy is to maintain, as far as practicable, close 
consultations with employees on matters likely to affect 
their interests and, to this end, has an established Employee 
Consultative Group. The Group is an equal opportunities 
employer and holds an ‘Investors in People’ certificate.
The Group’s policy and practice is to encourage the  
recruitment and subsequent training, career development  
and promotion of disabled persons according to their aptitudes 
and abilities and the retention and retraining of employees  
who may become disabled during their employment. 
Many employees are stakeholders in the business  
through participation in share option and long term  
incentive plan schemes.
Further information concerning the Group’s human resource 
management activities is set out in the ‘Our people’ report on 
page 26. 
Environmental responsibility and health and safety 
A statement on the steps taken to operate the business in 
pursuit of good environmental and health standards is set out 
in the Corporate Responsibility report on page 28. 
Financial instruments
The Group’s accounting policies in respect of financial 
instruments are set out in note 1 to the financial statements. 
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies 
and its exposure to the following risks – credit, market, price, 
interest rate, liquidity, and capital - are included in note 25 to 
the financial statements.
The directors present their Annual Report and the audited consolidated 
accounts of UK Mail Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2015.  Report & Accounts 2015 48
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors 
likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position are set out in the Strategic Report on page 4. The 
financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position 
and borrowing facilities are also described in the Strategic 
Report. The Strategic Report and note 25 to the financial 
statements include a description of the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk 
management objectives and its exposures to credit risk and 
liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources available and 
a strong balance sheet, together with long term contracts 
with a wide range of public and private sector customers 
and suppliers as explained in the Strategic Report. Cash flow 
plans are prepared as part of the Group’s annual budget 
and three year plan. These plans are sensitised to provide 
an understanding of the impact of risks in order to provide 
additional comfort on the level of headroom against available 
bank facilities. The plans are subject to review by Internal Audit 
who provide a report to the Board. The Board has reviewed 
and approved these plans. As a result, the directors believe 
that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks 
successfully despite the challenging market conditions.
Notwithstanding that the Group has net current liabilities 
of £31.6m at 31 March 2015 (including £9.6m deferred 
compensation and £9.8m drawn under the revolving credit 
facility) the directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future 
and consequently a going concern basis continues to be 
appropriate in preparing the accounts.
The Board is mindful of the changes made to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code in 2014 with regard to the longer term 
viability statement, compliance with which will apply to the 
Company for the financial year ended 31 March 2016. The 
Directors are ensuring that processes are in place in order to 
be in a position to report in compliance with such enhanced 
disclosure in next year’s Annual Report.
Share capital
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided 
into ordinary shares of 10p each. All shares rank equally and 
are fully paid. No person holds shares carrying special rights 
with regard to the control of the Company.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of 
the Company and no right to fixed income.
Directors are still limited as to the number of shares they can 
allot. The current authority allows Directors to allot shares up 
to a nominal amount of £1,526,551. During the year ended 
31 March 2015, the Directors exercised their authority to allot 
shares in respect of employee share schemes (see note 23).
The Company may purchase its own shares. An authority  
from ordinary shareholders for the Company to purchase up  
to 5,473,448 shares (representing approximately 10% of its 
issued share capital at 20 May 2014) remained in force at 31 
March 2015.
The Company operates an employee benefit trust to hold 
shares in the Company which are used to satisfy grants under 
the Group’s share incentive schemes. Computershare Trustees 
(Jersey) Limited is the current trustee of the trust. The trustees 
may vote in respect of any shares held in the trusts but has 
waived this right.
Details of the movement in the authorised and issued share 
capital of the Company during the financial year to 31 March 
2015 and of the outstanding options over shares in the 
Company at 31 March 2015 can be found in note 23 to the 
financial statements on page 113.
General rights attaching to shares
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are set out in the 
Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s Articles of Association. 
A copy of the Articles can be obtained on request from the 
Company Secretary. The Articles may only be changed by 
special resolution of shareholders which requires, on a vote on 
a show of hands, at least three-quarters of the shareholders or 
proxies present at the meeting to be in favour of the resolution 
or, on a poll, at least three-quarters in nominal value of the 
votes cast by shareholders or their proxies to be in favour of 
the resolution.
 A shareholder whose name appears on the register of 
members may choose whether those shares are evidenced by 
share certificates (certificated form) or held in electronic form 
(uncertificated) in CREST.
Dividend rights
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the 
Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be 
paid to shareholders but the amount of the dividend may not 
exceed the amount recommended by the Board. The Board 
may also pay interim dividends at any time and of any amount 
whenever in the opinion of the Board there are sufficient 
distributable profits of the Company to merit payment.
Voting rights
Subject to the restrictions set out below, a shareholder is 
entitled to attend (or appoint another person as his/her 
representative (a ‘proxy’) to attend) and to exercise all or any of 
his/her rights to speak, ask questions and vote at any general 
meeting of the Company. A shareholder may also appoint 
more than one proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed to 
exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held 
by that shareholder. A proxy need not be a shareholder of  
the Company.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to a person who 
has been nominated under section 146 of the 2006 Act to 
enjoy information rights (a ‘Nominated Person’). He/she may, 
however, have a right under an agreement with the registered 
shareholder holding the shares on his/her behalf to be 
appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy. 
Alternatively, if a Nominated Person does not have such a right, 
Directors’ report continued. Governance 49
or does not wish to exercise it, he/she may have a right under 
such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding 
the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
In accordance with section 327 of the 2006 Act, in order to be 
valid, any form of proxy sent by the Company to shareholders 
or any proxy registered electronically in relation to any general 
meeting must be delivered to the Company’s registrars not 
later than 48 hours before the time fixed for holding the 
meeting (or any adjourned meeting). In calculating the 48 hour 
period no account shall be taken of any part of a day that is  
not a working day. Full details of the deadlines for exercising 
voting rights in respect of the 2015 AGM are set out in the 
Notice of AGM.
Subject to any rights or restrictions for the time being attached 
to any class or classes of shares and to any other provisions of 
the Articles of Association or statutes, on a vote on a resolution 
at a general meeting on a show of hands every shareholder 
present in person, every proxy present who has been duly 
appointed by one or more shareholders entitled to vote 
on the resolution and every authorised representative of a 
corporation which is a shareholder of the Company entitled to 
vote on the resolution, shall have one vote. If a proxy has been 
duly appointed by more than one shareholder and has been 
instructed by one or more of those shareholders to vote for 
the resolution and by one or more of those shareholders to 
vote against it, that proxy shall have one vote for and one vote 
against the resolution. On a poll, every shareholder present in 
person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share held.
A resolution put to the vote at a general meeting shall be 
decided on a show of hands unless the notice of the meeting 
specifies that a poll will be called on such resolution or a poll is 
(before the resolution is put to the vote on a show of hands or 
on the declaration of the results of the show of hands) directed 
by the Chairman or demanded in accordance with the Articles 
of Association.
If a person fails to give the Company any information required 
by a notice served on him by the Company under section 
793 of the 2006 Act (which confers upon public companies 
the power to require information to be supplied in respect 
of a person’s interests in the Company’s shares) then the 
Company may, no sooner than 21 days later, and after warning 
that person, serve a disenfranchisement notice upon the 
shareholder registered as the holder of the shares in respect of 
which the section 793 notice was given. Unless the information 
required by the section 793 notice is given within 14 days, 
such holder will not be entitled to receive notice of any general 
meeting or attend any such meeting of the Company and 
shall not be entitled to exercise, either personally or by proxy, 
the votes attaching to such shares in respect of which the 
disenfranchisement notice has been given unless and  
until the information required by the section 793 notice has 
been provided. 
Liquidation
If the Company is wound up the liquidator may, with the 
sanction of a special resolution of the Company, and any other 
sanction required by law, divide amongst the shareholders 
the whole or any part of the assets of the Company. He may, 
for such purposes, set such value as he deems fair upon any 
property to be divided and may determine how such division 
shall be carried out as between the shareholders or different 
classes of shareholders. The liquidator may also transfer the 
whole or any part of such assets to trustees to be held in trust 
for the benefit of the shareholders. No shareholder can be 
compelled to accept any shares or other securities which would 
give him any liability.
Transfer of shares
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor 
on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the 
general provisions of the Articles and legislation. The Directors 
are not aware of any agreements between the Company’s 
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of 
shares or on voting rights.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct 
Authority, certain employees are required to seek the approval 
of the Company to deal in its shares.
The directors may decline to register the transfer of any 
certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is duly 
stamped (if stampable) and accompanied by the certificate 
of the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as 
the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the 
transferor to make the transfer.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be conducted  
through CREST and the directors can refuse to register 
transfers in accordance with the regulations governing the 
operation of CREST.
All share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
Change of control – significant agreements
The following significant agreements contain provisions 
entitling the counter parties to exercise termination rights in 
the event of a change of control in the Company:
Under the terms of the banking facility agreement detailed in 
the Financial Review, if any person, or group of persons acting 
in concert, gains control of the Company, Lloyds Bank plc is no 
longer obliged to fund any loan and may cancel its commitment 
under the facility and declare its participation in all outstanding 
loans, together with accrued interest and all other amounts 
payable under the facility, immediately due and repayable.
The Group’s share schemes also contain provisions relating to 
the vesting and exercising of awards/options in the event of a 
change of control of the Group.
The executive directors’ service agreements contain provisions 
for up to 12 months compensation for loss of office or 
employment following a takeover. Further details are reported 
in the Remuneration Report.
Amendment of the Company’s Articles of Association
Any amendments to the Company’s Articles of Association may  Report & Accounts 2015 50
be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act 2006 by way of special resolution.
Appointment and replacement of directors
The Board must comprise of not less than three directors and 
no more than 15 directors. 
No person other than a director retiring at a general meeting 
shall, unless recommended by the directors for election, be 
eligible for election to the office of director unless, not less than 
seven nor more than 42 days beforehand, the Company has 
been given notice, executed by a shareholder eligible to vote 
at the meeting, of his/her intention to propose such person for 
election together with a notice executed by that person of his/
her willingness to be elected.
The Company may, by ordinary resolution, of which special 
notice has been given in accordance with section 312 of the 
2006 Act, remove any director before the expiration of his/
her period of office and may, by ordinary resolution, appoint 
another person in his/her stead.
Substantial shareholders 
As at 31 March 2015, in accordance with the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules the Company had been notified of the 
following substantial shareholdings, other than those of the 
Directors, in the issued share capital of the Company:
No. of shares As a percentage  
of the issued 
share capital
Mr John Kane 15,549,127 28.41%
M & G Investment 
Management
5,634,755 10.29%
Mr Michael Kane 5,300,000 9.68%
Unicorn Asset 
Management
3,311,628 6.05%
Liontrust Asset 
Management
3,255,680 5.95%
Hargreave Hale 3,105,879 5.67%
Mr Matthew and 
Mrs Joanna Bailey
3,033,333 5.54%
Schroder 
Investment 
Management
1,732,048 3.16%
 
Mr John Kane and Mrs Joanna Bailey are the adult children of 
Peter Kane.
As at 19 May 2015, the Company has not been notified of any 
changes to the above, pursuant to the requirements of Rule 
5 of the DTR. Any such information provided to the company 
pursuant to the DTR is published on a Regulatory Information 
Service and on the Company’s website.
Post balance sheet events
There were no post balance sheet events.
Other disclosures under listing rule 9.8.4
Details of the amount of interest capitalised by the Group 
during the year, together with details of the tax treatment can 
be found in note 13.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) will be held at the offices of 
Investec, 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP on Wednesday 
8 July 2015 at 12:00 noon. A letter from the Chairman and the 
Notice of Meeting (‘Notice’) is made available to all ordinary 
shareholders at least 21 working days before the meeting and 
may be found at www.ukmail.com.
The routine business of an AGM is to receive and adopt the 
Director’s Annual Report and Accounts, to approve the annual 
statement by the chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
together with the annual report on remuneration, to re-elect 
directors in respect of those retiring, to appoint auditors and fix 
their remuneration and to declare a dividend.
At last year’s AGM, and following changes to the Companies Act 
2006 (the ‘Act’), shareholders approved a remuneration policy 
as part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. Under the Act, 
the remuneration policy must be put to shareholders at least 
every three years or earlier if during that time changes to the 
policy are proposed. 
The Company’s Remuneration Committee has recently 
carried out a review of the remuneration arrangements 
for the executive directors, and the implementation of its 
recommendations requires a revised remuneration policy to be 
put to a vote at the AGM. The vote is binding which means that 
payments cannot be made under the revised remuneration 
policy until it has been approved by shareholders. 
Providing that notice is given to the Company no later than 
six weeks before an AGM or no later than the date on which 
the notice of AGM is given, shareholders representing at least 
5% of the total voting rights of all the shareholders who have 
a right to vote at the AGM or at least 100 shareholders who 
have that right and who hold shares in the Company on which 
there has been paid up an average sum per shareholder of at 
least £100, may require the Company to include an item in the 
business to be dealt with at the AGM.
All Directors are requested to attend the AGM. The Chairmen 
of the Board and each Board Committee make themselves 
available to take questions from ordinary shareholders at  
the AGM.
Annual General Meeting - special business 
In addition to the routine business of the meeting, the special 
business set out below will be transacted. 
Resolution 10
Resolution 10 renews a similar authority given at last year’s 
Annual General Meeting and, if passed, will authorise the 
Directors’ report continued. Governance 51
directors to allot shares in the Company (and to grant such 
rights) up to an aggregate nominal amount of £1,525,938. 
If given, this authority will expire at the conclusion of the 
Company’s next Annual General Meeting or on 8 October 2016 
(whichever is the earlier). It is the directors’ intention to renew 
this authority each year. As at the date of this document, no 
ordinary shares are held by the Company in treasury.
This resolution complies with the latest guidance issued by the 
Association of British Insurers (the ‘ABI’).
Resolution 11
Generally, if the directors wish to allot new shares or other 
equity securities (within the meaning of section 560 of the 
Companies Act 2006 (‘Act’)) for cash, then under the Act they 
must first offer such shares or securities to shareholders in 
proportion to their existing holdings. These statutory pre-
emption rights may be disapplied by shareholders.
Resolution 11, which will be proposed as a special resolution, 
renews a similar power given at last year’s Annual General 
Meeting and, if passed, will enable the directors to allot equity 
securities for cash up to a maximum aggregate nominal 
amount of £273,703 without having to comply with statutory 
pre-emption rights, but this power will be limited to allotments:
(a)  in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-
emptive offer to ordinary shareholders and to holders of 
other equity securities (if required by the rights of those 
securities or the directors otherwise consider necessary), 
but (in accordance with normal practice) subject to such 
exclusions or other arrangements, such as for fractional 
entitlements and overseas shareholders, as the directors 
consider necessary; and
(b)  in any other case, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£273,703 (which represents approximately 5% of the issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company as at 19 May 2015).
The Company has issued 6,136 ordinary shares in the last year 
and 9,147 ordinary shares in the last three years on a non pre-
emptive basis, representing 0.011% and 0.017%, respectively, 
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company. This is 
in line with the 2008 Statement of Principles issued by the 
Pre-emption Group which provides that a company should not 
issue shares representing more than 5.0% in any period and 
no more than 7.5% of its issued ordinary share capital for cash 
in any rolling three year period, other than on a pre-emptive 
basis, without prior consultation with shareholders. 
If given, this power will expire at the conclusion of the 
Company’s next Annual General Meeting or on 8 October 2016 
(whichever is the earlier). It is the directors’ intention to renew 
this power each year.
Save for issues of shares in respect of various employee share 
scheme, the directors have no current plans to exercise the 
authorities sought under resolutions 10 and 11 although they 
consider their renewal appropriate in order to take advantage 
of business opportunities as they arise.
Resolution 12
Resolution 12, which will be proposed as a special resolution, 
renews a similar authority given at last year’s Annual General 
Meeting. If passed, it will allow the Company to purchase up 
to 5,474,061 ordinary shares in the market (which represents 
approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company as at 19 May 2015). The minimum and maximum 
prices for such a purchase are set out in the resolution. If given, 
this authority will expire at the conclusion of the Company’s 
next Annual General Meeting or on 8 October 2016 (whichever 
is the earlier). It is the directors’ intention to renew this 
authority each year.
The directors have no current intention to exercise the 
authority sought under resolution 12 to make market 
purchases, but consider the authority desirable to provide 
maximum flexibility in the management of the Company’s 
capital base. If passed, the directors will only exercise this 
authority if they believe that to do so would result in an 
increase in earnings per share and would be in the best 
interests of the Company and of its shareholders generally. 
The Treasury Shares Regulations allow shares purchased by 
the Company out of distributable profits to be held as treasury 
shares, which may then be cancelled, sold for cash or used 
to meet the Company’s obligations under its employee share 
schemes. The authority sought by this resolution is intended to 
apply equally to shares to be held by the Company as treasury 
shares in accordance with the Treasury Shares Regulations.
While held in treasury, the shares are not entitled to receive 
any dividend or dividend equivalent (apart from any issue of 
bonus shares) and have no voting rights. This power will only 
be exercised if and when, in the light of market conditions 
prevailing at that time, the directors believe that such 
purchases would increase earnings per share and would be for 
the benefits of shareholders generally. The directors will have 
regard to institutional shareholder guidelines which may be in 
force at the time of any such purchase, holding or re-sale of 
shares held in treasury. As at 19 May 2015, the Company holds 
no ordinary shares in treasury.
As at 19 May 2015 (being the last practicable date before  
the publication of this document), there were options 
outstanding over 1,402,895 ordinary shares in the Company 
(which represents 2.56% of the issued ordinary share capital  
of the Company at that date). If the authority to purchase  
the Company’s ordinary shares was exercised in full and  
those shares were subsequently cancelled, these options 
would represent 2.85% of the issued ordinary share capital  
of the Company. 
Resolution 13
The directors are proposing Resolution 13 set out in the Notice 
to renew the authority obtained at last year’s AGM to reduce 
the notice period for general meetings (other than AGM’s) to at 
least 14 days. It is intended that this shorter notice period will 
only be used for non-routine business and where it is in the 
best interests of shareholders as a whole. Report & Accounts 2015 52
Annual General Meetings will continue to be held on at least 21 
clear days’ notice.
If given, the approval will be effective until the Company’s next 
Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar 
resolution will be proposed.
Note that the changes to the Act mean that, in order to be able 
to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days’ notice, the 
Company must make a means of electronic voting available to 
all shareholders for that meeting. 
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the  
directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company 
financial statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union. Under company law the directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the 
Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. 
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are 
required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and then apply  
them consistently;
•  make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
•  state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements; and
•  prepare the financial statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of the Company and the Group and 
enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies 
Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and  
integrity of the Company’s website – www.ukmail.com. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The directors consider that the Report & Accounts, taken as 
a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on 
page 37 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
•  the Group financial statements, which have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and 
profit of the Group; and
•  the Strategic Report contained in the Report & Accounts 
includes a fair review of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the Group, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that it faces.
The directors also confirm that:
•  so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are  
unaware, and 
•  they have taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a 
director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors’ responsibilities statement was approved by  
a duly authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on  
19 May 2015 and signed on its behalf by Steven Glew, 
Company Secretary.
By order of the Board  
Steven Glew  
Company Secretary 
19 May 2015
Cautionary Statement
This report contains statements that are, or may be, forward-looking regarding the group’s financial position and results, business strategy, plans and 
objectives. Such statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances and there are accordingly a number of factors 
which might cause actual results and performance to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. Forward-looking statements 
speak only as of the date they are made and no representation or warranty, whether expressed or implied, is given in relation to them, including as to their 
completeness or accuracy or the basis on which they were prepared. Other than in accordance with the Company’s legal or regulatory obligations (including 
under the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules), the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-
looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Information contained in this report relating to the Company or its 
share price, or the yield on its shares, should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. Nothing in this report should be construed as a  
profit forecast.  Governance 53
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee’s Annual 
Statement 
Dear Shareholder,
It gives me great pleasure to present the Remuneration Report 
for 2014/15.
This report is split into three sections namely:
• This Annual Statement;
• A proposed revised Remuneration Policy for 2015 
(following a change to the remuneration policy approved by 
shareholders at the 2014 AGM); and
• The Annual Report on Remuneration (which explains 
payments made in the year under review and how the 
policy will be operated for 2015).
This year’s report will be presented to shareholders for 
approval at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 8 July 2015. At 
the AGM, shareholders will have the opportunity to vote on two 
separate remuneration resolutions as follows:
• a binding vote on the directors’ Remuneration Policy as set 
out on pages 55 to 62. The Remuneration Policy describes 
the Company’s forward looking remuneration policy and 
will, subject to shareholder approval, become formally 
effective from the conclusion of the 2015 AGM; and
• an advisory vote on the remainder of the Remuneration 
Report which covers the Annual Statement and the Annual 
Report on Remuneration as set out on pages 53 to 72. The 
Annual Report on Remuneration provides details of the 
remuneration earned by directors in the year ended 31 
March 2015, and how the new remuneration policy for the 
year ending 31 March 2016 will be applied.
Performance and Reward for 2014/15
As set out in the Financial Review, 2014/15 was a challenging 
year as the Group positioned itself for the future with the 
relocation of the National hub and head offices to Ryton, and 
the preparation of the business for large scale automation. 
Additionally, whilst the collapse of City Link at the end of 
December 2014 provided an opportunity to significantly 
increase our parcels volumes, the increased pressure placed 
on our normal operating costs in the short-term, resulted in an 
overall 4.2% reduction in the Group’s underlying profit before 
tax for the year.
As a result, these financial indicators determined that there 
would be no pay-out under the Group’s bonus scheme. 
However, the achievement of an underlying 28.6p earnings per 
share (‘EPS’) for the year just ended, meant that the minimum 
required EPS condition relating to the November 2012 LTIP 
grant has been met. As a result 26.6% of the awards will vest 
under this condition.
Furthermore, the total shareholder return (‘TSR’) over the three 
year vesting period has been in the top quartile, and thus a 
further 50.0% of the 2012 LTIP will vest under this condition.
Consequently 76.6% of the awards will vest to executives in 
November 2015 (being the third anniversary of the grant). 
The Committee believes that the bonus and LTIP outcomes  
are reflective of performance over their respective 
performance periods.
The new Remuneration Policy and how it will be applied 
in 2015/16
As discussed last year an important objective of the Committee 
is to ensure that there is close alignment between the interests 
of directors and those of shareholders, and the Committee 
aims to achieve this through the linking of short- and long-
term incentives to the successful financial performance of the 
Company, with the potential to receive competitive levels of 
total pay only if stretching performance targets are met.
In 2013/14 the Committee, following feedback from a number 
of institutional shareholders, decided to cease to offer a share 
matching plan with the final grant made in the year just ended.
Following further consultation it is clear that investors are in 
favour of bonus deferral and as a result the Committee has 
proposed an amendment to the remuneration policy such that 
25% of any bonus is now required to be invested in the Group’s 
shares for a minimum period of three years. The introduction 
of bonus deferral and the removal of the share matching 
arrangement are the only changes to the previously approved 
Remuneration Policy. There has been no increase to either the 
short- or long-term incentive opportunities. Report & Accounts 2015 54
Remuneration report  
This part of the Remuneration Report is unaudited
I believe that these two changes have not only more closely 
aligned executive and operational directors with shareholders 
but have also done so in a simple and cost effective manner.
Whilst the Company’s policy has normally been to apply 
salary increases from April each year, the Committee remains 
mindful that the business needs to re-enter a period of stability 
prior to the determination of an annual pay review, and has 
therefore decided to postpone the salary review until later 
in the year. Details of any salary increases will be reported in 
next year’s Remuneration Report. In forming its decision, the 
Committee will ensure that the review is consistent with the 
new remuneration policy.
Strategy
In summary, the Committee’s remuneration strategy is to set 
packages that;
• attract, motivate and retain the best employees;
• aligns reward with the achievement of the Groups key short 
and long-term strategic goals;
• aligns managements interests with the interests of 
shareholders, and other stakeholders in the Group; 
• is weighted towards variable pay, dependent on 
performance; and
• remains consistent with the Groups risk policies 
Summary
As set out elsewhere in this Annual Report, 2015 has been  
a challenging year for the business.
However, the Committee is satisfied that the revised 
remuneration policy, which is designed to reward success  
and to align directors’ interests with shareholders,  
remains appropriate.
Remuneration remains a topic on which shareholders hold 
widely different views, but I firmly believe that UK Mail’s 
principles of relative simplicity, clarity and shareholder 
alignment will strike a chord with the majority.
In this regard, I am pleased to note that at the 2014 AGM the 
Remuneration Report was approved by 99.95% of the votes 
cast and the Remuneration Policy by 95.32%. 
I would hope you welcome the proposed improvements to 
the Remuneration Policy which the Committee unanimously 
supports and recommend shareholders approve the 
resolutions to be put forward at this year’s AGM, where I look 
forward to getting an opportunity to meet you.
 
 
Michael Findlay 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
19 May 2015 Governance 55
The director’s Remuneration Policy will be subject to a 
binding vote under an ordinary resolution at the 2015 AGM. If 
approved, the policy will be effective as of 8 July 2015, the date 
of the AGM. The Remuneration Policy is not audited.
Compliance Statement
The Company has complied with the principles and provisions 
relating to the Directors’ remuneration in the 2014 UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with 
the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. 
The auditors have reported on certain parts of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and stated whether, in their opinion, 
those parts of the have been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006. Those sections of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report which have been subject to audit 
are clearly indicated. At our 2015 Annual General Meeting 
we will be holding a binding vote to approve the amended 
Remuneration Policy and there will be a single advisory vote on 
the rest of the Directors’ Remuneration Report, including this 
Annual Statement.
The Remuneration Committee 
The constitution and operation of the Committee during the 
year has complied with the Code’s guidance on directors’ 
remuneration. 
The Committee’s principal duty is the determination of the 
remuneration packages for the Chairman, the executive and 
operational directors. The Committee’s detailed terms of 
reference are available on the company website at www.ukmail.
com, with the key responsibilities summarised as follows:
• The determination of a senior remuneration strategy that 
ensures that the senior management of the Company are 
provided with the appropriate incentives to encourage 
enhanced performance, and are suitably rewarded for their 
individual contribution to the success of the Company;
• Reviewing the effectiveness of the senior remuneration 
policy with regard to its impact and compatibility with 
remuneration policy across the rest of the Company;
• Ensuring that any contractual terms on termination are fair 
both to the Company and to the individual, and that failure 
is not rewarded;
• Ensuring the remuneration policy operates within an 
acceptable risk profile;
• Approving the design, targets and payments for the 
Company’s bonus schemes;
• Approving the design, targets and annual awards made for 
all share incentive plans requiring shareholder approval; and
• Assessing the subsequent achievement of the performance 
targets in respect of both bonus schemes and share 
incentive plans.
The Committee is particularly keen to ensure that achievement 
of the Company’s key strategic and financial goals is 
encouraged through the design and implementation of  
suitably appropriate remuneration packages, thereby  
aligning executive’s interests with those of all shareholders. 
External trends and best practice are routinely  
monitored and the Committee welcomes feedback from 
institutional shareholders, advisory and shareholders 
representative bodies.
Remuneration policy 
Our remuneration policy is to provide competitive 
remuneration packages that will recruit, retain and motivate 
directors and individuals of the required calibre to meet 
the Group’s strategic and financial objectives. The objective 
is to ensure the policy is appropriate to the Group’s needs 
and rewards executives for creating shareholder value, 
thereby promoting and ensuring the long term success of the 
Company. The Committee monitors the Group’s compliance 
with the Code provisions and institutional investor guidelines 
for directors’ remuneration.
The policy aims to balance appropriately the fixed and 
performance-related elements of remuneration. The latter 
element is achieved through an annual bonus scheme and long 
term incentives. The bonus plan rewards the achievement of 
Group financial or non-financial targets which the Committee 
and the Board believes reflect the key short term priorities 
of the business. Longer term performance remuneration is 
delivered through an equity-based LTIP scheme which may 
reward three-year relative Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’), 
Earnings per Share (‘EPS’) performance or any other metrics 
aligned to the Company’s medium to long-term strategy as 
determined by the Committee prior to grant.
The Committee normally reviews the executive directors’ and 
senior management team’s remuneration annually, against a 
policy that positions base salaries at competitive levels. The 
variable elements of the package are designed to attract high 
calibre individuals, motivate outstanding performance and 
provide executive directors and the senior management team 
with the opportunity to earn an overall upper quartile total 
remuneration package for top quartile performance. 
Details of the individual Executive Directors’ remuneration are 
described below.
The remuneration policy for non-executive directors is 
determined by the Board. 
The table below summarises each element of the remuneration 
policy for the directors, explaining how each component 
operates and how each part links to the corporate strategy. Report & Accounts 2015 56
Remuneration report continued.  
This part of the Remuneration Report is unaudited
Component Alignment with strategy Operation Maximum Potential Value Performance Metrics
Base salary Set at the appropriate level for 
the skills, experience, and general 
performance of the individual and 
the role.
Reviewed annually.
Any annual increases awarded are ordinarily aligned with salary  
increases across the company.
Increases beyond those granted to the wider workforce  
(in percentage terms) may be awarded in certain circumstances  
such as where there is a change in responsibility, progression in  
the role, a significant increase in either the role or the size and/or 
complexity of the Group or where salaries have fallen well below  
the policy positioning for a sustained period.
Periodic benchmarking may be undertaken taking account the 
remuneration levels in companies of similar revenues, profits  
and/or market capitalisation.
Ordinarily, salary increases (in percentage terms) will be in line 
with the wider workforce.
However, salary increases may be made above this level at the 
Committee’s discretion to take account of specific individual 
circumstances such as;
- An increase in scope and responsibilities
-  An increase to reflect the individuals’ development and 
performance in the role (e.g. for a new appointment where 
the initial base salary may be increased over time rather than 
set directly by reference to the previous incumbent)
- Alignment to the mid-market level of similar size companies
None, albeit the overall performance of the individual is  
considered by the Committee when setting and reviewing  
salaries annually.
Pension Provides a competitive retirement 
benefit, in a cost efficient manner 
for the Company.
A defined contribution or alternatively individuals can elect  
to receive some or all of their pension contributions as a  
salary supplement.
The maximum contribution or salary supplement is 20% of the 
executive director’s base salary.
No element other than the base salary is pensionable.
None
Benefits Provides a competitive way to 
reward executives, in a cost efficient 
manner for the Company.
The main benefits executive directors receive include private health 
cover, permanent health insurance and death in  
service benefits.
Executive directors can opt to receive either a car or  
car allowance.
Executive directors may partake in the Group’s SAYE scheme  
or any other HMRC all-employee scheme that may be introduced.
In exceptional circumstances and if considered appropriate and 
reasonable by the Remuneration Committee, then additional  
benefits such as relocation or related expenses may be offered.
Insured benefit values, which are arranged under a Group  
basis, will vary from year to year depending on the cost of 
providing them.
The maximum car allowance or car benefit would be 10% of  
base salary.
SAYE scheme participation will remain in line with HMRC limits 
that may change over time.
Set at a level which the Remuneration Committee considers 
appropriate based on the Executive director’s role and  
individual circumstances.
None
Annual bonus Designed to reward Executives for 
achieving short term objectives 
linked to the business’ KPIs.
Bonus deferral enhances alignment 
with shareholders.
Targets are set annually at the start of the year and any pay-out  
is determined by the Committee after the year-end, based on 
performance against those targets.
The annual bonus is non-pensionable – 75% of the bonus is  
payable in cash, and 25% is deferred in shares for three years.
The bonus is subject to clawback for two years from the date  
of payment for reasons of financial misstatement, administrative  
error and/or misconduct by the individual.
Ordinarily, the individual limit is 100% of base salary.
The limit can be extended to 150% in exceptional circumstances 
(e.g. major business initiative).
The bonus targets will be determined annually by the 
Remuneration Committee from a potential range of stretching 
financial, operational, strategic or personal metrics aligned to the 
achievement of the Company’s’ strategic goals.
Financial measures (e.g. underlying PBT, operating margin)  
will ordinarily represent the majority of the bonus.
For financial elements, the bonus starts to accrue at  
threshold performance.
Long term  
incentive plan
Provides a medium-term 
motivational tool to Executive 
directors, focused on performance 
metrics which support the creation 
of shareholder value.
Aligns directors’ and shareholders’ 
interests over the long-term.
Supports shareholding guideline 
requirements.
Approved by shareholders in July 2009.
Annual grant of share awards in the form of nil cost or nominal cost 
options or conditional awards which are subject to performance 
conditions measured over three years and continued employment.
The LTIP is subject to clawback for two years from the date of  
vesting for reasons of material misstatement of the financial results 
of the Company, miscalculation error or cessation of employment 
following misconduct.
To the extent that the awards vest, dividend equivalents over the  
vesting period are payable. The Remuneration Committee can  
determine whether these are to be satisfied in either shares or cash.
Overall ordinary individual limit of 100% of base salary.
As per the share rules, which were approved by shareholders,  
the limit can be extended to 150% in exceptional circumstances 
(e.g. on initial recruitment).
Awards granted under the LTIP 2009 plan may be subject to the 
following performance conditions measured over three years;
- EPS growth 
- Relative TSR compared to an appropriate peer group 
The EPS target range is set prior to grant, based on an assessment 
of internal financial forecasts and having due regard to external 
analyst consensus.
Up to 25% of the awards will vest at threshold performance with 
100% vesting at maximum performance. There is straight line 
vesting between these two points.
The Committee may alter the weightings between metrics or 
introduce another metric together with, or in place of EPS or TSR, 
which supports the Company’s medium term strategy KPI’s, but 
would seek to consult with shareholders prior to any such change. Governance 57
Component Alignment with strategy Operation Maximum Potential Value Performance Metrics
Base salary Set at the appropriate level for 
the skills, experience, and general 
performance of the individual and 
the role.
Reviewed annually.
Any annual increases awarded are ordinarily aligned with salary  
increases across the company.
Increases beyond those granted to the wider workforce  
(in percentage terms) may be awarded in certain circumstances  
such as where there is a change in responsibility, progression in  
the role, a significant increase in either the role or the size and/or 
complexity of the Group or where salaries have fallen well below  
the policy positioning for a sustained period.
Periodic benchmarking may be undertaken taking account the 
remuneration levels in companies of similar revenues, profits  
and/or market capitalisation.
Ordinarily, salary increases (in percentage terms) will be in line 
with the wider workforce.
However, salary increases may be made above this level at the 
Committee’s discretion to take account of specific individual 
circumstances such as;
- An increase in scope and responsibilities
-  An increase to reflect the individuals’ development and 
performance in the role (e.g. for a new appointment where 
the initial base salary may be increased over time rather than 
set directly by reference to the previous incumbent)
- Alignment to the mid-market level of similar size companies
None, albeit the overall performance of the individual is  
considered by the Committee when setting and reviewing  
salaries annually.
Pension Provides a competitive retirement 
benefit, in a cost efficient manner 
for the Company.
A defined contribution or alternatively individuals can elect  
to receive some or all of their pension contributions as a  
salary supplement.
The maximum contribution or salary supplement is 20% of the 
executive director’s base salary.
No element other than the base salary is pensionable.
None
Benefits Provides a competitive way to 
reward executives, in a cost efficient 
manner for the Company.
The main benefits executive directors receive include private health 
cover, permanent health insurance and death in  
service benefits.
Executive directors can opt to receive either a car or  
car allowance.
Executive directors may partake in the Group’s SAYE scheme  
or any other HMRC all-employee scheme that may be introduced.
In exceptional circumstances and if considered appropriate and 
reasonable by the Remuneration Committee, then additional  
benefits such as relocation or related expenses may be offered.
Insured benefit values, which are arranged under a Group  
basis, will vary from year to year depending on the cost of 
providing them.
The maximum car allowance or car benefit would be 10% of  
base salary.
SAYE scheme participation will remain in line with HMRC limits 
that may change over time.
Set at a level which the Remuneration Committee considers 
appropriate based on the Executive director’s role and  
individual circumstances.
None
Annual bonus Designed to reward Executives for 
achieving short term objectives 
linked to the business’ KPIs.
Bonus deferral enhances alignment 
with shareholders.
Targets are set annually at the start of the year and any pay-out  
is determined by the Committee after the year-end, based on 
performance against those targets.
The annual bonus is non-pensionable – 75% of the bonus is  
payable in cash, and 25% is deferred in shares for three years.
The bonus is subject to clawback for two years from the date  
of payment for reasons of financial misstatement, administrative  
error and/or misconduct by the individual.
Ordinarily, the individual limit is 100% of base salary.
The limit can be extended to 150% in exceptional circumstances 
(e.g. major business initiative).
The bonus targets will be determined annually by the 
Remuneration Committee from a potential range of stretching 
financial, operational, strategic or personal metrics aligned to the 
achievement of the Company’s’ strategic goals.
Financial measures (e.g. underlying PBT, operating margin)  
will ordinarily represent the majority of the bonus.
For financial elements, the bonus starts to accrue at  
threshold performance.
Long term  
incentive plan
Provides a medium-term 
motivational tool to Executive 
directors, focused on performance 
metrics which support the creation 
of shareholder value.
Aligns directors’ and shareholders’ 
interests over the long-term.
Supports shareholding guideline 
requirements.
Approved by shareholders in July 2009.
Annual grant of share awards in the form of nil cost or nominal cost 
options or conditional awards which are subject to performance 
conditions measured over three years and continued employment.
The LTIP is subject to clawback for two years from the date of  
vesting for reasons of material misstatement of the financial results 
of the Company, miscalculation error or cessation of employment 
following misconduct.
To the extent that the awards vest, dividend equivalents over the  
vesting period are payable. The Remuneration Committee can  
determine whether these are to be satisfied in either shares or cash.
Overall ordinary individual limit of 100% of base salary.
As per the share rules, which were approved by shareholders,  
the limit can be extended to 150% in exceptional circumstances 
(e.g. on initial recruitment).
Awards granted under the LTIP 2009 plan may be subject to the 
following performance conditions measured over three years;
- EPS growth 
- Relative TSR compared to an appropriate peer group 
The EPS target range is set prior to grant, based on an assessment 
of internal financial forecasts and having due regard to external 
analyst consensus.
Up to 25% of the awards will vest at threshold performance with 
100% vesting at maximum performance. There is straight line 
vesting between these two points.
The Committee may alter the weightings between metrics or 
introduce another metric together with, or in place of EPS or TSR, 
which supports the Company’s medium term strategy KPI’s, but 
would seek to consult with shareholders prior to any such change. Report & Accounts 2015 58
Component Alignment with strategy Operation Maximum Potential Value Performance Metrics
Share matching plan 
(expired in 2014)
Provides retention and alignment 
with shareholders whilst rewarding 
long-term value creation.
Supports shareholding  
guideline requirements.
In respect of bonus earned for performance in a previous year, 
Executive directors could have deferred up to 25% of their annual 
bonus. The bonus would have been deferred in shares for a period 
of three years and will vest subject to continued employment.
If bonus was voluntarily deferred, a matching award of shares of 
equivalent value, under the Share Matching Plan (‘SMP’) would have 
been granted. These awards will vest after three years subject to 
performance conditions.
The Share Matching Plan expired in July 2014 and therefore the 
award in respect of the 2013/14 bonus represented the last 
opportunity to receive a matching award. In line with investor 
expectations on matching plans, the plan will not be renewed.
Dividend equivalents are not payable on matching awards.
The lower of 25% of pre-tax salary or 100% of the pre-tax bonus 
may be voluntarily deferred.
Matching ratio of 1:1 on a gross of tax basis.
None for deferred bonus.
Matching awards are subject to a sliding scale of EPS growth  
targets. The target range is set prior to grant, based on an 
assessment of internal financial forecasts and having due regard  
to external analyst consensus.
33% of the awards will vest at threshold performance with 100% 
vesting at maximum performance.
There is straight line vesting between these two points.
Shareholding 
requirements
To encourage a long-term, 
sustainable focus on  
shareholder value.
Executive directors are expected to retain all share awards which 
vest (post settlement of tax liabilities) until they have met the 
following shareholding guideline:
CEO – 200% of salary
Group Finance Director - 150% of salary
Group Operations Director – 100% of salary
None None
Non-executive 
directors
Set at an appropriate level based 
on the time commitments and 
responsibility of the individual.
Fees are paid in cash on a monthly basis.
The fees for the Non-executive directors are determined annually 
by the Chairman and the Executive Directors, whilst the fees for 
the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee 
(excluding the Chairman).
A basic fee is paid to all Non-executive directors with supplementary 
fees for holding the position of Senior Independent Director and/or 
chairing one of the committees.
Fees are reviewed on an annual basis and set in context to fees paid 
in companies of comparable size and with reference to on-going 
time commitments.
The Non-executive directors do not participate in the annual cash 
bonus or LTIP plans nor do they receive any benefits or pension 
contributions, with the exception of the Chairman who receives 
health benefits.
Any business related expenses (for example, travel or 
accommodation) which are deemed to be taxable by HMRC will be 
reimbursed by the Company together with any personal tax payable.
The overall fees payable to Non-executive directors will  
remain within the limit stated in our articles of association, 
currently £400,000.
None
New appointments Base salary levels will be set with reference to the above policy but with the flexibility to reflect the experience 
and calibre of the individual. If a new director is appointed on a below market salary initially they may be 
the subject of a series of phased increases to achieve a market positioning over an appropriate time frame 
subject to their development in the role and overall performance.
Benefits and pension will generally be provided in accordance with the approved policy, with relocation 
expenses and/or an expatriate allowance paid for if necessary. For an overseas appointment, the benefit 
and pension arrangements may be tailored to reflect local market practice (subject to the overall maximum 
limits on pension set out in the policy table). Tax equalisation may also be considered as may payment of the 
executive’s legal fees in connection with the appointment.
The structure and potential quantum of the variable pay elements will be in accordance with UK Mail’s 
approved policy as detailed above. However, the Committee may set different performance measures 
and performance periods for awards under the annual bonus or long term incentive plan in the year of 
appointment, if the Committee determines that the circumstances merit such alteration.
The Remuneration Committee may consider it necessary to compensate an individual for the value of any remuneration forfeited on 
leaving their current employer. Where this is considered appropriate, the Committee will endeavour to structure this compensation so  
that it mirrors the terms of remuneration being replaced in terms of composition, value and timing. In order to facilitate this, the Committee 
may rely on an exemption in the Listing Rules which allows for the grant of awards to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of 
a director.
The rationale for the application of any of the above would be reported within the director’s annual remuneration report.
In the case of an internal hire, i.e. promotion, any outstanding variable pay awarded in relation to the previous role will be allowed to pay out 
according to its term of grant.
Fees for a new Chairman or non-executive director will be set in line with the approved policy.
Remuneration report continued.  
This part of the Remuneration Report is unaudited Governance 59
Component Alignment with strategy Operation Maximum Potential Value Performance Metrics
Share matching plan 
(expired in 2014)
Provides retention and alignment 
with shareholders whilst rewarding 
long-term value creation.
Supports shareholding  
guideline requirements.
In respect of bonus earned for performance in a previous year, 
Executive directors could have deferred up to 25% of their annual 
bonus. The bonus would have been deferred in shares for a period 
of three years and will vest subject to continued employment.
If bonus was voluntarily deferred, a matching award of shares of 
equivalent value, under the Share Matching Plan (‘SMP’) would have 
been granted. These awards will vest after three years subject to 
performance conditions.
The Share Matching Plan expired in July 2014 and therefore the 
award in respect of the 2013/14 bonus represented the last 
opportunity to receive a matching award. In line with investor 
expectations on matching plans, the plan will not be renewed.
Dividend equivalents are not payable on matching awards.
The lower of 25% of pre-tax salary or 100% of the pre-tax bonus 
may be voluntarily deferred.
Matching ratio of 1:1 on a gross of tax basis.
None for deferred bonus.
Matching awards are subject to a sliding scale of EPS growth  
targets. The target range is set prior to grant, based on an 
assessment of internal financial forecasts and having due regard  
to external analyst consensus.
33% of the awards will vest at threshold performance with 100% 
vesting at maximum performance.
There is straight line vesting between these two points.
Shareholding 
requirements
To encourage a long-term, 
sustainable focus on  
shareholder value.
Executive directors are expected to retain all share awards which 
vest (post settlement of tax liabilities) until they have met the 
following shareholding guideline:
CEO – 200% of salary
Group Finance Director - 150% of salary
Group Operations Director – 100% of salary
None None
Non-executive 
directors
Set at an appropriate level based 
on the time commitments and 
responsibility of the individual.
Fees are paid in cash on a monthly basis.
The fees for the Non-executive directors are determined annually 
by the Chairman and the Executive Directors, whilst the fees for 
the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee 
(excluding the Chairman).
A basic fee is paid to all Non-executive directors with supplementary 
fees for holding the position of Senior Independent Director and/or 
chairing one of the committees.
Fees are reviewed on an annual basis and set in context to fees paid 
in companies of comparable size and with reference to on-going 
time commitments.
The Non-executive directors do not participate in the annual cash 
bonus or LTIP plans nor do they receive any benefits or pension 
contributions, with the exception of the Chairman who receives 
health benefits.
Any business related expenses (for example, travel or 
accommodation) which are deemed to be taxable by HMRC will be 
reimbursed by the Company together with any personal tax payable.
The overall fees payable to Non-executive directors will  
remain within the limit stated in our articles of association, 
currently £400,000.
None
New appointments Base salary levels will be set with reference to the above policy but with the flexibility to reflect the experience 
and calibre of the individual. If a new director is appointed on a below market salary initially they may be 
the subject of a series of phased increases to achieve a market positioning over an appropriate time frame 
subject to their development in the role and overall performance.
Benefits and pension will generally be provided in accordance with the approved policy, with relocation 
expenses and/or an expatriate allowance paid for if necessary. For an overseas appointment, the benefit 
and pension arrangements may be tailored to reflect local market practice (subject to the overall maximum 
limits on pension set out in the policy table). Tax equalisation may also be considered as may payment of the 
executive’s legal fees in connection with the appointment.
The structure and potential quantum of the variable pay elements will be in accordance with UK Mail’s 
approved policy as detailed above. However, the Committee may set different performance measures 
and performance periods for awards under the annual bonus or long term incentive plan in the year of 
appointment, if the Committee determines that the circumstances merit such alteration.
The Remuneration Committee may consider it necessary to compensate an individual for the value of any remuneration forfeited on 
leaving their current employer. Where this is considered appropriate, the Committee will endeavour to structure this compensation so  
that it mirrors the terms of remuneration being replaced in terms of composition, value and timing. In order to facilitate this, the Committee 
may rely on an exemption in the Listing Rules which allows for the grant of awards to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of 
a director.
The rationale for the application of any of the above would be reported within the director’s annual remuneration report.
In the case of an internal hire, i.e. promotion, any outstanding variable pay awarded in relation to the previous role will be allowed to pay out 
according to its term of grant.
Fees for a new Chairman or non-executive director will be set in line with the approved policy. Report & Accounts 2015 60
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving the policy report, 
authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments 
previously entered into with current employees or former 
directors that have been disclosed previously to shareholders. 
This includes any outstanding share matching awards  
made under the Share Matching Plan which has now  
been discontinued.
Incentive plan discretions
The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan and  
LTIP according to their respective rules, the policy set out 
above and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC  
rules where relevant. 
The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains 
discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation 
and administration of these plans. These include (but are not 
limited to) the following:
• Who participates in the plans;
• The timing of grant of award and/or payment;
• The size of an award and/or a payment;
• The choice of (and adjustment of) performance measures 
and targets for each incentive plan in accordance with the 
policy set out above and the rules of each plan (including 
the treatment of delisted companies for the purpose of the 
TSR Comparator Group);
• Discretion relating to the measurement of performance in 
the event of a change of control or reconstruction;
• Determination of a good leaver (in addition to any  
specified categories) for incentive plan purposes based  
on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment 
under the plan rules;
• Adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights 
issues, corporate restructuring, on a change of control and 
special dividends).
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be 
explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as 
appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Company’s 
major shareholders.
Composition of Remuneration Package
The targeted composition of each executive director’s 
remuneration between fixed and variable remuneration  
is as follows:
Notes to Charts:
1. Below Threshold: comprises fixed pay only i.e. base salary as applies at the start of 2015/16, value of 2014/15 benefits 
and pension contribution based on salaries as at the start of 2015/16
2. On-plan: bonus has been assumed to pay-out at 10% of the maximum, and 25% of the LTIP vests
3. Maximum: full pay-out of the bonus and LTIP
4. No share price growth has been modelled
£0 
£100 
£200 
£300 
£400 
£500 
£600 
£700 
£800 
£900 
£1,000 
£1,100 
£1,200 
£1,300 
Below Threshold On-plan Maximum 
Chief Executive 
£0 
£100 
£200 
£300 
£400 
£500 
£600 
£700 
£800 
£900 
£1,000 
Below Threshold On-plan Maximum 
Group Finance Director 
£0 
£100 
£200 
£300 
£400 
£500 
£600 
£700 
£800 
£900 
Below Threshold On-plan Maximum 
Group Operations Director 
70%
15%
100% 38% 70% 100% 38%
15%
15%
15%
15%
15%
31%
31%
31%
31%
31%
31%
£454k
£585k
£1204k
£394k
£304k
£814k
£347k
£268k
£718k
70% 100% 38%
£0 
£100 
£200 
£300 
£400 
£500 
£600 
£700 
£800 
£900 
£1,000 
£1,100 
£1,200 
£1,300 
Below Threshold On-plan Maximum 
Chief Executive 
£0 
£100 
£200 
£300 
£400 
£500 
£600 
£700 
£800 
£900 
£1,000 
Below Threshold On-plan Maximum 
Group Finance Director 
£0 
£100 
£200 
£300 
£400 
£500 
£600 
£700 
£800 
£900 
Below Threshold On-plan Maximum 
Group Operations Director 
70%
15%
100% 38% 70% 100% 38%
15%
15%
15%
15%
15%
31%
31%
31%
31%
31%
31%
£454k
£585k
£1204k
£394k
£304k
£814k
£347k
£268k
£718k
70% 100% 38%
£0 
£100 
£200 
£300 
£400 
£500 
£600 
£700 
£800 
£900 
£1,000 
£1,100 
£1,200 
£1,300 
Below Threshold On-plan Maximum 
Chief Executive 
£0 
£100 
£200 
£300 
£400 
£500 
£600 
£700 
£800 
£900 
£1,000 
Below Threshold On-plan Maximum 
Group Finance Director 
£0 
£100 
£200 
£300 
£400 
£500 
£600 
£700 
£800 
£900 
Below Threshold On-plan Maximum 
Group Operations Director 
70%
15%
100% 38% 70% 100% 38%
15%
15%
15%
15%
15%
31%
31%
31%
31%
31%
31%
£454k
£585k
£1204k
£394k
£304k
£814k
£347k
£268k
£718k
70% 100% 38%
Remuneration report continued.  
This part of the Remuneration Report is unaudited Governance 61
External Appointments
The Committee believes that where Board members hold 
directorships in other companies the Company can benefit 
from their experience. As a result, and subject to the Board’s 
prior approval, executive directors may take on no more than 
one external directorship and retain any fees earned.
Directors’ Service Contracts and Termination Policy
It is the Company’s policy that, whilst there should not be a 
fixed duration in respect of directors’ service contracts, each 
contract contains notice periods of not more than one year. It 
is also the Company’s policy that contracts should provide the 
Company with discretion to terminate employment by making 
a payment in lieu of notice. The Chief Executive and Finance 
Director’s contracts provide for a maximum termination 
payment of 12 months’ remuneration (defined as base salary, 
bonus, pension contributions, car allowance and any other 
benefit then accruing). 
As previously reported, the Remuneration Committee has 
since determined that any bonus element will be excluded 
from termination payments, in line with best practice, ensuring 
that any such compensation does not exceed the sum of one 
year’s salary, pension and benefits, and will involve mitigation 
wherever possible, although the Remuneration Committee 
would have discretion to award a pro-rata bonus for part of 
the year worked based on performance in the year. This policy 
was applied in respect of the Group Operations Director who 
became a Board director on 8 April 2014.
Mr Buswell’s contract provides that any payment in lieu of 
notice paid on termination would consist of a payment of  
12 months remuneration.
Messrs’ Glew and Moore’s contracts provide that any payment 
in lieu of notice paid on termination by the Company would 
consist of an initial payment of six months remuneration. 
Thereafter, they would receive a monthly payment at the 
same annual rate, until the earlier of 12 months, the date they 
commence employment with a third party or the date they 
become self-employed.
There are no provisions for predetermined compensation in 
excess of one year’s remuneration in respect of any of the 
executive directors. 
The date of each service contract is noted in the table below:
Guy Buswell 31.03.06  12 months
Steven Glew 05.06.06  12 months
Carl Moore 08.04.14  12 months
Payment “Bad” leaver  
(e.g. voluntary resignation 
or termination for cause)
Departure on 
agreed terms
“Good” leaver  
(e.g. death, ill health, redundancy)
Base salary,  
pension and benefits
Paid for the proportion of the 
notice period worked
Treatment will 
normally fall 
between Good 
Leaver and Bad 
Leaver treatment, 
subject to the 
discretion of the 
Remuneration 
Committee and 
the terms of 
any termination 
agreement
Paid up to the date of leaving, including 
any untaken holidays and, subject to 
mitigation, a payment in lieu of notice may 
be made
Annual bonus None Bonus paid pro-rata based on the 
complete calendar months worked
Long Term Incentive Plan Unvested share awards lapse At the discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee unvested awards are eligible 
to vest either at the normal vesting date 
or on cessation. The Remuneration 
Committee’s normal policy is (i) to 
apply performance targets over the 
original performance period and (ii) the 
application of a pro-rata reduction. The 
Committee may, at its discretion and 
acting fairly and reasonably, decide not to 
apply a pro-rated reduction.
Share Matching Plan Unvested share awards lapse
Other None Disbursements such as legal costs, outplacement etc
The Committee’s policy in an exit event is outlined in the table below: Report & Accounts 2015 62
Non-Executive Directors
All directors are required by the Company’s Articles of Association to submit themselves for re-election at least every three  
years or in the case of a director appointed by the directors in the past year, such director is required to submit themselves for  
re-election at the next AGM.
Non-Executive Director Contract date Unexpired term as at 31 March 2015
Jessica Burley 30.07.12 5 months
Peter Kane 01.10.01 Indefinite
Michael Findlay 24.04.12 5 months
Bill Spencer 30.09.14 31 months
How Employees’ Pay is taken into Account
The Remuneration Committee will consider the remuneration 
structures elsewhere in the Group when setting pay for the 
executive directors and in particular by considering the salary 
increase levels set for the Group.
Regular updates are provided by the HR function so the 
Remuneration Committee is kept aware of the policies across 
the Group. 
No formal consultation with employees is conducted in relation 
to their views on the current pay policy although general 
engagement is continually assessed through employee surveys 
which include several questions regarding the effectiveness of 
the current remuneration policy, and ECG feedback.
How Executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy Relates to 
the Wider Group
The remuneration policy summarised in the table above 
provides an overview of the structure that operates for the 
Executive Directors and other senior management levels.
Below this level, the same broad remuneration principles 
will apply, albeit it with the structure and quantum tailored 
according to the relevant job grade based on seniority,  
level of responsibility and ability to influence overall  
group performance.
How Shareholders’ Views Are Taken Into Account
The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback 
to be essential in developing a remuneration policy which is fair 
for both Executives and the Company. Feedback is collected 
at each AGM, during meetings held with shareholders from 
time to time, as well as more general on-going guidance from 
shareholder representative bodies. This feedback is then 
considered as part of the Company’s annual and on-going 
reviews of remuneration policy. 
The Committee will consult with shareholders if any significant 
changes in the policy are proposed in the future. 
Remuneration report continued.  
This part of the Remuneration Report is unaudited Governance 63
The Annual Report on Remuneration together with the Annual Statement will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2015 AGM.
Implementation of the remuneration policy for 2015/16
As detailed in the notice of meeting, approval of the Committee’s remuneration policy will be sought from shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 July 2015. 
Subject to approval, the policy will be implemented as follows:
Base salaries for executive directors
The base salaries for 2015/16 for the executive directors will be as follows:
2015/16 
£000
2014/15 
£000
% Change
Guy Buswell 375 375 -
Steven Glew 255 255 -
Carl Moore 225 225 -
 
The Remuneration Committee recognises that 2014/15 was a challenging year not only for the executive directors but for all the 
Group’s employees, as they managed, for example, the National hub and head office relocation, the implementation of large scale 
automation, the on-boarding of new customers following the demise of City Link, as well as increasing volumes.
Whilst the Remuneration Committee remains keen to review salaries this year, it believes a prudent approach is required whilst 
the Group stabilises after all these material changes, and as a result has determined that the Annual Pay review should be carried 
out in September 2015.
As detailed in the Remuneration Policy report, the Remuneration Committee would also expect to adopt a consistent approach to 
the increase offered to the executive directors as to the wider workforce.
Benefits and pension
Benefits including a company car (or car allowance), private health cover, permanent health insurance and death in service 
benefits will be provided to executive directors as set out in the Remuneration Policy. 
Pension contributions will be paid as follows;
Car or car allowance £ Pension contribution (or salary 
supplement equivalent) % of  
base salary  
Guy Buswell 12,000 17.5% 
Steven Glew 11,000 15.0% 
Carl Moore 8,000 15.0%
Annual bonus for 2015/16
As in previous years, in order for the bonus to be triggered the Group is required to hit a ‘profit floor’ target. Above the floor  
the 2015/16 bonus will be determined on an escalating scale of the Group’s actual performance against the following two  
target measures;
Profit before tax – maximum opportunity 80% of base salary
Operating margin – maximum opportunity 20% of base salary
These two measures continue to represent the most important factors in creating value for shareholders, and the use of these 
measures supports the Committees principles of aligning executive interests with those of the wider shareholder base.
The Committee considers that the target measures are commercially sensitive on a forward looking basis and has therefore 
chosen not to disclose them at this time. Full retrospective disclosure of actual achievement, threshold and maximum targets will 
be included in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration. Report & Accounts 2015 64
Consistent with the change in policy being introduced this year, any bonus received in respect of performance in 2015/16 will be; 
75% payable in cash following the end of the financial year, and 25% deferred in shares for three years
Long term incentive awards to be granted in 2015/16
The Committee intends to grant an award to executive and operational directors in 2015/16 at 100% of base salary, with the 
following vesting conditions:
Performance measure Award proportion Threshold performance Maximum performance
EPS 50% 25% will vest where EPS 
growth exceeds 8% p.a.
100% will vest where growth 
exceeds 15% p.a.
Relative Total Shareholder 
Return
50% 25% will vest for median 
performance against the FTSE 
all-share index (ex-Investment 
Trusts)
100% will vest for upper 
quartile performance against 
the FTSE all-share index (ex-
Investment Trusts)
 
For performance between threshold and maximum, awards will vest on a straight line basis.
The Committee considers that these two measures remain the most appropriate measures of long-term performance for the 
Group, in that they ensure executives are incentivised and rewarded for the earnings performance of the Group as well as 
returning value to shareholders.
Fees for the non-executive directors
The fee levels for 2015/16 for the non-executive directors remain unchanged and will be as follows:
2015/16  
£000
2014/15  
£000
%  
Change
Chairman 
1
70 70 -
Non-executive director  
– base fee
30 30 -
Supplementary fees:
Chair of committee 5 5 -
Senior independent director 5 5 -
1 – The Chairman’s fee is inclusive of his Nomination Committee chair role
Membership of the Remuneration Committee
The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year were Michael Findlay (Chairman), Bill Spencer and Jessica Burley. 
All members are independent Non-Executive Directors and no director plays a part in any discussion directly relating to their  
own remuneration. 
Advisors to the Committee
During the year the Committee sought advice, from external remuneration consultants, New Bridge Street (‘NBS’), largely as 
to best market practice and policy, the setting of suitably challenging targets for the Long Term Incentive Plan, bonus deferral, 
remuneration report drafting and determination of the vesting level in respect of the 2012 LTIP grant which is due to vest in 
November 2015. 
NBS also provided sundry administrative services such as the calculation of the Company’s actual TSR performance against the 
benchmark, actual LTIP vesting levels, and of the fair values of share awards granted during the year. NBS is a member of the 
Remuneration Consultants Group and is a signatory to its Code of Conduct. The Committee is satisfied that there are no potential 
conflicts. No material additional work has been provided to the Company by either NBS, or any other company within the Aon plc 
group of companies, of which NBS is a member.
Remuneration report continued.  
This part of the Remuneration Report is unaudited Governance 65
During the year to 31 March 2015 the Company incurred 
costs of £14k (2014: £24k) in respect of fees for advice by NBS 
provided to the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee also sought internal support from the Group’s 
Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, and Head of 
Human Resources, all of whom may attend meetings by 
invitation, but are not present for any discussions that relate 
directly to their own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acted as secretary to the Committee 
during the year under review.
Total Share Return:
6 Year Chart
Performance Graph
The graphs shown below compare the total shareholder 
return for an investment in the shares of UK Mail with the 
return for the same investment in the FTSE All-Share index 
(excluding Investment Trusts) over a six year and a three 
year period commencing on 31 March 2009 and 31 March 
2012. In the opinion of the Committee, the FTSE All-Share 
index, (excluding Investment Trusts), is currently the most 
appropriate index against which the TSR of UK Mail should 
be measured and is also the comparator group used in the 
Long Term Incentive Plan.
Review of the year
During the year ended 31 March 2015, the following 
agenda items were discussed:
• Review of salary levels for executive directors, 
operational directors and the overall workforce;
• Determination and approval of the annual bonus  
pay-outs for the 2013/14 financial year; 
• The review and approval of a 2014/15 Share Matching 
Plan grant to executive and operational directors;
• Review and approval of the annual bonus schemes 
and targets for the financial year 2014/15, including 
the introduction of new targets for relevant senior 
managers relating to the achievement of cost and 
benefit efficiencies within the new Hub and  
Automation project;
• Approval of an LTIP grant to the Group Operations 
Director on his appointment to the Board and 
subsequent approval to a later grant to the other 
executive and operational directors; and
• Review and approval of the Group’s Remuneration policy
The three year graph has also been included as it is more closely representative of the performance period of the executive 
incentive plans.
0 
50 
100 
150 
200 
250 
300 
350 
400 
Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 Mar-15 
Total Shareholder Return (Rebased) 
Source: Datastream (Thomson Reuters) 
UK Mail FTSE All Share (Excl Investment Trusts) 
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2015, of £100 invested in UK Mail on 31 March 2009, compared with the value of 
£100 invested in the FTSE All Share Index (excluding Investment Trusts).   
0 
50 
100 
150 
200 
250 
300 
350 
Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 Mar-15 
Total Shareholder Return (Rebased) 
Source: Datastream (Thomson Reuters) 
UK Mail FTSE All Share (Excl Investment Trusts) 
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2015, of £100 invested in UK Mail on 31 March 2012, compared with the value of 
£100 invested in the FTSE All Share Index (excluding Investment Trusts).   
0 
50 
100 
150 
200 
250 
300 
350 
400 
Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 Mar-15 
Total Shareholder Return (Rebased) 
Source: Datastream (Thomson Reuters) 
UK Mail FTSE All Share (Excl Investment Trusts) 
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2015, of £100 invested in UK Mail on 31 March 2009, compared with the value of 
£100 invested in the FTSE All Share Index (excluding Investment Trusts).   
0 
50 
100 
150 
200 
250 
300 
350 
Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 Mar-15 
Total Shareholder Return (Rebased) 
Source: Datastream (Thomson Reuters) 
UK Mail FTSE All Share (Excl Investment Trusts) 
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2015, of £100 invested in UK Mail on 31 March 2012, compared with the value of 
£100 invested in the FTSE All Share Index (excluding Investment Trusts).   
3 Year Chart Daily Report & Accounts 2015 66
Chief Executive - six year earnings history
The following table details the total remuneration of the CEO for the six year period ending 31 March 2015;
CEO Single figure of total 
remuneration (£000)
Annual variable element 
award rates against 
maximum opportunity
Long term incentive 
vesting rates against 
maximum opportunity
2010 
1
 730 50.31% 52.70%
2011 386 0.00% 0.00%
2012 386 0.00% 0.00%
2013 578 45.09% 12.65%
2014
 2
652 77.00% -
2015 913 0.00% 76.60%
1 LTI vesting is a weighted average of 60.92% vesting under the LTIP and 36.67% under the SMP
2 No LTIP or SMP grant in 2011
Single figure of total remuneration for 2015
The table below provides a single figure of total remuneration for 2015 for directors:
Fixed pay Variable pay
Salary Benefits 
1
Pension 
Contributions
Sub total Bonus LTIP 
2
Sub total Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Chairman
Peter Kane 70 1 - 71 - - - 71
Executive directors
Guy Buswell 375 13 66 454 - 459 459 913
Steven Glew 255 11 38 304 - 326 326 630
Carl Moore 224 9 34 267 135 135 402
Sub-total 854 33 138 1,025 - 920 920 1,945
Non-executive directors
Jessica Burley 30 - - 30 - - - 30
Michael Findlay 40 - - 40 - - - 40
Bill Spencer 35 1 - 36 - - - 36
Sub-total 105 1 - 106 - - - 106
Total 1,029 35 138 1,202 - 920 920 2,122
1
 This the taxable value of benefits received in the year. This includes a car / car allowance, private medical care and  
travel expenses
2 
Based on the average share price for the last quarter of the financial year i.e. 1 January 2015 – 31 March 2015 as a proxy for  
the share price at vesting, and inclusive of the value of accrued dividends over the vesting period 
Remuneration report continued.  
This part of the Remuneration Report is audited Governance 67
The table below provides a single figure of total remuneration for 2014 for directors:
Fixed pay Variable pay
Salary Benefits Pension 
Contributions
Sub total Bonus LTIP Sub total Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Chairman
Peter Kane 70 - - 70 - - - 70
Executive directors
Guy Buswell 333 13 50 396 256 - 256 652
Steven Glew 236 12 29 277 182 - 182 459
Sub-total 569 25 79 673 438 - 438 1,111
Non-executive directors
Jessica Burley 30 - - 30 - - - 30
Michael Findlay 40 - - 40 - - - 40
Bill Spencer 35 - - 35 - - - 35
Sub-total 105 - - 105 - - - 105
Total 744 25 79 848 438 - 438 1,286
 
Annual Bonus for 2014/15
The bonus in operation for 2014/15 was subject to sliding scale profit before tax and operating margin targets:
Performance Measure Threshold Maximum Actual % of bonus payable
Underlying profit before tax £m £24.0m £28.0m £21.0m Nil% (max 80%)
Operating margin % 4.5% 4.9% 4.3% Nil% (max 20%)
The Group failed to achieve the underlying ‘profit floor’ condition (i.e. the threshold underlying profit before tax target) and 
therefore no bonus is payable. 
Long-term incentives vesting in respect of performance period ended 31 March 2015
The LTIP award granted on 29 November 2012 which will partially vest on 30 November 2015, was based on the three-year 
performance period to 31 March 2015. The applicable vesting percentages will be as follows:
Proportion of 
award
Performance condition Threshold (25% 
vesting) target
Maximum (100% 
vesting) target
Actual % % vesting
50% Average growth per annum in 
underlying EPS over the three year 
performance period
11.6% p.a. 18.1% p.a. 14.1% p.a. 26.6%
50% Relative performance against all 
other companies in the FTSE All 
Share Index (excluding Investment 
Trusts)
Median Upper quartile Above upper 
quartile 1
50.0%
Total vesting 76.6%
1 TSR over the vesting period was 148.4%, which was above the upper quartile rank of 112.7% 
Under the rules of the LTIP, accrued dividend equivalents will be paid on vested shares at the time of vesting. Report & Accounts 2015 68
Share incentives granted during 2014/15
LTIP awards were granted during 2014/15 on the following basis:
Executive Grant date Number of shares 
comprising award
Face/Maximum 
Value of Awards 
at Grant Date (% 
salary)
% of Award 
Vesting at 
Threshold
Performance Period
Guy Buswell 28.11.14 54,486 £240,828 (64%) 25% 01.04.14 – 31.03.17
Steven Glew 28.11.14 37,050 £163,761 (64%) 25% 01.04.14 – 31.03.17
Carl Moore 10.06.14 32,691 £204,319 (91%) 25% 01.04.14 – 31.03.17
The awards will vest three years from the date of grant subject to the following challenging performance conditions:
Performance 
Measure 
Award 
proportion
Definition Vesting requirement
EPS EPS The EPS measure is calculated by reference to UK 
Mail’s real EPS growth. The measure is defined as 
annualised growth in adjusted EPS (i.e. on a continuing 
basis and excluding exceptional items) over a three 
year performance period to 31 March 2017
Threshold performance – 25% will 
vest where EPS growth exceeds 8% p.a.
Maximum performance – 100% will 
vest where EPS growth exceeds 14% 
p.a. 
TSR 50% The TSR is calculated (on an annualised compound 
basis) assuming that all shares are re-invested. No 
shares will be released under the TSR condition 
if UK Mail’s TSR over the three year performance 
period to 31 March 2017, when compared to that 
of the constituents of the FTSE All-Share index (ex 
Investment Trusts), falls below the median
Threshold performance –  
25% will vest for median performance 
against the benchmark index
Maximum performance –  
100% will vest for upper quartile 
or above performance against the 
benchmark index
For performance between threshold and maximum, vesting will be determined on a straight line basis
SMP awards were granted during 2014/15 on the following basis:
Executive Grant date Number of shares 
comprising award
Face/Maximum 
Value of Awards 
at Grant Date (% 
salary)
% of Award Vesting 
at Threshold
Performance Period
Guy Buswell 10.06.14 12,195 £76,219 (20%) 33.3% 01.04.14 – 31.03.17
Steven Glew 10.06.14 4,000 £25,000 (10%) 33.3% 01.04.14 – 31.03.17
Carl Moore 10.06.14 4,000 £25,000 (11%) 33.3% 01.04.14 – 31.03.17
Awards under the SMP will vest according to the following conditions:
Performance measure Award proportion Definition Vesting requirement
EPS   100% The EPS measure is calculated by reference 
to UK Mail’s real EPS growth. The measure 
is defined as annualised growth in adjusted 
EPS (i.e. on a continuing basis and excluding 
exceptional items) over a three year 
performance period
Threshold performance – 
33.3% will vest where EPS 
growth exceeds R.P.I. + 4% 
p.a. over a three year period
Maximum performance – 
100% will vest where EPS 
growth exceeds R.P.I. + 6% 
p.a. over a three year period
For performance between threshold and maximum, vesting will be determined on a straight line basis
The R.P.I. measure is used because the Remuneration Committee believes it ensures that executives are only rewarded when there 
has been real growth.
Remuneration report continued.  
This part of the Remuneration Report is audited Governance 69
Directors’ interests in shares held in the Long Term Incentive Plan are as follows:
Date of Award Plan Award 
Price
Performance 
Period Ending 
Number 
at 1 April 
2014
Granted 
in the 
year
Exercised 
in the 
year
Lapsed 
in the 
year
Number at 31 
March 2015
Guy Buswell
29.11.12 LTIP 298p 31.03.15 94,325 - - - 94,325
04.06.13 LTIP 510p 31.03.16 58,260 - - - 58,260
28.11.14 LTIP 442p 31.03.17 - 54,486 - - 54,486
152,585 54,486 - - 207,071
Steven Glew
29.11.12 LTIP 298p 31.03.15 66,939 - - - 66,939
04.06.13 LTIP 510p 31.03.16 41,345 - - - 41,345
28.11.14 LTIP 442p 31.03.17 - 37,050 - - 37,050
108,284 37,050 - - 145,334
Carl Moore
29.11.12 LTIP 298p 31.03.15 27,655 - - - 27,655
04.06.13 LTIP 510p 31.03.16 20,619 - - - 20,619
10.06.14 LTIP 625p 31.03.17 - 32,691 - - 32,691
48,274 32,691 - - 80,965
(i) Or date of appointment if later
Awards granted may be exercised between three and ten years following the date of grant, subject to continuing employment with 
the Group and performance conditions being achieved.
The LTIP awards are primarily subject to two distinct performance conditions, 50% relates to EPS performance and 50% relates 
to the Company’s TSR relative to the FTSE All-Share index as detailed on page 56. The table below details the vesting history of 
awards granted under the LTIP 2009 since it has been in operation;
Date of award Vesting EPS target range 
(i)
TSR target range 
(i)
Number at  
EPS achieved
Granted in  
TSR achieved
% Awards  
vesting
26.05.10 28.05.13 8.5% - 13.0% p.a. Median to Upper 
Quartile
No Yes 12.65%
No award made 
in 2011
- - - - - -
29.11.12 Live plan 11.6% - 18.1% p.a. Median to Upper 
Quartile
53.1% (of 
the 50.0% 
condition)
100% (of 
the 50.0% 
condition)
76.6%
04.06.13 Live plan 7.23% - 15.47% p.a. Median to Upper 
Quartile
Live plan Live plan Live plan
28.11.14 Live plan 8.0% - 14.0% p.a. Median to Upper 
Quartile
Live plan Live plan Live plan
(i) EPS and TSR target range represents minimum/maximum range for 25% to 100% vesting with straight-line pro-rata vesting between these two points. Report & Accounts 2015 70
Director’s interests in shares held in the Share Matching Plan are as follows:
Date of Award Plan Award 
Price
Performance 
Period Ending 
Number 
at 1 April 
2014
Granted 
in the 
year
Exercised 
in the 
year
Lapsed 
in the 
year
Number at 31 
March 2015
Guy Buswell
11.06.13 SMP 495p 31.03.16 8,823 - - - 8,823
10.06.14 SMP 625p 31.03.17 - 12,195 - - 12,195
8,823 12,195 -  - 21,018
Steven Glew
11.06.13 SMP 495p 31.03.16 3,018 - - - 3,018
10.06.14 SMP 625p 31.03.17 - 4,000 - - 4,000
3,018 4,000 - - 7,018
Carl Moore
11.06.13 SMP 495p 31.03.16 1,177 - - - 1,177
10.06.14 SMP 625p 31.03.17 - 4,000 - - 4,000
1,177 4,000 - - 5,177
Director’s interests in shares held in the Sharesave Scheme are as follows:
Date of Award Plan Award 
Price
Performance 
Period Ending 
Number 
at 1 April 
2014
Granted 
in the 
year
Exercised 
in the 
year
Lapsed 
in the 
year
Number at 31 
March 2015
Guy Buswell
25.07.13 01.09.16 418.67p 01.03.17 2,149 - - - 2,149
2,149 - - - 2,149
Steven Glew
25.07.13 01.09.16 418.67p 01.03.17 2,149 - - - 2,149
30.07.14 01.09.17 471.14p 01.03.18 - 1,910 - - 1,910
2,149 1,910 - - 4,059
Carl Moore
19.07.12 01.09.15 186.88p 01.03.18 4,815 - - - 4,815
4,815 - - - 4,815
The Sharesave Scheme provides a savings plan to purchase shares and has no performance criteria in order to participate.
Remuneration report continued.  
This part of the Remuneration Report is audited Governance 71
The market price of the Company’s shares at the end of the financial year was 482p and the range of prices during the year was 
between 380p and 665p.
Interests in Shares 
The interests of the directors (together with interests held by his or her connected persons) in the ordinary shares of the 
Company as at 31 March 2015 were as follows:
Legally And 
Beneficially Owned
% of salary  
Held Under 
Shareholding 
Guideline
Guideline 
met?
Share  
Matching  
Plan Awards
Long Term  
Incentive  
Plan Awards
Sharesave  
Scheme  
Awards
Total
31.03.15 31.03.14 (% of salary) Unvested Vested Unvested Vested Unvested Vested 31.03.15
Executive 
Directors
Guy Buswell 286,117 255,612 368% Yes 21,018 - 207,071 - 2,149 - 516,355
Steven Glew 125,263 121,263 237% Yes 7,018 - 145,334 - 4,059 - 281,674
Carl Moore 
1
5,177 1,177 11% No 5,177 - 80,965 - 4,815 - 96,134
Non-
executive 
Directors
Jessica Burley 1,500 - - N/a - - - - - - 1,500
Michael 
Findlay
1,500 1,500 - N/a - - - - - - 1,500
Peter Kane 3,339,633 3,339,633 - N/a - - - - - - 3,339,633
Bill Spencer 4,800 4,800 - N/a - - - - - - 4,800
1 – Carl Moore was appointed to the Board on 8 April 2014 
New directors are expected to retain share awards which vest until they have met the shareholding guideline. 
All directors’ interests are beneficially held. There has been no change in the interests set out above between 31 March 2015 and 
19 May 2015.
Payments to past Directors and payments for loss of office
There have been no payments to past Directors or payments for loss of office. Report & Accounts 2015 72
Remuneration report continued.  
This part of the Remuneration Report is unaudited
Relative importance of the spend on pay
The following table sets out the percentage change in profit, dividends and overall spend on pay in 2015 compared to 2014:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
% change
Underlying profit after taxation – continuing operations 16.6 16.8 -1.5%
Dividends 11.8 10.7 +10.3%
Employee remuneration costs 68.5 71.1 - 3.6%
Statement of percentage change in remuneration of the CEO compared with other employees
The table below shows the movement in salary, benefits and annual bonus for the CEO between the 2014 and 2015 financial 
years, as compared to the average for all employees:
Salary % 
change
Taxable 
benefits % 
change
Bonus % 
change
CEO +12.7% +1.5% -100.0%
All employees (average per FTE) -5.6% +3.4% -100.0%
Share Dilution Limits
Where new issued or treasury shares are used to satisfy share awards, the aggregate dilution resulting from the issue of shares to 
satisfy executive share plan award grants will not exceed 5% in any ten year period. Dilution resulting from all incentives including 
all-employee incentive schemes will not exceed 10% in any ten year period. The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews 
dilution against these limits and currently has headroom of 1.7% and 5.9% respectively.
Employee Share Ownership Trust
The Company’s Employee Share Ownership Trust holds shares in the Company for subsequent transfer to employees under the 
Long Term Incentive Plan, the Share Matching Plan and the Sharesave plan. Shares held by the Trust are not voted at shareholder 
meetings and do not accrue dividends. At 31 March 2015, the Trust held a total of 6,801 shares (2014: 6,801 shares).
AGM Voting
At the Company’s AGM held on 9 July 2014, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors’ remuneration were 
as follows:
For Against Total votes cast 
(i) (ii)
 
Resolution No. of votes % of votes 
cast 
No. of votes % of votes 
cast
No. of votes % of issued 
share capital 
Votes 
withheld 
To approve the Annual 
Statement by the Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee 
and the Annual Report on 
Remuneration
32,648,676 99.95% 15,561 0.05% 32,664,237 59.67% 3,100
To approve the Directors 
Remuneration policy
31,136,766 95.32% 1,527,471 4.68% 32,664,237 59.67% 3,100
i- the total voting rights in the Company at the date of the meeting was 54,735,776 ordinary shares of 10 pence each, each carrying one vote on a poll 
ii- a vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolutions
Michael Findlay 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
On behalf of the Board  
19 May 2015 Governance 73
Independent Auditors’ report to 
the members of UK Mail Group plc
Our audit approach
Overview
Materiality
•	 Overall	group	materiality:	£0.99	million	which	represents	5%	of	profit	before	tax	and	 
exceptional	items.
Audit Scope
•	 We	performed	an	audit	of	the	complete	financial	information	of	the	parent	company,	UK	Mail	
Group	plc	and	its	principal	trading	subsidiary	UK	Mail	Ltd,	due	to	their	financial	significance	to	the	
overall	group	financial	statements,	and	which	together	account	for	over	95%	of	both	the	group’s	
revenues	and	profit	before	tax	and	exceptional	items.
•	 In	addition	we	performed	specific	work	over	the	closure	of	UK	Pallets	Ltd,	a	non-core	operating	
subsidiary	that	ceased	trading	during	the	year	and	was	classified	as	a	discontinued	operation.
Areas of focus
•	 Closure	of	non-core	subsidiary,	UK	Pallets	Ltd,	related	impairments,	closure	costs	 
and	disclosures.
•	 Accounting	treatment	and	disclosure	of	compensation	receivable	in	respect	of	the	 
compulsory	purchase	of	the	group’s	central	hub	and	Birmingham	head	office.
Area of 
focus
Audit Scope
Materiality
Report on the financial statements 
Our opinion
In our opinion:
•	 UK	Mail	Group	plc’s	group	financial	statements	and	
company	financial	statements	(the	“financial	statements”)	
give	a	true	and	fair	view	of	the	state	of	the	group’s	and	
of	the	company’s	affairs	as	at	31	March	2015	and	of	the	
group’s	profit	and	the	group’s	and	the	company’s	cash	 
flows	for	the	year	then	ended;
•	 the	group	financial	statements	have	been	properly	
prepared	in	accordance	with	International	Financial	
Reporting	Standards	(“IFRSs”)	as	adopted	by	the	 
European	Union;
•	 the	company	financial	statements	have	been	properly	
prepared	in	accordance	with	IFRSs	as	adopted	by	the	
European	Union	and	as	applied	in	accordance	with	the	
provisions	of	the	Companies	Act	2006;	and
•	 the	financial	statements	have	been	prepared	in	accordance	
with	the	requirements	of	the	Companies	Act	2006	and,	 
as	regards	the	group	financial	statements,	Article	4	of	the	
IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
UK Mail Group plc’s financial statements comprise:
•	 the	consolidated	and	company	balance	sheets	as	at	31	
March	2015;
•	 the	consolidated	statement	of	comprehensive	income	for	
the	year	then	ended;
•	 the	consolidated	and	company	statements	of	cash	flows	for	
the	year	then	ended;
•	 the	consolidated	and	company	statements	of	changes	in	
equity	for	the	year	then	ended;	and
•	 the	notes	to	the	financial	statements,	which	include	a	
summary	of	significant	accounting	policies	and	other	
explanatory	information.
Certain	required	disclosures	have	been	presented	elsewhere	in	
the	Report	&	Accounts	(the	“Annual	Report”),	rather	than	in	the	
notes	to	the	financial	statements.	These	are	cross-referenced	
from	the	financial	statements	and	are	identified	as	audited.
The	financial	reporting	framework	that	has	been	applied	in	the	
preparation	of	the	financial	statements	is	applicable	law	and	
IFRSs	as	adopted	by	the	European	Union	and,	as	regards	the	
company	financial	statements,	as	applied	in	accordance	with	
the	provisions	of	the	Companies	Act	2006.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We	conducted	our	audit	in	accordance	with	International	
Standards	on	Auditing	(UK	and	Ireland)	(“ISAs	(UK	&	Ireland)”).
We	designed	our	audit	by	determining	materiality	and	
assessing	the	risks	of	material	misstatement	in	the	financial	
statements.	In	particular,	we	looked	at	where	the	directors	
made	subjective	judgements,	for	example	in	respect	of	
significant	accounting	estimates	that	involved	making	
assumptions	and	considering	future	events	that	are	inherently	
uncertain.	As	in	all	of	our	audits,	we	also	addressed	the	risk	of	
management	override	of	internal	controls,	including	evaluating	
whether	there	was	evidence	of	bias	by	the	directors	that	
represented	a	risk	of	material	misstatement	due	to	fraud.	
The	risks	of	material	misstatement	that	had	the	greatest	effect	
on	our	audit,	including	the	allocation	of	our	resources	and	
effort,	are	identified	as	“areas	of	focus”	in	the	table	below.	We	
have	also	set	out	how	we	tailored	our	audit	to	address	these	
specific	areas	in	order	to	provide	an	opinion	on	the	financial	
statements	as	a	whole,	and	any	comments	we	make	on	the	
results	of	our	procedures	should	be	read	in	this	context.	This	
is	not	a	complete	list	of	all	risks	identified	by	our	audit.	 Report & Accounts 2015 74
Independent Auditors’ report to the  
members of UK Mail Group plc continued.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Closure of non-core subsidiary, UK Pallets Ltd, related 
impairments, closure costs and disclosures
Refer	to	note	3	and	10	of	the	financial	statements.
At	the	start	of	the	financial	year	the	consolidated	balance	sheet	
included	£7.9m	in	respect	of	goodwill	arising	on	the	purchase	
of	UK	Pallets	Ltd	in	2003.
The	profitability	of	UK	Pallets	Ltd	has	been	in	decline	over	the	
past	few	years	and	at	the	half	year	management	considered	
that	this	was	a	trigger	event	which	necessitated	an	impairment	
review	in	accordance	with	the	requirements	of	IAS	36	
“Impairment	of	assets”.	The	value	in	use	calculation	prepared	
by	management	demonstrated	that	only	£0.6m	of	the	related	
goodwill	was	supportable	and	consequently	an	impairment	
charge	of	£7.3m	was	recorded	in	the	results	for	the	six	months	
ended	30	September	2014.
Subsequently,	a	decision	was	taken	in	January	2015	to	close	the	
business	and	trading	ceased	on	24	March	2015.	As	a	result	the	
remaining	£0.6m	of	goodwill	was	written-off	together	with	an	
additional	impairment	charge	of	£1.1m	in	respect	of	capitalised	
software	development	costs.	An	impairment	of	£9.1m	was	also	
recorded	in	the	company	financial	statements	of	UK	Mail	Group	
plc	to	reduce	the	carry	value	of	its	investment	of	£9.3m	to	its	
recoverable	net	assets	of	£0.3m.
In	addition	to	the	above,	management	recorded	closure	costs	
of	£1.4m	which	comprised	£0.7m	for	redundancies,	£0.3m	for	
onerous	contracts	and	£0.4m	for	additional	dilapidation	costs	
and	presented	the	results	of	UK	Pallets	Ltd	as	a	discontinued	
operation	in	the	group	financial	statements.
We	focused	on	this	matter	due	to	the	material	impact	it	 
has	had	on	the	group	financial	statements.	In	particular	we	
focused	on:
•	 Whether	the	impairment	had	been	correctly	accounted	for	
and	disclosed,	including	the	treatment	of	the	impairment	
charges	and	classification	of	the	closure	costs	as	
exceptional	items;
•	 Testing	the	assumptions	that	underpin	the	additional	
provisions	booked	in	relation	to	the	closure	decision,	
including	estimates	of	commitments	for	redundancies,	
onerous	contracts	and	costs	expected	to	be	incurred	in	
relation	to	dilapidation	rectifications;	and
•	 Evaluating	compliance	with	the	extensive	disclosure	
requirements	of	IFRS5	“Non-current	assets	held	for	sale	
and	discontinued	operations”.
As	UK	Pallets	Ltd	ceased	trading	during	the	year	ended	
31	March	2015	we	checked	that	the	impairment	charges	
recorded	by	management	reduced	the	carrying	value	of	
the	impacted	assets	(goodwill	and	capitalised	software	
development	costs)	in	the	consolidated	balance	sheet	to	£nil	
and	did	not	identify	any	material	errors.
We	obtained	and	understood	management’s	assessment	of	
the	remaining	carrying	value	of	the	investment	in	UK	Pallets	
Ltd	in	the	company	financial	statements	of	UK	Mail	Group	plc.	
In	particular	we	evaluated	the	recoverability	of	the	remaining	
assets	and	completeness	and	valuation	of	remaining	liabilities.	
Our	work	did	not	identify	any	further	adjustments	in	respect	to	
these	balances.
In relation to the closure costs we:
•	 Agreed	amounts	totalling	£0.5m	to	bank	statements	for	
redundancy	payments	made	prior	to	the	year	end	and	
reperformed	the	calculations	for	the	remaining	£0.2m	
provision	included	in	the	consolidated	balance	sheet	as	at	
31	March	2015;
•	 Obtained	and	read	the	contracts	for	onerous	agreements	
to	determine	whether	the	amounts	provided	for	by	
management	were	appropriate	and	complete,	identifying	
no	matters	that	we	considered	required	adjustment	of	the	
provision;	and
•	 Compared	the	estimated	provision	for	dilapidations	
recorded	by	management	to	correspondence	 
received	from	the	landlord,	noting	that	there	was	 
no	material	difference.
We	evaluated	the	treatment	of	these	costs	as	exceptional	
items	by	assessing	the	amount	and	nature	of	such	expenses.	
We	determined,	based	on	the	evidence	obtained,	that	the	
criteria	for	treatment	as	exceptional	items	were	satisfied	and	
they	were	in	accordance	with	the	group’s	accounting	policy	for	
exceptional	items.	
We	also	considered	the	requirements	of	IFRS	5	and	satisfied	
ourselves	that	the	UK	Pallets	business	qualified	as	a	
discontinued	operation	in	the	period	and	that	the	disclosures	
given	in	the	group	financial	statements	were	appropriate.	 Governance 75
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Accounting treatment and disclosure of compensation 
receivable in respect of the compulsory purchase of the 
group’s central hub and Birmingham head office.
The	Group’s	central	hub	and	Birmingham	head	office	were	
subject	to	a	compulsory	purchase	order	to	make	way	for	the	
HS2	link	between	London	and	Birmingham.	An	agreement	for	
the	sale	of	the	site	and	related	compensation	was	signed	in	
December	2013.
Whilst	certain	elements	of	the	compensation	were	quantified	
in	the	agreement	and	timing	of	their	receipt	was	indicated,	
reimbursements	of	any	“disturbance”	costs	are	subject	to	
the	provisions	of	the	Compensation	Code,	may	be	subject	to	
forensic	investigation	by	HS2’s	advisers	and	ultimately	require	
the	approval	of	the	Department	of	Transport.
The	group	has	incurred	amounts	during	the	year	that	
management	deem	to	be	“disturbance	costs”	and	these	have	
been	disclosed	as	an	exceptional	item.	These	amounts	have	
not	been	recognised	as	a	related	recoverable	amount	from	HS2	
but	have	been	disclosed	as	a	contingent	asset	totalling	£7.2m	
as	at	31	March	2015	as	management	are	still	in	negotiations	
to	finalise	the	compensation	claim	and	hence	they	believe	that	
there	was	not	sufficient	certainty	at	the	balance	sheet	date	to	
record	a	receivable	due	from	HS2.
We	focused	on	this	area	as	there	is	judgement	around:
•	 Classifying	the	costs	incurred	as	a	result	of	HS2	as	
exceptional	items:
•	 The	related	consideration	of	both	the	amount	and timing	
of	any	recognition	of	the	“disturbance”	element	of	these	
costs	expected	to	be	received	as	compensation	in	the	
consolidated	statement	of	comprehensive	income:	and
•	 The	classification	in	the	consolidated	balance	sheet	and	
cash	flow	statement.
We	read	and	considered	the	contract	for	the	sale	of	the	site,	
the	relevant	elements	of	the	Compensation	Code	and	related	
correspondence	from	the	company’s	advisers	who	have	been	
assisting	with	the	claim	to	update	our	understanding	of	the	
contractual	agreement	between	the	parties	and	the	process	
through	which	compensation	is	calculated.	
In	addition	to	the	above	we	considered	written	correspondence	
that	the	group	has	received	from	HS2	which	acknowledges	the	
nature	of	expenses	that	are	reclaimable	as	“disturbance	costs”	
and	compared	these	to	the	costs	incurred	to	date	and	treated	
as	a	contingent	asset	and	found	no	material	inconsistencies.
The	correspondence	from	HS2	acknowledges	the	merits	of	 
the	compensation	claim	for	“disturbance”	costs	made	
by	the	group	but	it	does	not	constitute	an	agreement	to	
specific	amounts	and	is	still	subject	to	negotiation	and	
finalisation	between	the	parties.	Consequently,	we	evaluated	
management’s	decision	not	to	recognise	these	amounts	as	an	
asset,	and	instead	to	disclose	a	contingent	asset.	Based	on	the	
evidence	obtained	and	by	considering	the	recognition	criteria	
for	recording	a	receivable,	we	determined	the	treatment	
adopted	to	be	appropriate.	
As	part	of	our	work	we	obtained	a	breakdown	of	the	
disturbance	costs	incurred	during	the	period	and	traced	
a	sample	of	these	to	supporting	documentation.	We	
concurred	with	management’s	classification	of	these	amounts	
as	exceptional	items	in	the	consolidated	statement	of	
comprehensive	income	after	considering	the	underlying	nature	
of	the	expenditure	and	ensuring	they	were	consistent	with	the	
group’s	accounting	policy	for	exceptional	items.
We	also	assessed	the	appropriateness	of	the	disclosures	made	
in	the	financial	statements	for	the	costs	incurred	in	respect	
of	the	compulsory	purchase	and	related	compensation	and	
deemed	these	were	sufficient	to	understand	the	impact	of	 
this matter.
How we tailored the audit scope
We	tailored	the	scope	of	our	audit	to	ensure	that	we	
performed	enough	work	to	be	able	to	give	an	opinion	on	
the	financial	statements	as	a	whole,	taking	into	account	the	
structure	of	the	group,	the	accounting	processes	and	controls,	
and	the	industry	in	which	the	group	operates.	
During	the	year	the	group	consisted	of	two	operating	
subsidiaries,	UK	Mail	Ltd	and	UK	Pallets	Ltd,	and	the	holding	
company,	UK	Mail	Group	plc.	UK	Pallets	Ltd,	a	non-core	
business	for	the	group	ceased	operations	shortly	before	the	
year	end.
We	performed	an	audit	of	the	complete	financial	information	
of	UK	Mail	Group	plc	and	UK	Mail	Ltd,	due	to	their	financial	
significance	to	the	overall	group	financial	statements.	As	
described	in	our	areas	of	focus,	due	to	the	closure	of	the	
non-core	subsidiary,	UK	Pallets	Ltd,	we	performed	procedures	
over	impaired	assets	such	as	goodwill	and	capitalised	software	
development	costs.	Our	audit	work	also	addressed	the	costs	
of	closing	the	business	such	as	redundancy	costs,	contract	
terminations	and	additional	dilapidations	costs	and	the	
recoverability	of	the	remaining	trade	receivables	balances.
Additional	audit	procedures	were	performed at	the	centralised	
head	office	function	in	respect	of	the	exceptional	items	and the	
consolidation	adjustments	in	the	group	financial	statements. 
All	work	was	undertaken	by	the	group	engagement	team.
Materiality
The	scope	of	our	audit	was	influenced	by	our	application	
of	materiality.	We	set	certain	quantitative	thresholds	for	
materiality.	These,	together	with	qualitative	considerations,	
helped	us	to	determine	the	scope	of	our	audit	and	the	nature,	
timing	and	extent	of	our	audit	procedures	and	to	evaluate	the	
effect	of	misstatements,	both	individually	and	on	the	financial	
statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined 
materiality for the financial statements as a whole as set 
out over page: Report & Accounts 2015 76
We	agreed	with	the	Audit	Committee	that	we	would	report	
to	them	misstatements	identified	during	our	audit	above	
£100,000	(2014:	£100,000)	as	well	as	misstatements	below	 
that	amount	that,	in	our	view,	warranted	reporting	for	
qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under	the	Listing	Rules	we	are	required	to	review	the	directors’	
statement,	set	out	on	page	48,	in	relation	to	going	concern.	We	
have	nothing	to	report	having	performed	our	review.
As	noted	in	the	directors’	statement,	the	directors	have	
concluded	that	it	is	appropriate	to	prepare	the	financial	
statements	using	the	going	concern	basis	of	accounting.	The	
going	concern	basis	presumes	that	the	group	and	company	
have	adequate	resources	to	remain	in	operation,	and	that	the	
directors	intend	them	to	do	so,	for	at	least	one	year	from	the	
date	the	financial	statements	were	signed.	As	part	of	our	audit	
we	have	concluded	that	the	directors’	use	of	the	going	concern	
basis	is	appropriate.
However,	because	not	all	future	events	or	conditions	can	be	
predicted,	these	statements	are	not	a	guarantee	as	to	the	
group’s	and	company’s	ability	to	continue	as	a	going	concern.
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In	our	opinion,	the	information	given	in	the	Strategic	Report	
and	the	Directors’	Report	for	the	financial	year	for	which	
the	financial	statements	are	prepared	is	consistent	with	the	
financial	statements.
Overall group materiality £0.99	million	(2014:	£1.14	million).
How we determined it 5%	of	profit	before	tax	and	exceptional	items.
Rationale for benchmark applied We	believe	that	profit	before	exceptional	items	is	the	key	
measure	used	by	the	shareholders	as	a	body	in	assessing	
the	Group’s	performance.		We	adjusted	for	exceptional	items	
this	year	because	this	provides	us	with	a	consistent	year	on	
year	basis	for	determining	materiality	by	eliminating	the	non-
recurring	disproportionate	impact	of	these	items.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
Information in the Annual Report is:
−	 materially	inconsistent	with	the	information	in	the	audited	
financial	statements;	or
−	 apparently	materially	incorrect	based	on,	or	materially	
inconsistent	with,	our	knowledge	of	the	group	and	company	
acquired	in	the	course	of	performing	our	audit;	or
−	 otherwise	misleading.
We	have	no	exceptions	to	report	arising	from	this	responsibility.
the	statement	given	by	the	directors	on	page	52,	in	accordance	
with	provision	C.1.1	of	the	UK	Corporate	Governance	Code	
(“the	Code”),	that	they	consider	the	Annual	Report	taken	as	a	
whole	to	be	fair,	balanced	and	understandable	and	provides	
the	information	necessary	for	members	to	assess	the	group’s	
and	company’s	performance,	business	model	and	strategy	is	
materially	inconsistent	with	our	knowledge	of	the	group	and	
company	acquired	in	the	course	of	performing	our	audit.
We	have	no	exceptions	to	report	arising	from	this	responsibility.
the	section	of	the	Annual	Report	on	page	40,	as	required	
by	provision	C.3.8	of	the	Code,	describing	the	work	of	the	
Audit	Committee	does	not	appropriately	address	matters	
communicated	by	us	to	the	Audit	Committee.
We	have	no	exceptions	to	report	arising	from	 
this	responsibility.
Independent Auditors’ report to the  
members of UK Mail Group plc continued. Governance 77
Adequacy of accounting records and information and 
explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report 
to you if, in our opinion:
•	 we	have	not	received	all	the	information	and	explanations	
we	require	for	our	audit;	or
•	 adequate	accounting	records	have	not	been	kept	by	the	
company,	or	returns	adequate	for	our	audit	have	not	been	
received	from	branches	not	visited	by	us;	or
•	 the	company	financial	statements	and	the	part	of	the	
Directors’	Remuneration	Report	to	be	audited	are	not	 
in	agreement	with	the	accounting	records	and	returns.
We	have	no	exceptions	to	report	arising	from	 
this	responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 
opinion
In	our	opinion,	the	part	of	the	Directors’	Remuneration	Report	
to	be	audited	has	been	properly	prepared	in	accordance	with	
the	Companies	Act	2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under	the	Companies	Act	2006	we	are	required	to	report	
to	you	if,	in	our	opinion,	certain	disclosures	of	directors’	
remuneration	specified	by	law	are	not	made.	We	have	no	
exceptions	to	report	arising	from	this	responsibility.	
Corporate governance statement
Under	the	Listing	Rules	we	are	required	to	review	the	part	 
of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
company’s	compliance	with	ten	provisions	of	the	UK	 
Corporate	Governance	Code.	We	have	nothing	to	report	 
having	performed	our	review.	
Responsibilities for the financial statements and  
the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As	explained	more	fully	in	the	Statement	of	Directors’	
Responsibilities	set	out	on	page	52,	the	directors	are	
responsible	for	the	preparation	of	the	financial	statements	 
and	for	being	satisfied	that	they	give	a	true	and	fair	view.
Our	responsibility	is	to	audit	and	express	an	opinion	on	the	
financial	statements	in	accordance	with	applicable	law	and	ISAs	
(UK	&	Ireland).	Those	standards	require	us	to	comply	with	the	
Auditing	Practices	Board’s	Ethical	Standards	for	Auditors.
This	report,	including	the	opinions,	has	been	prepared	for	and	
only	for	the	company’s	members	as	a	body	in	accordance	with	
Chapter	3	of	Part	16	of	the	Companies	Act	2006	and	for	no	
other	purpose.	We	do	not,	in	giving	these	opinions,	accept	or	
assume	responsibility	for	any	other	purpose	or	to	any	other	
person	to	whom	this	report	is	shown	or	into	whose	hands	it	
may	come	save	where	expressly	agreed	by	our	prior	consent	 
in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An	audit	involves	obtaining	evidence	about	the	amounts	
and	disclosures	in	the	financial	statements	sufficient	to	give	
reasonable	assurance	that	the	financial	statements	are	free	
from	material	misstatement,	whether	caused	by	fraud	or	error.	
This	includes	an	assessment	of:	
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the 
group’s	and	the	company’s	circumstances	and	have	been	
consistently	applied	and	adequately	disclosed;	
•	 the	reasonableness	of	significant	accounting	estimates	
made	by	the	directors;	and
•	 the	overall	presentation	of	the	financial	statements.	
We	primarily	focus	our	work	in	these	areas	by	assessing	 
the	directors’	judgements	against	available	evidence,	forming	
our	own	judgements,	and	evaluating	the	disclosures	in	the	
financial	statements.
We	test	and	examine	information,	using	sampling	and	other	
auditing	techniques,	to	the	extent	we	consider	necessary	to	
provide	a	reasonable	basis	for	us	to	draw	conclusions.	We	
obtain	audit	evidence	through	testing	the	effectiveness	of	
controls,	substantive	procedures	or	a	combination	of	both.	
In	addition,	we	read	all	the	financial	and	non-financial	
information	in	the	Annual	Report	to	identify	material	
inconsistencies	with	the	audited	financial	statements	and	to	
identify	any	information	that	is	apparently	materially	incorrect	
based	on,	or	materially	inconsistent	with,	the	knowledge	
acquired	by	us	in	the	course	of	performing	the	audit.	If	we	
become	aware	of	any	apparent	material	misstatements	or	
inconsistencies	we	consider	the	implications	for	our	report.
Jaskamal Sarai (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for	and	on	behalf	of	PricewaterhouseCoopers	LLP 
Chartered	Accountants	and	Statutory	Auditors	Uxbridge 
19	May	2015 Report & Accounts 2015 78
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 March 2015
2015 2014
Continuing operations Note £m £m
Revenue 2 485.1 481.4
Cost of sales (428.3) (415.8)
Gross profit 56.8 65.6
Administrative expenses (35.8) (43.8)
Operating profit before exceptional items 21.0 21.8
Automation implementation 3 (0.4) -
National hub relocation costs 3 (2.5) -
HS2 compensation 3 2.0 -
Operating profit 5 20.1 21.8
Finance income 4 - 0.2
Finance costs 4 - (0.1)
Profit before taxation 20.1 21.9
Taxation - on profit before exceptional items (4.4) (5.1)
Taxation - on exceptional items 0.2 - 
Total taxation 7 (4.2) (5.1)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 15.9 16.8
(Loss)/profit for the year from discontinued 
operations
(10.8) 0.7
Profit for the financial year 5.1 17.5
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
- Continuing operations 15.9 16.8
- Discontinued operations (10.8) 0.7
Total comprehensive income attributable to 
equity holders of the company
5.1 17.5
Earnings/(loss) per share from continuing and 
discontinued operations
Basic earnings per share 9
From continuing operations 29.0p 30.7p
From discontinued operations (19.8p) 1.3p
Total basic earnings per share 9.2p 32.0p
Diluted earnings per share 9
From continuing operations 28.9p 30.6p
From discontinued operations (19.7p) 1.3p
Total diluted earnings per share 9.2p 31.9p
The notes on pages 86 to 129 are an integral part of these financial statements. Financial Statements 79
Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2015
2015 2014
Note £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Goodwill 10 1.6 9.5
Intangible assets 11 11.6 8.0
Investment properties 12 1.7 1.8
Property, plant and equipment 13 85.4 50.1
Deferred tax assets 21 0.7 0.7
 101.0 70.1
Current assets
Inventories 16 0.2 0.2
Trade and other receivables 17 76.2 72.4
Cash and cash equivalents 18 4.6 27.4
81.0 100.0
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Borrowings 20 (9.8) (0.4)
Trade and other payables 19 (101.1) (82.9)
Current tax liabilities (0.2) (2.7)
Provisions 22 (1.5) (0.4)
(112.6) (86.4)
Net current (liabilities)/assets (31.6) 13.6
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 21 (2.6) (1.5)
Provisions 22 (0.7) (1.0)
Trade and other payables 19 - (8.9)
(3.3) (11.4)
Net assets 66.1 72.3
Shareholders' equity
Ordinary shares 23 5.5 5.5
Share premium 15.3 15.3
Retained earnings 45.3 51.5
Total shareholders' equity 66.1 72.3
The notes on pages 86 to 129 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Guy Buswell  
Chief Executive
Steven Glew  
Group Finance Director
Registered Number: 02800218
The financial statements on pages 78 to 85 were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 May 2015 and were signed on its behalf by: Report & Accounts 2015 80
Company Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2015
2015 2014
Note £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Investment in subsidiaries 15 11.1 19.6
11.1 19.6
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 17 29.9 - 
Current tax asset 0.1 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents 18 - 22.2
30.0 22.3
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Borrowings 20 (1.3) - 
Trade and other payables 19 -  (3.5)
(1.3) (3.5)
Net current assets 28.7 18.8
Net assets 39.8 38.4
Shareholders' equity
Ordinary shares 23 5.5 5.5
Share premium 15.3 15.3
Retained earnings 19.0 17.6
Total shareholders' equity 39.8 38.4
The notes on pages 86 to 129 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Guy Buswell  
Chief Executive
Steven Glew  
Group Finance Director
Registered Number: 02800218
The financial statements on pages 78 to 85 were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 May 2015 and were signed on its behalf by: Financial Statements 81
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 
31 March 2015
Consolidated
2015 2014
Continuing operations Note £m £m
Profit for the year 15.9 16.8
Adjustments for:
Exceptional items 3 0.9 - 
Depreciation and amortisation 7.9 7.5
Share-based payment expense 0.6 0.9
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.5
Finance income - (0.2)
Finance costs - 0.1
Taxation 7 4.2 5.1
Operating profit before changes in working capital 29.6 30.7
Decrease in inventories - 0.1
(Increase) in trade and other receivables (10.1) (5.0)
Increase in trade and other payables 8.5 6.9
Increase in provisions 0.2 0.1
Total cash flow from changes in working capital (1.4) 2.1
Cash generated from continuing operations 28.2 32.8
Discontinued operations
(Loss)/profit for the year (10.8) 0.7
Adjustments for:
Exceptional items 3 10.4 -
Depreciation and amortisation 0.1 -
Taxation 7 (0.7) 0.2
Operating profit before changes in working capital (1.0) 0.9
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 6.6 (0.7)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (5.8) 0.2
Increase in provisions 0.6 -
Total cash flow from changes in working capital 1.4 (0.5)
Cash generated from continuing operations 28.2 32.8
Cash generated from discontinued operations 0.4 0.4
Total cash generated from operations 28.6 33.2
Interest received - 0.2
Income tax paid (5.0) (5.2)
Net cash flow from continuing operating activities 23.2 27.8
Net cash flow from discontinued operating activities 0.4 0.4
Total cash flow from operating activities 23.6 28.2
The notes on pages 86 to 129 are an integral part of these financial statements. Report & Accounts 2015 82
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 
31 March 2015
Consolidated
2015 2014
Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 13 (39.1) (23.5)
Purchase of intangible assets 11 (6.4) (4.1)
Deferred compensation 19 2.0 10.6
Proceeds from sale of plant and equipment -  0.1
Net cash used in investing activities - continuing operations (43.5) (16.9)
Net cash used in investing activities - discontinued operations (0.4) (0.5)
Total cash used in investing activities (43.9) (17.4)
Financing activities
Repayment of finance leases 29 (0.4) (0.8)
Dividends paid to shareholders 8 (11.8) (10.7)
ESOT shares acquired - (0.1)
Draw down of revolving credit facility 20 10.0 -
Facility arrangement costs paid (0.3) -
Net cash used in financing activities - continuing operations (2.5) (11.6)
Net cash used in financing activities - discontinued operations - -
Total cash used in financing activities (2.5) (11.6)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 29 (22.8) (0.8)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 29 27.4 28.2
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 29 4.6 27.4
The notes on pages 86 to 129 are an integral part of these financial statements. Financial Statements 83
Company Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31 
March 2015
Company
2015 2014
Note £m £m
Profit for the year 12.5 10.8
Adjustments for:
Exceptional item - impairment of investment 15 9.1 - 
Finance income - (0.4)
Finance costs - 0.3
Taxation (0.1) (0.1)
Operating profit before changes in working capital 21.5 10.6 
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (10.7) 0.1
(Decrease) in trade and other payables (22.5) (4.1)
Total cash flow from changes in working capital (33.2) (4.0)
Cash (used in)/generated from operations (11.7) 6.6
Finance income received - 0.1
Net cash flow from operating activities (11.7) 6.7
Investing activities
Net cash used in investing activities - - 
Financing activities
Dividends paid to shareholders 8 (11.8) (10.7)
ESOT shares acquired - (0.1)
Net cash used in financing activities (11.8) (10.8)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 29 (23.5) (4.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 29 22.2 26.3
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 29 (1.3) 22.2
The notes on pages 86 to 129 are an integral part of these financial statements. Report & Accounts 2015 84
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Ordinary 
shares
Share 
premium
Retained 
earnings
Total 
equity
Note £m £m £m £m
Balance as at 1 April 2013 5.5 15.3 43.6 64.4
Profit for the financial year - - 17.5 17.5
Total comprehensive income for the year - - 17.5 17.5
Dividends paid to shareholders 8 - - (10.7) (10.7)
Employees' share option scheme: 24
- share-based payments - - 0.9 0.9
- purchase of UK Mail shares by the ESOT - - (0.1) (0.1)
 - tax credited directly to equity - - 0.3 0.3
Total transactions with shareholders recorded 
directly in equity
- - (9.6) (9.6)
Balance as at 31 March 2014 5.5 15.3 51.5 72.3
Ordinary 
Shares
Share 
premium
Retained 
earnings
Total 
equity
Note £m £m £m £m
Balance as at 1 April 2014 5.5 15.3 51.5 72.3
Profit for the financial year - - 5.1 5.1
Total comprehensive income for the year - - 5.1 5.1
Dividends paid to shareholders 8 - - (11.8) (11.8)
Employees' share option scheme: 24
- share-based payments - - 0.6 0.6
 - tax charged directly to equity - - (0.1) (0.1)
Total transactions with shareholders recorded 
directly in equity
- - (11.3) (11.3)
Balance as at 31 March 2015 5.5 15.3 45.3 66.1
The notes on pages 86 to 129 are an integral part of these financial statements. Financial Statements 85
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 March 2015
The notes on pages 86 to 129 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Ordinary 
Shares
Share 
premium
Retained 
earnings
Total 
equity
Note £m £m £m £m
Balance as at 1 April 2013 5.5 15.3 16.7 37.5
Profit for the financial year - - 10.8 10.8
Total comprehensive income for the year - - 10.8 10.8
Dividends paid to shareholders 8 - - (10.7) (10.7)
Employees' share option scheme: 24
- share-based payments - - 0.9 0.9
- purchase of UK Mail shares by the ESOT - - (0.1) (0.1)
Total transactions with shareholders recorded 
directly in equity
- - (9.9) (9.9)
Balance as at 31 March 2014 5.5 15.3 17.6 38.4
Ordinary 
Shares
Share 
premium
Retained 
earnings
Total 
equity
Note £m £m £m £m
Balance as at 1 April 2014 5.5 15.3 17.6 38.4
Profit for the financial year - - 12.5 12.5
Total comprehensive income for the year - - 12.5 12.5
Dividends paid to shareholders 8 - - (11.8) (11.8)
Employees' share option scheme: 24
 - share-based payments - - 0.7 0.7
Total transactions with shareholders recorded 
directly in equity
- - (11.1) (11.1)
Balance as at 31 March 2015 5.5 15.3 19.0 39.8 Report & Accounts 2015 86
Notes to the Financial Statements
Accounting policies for the year ended 31 March 2015
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation 
of these financial statements are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, 
unless otherwise stated.
General information
UK Mail Group plc (registration 02800218) is a public limited 
company incorporated and domiciled in England and the 
holding company of UK Mail Limited and UK Pallets Limited. 
It is quoted on the London Stock Exchange (LSE: UKM). The 
Group’s principal activity is the provision of express collection 
and delivery services for parcels, mail and palletised goods. 
The address of its registered office is 120 Buckingham Avenue 
Slough SL1 4LZ.
Basis of preparation
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006 and those International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union and International Financial Reporting 
Interpretation Committee (IFRIC) interpretations which are 
effective as at 31 March 2015.
The financial statements have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention, and on the going concern basis, 
as described in the going concern statement in the Directors’ 
Report on page 48.
New and amended standards adopted by the Group
There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective 
for the first time for the current financial year that would have 
a material impact on the Consolidated or Company Financial 
Statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2015. 
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted 
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued, 
effective for the Group’s financial year beginning 1 April 2015 
or later periods and not yet adopted by the Group include 
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ and IFRS 9 
‘Financial instruments’. None of these are expected to have a 
material effect on the Consolidated and Company Financial 
Statements of the Group.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with 
IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the 
date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of 
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Although 
these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge 
of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may 
differ from those estimates.
The critical accounting judgements and the key sources of 
estimation uncertainty are detailed in note 32.
Consolidation
The Group’s financial statements consolidate those of the 
Company and its subsidiary undertakings. Subsidiaries are 
all entities (including structured entities) over which the 
Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the 
Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from 
its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect 
those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries 
are fully consolidated from the date on which control is 
transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the 
date that control ceases.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on 
transactions between Group companies are eliminated and 
consistent accounting policies are used throughout the Group 
for the purposes of the consolidation.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for 
the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an 
acquisition is measured at fair value of the assets given, equity 
instruments issued, contingent consideration arrangements 
entered into, and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date 
of exchange. Directly attributable transaction costs are 
expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent 
liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured 
initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. These values 
are finalised within 12 months of the date of acquisition.
Amortisation of business combination intangibles is a 
separately disclosed item.
When the ownership of an acquired company is less than 
100%, the non-controlling interest is measured at either 
the proportion of the recognised net assets attributable 
to the non-controlling interest or at the fair value of the 
acquired company at date of acquisition. The excess of the 
cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of 
identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. 
The financial statements of subsidiaries are consolidated from 
the date that control commences to the date control ceases. 
The results, assets and liabilities of the franchise network are 
not consolidated into the Group’s results as the Group does 
not have a participating share ownership in the franchises, 
or the ability to direct and control their activities. Additionally, 
the Group does not bear or benefit in the majority of the risks 
and rewards.
1. Principal Accounting Policies Financial Statements 87
Advantage has been taken of Section 408 of the Companies 
Act 2006 not to include the Company’s own statement of 
comprehensive income. The profit of the Company for the 
year was £12.5m (2014: £10.8m).
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition 
over the fair value of identifiable net assets of a subsidiary at 
the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an 
asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to those cash generating units (CGUs) 
expected to benefit from the business combination and 
tested for impairment at least annually or whenever there 
is an indication that the asset may be impaired. Impairment 
testing is based on assets grouped at the lowest level at  
which goodwill is monitored for internal management 
reporting purposes. Any impairment is recognised 
immediately in the statement of comprehensive income  
and is not subsequently reversed.
On the disposal of a business, goodwill relating to that 
business remaining on the balance sheet is included in the 
determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets (other than goodwill)
Intangible assets include acquired computer software licences 
not part of the operating software acquired with a related 
piece of hardware. These are capitalised on the basis of 
the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific 
software. These costs are amortised on a straight line basis 
over their estimated useful lives, of between three and seven 
years, which are reviewed annually. 
Costs that are directly associated with the development of 
identifiable and unique software products generated for use 
by the Group, and where it is probable that will generate 
economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are 
recognised as intangible assets. These represent the direct 
employment costs of software developers time spent on 
relevant projects. Computer software development costs 
recognised as assets are amortised over their estimated 
useful economic lives, of between three and seven years, 
which are reviewed annually.
Investment properties
Investment properties comprise of freehold and leasehold 
land and buildings held for long term rental yields and are not 
occupied by the Group.
Investment properties are accounted for under the 
cost model, at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
accumulated impairment losses and are depreciated either 
over fifty years (in the case of freehold properties), or over the 
period of the lease on a straight line basis.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.  
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset  
together with the costs attributable to bringing the asset  
to its working condition for its intended use. Borrowing 
costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition or 
construction of a qualifying asset are capitalised as part of  
the cost of that asset.
Where significant parts of an item of property, plant and 
equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for 
as separate items.
Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis so as to write 
off the cost of the assets to their residual value over their 
estimated useful economic lives, which are principally:
Freehold buildings fifty years
Short leasehold buildings the period of the lease
Motor vehicles, plant and 
equipment
three to fifteen years
Computer equipment three to seven years
Land is not depreciated.
The normal expected useful economic lives and residual 
values of the major categories of property, plant and 
equipment are reviewed annually.
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is 
reviewed at least annually. Any resultant impairment  
losses are charged immediately to the statement of 
comprehensive income.
Impairment
At each balance sheet, the Group reviews the carrying amount 
of all its assets excluding deferred tax assets, inventories, and 
financial assets to determine whether there is any indication 
that any of those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of 
comprehensive income whenever the carrying amount of 
an asset or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount. The 
recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less 
costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the 
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present 
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and risks 
specific to that asset. Where it is not possible to estimate 
the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group 
estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the 
asset belongs. Impairment losses recognised in respect of 
CGU’s are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of  
Notes to the Financial Statements continued. Report & Accounts 2015 88
any goodwill allocated to those units, and then to reduce  
the carrying amount of other assets in the CGU on a  
pro-rata basis.
An impairment loss for an individual asset or CGU will be 
reversed if there has been a change in estimate used to 
determine the recoverable amount since the last impairment 
loss was recognised and is only reversed to the extent that 
the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined net of amortisation 
or depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised. 
Impairment of goodwill is not reversed.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in Group undertakings are stated at cost less  
any provision for impairment.
The Company reflects the fair value of share-based  
payments granted to employees of subsidiary companies  
as an investment in subsidiaries, with a corresponding credit 
to equity.
Inventories
Inventories, represented by fuel stocks held by the Group,  
are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in-first-out method and  
net realisable value is the estimated selling price less costs  
of disposal in the ordinary course of business.
Finance and operating leases
Leasing agreements, which transfer to the Group substantially 
all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset, are treated 
as if the asset has been purchased outright and are classified 
as finance leases. The assets are included in non-current 
assets and the capital elements of the leasing commitments 
are shown as obligations under finance leases. The lease 
rentals are treated as consisting of capital and interest 
elements. The capital element is applied to reduce the 
outstanding obligations and the interest element is charged 
against profit so as to give constant periodic rates of charge 
on the remaining balance outstanding at each accounting 
period. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over 
the shorter of the lease term and the useful lives of equivalent 
owned assets.
Leases where the Group does not retain substantially all the 
risks and rewards of ownership of an asset are classified as 
operating leases. Operating lease rental payments, including 
lease incentives, are recognised as an expense in the 
statement of comprehensive income on a straight line basis 
over the term of the lease. Similarly, where the Group acts as 
a lessor, operating lease income is credited to the statement 
of comprehensive income on a straight line basis over the 
term of the lease.
Revenue
Revenue reflects all sales made by the Group, whether 
delivered by network services, franchisees or sub-contractors. 
The Group remains the principal in all transactions, 
save where it acts as an agent under an agency access 
arrangement with the Royal Mail (‘AFA revenue’), on behalf of 
its customers. 
AFA revenue represents charges for Royal Mail postal services 
whereby the Group recognises its share of the overall 
transaction charge to the customer as revenue, excluding 
those elements collected on behalf of, and payable to the 
Royal Mail, for their services
Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable to the extent that it is probable that 
economic benefits will flow to the Group and can be reliably 
measured.
Income from investment properties is recognised on a 
straight line basis over the term of the lease, even if the 
payments are not received on such a basis.
All revenues are stated net of value added tax.
Cost of sales
Cost of sales reflects all the direct costs incurred in the 
collection and delivery of a consignment, including the costs 
of sub-contracted and employed drivers, linehaul costs, and 
Royal Mail access costs, together with the direct costs of 
operating the network. Cost of sales includes the depreciation 
cost of network vehicles, cages and site equipment.
Administrative costs
Administrative costs reflect all the establishment and central 
support costs of the Group, including the remuneration of 
non-operational site based staff and head office personnel, 
depreciation of buildings, amortisation of central IT systems 
and bad debts.
Operating segments
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent 
with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating 
decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker, who 
is responsible for allocating resources and assessing 
performance of the operating segments, has been identified 
as the Board of the company. The chief operating decision-
maker assesses the performance of the operating segments 
based on the measures of revenue and operating profit. 
Central overheads, finance income and costs, and taxation 
are not allocated to the operating segments. 
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations represent operating segments  
of the company that have either been abandoned,  
disposed of, or are classified as ‘held for sale’ per the 
requirements of IFRS 5 , ‘Non-current assets held for sale  
and discontinued operations’. 
In the statement of comprehensive income, the profit or loss 
from discontinued operations is presented separately from 
the profit or loss from continuing operations, and the prior 
period restated on a comparable basis.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued. Financial Statements 89
In the cash flow statement, the cash flows from discontinued 
operations are also presented separately from the cash flows 
arising from continuing operations, and the prior period 
restated on a comparable basis.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently 
payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for 
the year. Taxable profit differs from the net profit in the 
statement of comprehensive income because it excludes 
items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible 
in other years and it further excludes items that are never 
taxable or deductible.
The Company provides deferred income tax using the 
balance sheet liability method on all temporary differences 
at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets 
and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial 
reporting purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognised for 
all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profit will be available against which  
the deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of 
unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at  
the tax rates that apply to the period when the asset is 
realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax 
laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at  
the balance sheet date.
Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all taxable 
temporary differences. Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
are recognised separately on the balance sheet. Deferred 
tax assets are recognised only to the extent that they are 
expected to be recoverable.
Deferred taxation is recognised in the statement of 
comprehensive income unless it relates to taxable 
transactions taken directly to equity, in which case the 
deferred tax is also recognised in equity. The deferred tax is 
released to the statement of comprehensive income at the 
same time as the taxable transaction is recognised in the 
statement of comprehensive income. 
Pension costs
The Group makes contributions to a defined contribution 
pension scheme on behalf of its employees. The assets of 
the scheme are held separately from those of the Group 
in independently administered funds. The pension costs 
charged in the statement of comprehensive income represent 
contributions payable by the Group to the scheme together 
with the administration charges of the scheme. 
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in sterling at 
the rate ruling at the transaction date. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated 
at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All 
exchange differences arising from trading transactions are 
dealt with in the statement of comprehensive income.
Share-based payments
The costs of equity-settled share-based payments are 
recognised in the statement of comprehensive income with 
a corresponding increase in equity over the vesting period as 
services are provided to the Group. 
The charge is based on the fair value of the equity instrument 
granted and the number of equity instruments that are 
expected to vest. The fair value is measured at grant date and 
takes account of vesting conditions that relate to the market 
price of the Company’s shares. In order to determine the 
value of the instrument a pricing model relevant to the type of 
instrument is used.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present 
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it 
is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic 
benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. 
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for 
example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement 
is recognised as a separate asset but only when the 
reimbursement is virtually certain. 
Contingent assets
Contingent assets are those possible assets that arise from 
past events, and whose existence will be confirmed only by 
the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain 
future events not wholly within the control of the entity.  
In accordance with IFRS, contingent assets are not recognised 
as assets.
Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities represent possible obligations whose 
existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non- Report & Accounts 2015 90
occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not 
wholly under the control of the Group. Contingent liabilities 
also include certain obligations that will probably not lead to 
an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits, or 
where the outflow of resources embodying economic benefits 
cannot be measured with sufficient reliability. In accordance 
with IFRS, contingent liabilities are not recognised as liabilities.
Exceptional items
Material and non-recurring items of income and expense 
are disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income as 
exceptional items. Examples of items which may give rise 
to disclosure as exceptional items include material gains or 
losses on the disposal of businesses or non-current assets, 
material asset impairments, and business reorganisation and 
restructuring costs.
Dividends
Interim dividends are recognised as a distribution from 
retained earnings in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends are recognised as a distribution from retained 
earnings in the period in which they are approved at the 
general meeting.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs 
directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown 
in equity as a deduction from the proceeds received. Own 
equity instruments that are reacquired (treasury shares) or 
shares held in the Employee Share Ownership Trust (ESOT) 
are deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognised in the 
statement of comprehensive income on the purchase, sale, 
issue or cancellation of the Group’s own equity instruments.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in 
the balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial assets  
are de-recognised when the Group no longer has the rights  
to cash flows, the risks and rewards of ownership or control 
of the asset. Financial liabilities are de-recognised when  
the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled  
or expires.
Trade and other receivables: Trade receivables are 
recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method less 
provision for impairment. A provision is made when there is 
objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect 
the debts. Bad debts are written off to the statement of 
comprehensive income when identified.
Trade and other payables: Trade payables are recognised 
initially at fair value and subsequently measure at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method. 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings: All interest-
bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at 
fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs. After 
initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into 
account any issue costs, and any discount or premium.
Cash and cash equivalents: These comprise cash in hand, 
current account and demand deposit balances with banks 
and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to a 
known amount of cash within three months and which are 
subject to an insignificant risk of change in value. 
For the purpose of the cash flow statements, cash and cash 
equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined 
above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Management has determined the operating segments 
based on reports that are reviewed by the Board for making 
strategic decisions. These reports reflect the Group’s 
defined management structure, whereby distinct managers 
are accountable to the Board for the results and activities 
of their identified segments and the different markets in 
which they operate. The Board, which is the Group’s chief 
operating decision maker, considers that the Group has three 
reportable operating segments following the cessation of 
trading of UK Pallets Ltd (note 3).
The Group’s operating segments consist of Mail, Parcels, and 
Courier (which are shown as continuing operations). The 
Board assesses the performance of the operating segments 
based on a measure of operating profit before net finance 
costs and taxation. 
Central costs comprises of network costs and central  
support costs. Central assets comprise mainly of corporate 
assets, cash, current and deferred tax balances. 
The Group manages its business segments on a national 
basis, with all its operations in the UK, as are nearly all of  
the customers. 
Inter-company transactions, (which are conducted on  
an arm’s length basis), balances and unrealised gains  
on transactions between segments are eliminated.  
Unrealised losses are also eliminated.
No individual customer accounted for more than 6% of 
revenue in the periods included in these consolidated 
financial statements.
2. Segmental information Financial Statements 91
Business segments
The business segment results for the year ended 31 March 2015 are as follows:
Continuing operations
Mail Parcels Courier Central Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Segmental revenue 240.5 228.1 20.0 - 488.6
Inter-segment revenue - - (3.5) - (3.5)
Group revenue 240.5 228.1 16.5 - 485.1
 
Operating profit/(loss) before exceptional items 12.5 21.4 2.2 (15.1) 21.0
Exceptional items – administrative expenses - (0.9) - - (0.9)
Operating profit 12.5 20.5 2.2 (15.1) 20.1
Finance income -
Finance costs -
Profit before taxation 20.1
Taxation (4.2)
Profit attributable to equity shareholders 15.9
Other segment items
Capital expenditure (including acquisitions)
- Property, plant and equipment (note 13) 0.9 40.4 - 4.0 45.3
HS2 compensation - (4.2) - - (4.2)
- Intangible assets (note 11) 1.4 - 0.2 5.0 6.6
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 13)
- Owned assets 0.9 3.3 - 1.2 5.4
- Under finance leases - 0.2 - - 0.2
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 11)
- Owned assets 0.1 - - 2.0 2.1
- Under finance leases - - - 0.2 0.2
Impairment of trade receivables - 0.2 - - 0.2
Intangible Assets 
1
1.6 - 0.2 11.4 13.2
Property, plant and equipment 
2
2.4 76.5 - 8.2 87.1
Deferred tax assets - - - 0.6 0.6
Inventories - 0.2 - - 0.2
Trade and other receivables 52.1 36.0 - 30.7 118.8
Intercompany eliminations (14.2) - - (29.9) (44.1)
41.9 112.7 0.2 21.0 175.8
Cash and cash equivalents 4.3 2.0 - (1.3) 5.0
Total assets 46.2 114.7 0.2 19.7 180.8
1 Including goodwill 2 Including investment properties
Notes to the Financial Statements continued. Report & Accounts 2015 92
The business segment results for the year ended 31 March 2014 are as follows:
Continuing operations
Mail Parcels Courier Central Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Segmental revenue 245.3 219.9 18.9 - 484.1
Inter-segment revenue - - (2.7) - (2.7)
Group revenue 245.3 219.9 16.2 - 481.4
 
Operating profit/(loss) 12.7 22.4 2.7 (16.0) 21.8
Finance income 0.2
Finance costs (0.1)
Profit before taxation 21.9
Taxation (5.1)
Profit attributable to equity shareholders 16.8
Other segment items
Capital expenditure (including acquisitions)
- Property, plant and equipment (note 13) 1.4 19.9 - 2.0 23.3
- Intangible assets (note 11) 0.2 - - 3.9 4.1
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 13)
- Owned assets 0.5 3.4 - 1.7 5.6
- Under finance leases 0.5 - - - 0.5
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 11)
- Owned assets - 0.1 - 1.1 1.2
- Under finance leases - - - 0.2 0.2
Impairment of trade receivables - 0.1 0.1 - 0.2
Intangible Assets 
1
0.3 - - 16.4 16.7
Property, plant and equipment 
2
2.4 43.9 - 5.6 51.9
Deferred tax assets - - - 0.6 0.6
Inventories - 0.2 - - 0.2
Trade and other receivables 49.8 34.7 - 0.7 85.2
Intercompany eliminations (17.5) - - - (17.5)
35.0 78.8 - 23.3 137.1
Cash and cash equivalents 1.5 4.2 22.2 27.9
Total assets 36.5 83.0 - 45.5 165.0
1 Including goodwill 2 Including investment properties  Financial Statements 93
3. Exceptional items and discontinued operations
Exceptional items 2015 2014
£m £m
Cost of automation implementation 0.4 -
National hub relocation costs 2.5
HS2 compensation (2.0) -
Net exceptional costs – continuing operations 
1
0.9 -
Impairment charges (including goodwill) 9.0 -
Closure costs 1.4 -
Exceptional costs – discontinued operations 
2
10.4 -
Net exceptional items 11.3 -
 
1 Presented on the face of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 2 Presented within the loss for the year from discontinued operations
Net exceptional costs - continuing operations
The cost of automation implementation represents the costs 
incurred during the final weeks of the year ended 31 March 
2015, as the Group moved towards the implementation and 
roll-out of new automation equipment. These costs largely 
represent contract termination costs. Further amounts are 
expected to be taken as exceptional costs in the 2015/16 
financial year.
National hub relocation costs represent disturbance costs 
associated with the relocation of our National hub and 
offices to Ryton following an agreement reached with the 
Department of Transport (‘DfT’) to acquire the National hub 
and offices in Birmingham. These costs largely comprise 
£0.2m property costs associated with running two sites for 
an approximate period of two months, £1.1m of recruitment 
and redundancy costs, and £1.2m of costs relating to short 
term site operating costs, incurred as a result of the delay 
in the expansion of our old National hub as a result of this 
compulsory acquisition.
As detailed in note 27, full reimbursement of these costs 
is being sought from the DfT and HS2 Ltd, subject to the 
requirements of the Compensation Code.
HS2 compensation received relates to agreed compensation 
resulting from the profit impact of the delay of automation 
of our operation due to the impact of HS2 on the Group’s 
plans, recognised on a pro-rata basis over the affected period. 
Further amounts are expected to be taken as exceptional 
income in the 2015/16 financial year. 
Exceptional costs - discontinued operations
The Group acquired UK Pallets for £9.4m in July 2003, 
recognising an initial goodwill asset of some £8.2m. This asset, 
which was initially amortised as required under the then 
applicable UK accounting rules, stood at £7.9m by the time 
the Group made the transition to IFRS on 1 April 2004.  
Since then, this goodwill has been held on the consolidated 
balance sheet of UK Mail as an intangible asset and tested  
at least annually for impairment.
At the interim stage, and following a deterioration in the 
trading performance of UK Pallets, an impairment charge of 
£7.3m was recognised as an exceptional cost. 
Since then, and as announced in January 2015, a decision was 
made to close the business. The business ceased trading in 
March 2015. Consequently, the remaining amount of goodwill 
arising on acquisition has therefore been written off, resulting 
in a total goodwill impairment charge of £7.9m for the year 
ended 31 March 2015. Additionally, the Group recognised a 
further £1.1m impairment charge relating to the write-off of 
capitalised software development costs.
Closure costs of £1.4m principally comprise £0.7m of 
redundancy costs, and £0.7m contract termination and 
additional dilapidation costs.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued. Report & Accounts 2015 94
 Discontinued operations
The results of discontinued operations are as follows: 2015 2014
                                         Note £m £m
Revenue 22.8 27.1
Cost of sales (22.0) (24.5)
Gross profit 0.8 2.6
Administrative expenses (1.9) (1.7)
Operating (loss)/profit before exceptional items (1.1) 0.9
Exceptional items                                   (10.4) -
Operating profit (11.5) 0.9
Taxation on profit/(loss) before exceptional items                     0.2 (0.2)
Taxation on exceptional items                             0.5 -
Total taxation                                   7 0.7 (0.2)
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (10.8) 0.7
These represent the results of UK Pallets Ltd.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued. Financial Statements 95
4. Finance income – net
2015 2014
£m £m
Continuing operations
Interest receivable on:
Bank balances - 0.2
Finance income - 0.2
Interest payable on:
Other interest - (0.1)
Finance cost - (0.1)
Finance income - net - 0.1
Interest and revolving credit facility arrangement fees totalling £0.3m have been capitalised as part of property, plant and 
equipment (note 13) as they relate to the construction phase of the group’s new national hub and head office.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued. Report & Accounts 2015 96
Notes to the Financial Statements continued.
5. Operating profit
2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing 
operations
Discontinued 
operations
Total Continuing 
operations
Discontinued 
operations
Total
The following items have been charged/
(credited) in arriving at operating profit:
Royal Mail access costs 195.5 - 195.5 202.8 - 202.8
Subcontractor costs 97.0 15.8 112.8 86.4 17.7 104.1
Employee benefits expense (note 6) 65.0 3.5 68.5 67.5 3.6 71.1
Cost of fuel included in cost of sales 
(note 16)
10.1 0.8 10.9 11.6 1.0 12.6
Depreciation of owned property, plant 
and equipment (note 13)
5.6 - 5.6 6.1 - 6.1
Amortisation of intangibles (included in 
administrative expenses) (note 11)
2.3 0.1 2.4 1.4 - 1.4
Loss on disposal of property, plant and 
equipment
0.1 - 0.1 0.4 - 0.4
Impairment of goodwill and other 
intangibles (note 3)
- 9.0 9.0 - - -
Loss on foreign currency translation - - - 0.1 - 0.1
Operating lease rentals payable 12.6 1.4 14.0 11.6 1.5 13.1
Repairs and maintenance expenditure 
on property, plant and equipment
4.8 0.5 5.3 4.4 0.4 4.8
Operating lease rentals receivable (1.0) (0.1) (1.1) (0.8) (0.1) (0.9)
Research and development costs 2.2 - 2.2 0.5 - 0.5
Impairment of trade receivables 
(included in administrative expenses)
0.2 0.2 0.4 0.2 - 0.2
Services provided by the Company’s auditor
During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Company’s auditors:
2015 2014
£000's £000's
Fees payable to the Company's auditor for the audit of the parent company and consolidated 
financial statements
 45 36 
Fees payable to the Company's auditor and its associates for other services:
- The audit of the Company's subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 95 100 
 - Other services pursuant to legislation 12 12 
Total audit and audit-related services 152 148 
All other services 28 1
Total non-audit services 28 1
Total audit and non-audit services 180 149 
Other services in 2015 principally relate to IT assurance services. Financial Statements 97
6. Employees and directors
Employee benefit expense for the Group during the year
Continuing 
operations
Discontinued 
operations
Total Continuing 
operations
Discontinued 
operations
Total
2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Wages and salaries 57.1 3.2 60.3 59.8 3.3 63.1
Social security costs 5.2 0.3 5.5 5.0 0.3 5.3
Pension costs 
1
2.1 - 2.1 1.8 - 1.8
Share-based payments (note 24) 0.6 - 0.6 0.9 - 0.9
65.0 3.5 68.5 67.5 3.6 71.1
1 - pension costs all relate to defined contribution schemes.
The monthly average number of people (including executive directors) employed by the Group was:
2015 2014
Number Number
Mail services 215 214
Parcel services 2,182 2,164
Courier services 84 79
Central services 203 182
Continuing operations 2,684 2,639
Discontinued operations - Pallet services 101 117
2,785 2,756
Key management compensation
2015 2014
£000 £000
Salaries and short-term employee benefits 1,436 2,007
Post-employment benefits 138 104
Share-based payments 344 398
1,918 2,509
The key management figures given above include the main board and operational directors and relates entirely to continuing 
operations.
Directors’ remuneration
2015 2014
£000 £000
Aggregate emoluments 1,984 1,207
Pension costs 138 79
Sub-Total 2,122 1,286
 
Pension contributions were made in respect of three (2014: two) directors, including contributions paid as a supplement  
to the directors salaries, as detailed in the Remuneration Report.
Further details of directors’ emoluments are set out in the Remuneration Report and all such emoluments relate to  
continuing operations. Report & Accounts 2015 98
7. Taxation
2015 2014
Analysis of charge in the period £m £m
Continuing operations
Current tax - current year 3.4 5.4
Current tax - adjustment in respect of prior years (0.1) -
Total current tax 3.3 5.4
Deferred tax
Deferred tax (note 21) - current year 0.8 (0.3)
Deferred tax (note 21) - adjustment in respect of prior years 0.1 -
Total deferred tax 0.9 (0.3)
Total tax on continuing operations 4.2 5.1
Discontinued operations
Current tax - current year (0.7) 0.2
Total current tax (0.7) 0.2
Total tax 3.5 5.3
2015 2014
Taxation on continuing operations £m £m
Profit before taxation on continuing operations    20.1 21.9
Profit on continuing operations multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 
21% (2014: 23%)
4.2 5.0
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.1 0.2
Effect of change in tax rate (0.1) (0.1)
Total tax charge 4.2 5.1
Additionally, £0.1m (2014: £0.3m credited) of deferred tax has been charged directly to equity in respect of share options.
Reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% (effective from 1 April 2014) and 20% (effective from 1 April 2015) were 
substantively enacted on 2 July 2013.  This will reduce the company’s future current tax charge accordingly.    
The net deferred tax liability at 31 March 2015 has been calculated based on the rate of 20% substantively enacted at the  
balance sheet date.         
         
Notes to the Financial Statements continued. Financial Statements 99
8. Dividends
The directors have proposed a payment of a final dividend of 14.5p per share (2014: 14.2p per share), payable on 28 August 2015 
to shareholders who are on the register of members on 31 July 2015. This dividend, which is subject to approval by shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting on 8 July 2015, has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. The dividend 
payment will amount to some £7.9m.
2015 2014
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity shareholders 
during the year:
Dividends 
per share 
pence
£m Dividends per 
share pence
£m
Final dividend paid in respect of the prior year 14.2p 7.8 12.4p 6.8
Interim dividend paid in respect of the current year 7.3p 4.0 7.1p 3.9
21.5p 11.8 19.5p 10.7
9. Earnings per share 
The basic, diluted and underlying earnings per share are calculated based on the following data:
2015 2014
£m £m
Profit after taxation – continuing items 15.9 16.8
(Loss)/profit after taxation – discontinued operations (10.8) 0.7
Profit after taxation 5.1 17.5
2015 2014
Number Number
Basic weighted average number of shares 54,729,788 54,705,627
Effect of dilutive shares
SAYE options 182,336 202,631
Long Term Incentive Plan - 64,039
Diluted weighted average number of shares 54,912,124 54,972,297
 
The Group has two classes of dilutive potential ordinary shares: those share options granted to employees where the exercise 
price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year, and the contingently issuable shares 
under the Group’s Long Term Incentive Plan.
2015 2014
Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share – continuing items 29.0p 30.7p
Basic (loss)/earnings per share – discontinued operations (19.8)p 1.3p
Basic earnings per share 9.2p 32.0p Report & Accounts 2015 100
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year (the ‘earnings’) attributable to ordinary shareholders by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held in the employee share ownership 
trust (note 23), which are treated as cancelled.
2015 2014
Pence Pence
Diluted earnings per share – continuing operations 28.9p 30.6p
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share – discontinued operations (19.7)p 1.3p
Diluted earnings per share 9.2p 31.9p
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential 
ordinary shares.
Underlying earnings per share
Note 2015 2014
£m £m
Profit before taxation – continuing operations 20.1 21.9
Adjustments:
Exceptional administrative items - continuing operations 3 0.9 -
Underlying profit before taxation –  
continuing operations
21.0 21.9
Taxation – continuing operations (4.4) (5.1)
Underlying profit after taxation – continuing operations 16.6 16.8
Underlying earnings per share
Basic 30.3p 30.7p
Diluted 30.1p 30.6p
The directors consider that the underlying EPS more accurately reflects the underlying performance of the business. Financial Statements 101
10. Goodwill
2015 2014
Group £m £m
Cost 
At 1 April and 31 March 9.5 9.5
Aggregate impairment
At 1 April - -
Impairment charge 7.9 -
At 31 March 7.9 -
Net book value as at 31 March 1.6 9.5
The following table shows the allocation of goodwill at the end of the reporting period by cash-generating unit (‘CGU’):
2015 2014
Goodwill by segment £m £m
Courier Services 1.6 1.6
Pallet Services - 7.9
Net book value at 31 March 1.6 9.5
The goodwill carried in the Courier Services segment 
represents goodwill acquired on the acquisition of Business 
Post Group Limited (formerly BXT Limited) in February 2003. 
The Group’s courier operations were consolidated under 
single management during the year ended 31 March 2007, 
and as a result are now all reported in the books of  
UK Mail Limited. 
The goodwill carried in the Pallet Services segment  
represents goodwill acquired on the acquisition of UK  
Pallets Ltd in July 2003. 
Impairment charge
As reported in the interim results, and following a marked 
deterioration in the profitability of the Pallet Services segment, 
a detailed impairment review was undertaken which resulted 
in the recognition of a £7.3m impairment charge against the 
carrying value of goodwill as at 30 September 2014. 
Since then the Group has reviewed the available options for 
the business, which resulted in a decision in January 2015 to 
close it, with trade ceasing in March 2015. 
Consequently, the remaining £0.6m goodwill has been 
written-off with the £7.9m total impairment charge for the 
year classified as an exceptional item within the net loss on 
discontinued operations (see note 3).
Annual impairment testing
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually.  
The recoverable amount of the CGU is based on a value 
in use calculation using cash flow forecasts based on the 
2015/16 Budget (as approved by the Board), extrapolated 
over the following four years in line with the Group’s three 
year plan (as approved by the Board) and management 
estimates of the individual CGU’s growth rate. Thereafter,  
the growth rate has assumed to be in line with the anticipated 
long term GDP rate of the UK economy. Pre-tax discount 
rates, derived from the Group’s pre-tax weighted average  
cost of capital are then applied to the projections.
The key assumptions used in testing for impairment for the 
remaining goodwill in the Courier Services segment are  
as follows:
• the 2015/16 Budget (year 1)
• the rates of growth in years 2 to 5   
• the long-term GDP growth rate of the UK economy 
• the pre-tax discount rate used
  Report & Accounts 2015 102
Budget 2015/16
The 2015/16 Courier Budget was initially prepared by the 
management team of the Courier Services segment CGU 
based on their detailed knowledge and experience of their 
own CGU. This Budget has subsequently been approved by 
the Board, following detailed discussions with management 
and rigorous testing of the underlying assumptions. Non-cash 
items have been added back to profit before interest and 
taxation in order to determine the cash flow for the CGU.
Rates of growth in years 2 to 5
The rates of revenue growth in years 2 to 5 are based on 
the Group’s approved three year plan (for years 2 and 3), 
and managements best estimates (for years 4 and 5) based 
on past performance, expectations for future business 
development, and known business initiatives. The growth 
rates are in the range of 4.3% to 8.6% p.a. (2014: 2.0% to  
9.4% p.a.)
Long term GDP rate of the UK economy
The anticipated minimum long term GDP growth rate  
of the UK economy has been estimated at 2.00% p.a.  
(2014: 1.75% p.a.).
Pre-tax discount rate
The discount rate applied to a CGU represents a pre-tax  
rate that reflects the Group’s weighted average cost of  
capital, adjusted for the risks specific to the CGU.  
The pre-tax discount rate used is 9.65% (2014: 8.31%).
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
The results of impairment testing is impacted by 
management’s estimates and judgements, in particular 
in relation to the forecasting of future cash flows and the 
discount rate applied to those cash flows. Sensitivity analysis 
has therefore been performed for these key assumptions.
Growth of market and market share  
Management has considered the impact of a variance in 
the growth of the market and market share for the Courier 
Services CGU, and believe that there is no reasonable 
potential change in any of the key assumptions used that 
would cause the carrying value of the Courier Services CGU  
to exceed its recoverable amount.
Pre-tax discount rate 
Management has considered the impact of an increase in  
the pre-tax discount rate applied to this calculation, and 
believe that there is no reasonable potential change in the 
pre-tax discount rate that would cause the carrying value of 
the Courier Services CGU to exceed its recoverable amount.
Market structure
Management believe that there will be no structural change  
in the courier market which will adversely affect these 
forecasts in the foreseeable future. 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued. Financial Statements 103
11. Intangible assets
Acquired software licences Internal software developments Total
£m £m £m
Group
Cost 
At 1 April 2014 4.4 9.7 14.1
Additions 0.6 6.4 7.0
Disposals (0.3) (1.1) (1.4)
At 31 March 2015 4.7 15.0 19.7
Aggregate amortisation
At 1 April 2014 2.4 3.7 6.1
Charge for the year 0.5 1.9 2.4
Disposals - (0.4) (0.4)
At 31 March 2015 2.9 5.2 8.1
Net book value at 31 March 2015 1.8 9.8 11.6
Acquired software licences Internal software developments Total
£m £m £m
Group
Cost 
At 1 April 2013 4.5 6.0 10.5
Additions 0.4 4.2 4.6
Disposals (0.5) (0.5) (1.0)
At 31 March 2014 4.4 9.7 14.1
Aggregate amortisation
At 1 April 2013 2.4 3.2 5.6
Charge for the year 0.5 0.9 1.4
Disposals (0.5) (0.4) (0.9)
At 31 March 2014 2.4 3.7 6.1
Net book value at 31 March 2014 2.0 6.0 8.0
The tables above include the following net book value of assets under construction:
Acquired software licences Internal software developments Total
£m £m £m
Assets under construction
Net book value at 31 March 2015 - 1.5 1.5
Net book value at 31 March 2014 - - -
Software related amortisation charges have been charged through administrative expenses. Report & Accounts 2015 104
Notes to the Financial Statements continued.
12. Investment properties
2015 2014
Group £m £m
Cost 
At 1 April 2.6 2.6
At 31 March 2.6 2.6
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 0.8 0.8
Charge for the year 0.1 -
At 31 March 0.9 0.8
Net book value at 31 March    1.7 1.8
One (2014: one) investment property is held by the Group, 
located in the West Midlands, which is being sublet under an 
operating lease. The rental income recognised in the year was 
£0.3m (2014: £0.3m). Direct operating expenses incurred were 
£nil (2014: £nil). The lease is due to expire on 23 June 2015.
The property was last externally valued by qualified 
professional valuers working for the company of DTZ 
Debenham Tie Leung, Chartered Surveyors, acting in the 
capacity of External Valuers in December 2010 at £2,445,000. 
All such valuers are Chartered Surveyors, being members 
of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (‘RICS’). DTZ 
Debenham Tie Leung is a wholly owned subsidiary of DTZ 
Holdings plc (the ‘DTZ Group’), a part of the UGL service group. 
In the financial year to 30 April 2014, the proportion of total 
fees payable by the Group to the total fee income of the DTZ 
Group was less than 5%. The valuation was primarily derived 
using comparable recent market transactions on arm’s length 
terms. The valuation was carried out in accordance with the 
RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards.
The property has since been valued by the Group Property 
Manager at £2.4m to £2.6m in March 2015 by reference to 
market evidence of transaction prices for similar properties  
in the same area. Financial Statements 105
13. Property, plant and equipment 
Freehold 
land and 
buildings
Short 
leasehold 
buildings
Motor 
vehicles, 
plant and 
equipment
Computer 
equipment
Total
Group £m £m £m £m £m
Cost 
At 1 April 2014 35.1 3.4 38.7 11.8 89.0
Additions 22.8 0.3 18.0 4.2 45.3
HS2 compensation (4.2) - - - (4.2)
Disposals - - (2.8) (0.4) (3.2)
At 31 March 2015 53.7 3.7 53.9 15.6 126.9
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2014 5.8 1.9 23.3 7.9 38.9
Charge for the year 0.5 0.3 3.5 1.3 5.6
Disposals - - (2.6) (0.4) (3.0)
At 31 March 2015 6.3 2.2 24.2 8.8 41.5
Net book value at 31 March 2015 47.4 1.5 29.7 6.8 85.4
Freehold 
land and 
buildings
Short 
leasehold 
buildings
Motor 
vehicles, 
plant and 
equipment
Computer 
equipment
Total
Group £m £m £m £m £m
Cost 
At 1 April 2013 21.8 3.5 35.7 12.2 73.2
Additions 13.3 0.3 7.6 2.1 23.3
Disposals - (0.4) (4.6) (2.5) (7.5)
At 31 March 2014 35.1 3.4 38.7 11.8 89.0
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2013 5.3 1.9 24.0 8.5 39.7
Charge for the year 0.5 0.3 3.6 1.7 6.1
Disposals - (0.3) (4.3) (2.3) (6.9)
At 31 March 2014 5.8 1.9 23.3 7.9 38.9
Net book value at 31 March 2014 29.3 1.5 15.4 3.9 50.1 Report & Accounts 2015 106
Three of the group properties included above, with a net book value of £6.3m have been given as security against advance 
payments for compensation received from HS2 Ltd. 
Interest and revolving credit facility arrangement fees totalling £0.3m have been capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment 
as they relate to the construction phase of the group’s new national hub and head office, and qualify for capital allowances.
The tables above include the following net book value of assets under construction:
Freehold 
land and 
buildings
Short 
leasehold 
buildings
Motor 
vehicles, 
plant and 
equipment
Computer 
equipment
Total
Group £m £m £m £m £m
Assets under construction 
Net book value at 31 March 2015 19.2 - 17.2 2.2 38.6
Net book value at 31 March 2014 0.6 - 3.3 - 3.9
Notes to the Financial Statements continued. Financial Statements 107
14. Assets held under finance leases 
Included in notes 11 and 13 are the following assets held under finance leases:
Property, plant  
and equipment
Intangible
(Motor vehicles, property,  
plant and equipment)
(Acquired software licences)
2015 2014 2015 2014
£m £m £m £m
Cost 3.5 4.3 1.7 1.9 
Accumulated depreciation (3.4) (3.3) (1.2) (1.0)
Disposals (0.1) (0.8) - (0.2)
Net book value - 0.2 0.5 0.7
The majority of the leases are for an initial contractual period of six to seven years, with options to renew for varying further 
periods at fixed rates. The interest rate inherent in the lease is fixed at the contract date for the term of the lease. 
15. Investments
Company
2015 2014
Non-current investments £m £m
Cost of investments in subsidiaries
At 1 April 19.6 18.7
Increase in investments in subsidiaries - share-based payments 0.6 0.9
Impairment of investment in subsidiaries (9.1) -
At 31 March 11.1 19.6
The impairment of investment in subsidiaries relates to UK Pallets Ltd, further details of which can be found in note 3.
16. Inventories
2015 2014
£m £m
Fuel stock 0.2 0.2
Notes to the Financial Statements continued. Report & Accounts 2015 108
17. Trade and other receivables 
Group Company
2015 2014 2015 2014
 £m £m £m £m
Trade receivables 56.5 57.3 - -
Less: provision for impairment (0.1) (0.1) - -
Trade receivables - net of provisions for impairment 56.4 57.2 - -
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings - - 29.9 -
Other debtors 5.5 2.1 - -
Prepayments and accrued income 14.3 13.1 - -
 76.2 72.4 29.9 - 
Further information on the credit risks relating to trade and other receivables is given in note 25.
Company
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings bear interest at 1.0% over the Bank of England base rate, are unsecured and are 
repayable on demand.
None (2014: none) of the Company’s trade and other receivables were past due at the year end and the Company does  
not consider it necessary to provide for any impairment.
18. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purpose of the cash flow statement:
Group Company
2015 2014 2015 2014
£m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand   4.6 27.4 - 22.2
Bank overdraft - - (1.3) -
Cash and cash equivalents 4.6 27.4 (1.3) 22.2
Credit interest rates on bank balances range between 0.00% and 0.70%, and debit interest rates on borrowings range between 
1.82% and 2.5%. As far as practical cash balances are held centrally and are used first to repay borrowings under the Group’s 
revolving credit facility before being placed on deposit. Financial Statements 109
19. Trade and other payables – current
Group Company
2015 2014 2015 2014
£m £m £m £m
Trade payables 58.7 42.9 - - 
Other payables 9.1 7.1 - - 
Amounts owed to franchises 1.6 1.9 - - 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings - - - 3.5 
Other taxes and social security payable 12.6 13.2 - - 
Accruals 9.4 15.1 - - 
Deferred compensation 9.6 2.6 - - 
Deferred income 0.1 0.1 - - 
101.1 82.9 - 3.5
Trade and other payables – non-current
Group Company
2015 2014 2015 2014
£m £m £m £m
Deferred compensation - 8.9 - - 
- 8.9 - -
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings bear interest at 1.0% over the Bank of England base rate, and are repayable  
on demand.
Total deferred compensation of £9.6m (2014: £11.5m) relates to amounts received by the group in respect of reimbursements for 
operating expenditure, business disruption costs and capital expenditure resulting from the compulsory purchase of the group’s 
national hub. 
Total compensation received in 2015 was £4.3m of which £2.0m is shown in investing activities relating to the reimbursement of 
capital expenditure and £2.3m in operating activities relating to business disruption costs. 
Total compensation received in 2014 amounted to £11.5m, of which £10.6m is shown in investing activities (being £8.6m in 
respect of sale proceeds received on account in respect of the old Birmingham National hub and £2.0m of reimbursed capital 
expenditure) and £0.9m in operating activities relating to business disruption costs.
During the year ended 31 March 2015, £4.2m has been credited against the build cost of the Ryton National hub (shown as an 
asset under construction in note 13) and £2.0m has been included in exceptional items (shown as HS2 compensation in note 3). 
Three of the group’s properties have been given as security against advanced payments for compensation received from HS2 Ltd.
 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued. Report & Accounts 2015 110
20. Borrowings
 
Current
Group Company
2015 2014 2015 2014
£m £m £m £m
Amounts due within one year or on demand:
Revolving credit facility 
1
9.8 - - -
Finance lease obligations (see note 25) - 0.4 - -
Bank overdraft - - 1.3 -
9.8 0.4 1.3 -
1 The revolving credit facility is shown net of £0.2m (2014: £nil) unamortised arrangement fees.
  
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows:
Group Company
2015 2014 2015 2014
£m £m £m £m
Amounts payable under finance leases
Within one year -  0.4  -  - 
Between one and five years -  -  -  - 
Total minimum lease payments -  0.4  -  - 
Future finance charges -  -  -  - 
Present value of finance leases -  0.4  -  -  Financial Statements 111
21. Deferred tax
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 20% (2014: 20%).
The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below:
Group
2015 2014
Deferred tax assets £m £m
At 1 April 0.7 0.3
(Charge)/credit to equity - continuing operations (0.2) 0.3
Credit/(charge) to income statement 0.2 0.1
At 31 March 0.7 0.7
Deferred tax assets, which largely relate to share-based payments, are calculated on the difference between the market price 
at the balance sheet date and the option exercise price. The excess of the deferred tax over the cumulative income statement 
charge is recognised in equity. There are no unrecognised deferred tax assets.
The movement on the deferred tax liability account is as shown below:
Group
2015 2014
Deferred tax liabilities £m £m
At 1 April 1.5 1.7
Income statement charge/(credit) 1.1 (0.2)
At 31 March 2.6 1.5
Deferred tax liabilities, which largely relate to accelerated capital allowances, are calculated on the difference between the 
accounting net book value of assets and their carrying amount for tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are expected to be recovered as follows:
Group
2015 2014
Deferred tax assets £m £m
Within 12 months 0.1 0.1
After 12 months 0.5 0.6
At 31 March 0.6 0.7
Deferred tax liabilities
Within 12 months - 0.2
After 12 months 2.6 1.3
At 31 March 2.6 1.5
£0.2m deferred tax was charged to equity during the year (2014: £0.3m credited). There was no recognised or unrecognised 
deferred tax for the company (2014: £nil)
Notes to the Financial Statements continued. Report & Accounts 2015 112
22. Provisions
Automation Closure  
costs
Lease 
dilapidations
Restructuring Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2014 - - 1.1 0.3 1.4
Provided in the year 0.4 0.3 0.6 - 1.3
Utilised in the year (0.2) - (0.2) (0.1) (0.5)
At 31 March 2015 0.2 0.3 1.5 0.2 2.2
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:
2015 2014
£m £m
Current 1.5 0.4
Non-current 0.7 1.0
2.2 1.4
The automation provision largely relates to the early 
termination costs of exiting existing contracts as a result of 
the roll-out of a programme of large scale automation within 
the network.  
The closure costs are for UK Pallets and largely relate to 
redundancy payments and contractual cancellation charges.
Lease dilapidations represent the anticipated expenditure 
resulting from the Group’s contractual obligations to make 
good properties prior to reversion of the building to the 
landlord in respect of leases expiring within one year and up  
to 14 years. 
The timing of outflows is variable, and is dependent not 
only on property lease expiry dates, and opportunities to 
surrender leases, but repair programmes and the results  
of negotiation.
Restructuring relates to provisions arising following a change 
programme initiated in the financial year ended 31 March 
2012 and relates to onerous property lease costs, which are 
expected to be utilised within one year and up to two years. Financial Statements 113
23. Ordinary shares
Group and company
2015 2014
Authorised £m £m
70,000,000 (2014: 70,000,000) ordinary shares of 10p each 7.0 7.0
Issued, allotted and fully paid
 
2015 2014
Ordinary shares of 10p each Shares £m Shares £m
At 1 April 54,734,482 5.5 54,732,981 5.5
Allotted under share option schemes 6,136 - 1,501 -
At 31 March 54,740,618 5.5 57,734,482 5.5
Potential issues of ordinary shares
Certain directors, key managers and employees hold options to subscribe for shares in the Company at prices ranging from £nil to 
471.14p under share option schemes approved by shareholders between 2004 and 2009, as follows;
Year of 
grant
Exercise 
price
Exercise 
period
2015 
numbers
2014 
numbers
Scheme
Sharesave scheme 2010 - 2014 186.88p - 471.14p 01.09.15 to 01.03.18 444,404 412,187
LTIP 2012 - 2014 Nil 29.11.15 to 28.11.24 825,417 716,375
SMP 2013 - 2014 Nil 11.06.16 to 10.12.17 34,394 14,199
1,304,215 1,142,761
Employee Share Ownership Trust
The Company’s Employee Share Ownership Trust holds shares in the Company for subsequent transfer to employees under its 
incentive scheme awards. Shares held by the Trust are not voted at shareholder meetings and do not accrue dividends. All other 
shares carry voting rights and accrue dividends.
The ESOT did not allot any ordinary shares of 10p each in the year ended 31 March 2015.
During the year ended 31 March 2014 the ESOT allotted 80,503 ordinary shares of 10p each with an aggregate nominal value of 
£8,050 to satisfy exercises under the Group’s LTIP and SAYE plans at an average price of 549p per share, and repurchased 31,811 
ordinary shares of 10p each for a total consideration of £163,373, following elections by participants to dispose of their shares.
The trust held a total of 6,801 shares with a market value of £32,781 at 31 March 2015 (2014: 6,801 shares with a market value  
of £44,206).
Notes to the Financial Statements continued. Report & Accounts 2015 114
24. Share-based payments
The Group recognised a charge of £0.6m (2014: £0.9m) in 
respect of equity settled share-based payments during the 
year. There have been no cancellations or modifications  to 
any of the plans during the year. The main details of all the 
schemes which existed during the year are as follows:
Sharesave Plan (‘SAYE’)
The Company has offered a SAYE share plan since 1996 to 
eligible employees, including directors. The plan is an HMRC 
approved all-employee share plan. HMRC does not permit 
performance conditions to be attached to the exercise of 
options. Under the plan, participants are granted options over 
the Company’s shares. Each participant may save between £5 
and £500 per month to purchase shares in the Company at a 
discount of up to a maximum 20% of the market value at the 
time of the option grant.
Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’)
The Remuneration Committee first introduced an LTIP 
in 2004, as a more effective means of incentivising the 
Company’s senior management than the executive share 
option scheme. Under the LTIP the Remuneration Committee 
can grant options over shares in the Company to employees 
of the Company, with a contractual life of an option being 
between three and ten years. 
The performance conditions attaching to any future awards 
granted under the plan were amended at the Annual General 
Meeting of the Company held on 15 July 2009, such that 50% 
of an Award is subject to a performance condition based on 
the Company’s annual earnings per share (EPS) growth, and 
50% is determined by the TSR performance of the Company 
relative to all the other companies in the FTSE All Share Index 
(excluding Investment Trusts) at the start of the financial  
year in which an award is granted over a period of three 
financial years.
Additionally, in order to further align the interests of 
participants with those of shareholders, the rules of the plan 
were amended such that dividends accrue on the shares 
comprised within the award. To the extent that awards vest 
under the performance criteria, the proportionate value of 
the accrued dividends thereon will be satisfied as additional 
shares at the time of vesting.
During the year ended 31 March 2015, the required targets 
under live LTIP options were as follows;
EPS Target range 
(1)
TSR Target range
 (1)
Year of grant Threshold (25%) 
vesting
Max (100%) 
vesting
Threshold (25%) 
vesting
Max (100%) 
vesting
Outcome
2012 11.6% p.a. 18.1% p.a. Median Top quartile 26.6% will vest 
under the EPS 
condition
50.0% will vest 
under the TSR 
condition
2013 7.2% p.a. 15.5% p.a. Median Top quartile Live award
2014 8.0% p.a. 14.0% p.a. Median Top quartile Live award
(1) - Vesting is on a sliding scale between the minimum and maximum points
Awards made under the 2012 grant will vest in November 2015 at a 76.6% vesting level having met the threshold TSR condition in 
full (100% of the 50.0%), and the required EPS in part (53.1% of the 50%). Successful award holders will receive a further 21.0% in 
respect of their dividend equivalence entitlement.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued. Financial Statements 115
Share Matching Plan (‘SMP’)
In previous years, selected executives had been invited to 
invest a portion of their cash bonus in the acquisition of 
Company shares worth up to 25% of their pre-tax salary. 
However, as detailed in the Remuneration Policy Report,  
the Remuneration Committee no longer considers this as  
an appropriate means of incentivising senior management; 
with the last grant made on 10 June 2014.
Where such an investment was made, the executives will 
receive a grant of a matching award over shares in the 
Company with an equivalent value, which may be exercised 
between 36 and 42 months following the date of grant, 
subject to the achievement of certain EPS performance 
criteria. Further detail is provided in the Remuneration  
Report on page 58.
Calculation of fair values
For equity-settled share-based transactions, fair values of 
share options awarded in the financial year are measured at 
the date of grant of the option using a share pricing option 
model. Where the model is dependent on the Company’s 
TSR over a period, the Monte Carlo model is used; in all other 
circumstances the Black-Scholes model is used. Non-market 
conditions, such as the Company meeting earnings per 
share targets, are not incorporated into the calculation of 
fair value at the grant date but are reflected in the amount 
of compensation expense accrued over the vesting period. 
The expected life of options depends on the behaviour of 
option holders, which is incorporated into the option model 
consistent with historic observable data.
The fair values calculated are inherently subjective and 
uncertain due to the assumptions made and the limitations 
of the option-pricing model used. The significant assumptions 
used to estimate the fair value of the options granted in the 
financial year were as follows:
LTIP LTIP SMP SAYE
Grant date 10/06/2014 28/11/2014 10/06/2014 30/07/2014
Share price at grant date £6.25 £4.42 £6.25 £6.00
Exercise price - - - £4.7114
Number of employees 1 3 3 142
Number of shares granted 32,691 108,971 20,195 118,870
Vesting period (years) 3 3 3 3
Expected volatility 28.5% 29.3% N/a 27.9%
Option life (years) 3 3 3 3
Expected life (years) 3 3 3 3
Risk-free interest rate 1.14% 0.80% N/a 1.35%
Expected dividends expressed as dividend yield 0.00% 0.00% 3.41% 3.55%
Fair value per option £4.77 £2.77 £5.64 £1.38
Expected forfeiture (%) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% N/a
 
 
The risk-free rate was determined by reference to the rate obtainable on UK government securities (‘UK Gilts’) with maturities 
commensurate with the expected term remaining for each award. The expected volatility is estimated by considering the 
Company’s historic average share price volatility over similar periods to the expected life of the option under consideration. In 
addition, the expected dividend yield was based at the prevailing rates for the SAYE and SMP grants but is assumed as zero for the 
LTIP grant given the ‘dividend equivalence’ term. Report & Accounts 2015 116
Reconciliation of option movements
A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 March 2015 is shown below:
2015 2015 2014 2014
Number Weighted 
average 
exercise price
Number Weighted average  
exercise Price
Outstanding as at 1 April 1,142,761 £0.95 934,192 £0.74
Granted 280,727 £1.99 675,022 £0.89
Lapsed (113,137) £2.70 (389,470) £0.32
Exercised (6,136) £2.01 (76,983) £1.08
Outstanding as at 31 March 1,304,215 £1.02 1,142,761 £0.95
Exercisable at 31 March - - - -
Options are exercisable as follows:
2015 2014
Range of  
Exercise  
prices
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Number  
of shares
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
life 
expected 
years
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
life 
contracted 
years
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Number  
of shares
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
life 
expected 
years
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
life 
contracted 
years
£0.00 - £0.99 £0.00 859,811 1.4 8.0 £0.00 730,574 2.1 8.9
£1.00 - £1.99 £1.87 246,713 0.9 1.2 £1.87 270,401 1.9 2.1
£2.00 - £2.99 £2.75 7,973 0.8 1.0 £2.75 10,330 1.8 2.0
£3.00 - £3.99 - - - - - - - -
£4.00 - £4.99 £4.44 189,718 2.2 2.4 £4.19 131,456 2.7 2.9
25. Financial instruments
The Group’s overall objective when managing financial risk is 
to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order 
to provide returns for shareholders and benefits to other 
stakeholders. Risk management is carried out by a central 
treasury function under written policies approved by the 
Board. Under the supervision of the Group Finance Director, 
the Group Treasury function identifies and evaluates financial 
risks in close co-operation with the operating divisions.
The use of simple financial derivatives is considered in order 
to hedge specific financial risks where cost effective to do so. 
The Group does not enter into, or trade, financial instruments, 
including derivative financial instruments, for speculative 
purposes. At the year end the Group has not entered into any 
financial derivatives contracts: (2014: £nil).
Details of the Group’s and Company’s financial instruments and 
non-financial instruments are detailed in the following table:
Notes to the Financial Statements continued. Financial Statements 117
2015 Group 2014 Group
Financial 
instruments
Other Total Financial 
instruments
Other Total
Goodwill - 1.6 1.6 - 9.5 9.5
Intangible assets - 11.6 11.6 - 8.0 8.0
Investment properties - 1.7 1.7 - 1.8 1.8
Property plant and equipment - 85.4 85.4 - 50.1 50.1
Deferred tax assets - 0.7 0.7 - 0.7 0.7
Non-current assets - 101.0 101.0 - 70.1 70.1
Trade receivables (net of impairment) 56.4 - 56.4 57.2 - 57.2
Other debtors 5.5 - 5.5 2.1 - 2.1
Prepayments and accrued income - 14.3 14.3 - 13.1 13.1
Trade and other receivables 61.9 14.3 76.2 59.3 13.1 72.4
Inventories - 0.2 0.2 - 0.2 0.2
Cash and cash equivalents 4.6 - 4.6 27.4 - 27.4
Current assets 66.5 14.5 81.0 86.7 13.3 100.0
Total assets 66.5 115.5 182.0 86.7 83.4 170.1
Trade payables (58.7) - (58.7) (42.9) - (42.9)
Other payables (9.1) - (9.1) (7.1) - (7.1)
Amounts owed to franchises (1.6) - (1.6) (1.9) - (1.9)
Other taxes and social security 
payable
- (12.6) (12.6) - (13.2) (13.2)
Accruals (9.4) - (9.4) (15.1) - (15.1)
Deferred compensation - (9.6) (9.6) - (2.6) (2.6)
Deferred income - (0.1) (0.1) - (0.1) (0.1)
Trade and other payables (78.8) (22.3) (101.1) (67.0) (15.9) (82.9)
Borrowings (9.8) - (9.8) (0.4) - (0.4)
Current tax liabilities - (0.2) (0.2) - (2.7) (2.7)
Provisions (1.5) - (1.5) (0.4) - (0.4)
Current liabilities (90.1) (22.5) (112.6) (67.8) (18.6) (86.4)
Deferred tax liabilities - (2.6) (2.6) - (1.5) (1.5)
Provisions (0.7) - (0.7) (1.0) - (1.0)
Deferred compensation - - - - (8.9) (8.9)
Non-current liabilities (0.7) (2.6) (3.3) (1.0) (10.4) (11.4)
Total liabilities (90.8) (25.1) (115.9) (68.8) (29.0) (97.8)
Net assets (24.3) 90.4 66.1 17.9 54.4 72.3 Report & Accounts 2015 118
The Company’s overall objective when managing financial risk is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order 
to provide returns for shareholders and benefits to other stakeholders. Risk management is carried out by a central treasury 
function under written policies approved by the Board. Under the supervision of the Group Finance Director, the Group Treasury 
function identifies and evaluates financial risks in close co-operation with the operating divisions.
The use of simple financial derivatives is considered in order to hedge specific financial risks where cost effective to do so. The 
Company does not enter into, or trade, financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes. 
At the year end the Group has not entered into any financial derivatives contracts: (2014: £nil).
Details of the Company’s financial instruments and non-financial instruments are detailed in the table below:
2015 Company 2014 Company
Financial 
instruments
Other Total Financial 
instruments
Other Total
Investment in subsidiaries - 11.1 11.1 - 19.6 19.6
Non-current assets - 11.1 11.1 - 19.6 19.6
Amounts due from subsidiary 
undertakings
29.9 - 29.9 - -
Current tax assets - 0.1 0.1 - 0.1 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents - - - 22.2 - 22.2
Current assets 29.9 0.1 30.0 22.2 0.1 22.3
Total assets 29.9 11.2 41.1 22.2 19.7 41.9
Amounts owed to subsidiary 
undertakings
- - - (3.5) - (3.5)
Trade and other payables (3.5) - (3.5)
Borrowings (1.3) - (1.3) - - -
Current liabilities (1.3) - (1.3) (3.5) - (3.5)
NET ASSETS 28.6 11.2 39.8 18.7 19.7 38.4 Financial Statements 119
Classification of financial instruments
 
The tables below set out the Group’s IAS 39 classification for each of its financial assets and liabilities: 
Group Loans and 
receivables
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised cost
Total carrying 
value
At 31 March 2015 £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 4.6 - 4.6
Borrowings due within one year - (9.8) (9.8)
Other financial assets 61.9 - 61.9
Other financial liabilities - (81.0) (81.0)
 66.5 (90.8) (24.3)
Loans and 
receivables
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised cost
Total carrying 
value
At 31 March 2014 £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 27.4 - 27.4
Borrowings due within one year - (0.4) (0.4)
Other financial assets 59.3 - 59.3
Other financial liabilities - (68.4) (68.4)
 86.7 (68.8) 17.9
Company Loans and 
receivables
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised cost
Total carrying 
value
At 31 March 2015 £m £m £m
Borrowings due within one year - (1.3) (1.3)
Other financial assets 29.9 - 29.9
 29.9 (1.3) 28.6
Loans and 
receivables
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised cost
Total carrying 
value
At 31 March 2014 £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 22.2 - 22.2
Other financial liabilities (3.5) (3.5)
22.2 (3.5) 18.7
Other financial assets comprise trade receivables and other receivables which are receivable within and after more than one year. 
Other financial liabilities comprise trade payables, accruals and other financial liabilities which are payable within and after more 
than one year.
Interest payable on financial instruments carried at amortised cost (mainly comprising of bank overdraft and finance lease 
liabilities) is disclosed in note 4.          Report & Accounts 2015 120
Contractual cash flows         
The contractual profile of the financial liabilities at 31 March is set out below. The amounts disclosed are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows and therefore include interest cash flows (forecast using LIBOR interest rates as at 31 March in the case 
of floating rate financial assets and liabilities). The table also compares the book value and the fair value of the Group’s financial 
assets and liabilities. Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arm’s length transaction 
between informed and willing parties, other than a forced or liquidation sale and excludes accrued interest.  
 
Group Book 
value
Fair value Total 
contractual 
cash flows
Within 
one year
Between 
one and 
two years
Between 
two and 
five years
Over five 
years
At 31 March 2015 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial liabilities:
Trade payables (58.7) (58.7) (58.7) (58.7) - - -
Other payables (9.1) (9.1) (9.1) (9.1) - - -
Amounts owed to 
franchises
(1.6) (1.6) (1.6) (1.6) - - -
Accruals (9.4) (9.4) (9.4) (9.4) - - -
Provisions (2.2) (2.2) (2.2) (1.5) (0.2) (0.3) (0.2)
Borrowings (9.8) (9.8) (9.8) (9.8) - - -
(90.8) (90.8) (90.8) (90.1) (0.2) (0.3) (0.2)
Book 
value
Fair value Total 
contractual 
cash flows
Within 
one year
Between 
one and 
two years
Between 
two and 
five years
Over five 
years
At 31 March 2014 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial liabilities:
Finance leases (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) - - -
Trade payables (42.9) (42.9) (42.9) (42.9) - - -
Other payables (7.1) (7.1) (7.1) (7.1) - - -
Amounts owed to 
franchises
(1.9) (1.9) (1.9) (1.9) - - -
Accruals (15.1) (15.1) (15.1) (15.1) - - -
Provisions (1.4) (1.4) (1.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.2)
(68.8) (68.8) (68.8) (67.8) (0.4) (0.4) (0.2)
Notes to the Financial Statements continued. Financial Statements 121
Company Book 
value
Fair value Total 
contractual 
cash flows
Within 
one year
Between 
one and 
two years
Between 
two and 
five years
Over five 
years
At 31 March 2015 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial liabilities:
Borrowings (1.3) (1.3) (1.3) (1.3) - - -
(1.3) (1.3) (1.3) (1.3) - - -
Book 
value
Fair value Total 
contractual 
cash flows
Within 
one year
Between 
one and 
two years
Between 
two and 
five years
Over five 
years
At 31 March 2014 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial liabilities:
Amounts owed to 
subsidiary undertakings
(3.5) (3.5) (3.5) (3.5) - - -
(3.5) (3.5) (3.5) (3.5) - - -
All financial assets and liabilities stated at fair value in the table above have carrying amounts where the fair value component is a 
level two fair value measurement. Level two fair value measurements use inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for 
the relevant asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
The fair value of the RCF borrowings approximate to the book value since it carries a floating rate where payments are reset to 
market rates at intervals of less than one year. The fair value of finance leases is based by discounting the contracted cash flows at 
prevailing interest rates.  
All financial assets and liabilities are sterling denominated.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations. These risks arise principally from the credit exposure to trade receivables, as well as from cash and  
cash equivalents.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the book value of each financial asset as recorded in the balance sheet.
Cash and cash equivalents held by the Group include bank balances and short term deposits with a maturity of one week or less. 
The credit risk on these liquid funds is limited because in all cases the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings confirmed 
by international credit-rating agencies. 
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are 
limited due to the Group’s customer base being large and unrelated, with no one customer accounting for more than 12.1% of 
trade receivables. The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before 
sales commence and strict credit control of outstanding amounts. Trade credit insurance is employed to protect any significant 
exposure to bad debts.
Trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are expected to be fully recovered as there is no recent history of default 
or any indications that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations. At the year end there are no trade receivables (2014: 
none) whose terms have been renegotiated and would otherwise be past due or impaired.
Impaired receivables mainly relate to debtors in financial difficulty where defaults in payments have occurred, liability for payment 
is disputed, or debtors have entered into bankruptcy. Trade receivables are impaired when there is objective evidence that the 
Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms. However, the Group expects a portion of these 
receivables to be recovered.
The Group does not hold any material collateral as security and no assets have been acquired through the exercise of any 
collateral previously held.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued. Report & Accounts 2015 122
2015 2014
£m £m
Less than 30 days -
Between 30 - 60 days - -
Between 60 - 90 days 0.1 -
More than 90 days - 0.1
0.1 0.1
As at 31 March 2015, trade receivables of £7.3m (2014: £5.1m) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of 
independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default and there are no indications that they will not meet their 
payment obligations in respect of the trade receivables recognised in the balance sheet that are past due an unprovided. The 
ageing of these trade receivables is as follows:
2015 2014
£m £m
Less than 30 days 7.0 5.1
Between 30 - 60 days 0.2 -
Between 60 - 90 days 0.1 -
More than 90 days - -
7.3 5.1
At 31 March, the ageing analysis of the group’s trade receivables before provisions is as follows:
2015 2014
£m £m
Less than 30 days 56.1 57.1
Between 30 - 60 days 0.2 -
Between 60 - 90 days 0.1 -
More than 90 days - 0.1
56.4 57.2
The Group’s trade receivables are stated after allowances for bad and doubtful debts, an analysis of which is as follows:
2015 2014
£m £m
At 1 April 0.1 0.1
Amount released through administrative expenses - -
Utilised during the period - -
At 31 March 0.1 0.1
As at 31 March 2015, trade receivables of £0.1m (2014: £0.1m) were impaired. The amount of provision was £0.1m at 31 March 
2015 (2014: £0.1m). The ageing of these impaired trade receivables is as follows: Financial Statements 123
At 31 March 2015, there were £nil (2014: £nil) trade receivables impaired but not past due for payment. 
None (2014: none) of the other classes of financial assets within trade and other receivables contained impaired assets.  
      
Credit quality of cash at bank and short-term deposits
The credit quality of cash at bank and short-term deposits is as follows:
2015 2014
£m £m
Current rating (Moody's)
A2 4.6 1.0
A3 - 26.4
Total 4.6 27.4
Market risk
Overall, since the vast majority of the Group’s activities are provided to UK businesses, the fortunes of the Group  
are linked to the general health of the UK economy. The Group’s exposure is limited by being spread across a wide range of 
customers. No customer accounts for more than 6% of revenue.
Price risk
Royal Mail access costs represent a significant cost to the Group. Price risk is limited as Ofcom is mandated to maintain sufficient 
headroom between retail and access prices, such that competition is encouraged within the mail industry. Whilst fuel costs only 
constitute approximately 2.2% of total costs there is an element of price risk. Price risk is minimised as significant increases in  
the fuel price can be passed onto the majority of customers via a fuel surcharge mechanism common throughout the express 
delivery industry.
Interest rate risk
The interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing liabilities at 31 March 2015 was:
2015 2014
Book  
value total
Fixed rate 
financial 
assets/ 
(liabilities)
Floating rate 
financial 
assets/ 
liabilities
Book  
value total
Fixed rate 
financial 
assets/ 
(liabilities)
Floating rate 
financial 
assets/ 
liabilities
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 4.6 - 4.6 27.4 - 27.4
4.6 - 4.6 27.4 - 27.4
Financial liabilities
Finance leases - - - (0.4) (0.4) -
Revolving credit facility (9.8) - (9.8) - - -
(9.8) - (9.8) (0.4) (0.4) -
Group Treasury monitor cash and cash equivalent balances on a daily basis, placing surplus funds with approved financial 
institutions, generally overnight. Interest receivable is based on a rate linked to the base rate. The Group has additionally made a 
number of longer term deposits where the interest rate receivable has been agreed on inception, with the monies being able to 
be called back at immediate notice without penalty.      Report & Accounts 2015 124
Notes to the Financial Statements continued.
The interest rate payable on finance leases is fixed at the inception of any agreement. The interest rate payable on the revolving 
credit facility is 1.5% over LIBOR.
The Group has used a sensitivity analysis technique that measures the estimated change to profit before tax and equity of a 
1% (100 basis points) difference in interest rates from the rates applicable at the balance sheet date, with all other variables 
remaining constant, this being considered a reasonable possible change to interest rates, that could have affected the Group.
A change of 100 basis points in the average interest rate receivable and payable over the financial year would have increased or 
decreased profit before tax and equity for the year, as follows;
2015 2014
Profit  
before tax
Equity Profit  
before tax
Equity
£m £m £m £m
Increase of 100 bp in the average rate receivable/(payable) (0.1) (0.1) 0.2 0.1
Decrease of 100 bp in the average rate receivable/(payable) 0.1 0.1 (0.2) (0.1)
Liquidity risk  
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set 
out in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 15. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and treasury risk 
management approach are described in the Financial Review on pages 16 to 21, and its borrowing facilities detailed in note 27. 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Board reviews both 
the long and short-term financing requirements of the Group to ensure that there are sufficient available funds both for the day-
to-day operations of the Group and for planned capital investments. The Group has considerable financial resources together 
with long-term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and industries. As a 
consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current 
economic outlook. 
As at 31 March 2015, the Group had an undrawn overdraft facility of £10m (2014: £5m undrawn) in place until 30 June 2015 and 
£10m drawn down of the £25m available on the revolving credit facility in place until 31 May 2019.
Subsequent to year end the overdraft facility was increased to £20m until 30 September 2015, to fund the remaining National 
hub and automation program.
Capital risk
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to the parent company. 
The Group’s policy has been to maintain a strong capital base in order to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and 
to sustain future development of the business. The Board’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability 
to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain 
an optimal capital structure. This includes maintaining the level of dividends at a level commensurate with underlying operating 
profitability of the Group and obtaining sufficient short and medium-term debt facilities that are appropriate for the needs of  
the business.   
The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the level of debt (which for these purposes includes finance leases) and the 
advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return or 
issue share capital to shareholders, draw on borrowing facilities, or sell assets to reduce debt. 
An analysis of the Group’s net cash/(debt) position is given in note 29. Financial Statements 125
26. Operating lease commitments - minimum lease payments
At 31 March, the Group had total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
Group 2015 Group 2014
Land and 
buildings
Vehicles, 
plant and 
equipment
Land and 
buildings
Vehicles, 
plant and 
equipment
£m £m £m £m
Commitments under non-cancellable operating  
leases expiring:
Within one year 6.3 5.4 5.3 5.7
Between one and two years 4.6 5.0 4.1 3.5
Between two and five years 7.7 5.2 7.0 5.9
After five years 6.4 - 4.8 0.1
At 31 March 25.0 15.6 21.2 15.2
The Group leases various properties under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have various terms, 
escalation clauses and renewal rights. The Group also leases vehicles and office equipment under non-cancellable operating lease 
agreements. Leases are negotiated for an average term of four years during which time the rentals are fixed.
The Group sublets one of its properties (see note 12) under a non-cancellable operating lease agreement, due to expire 23 June 
2015. The total future sub-lease payments receivable relating to the above operating lease amounted to £0.1m (2014: £0.1m), all 
due within one year.
27. Contingent assets and liabilities
Contingent assets
In December 2013 the Group reached agreement with the 
Department of Transport (‘DfT’) to acquire the National hub and 
offices at Birmingham, as a result of the site being situated on 
land required for the proposed High Speed Two (‘HS2’) railway. 
Consequently the Group was required to relocate the 
Birmingham National hub and offices to a newly constructed 
facility at Ryton, near Coventry, the costs of which we 
anticipate to recover from the DfT and HS2 Ltd, subject to the 
requirements of the Compensation Code. 
As at 31 March 2015, the Group had incurred costs of £2.5m (as 
detailed in note 3), and acquired £4.7m of plant, property and 
equipment assets (as included in note 13) which are the subject 
of a claim. We also expect to incur further costs in the year 
commencing 1 April 2015 which will also be the subject of a claim.
As the compensation claim remains to be agreed, no 
recoverable asset has been recognised as at 31 March 2015.
Contingent liabilities
The Company has guaranteed bank and other borrowings  
of subsidiary undertakings in a cross-guarantee agreement 
on an undrawn Group borrowing facility amounting to £10m 
(2014: £12m).
The Group has a bank guarantee agreement with Lloyds Bank 
plc, under which the bank provides a facility which allows the 
Group to request that the bank issue guarantees to third party 
suppliers for general business purposes. The maximum total 
facility value is £11m (2014: £11m). At 31 March 2015, upon 
the request of the Group, the bank has issued a guarantee 
with a value of £8m (2014: £8m) to a third party supplier of a 
subsidiary company.
The Group has a documentary credit facility with Lloyds Bank 
plc. of £1.7m (2014: £1.7m), in respect of letters of credit 
opened with the bank.
The Group is subject to litigation from time to time as a result 
of its activities. The Group establishes provisions in connection 
with litigation where it has a present legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of past events, and where it is more 
likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to 
settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. 
Since these provisions, which are reflected in the Group’s 
consolidated financial statements, represent estimates, the 
final resolution of any such matters could have a material effect 
on the Group’s operating results and cash flows for a particular 
reporting period.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued. Report & Accounts 2015 126
28. Capital and other financial commitments
2015 2014
£m £m
Assets under the course of construction - 17.1
Property, plant and equipment 0.1 12.8
Total 0.1 29.9
 
29. Analysis of net cash/(debt)
Group
At 31 March At 31 March At 31 March
2013 Cash flow 2014 Cash flow Non-cash 
movement
2015
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 28.2 (0.8) 27.4 (22.8) -   4.6
28.2 (0.8) 27.4 (22.8) - 4.6
Revolving credit facility -    -    -   (10.0) - (10.0)
RCF arrangement fee -    -    -   0.3 (0.1) 0.2
Finance leases (1.2) 0.8 (0.4) 0.4 - -  
(1.2) 0.8 (0.4) (9.4) (0.1) (9.8)
Net cash/(debt) 27.0 -  27.0 (32.2) (0.1) (5.2)
Company
At 31 March At 31 March At 31 March
2013 Cash flow 2014 Cash flow Non-cash 
movement
2015
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 26.3 (4.1) 22.2 (23.5) - (1.3)
Net (debt)/cash 26.3 (4.1) 22.2 (23.5) - (1.3) Financial Statements 127
30. Related party transactions
The Group has identified the directors of the Company, parties related to the directors, its key management, its ESOT (see note 
23) and its subsidiaries (note 31) as related parties for the purpose of IAS 24 ‘Related party disclosures’.
Material transactions and year end balances with related parties were as follows:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Dividends paid by UK Mail Group plc and received in a beneficial capacity by:
- the directors of UK Mail Group plc 806 740 
- parties related to the directors of UK Mail Group plc 4,363 4,191 
- PDMR'S of UK Mail Group plc (other than above) 3 5 
Dividends received by the ultimate parent company from subsidiaries 22,001 11,005 
Amounts owed from/(to) subsidiaries 29,883 (3,465)
Interest free loan to ESOT (see note 23) 3,536 3,536 
 
P Kane, a director of the company, and members of his close family and certain family trusts the beneficiaries of which are 
persons connected with P Kane, control directly and indirectly 42.6% of the issues share capital of the company.
Key management compensation is disclosed in note 6.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued. Report & Accounts 2015 128
31. Subsidiary undertakings
Details of the Group’s principal subsidiary undertakings are given below:
Subsidiary Nature of Business Country of 
incorporation and 
principal country  
of operation
Description of  
shares held
Percentage of 
nominal value of 
issued shares held  
by the Group
UK Mail Limited Collection and  
delivery of parcels  
and mail
England Ordinary £1 shares 100%
 
The Company directly holds 100% of the voting rights of the above subsidiary.
The financial results of the subsidiary listed above are included within the consolidated financial statements.
The Company also directly holds investments in other subsidiaries which are not trading, and which do not require a statutory 
audit as follows:
Subsidiary Status as at 31 March 
2015
Country of 
incorporation 
Description of 
shares held
Percentage of 
nominal value of 
issued shares held 
by the Group
UK Pallets Ltd (ceased 
trading in March 2015)
Non-training England Ordinary £1 shares 100%
UK Mail Express Parcels and 
Mail Limited
Dormant England Ordinary £1 shares 100%
Business Post Limited Dormant England Ordinary £1 shares 100%
Business Post Group Limited Dormant England Ordinary £1 shares 100%
Business Mail Ltd Dormant England Ordinary £1 shares 100%
UK Today Couriers Ltd Dormant England Ordinary £1 shares 100%
Web-Despatch.com Ltd Dormant England Ordinary £1 shares 100%
Business Post Europe Ltd Dormant England Ordinary £1 shares 100%
 
There are no significant restrictions on the ability of subsidiary undertakings to transfer funds to the parent, other than those 
imposed by the Companies Act 2006. Financial Statements 129
32. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of  
estimation uncertainty
The Group’s accounting policies are set out in note 1 to these 
financial statements. Management is required to exercise 
significant judgement in the application of these policies. 
Areas which management believes require the most critical 
accounting judgements are as follows (apart from those 
policies involving estimation which are outlined in (b) below).
a) Critical accounting judgements in applying the  
Group’s accounting policies
Exceptional items
The Directors consider that items of income or expense which 
are material by virtue of their nature and amount should be 
disclosed separately if the financial statements are to fairly 
present the financial performance of the Group. The Directors 
label these items collectively as ‘exceptional items’.
Determining those transactions which are to be considered 
exceptional is often a subjective matter. However, 
circumstances that the Directors believe would give rise to 
exceptional items, requiring separate disclosure would include;
(i) loss or cessation of a material contract representing  
5% or more of the Group’s revenues;
(ii) disposal of non-current assets where the profit or loss 
represents 5% or more of the Group’s profit before tax;
(iii) disposal of investments;
(iv) organisational or restructuring programmes.
HS2 accounting
The directors have considered the contractual terms in 
determining the accounting treatment of the HS2 national 
hub acquisition and compensation contract. The key areas 
of judgement include an assessment of the quantum of 
recoverable costs expended on the project and the accounting 
disclosure thereof, specifically in relation to compensation 
payments, where management assumptions are necessary.
b) Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and  
are based on historical experience and other factors, 
including expectations of future events that are believed 
to be reasonable under the circumstances. Management 
makes estimates and assumptions about the future, which 
will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The 
estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk  
of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts  
of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are 
discussed below.
Goodwill impairment
Goodwill impairment is tested for at least annually, by 
calculating the estimated recoverable amount from each  
cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) on a value-in-use basis.  
In performing the test management needs to assess  
and consider;
(i) the likely sales and cost growth assumptions used by  
the CGU;
(ii) the sector specific short- and long-term growth rates,  
as well as that in the UK economy as a whole;
(iii) the pre-tax discount rate applicable to the Company.
The carrying value of goodwill and the key assumptions used  
in performing the annual impairment assessment are disclosed 
in note 10.
Recoverability of trade receivables
Trade receivables are stated in the balance sheet at 
their nominal value less any appropriate provision for 
irrecoverable amounts. In determining whether provision is 
required against any trade receivable, judgment is required 
in estimating the likely levels of recovery. In exercising this 
judgment, consideration is given to both the overall economic 
environment in which a debtor operates, as well as specific 
indicators that the recovery of the nominal balance may be  
in doubt, for example days’ sales outstanding in excess of 
agreed credit terms or other qualitative information such  
as historical trend. The Directors also consider debtor  
specific circumstances.
Taxation
The Group has, from time to time, deferred tax assets and/or 
deferred tax liabilities. Judgement is required in the assessment 
of the future recoverability of deferred tax assets, as to both 
quantum and timing, and the probability, timing and size of any 
deferred tax liabilities that may become payable. 
Provisions
The Group has provided for the estimated cost of making 
good properties on cessation of the lease. This requires the 
Directors to make an assessment of the potential cost of the 
work as at the reporting date. However, these costs will not 
be immediately incurred and on an on-going basis, the Group 
maintains its properties through a programme of repair and 
renewal which may result in changes required in the carrying 
value of these provisions.
The Group has previously provided for the estimated costs of 
re-organisation, which involved making significant estimates 
for employee termination costs, onerous lease and other 
exit costs, and to realisable values of assets made redundant 
or obsolete. Similarly, the Directors have provided for the 
anticipated contract and employee termination costs following 
the cessation of business at UK Pallets Ltd as detailed in note 
22. Should the actual amounts differ from these estimates 
future results could be materially impacted. Report & Accounts 2015 130
Five Year Summary of Results.
2015 2014 2013 2012 
1
2011
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 485.1 481.4 447.3 400.8 367.7
Cost of sales (428.3) (419.8) (395.5) (356.4) (323.1)
Gross profit 56.8 61.6 51.8 44.4 44.6
Administrative expenses (35.8) (39.8) (34.9) (33.5) (30.2)
Operating profit before exceptional items 21.0 21.8 16.9 10.9 14.4
Exceptional items (0.9) - 0.1 - (0.1)
Operating profit 20.1 21.8 17.0 10.9 14.3
Net finance costs - 0.1 0.0 (0.1) -
Profit before taxation 20.1 21.9 17.0 10.8 14.3
Taxation (4.2) (5.1) (4.1) (2.9) (4.0)
Profit for the financial year from  
continuing operations
15.9 16.8 12.9 7.9 10.3
Earnings per share from continuing  
operations - basic
29.0p 30.7p 23.5p 14.4p 18.9p
Dividends per share - interim paid  
and final proposed
21.8p 21.3p 18.8p 18.2p 18.2p
Balance sheet
Goodwill 1.6 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5
Non-current assets (excluding goodwill) 99.4 60.6 40.5 39.4 41.6
Current assets 81.0 100.0 95.2 85.3 79.3
Current liabilities (112.6) (86.4) (77.7) (68.9) (62.6)
Non-current liabilities (3.3) (11.4) (3.1) (4.4) (6.7)
Shareholders equity 66.1 72.3 64.4 60.9 61.1
Net (debt)/cash (5.2) 27.0 27.0 18.4 17.4
 
1 - Administrative expenses and taxation are stated inclusive of £2.2m exceptional cost and £0.6m exceptional credit respectively
The calculation of earnings per share for the five years ended 31 March 2015 is based on the following weighted numbers of  
shares in issue:          
31 March 2015 54,729,788
31 March 2014 54,705,627
31 March 2013 54,632,719
31 March 2012 54,586,755
31 March 2011 54,522,247 Financial Statements 131
Shareholder Information
Registrars and Transfer Office
Equiniti 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA
Tel: 0871 384 2799 or 0871 384 2255 text phone for 
shareholders with hearing difficulties.
The call centre provides information and assistance on register 
queries between 8:30am and 5:30pm, Monday to Friday 
excluding UK public holidays. Calls to this number are charged 
at 8p per minute plus network extras.
International callers: +44 (0) 121 415 7047 
www.shareview.co.uk
Financial calendar
8 July 2015   Annual General Meeting (commences 
12:00 noon)
25 July 2015  Ex-dividend date – final dividend
27 July 2015   Record date to be eligible for the  
final dividend
28 August 2015   Payment of the final dividend for the  
year ended 31 March 2015
November 2015*  Results for the half year to  
30 September 2015
January 2016*   Payment of interim dividend for the  
year ending 31 March 2016
*provisional dates
Sharegift
Sometimes shareholders have only a small holding of  
shares which may be uneconomical to sell. Shareholders who 
wish to donate these shares to charity can do so through 
ShareGift, an independent charity share donation scheme 
(registered charity no. 1052686). Further information about 
ShareGift may be obtained from ShareGift on 020 7930 3737 
or at www.sharegift.org.
 
Shareholder security
Shareholders are advised to be cautious about any unsolicited 
financial advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of 
free company reports. Further information can be found at 
www.moneyadviceservice.org.uk.
Independent Auditors   
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
The Atrium 
1 Harefield 
Uxbridge 
UB8 1EX
Stockbrokers and Financial Advisers 
Investec Investment Banking 
2 Gresham Street 
London 
EC2V 7QP
Registered office
Express House 
120 Buckingham Avenue 
Slough 
Berkshire 
SL1 4LZ
Tel: 01753 706 070 
Email: investor@ukmail.com 
www.ukmail.com
Company No: 02800218
Forward looking statements
The Annual Report contains certain statements about the 
future outlook for the Group. Although the Company believes 
that the expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, 
any statements about future outlook may be influenced by 
factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be 
materially different. UK Mail Limited 
Express House 
120 Buckingham Avenue 
Slough 
Berkshire 
SL1 4LZ
UKM
UKM2011/05.15
