 D
DEVELOPING FUTURE PRODUCTS 
FOR AIRWAYS DISEASES
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 A transformational year
OUR YEAR
   REVENUE CONTINUES TO GROW  
GROWING ROYAL TY STREAMS
  MAIDEN PROFIT AFTER TAX
    PORTFOLIO REVIEW COMPLETED 
AND ALIGNED TO STRA TEGY
   CONTINUED PROGRESS ON PARTNERED 
AND UNPARTNERED PROJECTS
  ACTIVAERO INTEGRATION COMPLETED
   INCREASED BUSINESS  
DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES
Vectura is making excellent progress in executing 
its business model on its journey towards becoming 
a specialty pharmaceutical company
  Read more on pages 02 and 03
Partnered product launches drive 
royalty revenue growth 
Prioritisation of R&D expenditure Established “partner of choice” in 
airways diseases product development
Focus on exploiting valuable niches 
in our therapeutic space
Increase in business development 
opportunities following the acquisition 
of Activaero FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
1  Earnings before investment income, finance (costs)/gains, tax, depreciation, amortisation, share-based compensation  
and adjusted for non-recurring expenditure items.
EBITDA
1 
progression
14/15  £16.2m
13/14  £5.2m
£16.2m
+212%
Maiden profit after tax
£3.7m
Revenue growth
14/15  £58m
13/14  £36.5m
£58m
+59%
Basic EPS
14/15  0.9p
(0.7p) 13/14
0.9p
Strategic report
01 Financial highlights
02 Operational highlights
04 Our business at a glance
06 Chairman’s statement
08 Chief Executive’s statement
10 Our markets and opportunities
14 Our business model
16 Our strategy
18 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
20 Risks and risk management
26 Our products
34 Our technology platforms, 
development capability and devices
36 Corporate social responsibility statement
40 Financial review
Governance
43 Introduction from the Chairman
44 Board of Directors
46 Executive management
47 Corporate governance report
53 Audit Committee report
57 Nomination Committee report
59 Remuneration Committee report
60 Remuneration report
78 Directors’ report
80 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Financial statements
81 Independent auditor’s report
86 Consolidated income statement
87 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
88 Balance sheet
89 Cash flow statement
90 Statement of changes in equity
91 Notes to the financial statements
115 Five-year summary
116 References
IBC Shareholder information
14/15  £3.7m
(£2.3m) 13/14
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 01
Strategic report
For more information visit: 
www.vectura.com Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 02
OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
  Read more on our business model 
on pages 14 and 15
Marketed products (see further detail on pages 26 to 29)
Strong partnerships and business model validation
Vectura has established development collaborations, joint 
ventures and licence agreements with several pharmaceutical 
and biotechnology companies. Recent Company progress 
has also attracted considerable increased interest in future 
business development opportunities.
   Ultibr o
®
 Breezhaler
®
 (indacaterol/glycopyrronium bromide, QVA149) 
achieved total net sales of $156m within our financial year (as reported 
by Novartis) generating increased royalty income for Vectura
•  The product has been launched in 21 countries (including 
Germany, Japan and Canada)
• The product has been approved for use in over 60 countries 
including countries within the EU, Japan, Latin America, Canada, 
Switzerland and Australia
   QVA149 US FDA filing acceptance triggered a milestone payment 
to Vectura of $12.5m
•  Novartis expects US Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) action 
by Q4 2015
•   Launch of QVA149 in the US is anticipated to generate additional 
royalty income for Vectura
   Seebri
®
 Breezhaler
®
 (glycopyrronium bromide, NVA237) achieved 
total net sales of $153m within our financial year (as reported by 
Novartis) generating increased royalty income for Vectura
•  The product is approved for use in over 80 countries including 
countries within the EU, Japan, Latin America, Canada, 
Switzerland and Australia
    NVA237 US FDA filing acceptance triggered a milestone payment 
to Vectura of $7.5m
•  Novartis expects US FDA action by Q4 2015
•   Launch of NVA237 in the US is anticipated to generate additional 
royalty income for Vectura
    AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
 (salmeterol/fluticasone) has been launched in 
12 European countries, and also in South Korea and Mexico. It has 
been approved in approximately 30 countries
•  Receipt of the Czech Republic and Portuguese marketing 
authorisation by Sandoz triggered milestone payments 
to Vectura of €1.5m each
Licence agreement
   US launch of Anoro
®
 Ellipta
®
 (umeclidinium/vilanterol) by GSK 
triggered a £2m milestone to Vectura
Other
Corporate Development
   Entered into a global development and licence agreement 
with Janssen Biotech, Inc. for the exclusive development of novel 
anti-inflammatory therapies for the treatment of asthma/COPD
  Enlarged technology platform now attracting significant deal interest
Post-period Event
   FDA approval of RAPLIXA™ triggered a milestone payment of 
approximately $3.5m from Vectura’s licensee, The Medicines Company
Partnered Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 03
Strategic report
  Read more on our strategy on 
pages 16 and 17
VR315
    Vectura received two additional milestones, each of $1.5m, 
as a result of further progress with VR315 in the US
VR506
    Licence agreement signed in the US with Vectura’s established 
US partner for VR315
•  Important step in the development of VR506 for the US market
•  Extends the successful collaboration with our US partner
VR475 EU (FAVOLIR
®
)
    A clinical study design has been agreed with the CHMP and clinical 
trial activities will start imminently, with filing anticipated in mid-2018
    Refocused to target the broader patient population shift from 
GINA step 5 OCS-dependent patients to GINA step 4 and 5 patients
   Phase IIb/III trial results published
VR475 US (FAVOLIR
®
) 
    Following the revised development strategy for FAVOLIR
®
 in the EU, 
a similar approach will be sought for the US once the European 
Phase III study completes. At that time the Company will seek 
endorsement of this approach with the FDA
•   Creates an affordable development programme that builds off the 
positive clinical momentum created in the EU from the conduct of 
the current study
•  Targets an increased market opportunity
    Approach is aligned with our strategic desire to optimise return 
on R&D investment over the near term
VR647 (SCIPE)
    Pre-IND meeting scheduled in June 2015 to agree the US 
regulatory strategy
    Objective is to retain current label/indication of budesonide, 
with a claim for reduced dosing time
    Continuing to evaluate incoming licensing requests to expedite 
value creation
VR611 (TRPV1 receptor modulator)
   Further development has been stopped
Other
Assets acquired following the purchase of Activaero GmbH 
are now integrated into development plans
   Important assets for ongoing partnered programmes
    Post period: the Gemünden site will be closed by March 2016 
and activities will be transferred to other sites
Final Chinese government approval of Kinnovata anticipated 
in FY 2015/16, upon which an exceptional non-cash gain will 
be recognised
    Currently in process of transferring all critical intellectual property 
and trade marks pertaining to the licensed technology to the new 
joint venture
    Building work has commenced on the new, purpose-built, 
manufacturing facility for the products that are currently 
in development
Clear strategic focus
Vectura’s portfolio has emerged from the Company’s product 
development, formulation and drug delivery expertise and 
is currently centred around developing inhaled products to 
address unmet needs in airways diseases.
We continue to focus on balancing the unmet needs of all 
stakeholders (patients, physicians, payors) with commercial 
attractiveness and exploiting valuable niches in our 
therapeutic space.
Pipeline (see further detail on pages 30 to 33) Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 04
OUR BUSINESS AT A GLANCE
ADDRESSING THE UNMET NEEDS 
OF PA TIENTS WITH AIRWAYS DISEASES
Vectura develops products in-house 
and in collaboration with partners
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
(Partnered and wholly owned)
Supported by Clinical and Regulatory teams,  
Quality and IP
and supports
DEVICE MANUFACTURING 
AND COMMERCIALISATION
(Dry Powder Inhalers (“DPIs”) and Smart Nebulisers)
Underpinning our product development focus through stages  
of pre-clinical and clinical development and ensure successful 
commercialisation in partner’s or contract manufacturing facilities
Vectura has deep expertise in
FORMULATION
Pharmaceutical development services 
(fee-for-service activities for partners)
as well as
DEVICE DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT
(Dry Powder Inhalers (“DPIs”) and Smart Nebulisers)
Making Vectura the partner of choice in airways diseases with 
a range of DPIs and smart nebuliser devices for inhaled delivery 
of drugs to the lungs
Operational activities to support the journey *  Haemophilia, dialysis and surgical adhesions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 05
Strategic report
Marketed and pipeline assets
Partnered:
Marketed
Asthma, COPD, non-respiratory*
Pipeline
 Asthma, COPD, pulmonary hypertension, cystic fibrosis,  
influenza, respiratory syncytial virus
Wholly owned:
Pipeline
 Asthma, severe inflammatory diseases
Our portfolio comprises partnered marketed products as well as branded 
and generic investigational drugs. Each category has specific benefits 
in terms of revenue and IP accretion. Our hybrid business model 
(whilst we transition into a specialty pharmaceutical company) allows us 
to pursue various routes to market including partnership, co-development 
and self-commercialisation.
  Read more on our products 
and pipeline on pages 26 to 33
Pre-metered foil blister DPIs
Focus for asthma/COPD programmes:
GyroHaler
®
, Lever-operated,
  
Open-Inhale-Close
 
Inhalation formulation technologies 
Expertise in small and large molecules/
biologics developments
Smart nebuliser-based inhalation
Systems for specialty applications:
AKITA JET
®
, AKITA
®
² APIXNEB
®
,
  
FOX™ (hand held)
Reservoir DPIs
Established technology used in Chinese JV:
Duohaler
®
,
 
Clickhaler
®
Proprietary technologies
An unparalleled breadth of delivery technologies underpins 
our product development focus
GyroHaler
®
  Read more on our technologies 
and devices on pages 34 and 35
FOX™ Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 06
 Delivering our maiden profit
Established platform to continue to deliver growth 
and value to shareholders
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Dear shareholder
I am delighted to introduce Vectura’s Annual Report for the financial 
year 2014/15. The Group has continued to build on the foundations 
put in place and has performed well against financial and non-financial 
KPIs. Importantly, this financial year has seen Vectura generate its 
maiden profit after tax as we move to a new phase for the Group 
based on sustainable growth and we are poised to generate 
significant cash flow per share.
Our business
During the year we completed a review of our portfolio, which has 
been prioritised and aligned to the strategy and which we believe 
will deliver maximum value capture in the period to 2021. Vectura’s 
journey to becoming a specialty pharmaceutical company was 
launched from a base of income generated from partnered products 
with a growing range of royalties contributing to an increased quality 
revenue mix; we have described this as our hybrid business model. 
This model builds on the partnering model we have pursued historically 
and foresees Vectura pursuing higher returns on investment, where 
possible, through co-development deals and self-commercialisation 
of focused, specialty pharmaceutical assets. The strategy aims 
to balance investment in growth opportunities with the delivery 
of higher returns. 
We have made significant progress during the year, completing the 
integration of Activaero GmbH which we acquired in March of last 
year. Following the acquisition, we have seen a significant increase 
in interest from third parties in our broader offering of pipeline 
products and inhalation technologies.
Governance
As a Board, we are committed to the principles of good corporate 
governance. Through our robust internal framework of systems 
and controls, we strive to maintain the highest standards.
Our strategy will create significant value 
for all stakeholders through developing 
and commercialising products with high 
unmet need.
Summary
THIS HAS BEEN A 
BREAKTHROUGH YEAR 
FOR VECTURA GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 07
Strategic report
Board
There were two important changes to the Executive Board during 
the year. In January, Andrew Oakley was appointed Chief Financial 
Officer and Company Secretary, replacing Paul Oliver. Andrew 
brings a wealth of experience to the Group. I would like to thank 
Paul for his eight years’ service with Vectura and I wish him well 
for the future. In February, after over twelve years of dedicated 
service to Vectura, Dr Chris Blackwell, Chief Executive, announced 
his intention to step down from this position. Chris will leave the 
Company at the end of June 2015.
On behalf of my Board colleagues, I would like to take this opportunity 
to thank Chris for the dedication he has given to the Group and for 
the value he has created for our shareholders, over many years. 
Chris leaves the Group in a very strong position, with an experienced 
senior management team in place. The Company has engaged an 
external search firm to assist it to evaluate both internal and external 
candidates and the comprehensive search is making good progress. 
The Company hopes to be in a position to bring this to a successful 
conclusion in the near future. In order to ensure continuity of leadership, 
Dr Trevor Phillips, currently the Group’s Chief Operations Officer, will 
assume the role of Interim CEO on 1 July 2015 in the event that a 
new CEO is not in place by this time.
On 1 April this calendar year, we announced we had strengthened 
the Board with the appointment of Dr Per-Olof Andersson as a 
Non-Executive Director. Per-Olof has an international R&D track 
record within the pharmaceuticals, bio-pharmaceuticals and specialty 
pharmaceutical industries and considerable experience in respiratory 
therapeutic development. Per-Olof is a welcome addition to the Board. 
We will continue to strengthen our Board and place great importance 
on governance procedures.
Our people
The Board and I would like to thank the employees of Vectura, 
whose efforts helped us achieve so much this year and whose 
support helped position Vectura as a partner of choice by companies 
seeking to address the unmet medical needs of patients with airways 
disease. We recognise the importance of investing in our people 
and in particular ensuring that they have the skills and experience 
necessary to execute our business model and implement the 
transition of the Group.
Shareholders
We continue to be grateful to our shareholders for their support 
as Vectura makes the exciting journey to becoming a profitable 
specialty pharmaceutical company. Our aim is to continue to 
deliver shareholder value.
Outlook
This year saw Vectura achieve record financial results, which is 
testament to the skills and experience of our people. The foundations 
are in place for the next stage of the journey and I believe that our 
strategy and business model will continue to result in growth 
of shareholder value.
Bruno Angelici
Chairman
19 May 2015
  Read more about our strategy on 
pages 16 and 17
  Read more about our CSR on 
pages 36 to 39
  Read more about our governance on 
pages 43 to 52 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 08
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS  
FOR FUTURE GROWTH
Delivering our strategy
This has been another year of significant progress for Vectura. 
Our revenue continues to grow, driven by increasing royalty 
income as our partnered products continue their global roll-out, 
and I am very proud that we have reported a maiden profit after 
tax for this year. Our business focus continues to optimise return 
on investment in our development pipeline. At our interim results 
in November 2014, we announced we had evaluated the strategic 
perspectives of our business through a thorough evaluation of our 
development portfolio, maintaining alignment with the evolution 
of our business model. This resulted in a prioritisation of our R&D 
expenditure, with an emphasis on attaining value inflection points 
within our strategic horizon to 2021. Vectura has become an 
established expert and ‘partner of choice’ in the development of 
products for airways diseases. This can be seen from the products 
that have already been brought to market by our partners and the 
development and partnership deals that we have announced over 
the last twelve months. Leveraging value from the Company’s 
technologies, via our own projects with partners, is critical for 
Vectura to deliver its strategic goal.
Our operational performance
At the start of the year, the US launch of Anoro
®
 Ellipta
®
 by GSK 
triggered a milestone payment to Vectura associated with our 
licence agreement. Two further milestone payments were received 
for VR315 US, illustrating the continued progress being made in the 
development of this asset, a major component of our high value 
respiratory generic portfolio in the US. Extending this successful 
collaboration, we announced a US licence agreement for our product 
VR506 with the same, undisclosed US partner. This is an important 
step for the development of VR506 and provides additional third-party 
validation of our expertise and know-how in the development 
of inhaled drug assets.
Last year also saw the publication of Phase IIb/III trial results for 
Vectura’s wholly owned, investigational drug/device combination 
VR475 EU. A further clinical trial will commence in the middle of 2015.
We had a successful start to this calendar year when, in January, 
Vectura signed a global development and licence agreement with 
Janssen, utilising Vectura’s formulation technology/device platform 
offerings in a deal that comprises upfront and development milestones 
and a tiered royalty on net sales. In addition, Novartis, announced it 
had completed US FDA submissions for QVA149 and NVA237, which 
were subsequently accepted, triggering significant milestones for 
Vectura. Novartis expects US FDA action in the fourth quarter of 2015.
We now have a strong platform 
to take Vectura to the next phase 
of its journey to become a specialty 
pharmaceutical company. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 09
Strategic report
Products, pipeline and R&D
Our pipeline review prioritised our portfolio and aligned our resources 
to ensure that our investment in R&D is measured, controlled, realises 
value near term and is supportive of our strategy.
Our near-term priorities are to:
• accelerate the overall value of our existing pipeline; and
• demonstrate value realisation in our pipeline within our strategic 
horizon to 2021.
The development focus of the Group will change over time towards 
value realisation from later-stage products and revenue-generating 
opportunities in the near term, exemplified by the Janssen deal.
Working in partnerships
Our aim, to develop long-term business alliances, continues 
with a new co-development partnership established with Janssen 
in January 2015. During the year, existing collaborations with partners 
including Sandoz and Novartis continued to develop and now show 
strong revenue streams. We are focused on cementing and developing 
all our key relationships by ensuring that management and governance 
of the partnerships is effective, long-term value is delivered and 
Vectura further develops its reputation as a partner of choice.
Organisational changes
As a result of the enlarged organisation and as we implement our 
corporate strategic and operational plans, the Company announced 
some significant management changes in January. Andrew Oakley 
joined Vectura as Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary 
and Executive Board Director and we also welcomed Joanne Hombal, 
who joined as Director of Human Resources and a member of the 
Executive Management Team.
Post-period, in April, we announced that we would be transferring 
all activities from our Gemünden site to the remaining three 
Vectura facilities. The Gemünden site will be closed by March 2016. 
The acquisition of Activaero GmbH provided Vectura with people and 
technologies that will help shape the future of Vectura. To that end, 
I would like to express our sincere gratitude to Gerhard Scheuch, 
who will leave Vectura on 31 July 2015, leaving behind a positive 
legacy upon which the Company can build.
Our people
I am very proud of the quality and dedication of our people. 
I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to 
all employees of the Group, past and present, for their commitment 
and hard work. In February this year, I announced that, after more 
than twelve years at Vectura, eleven of those as Chief Executive, 
I would step down to take on new challenges, confident in the 
legacy and team that takes Vectura to new heights. I am intensely 
proud of what has been achieved over the past twelve years and 
would like to thank all our stakeholders for their support.
Outlook
After another year of significant progress, we are in a strong 
position to continue to implement our business model and strategy. 
We are confident that this strategy will enable us to continue to 
build on the existing platform and ultimately deliver a successful 
specialty pharmaceutical business.
Dr Chris Blackwell
Chief Executive
19 May 2015 *  To view the original source for all footnotes, 
please refer to page 116.
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 10
OUR MARKETS AND OPPORTUNITIES
EXCITING PROSPECTS  
IN A GROWING MARKET
Our markets
Our current addressable market falls into six  
main indications in airways-related diseases
Market need
Asthma is a heterogeneous, chronic inflammatory airways disease 
that is characterised by variable respiratory symptoms, recurrent 
episodes of reversible expiratory airflow limitation and episodic 
acute exacerbations of symptoms. In recent years it has become 
clear that asthma can be the result of a range of inflammatory 
changes which can be addressed by different therapeutic interventions. 
An unmet need remains, particularly in the treatment of severe 
or ‘difficult-to-control asthma’.
Market opportunity
Vectura works, alone and in partnerships, on anti-inflammatory 
programmes across the spectrum of asthma encompassing generic 
single therapy (VR506), combination therapy (AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
, 
VR315US, VR632), severe asthma (VR475, VR588) and paediatric 
asthma (VR647) utilising its proprietary formulation and device 
inhalation technology to develop new and cutting-edge solutions 
to meet the need for effective, patient-focused control of asthma.
Asthma
1
• It is suffered by approximately 250 million subjects worldwide
 
and its incidence is growing
1
• WHO forecasts a further 100 million suffers by 2025
1
Market need
COPD is a progressive, poorly reversible obstructive airways disease of 
airflow limitation typically caused by toxic particle inhalation. Smoking is 
the major cause, but biomass smoke and industrial noxious particulates 
or gases also cause the condition by triggering a chronic inflammatory 
response in the airways and the lungs. Symptoms are dyspnoea 
(shortness of breath), cough, mucus production and exercise limitation. 
Patients often experience infection-driven exacerbations of symptoms 
which speed up decline of lung function
2
.
Market opportunity
There is no cure for COPD so treatment is centred on control 
of symptoms via the use of bronchodilator and anti-inflammatory 
agents. Vectura has been at the forefront of the latest generation 
of bronchodilator development via its collaboration with Novartis in 
the development of NVA237 now approved as Seebri
®
 Breezhaler
®
 
and QVA149 approved as Ultibro
®
 Breezhaler
®
.
Chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD)
2
• COPD is currently the fourth biggest killer worldwide
3
• WHO estimates that currently 64 million people have COPD 
and that COPD will become the third leading cause of death 
worldwide by 2030
3
• Chronic lower respiratory disease, primarily COPD, was the third 
leading cause of death in the United States in 2011
4
Statistics
Generic Partnered Partnered 
Branded Wholly owned
Product pipeline status Product pipeline status
Branded Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 11
Strategic report
Market need
Infection with the influenza virus is a well-recognised phenomenon 
because of its annual occurrence around the world. It represents a 
major target of anti-infective strategy (both vaccination and treatment) 
in many countries
5
. The young, old and sick are at most risk from 
influenza and are the target of therapeutic approaches available 
(vaccination and anti-viral treatment), all of which have their 
limitations to efficacy
6,7
.
Market opportunity
Vectura’s VR736 programme is investigating the role of an approved 
drug with novel anti-viral effects when delivered as a nebulised 
formulation using proprietary Vectura delivery technology in patients 
with severe influenza infections that have resulted in hospitalisation. 
An ongoing Phase II clinical trial is due to report out during 2015.
Influenza
3
• approximately 3–5 million cases worldwide of severe 
illness per annum
5
• approximately 250,000–500,000 deaths per annum
5
Market need
Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic, life-limiting disorder affecting a number  
of organ systems but with significant effects in the lungs. The genetic 
mutation affects a protein whose role is key in the production of mucus, 
sweat and digestive enzyme fluids, and results in those fluids becoming 
thick. In the lungs this results in accumulation of mucus and long-term 
issues include difficulty in breathing and coughing up sputum resulting 
from frequent lung infections. There remains no cure for CF, with all 
approved therapy directed at symptom reduction, e.g. physiotherapy, 
antibiotics and mucus thinning agents. Lung transplantation is an option 
in some circumstances.
Market opportunity
Vectura is engaged in partnership with the Spanish company 
Grifols in exploring the use of alpha-1 anti-trypsin for the treatment 
of CF (VR179).
Cystic fibrosis (CF)
4
•  Life expectancy is now between 35 and 50 where optimised 
treatment is available
8
•  In Europe and the USA the incidence of CF is in the order 
of 1 in 2,000–3,500 newborns
8
Partnered Partnered 
Product pipeline status Product pipeline status
Branded Branded Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 12
OUR MARKETS AND OPPORTUNITIES continued
Population growth and rising wealth, 
particularly in developing economies, 
continue to expand the global market 
for pharmaceuticals.
Our markets continued
Statistics
Market need
PAH is the occurrence of raised pressure in the pulmonary artery 
caused by pathological changes that result in narrowing and 
thickening of the arterial wall and consequent impairment of 
blood flow through the lungs. Over time this leads to lowered 
body oxygen levels and cardiac failure.
Market opportunity
Current therapy options rely chiefly on a range of vasodilatory drugs, 
none of which are able to reverse progression. A small number of 
patients are suitable for lung transplantation. But there remains a 
large unmet need in the treatment of PAH.
Vectura’s collaboration in this area (VR876) seeks to improve on the 
delivery of a known, effective treatment by increasing the local delivery 
to the pulmonary vasculature using Vectura’s FOX™ technology.
Pulmonary arterial 
hypertension (PAH)
6
• 15–50 patients/million population
10
• Five-year survival rates of 50–60%
11
Market need
RSV is a major cause of respiratory tract infections in infants. 
The virus is active globally. There remains a high unmet need 
for a more effective and conveniently delivered treatment.
Market opportunity
This need is the basis of the collaboration with Ablynx NV (VR465), 
in which Vectura is providing advanced nebulisation technology 
aimed at inhaled delivery of a novel treatment for RSV to infants.
Human respiratory 
syncytial virus (RSV)
5
• 60% of US children are infected during their first winter season
9
• Nearly all children infected by the age of two
9
• Of those infected, 25–40% will develop signs of airway 
inflammation (bronchiolitis) and lung infection (pneumonia) 
with around 1–2% needing to be hospitalised
9
Product pipeline status Product pipeline status
*  To view the original source for all footnotes, 
please refer to page 116.
Partnered
Branded
Partnered 
Branded
Read more about our pipeline and each  
product phase in more detail on pages 30 to 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 13
Strategic report
Growth drivers
Population growth, increasing longevity and rising wealth, 
particularly in developing economies, continue to expand the 
global market for pharmaceuticals. In addition there are a number 
of specific factors affecting the market, in particular downward 
pressure on healthcare costs, regulatory challenges, legally controlled 
pricing, the cost of developing and protecting intellectual property 
and intensifying competition from generic products.
Expanding patient populations
The world population is expected to rise from its current level of some 
7bn, to reach 9.6bn by 2050
12
. In addition, the number of people 
who can access healthcare continues to increase, particularly 
among the elderly. Globally, it is estimated that between 2000 and 
2050 the number of people aged 60 years and over will increase 
from 605m to over 2bn
13
.
Unmet medical need
In most established markets, ageing populations and certain 
lifestyle choices such as smoking, poor diet and lack of exercise 
are increasing the incidence of non-communicable diseases, such 
as airways-related diseases, which require long-term management.
Advances in science and technology innovation are critical if we 
are to address unmet medical need. Existing drugs will continue 
to be important in meeting the growing demand for healthcare, 
particularly with the increasing use of generic medication. The use 
of large molecules, or biologics, has also become an important 
source of innovation, with biologics among the most commercially 
successful new products.
The respiratory market is dominated by a small number 
of companies. Inhalation products are complex dosage forms, 
which are challenging to develop within a strict global regulatory 
environment. Volume growth is expected to continue as demand 
in the developing world expands.
Vectura is one of only a few independent product development 
companies able to meet the challenges of the market for inhaled 
therapies to treat airways diseases. The Group has proven technologies 
and expertise in the development of inhalation products incorporating 
dry powder inhalers (both branded and generic) and smart inhalation 
systems utilising nebulisation.
Our position
The Group’s specialism and expertise in inhaled product development 
puts us in a good position to meet the regulatory requirements for 
successfully bringing to market branded and generic inhalation drugs. 
To optimise benefit to patients and maximise value from global 
opportunities, we are focusing on both the branded and generic 
respiratory product markets. Vectura has proprietary technology 
for a range of inhalation devices covering approximately 57% 
of the inhaled market in the G8 (US, Japan and EU5)
9
.
Dry powder inhalation (“DPI”) products for asthma and COPD 
generated sales in excess of $10bn
14
 a year in 2013 in the G8 
and is growing. Recent trends show increasing use of DPIs with the 
majority of the new products approved in the US since 2013 being 
DPI based. In total, 10 new inhaled asthma, COPD and cystic fibrosis 
products have been approved during this period – 6 DPIs, 3 pMDIs 
“pressurised metered dose inhaler”, and 1 nebulised.
The Group’s specialism and expertise in inhaled product 
development puts us in a good position to meet the regulatory 
requirements for successfully bringing to market branded and 
generic inhalation drugs. There are relatively few competitors 
working on complex, inhaled generic products, and new market 
opportunities are emerging that provide potential for growth.
*  To view the original source for all footnotes,  
please refer to page 116. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 14
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
OPTIMISING AND ACCELERATING 
RETURN ON INVESTMENT
LEVERAGING OUR STRENGTHS
TO MAXIMISE PIPELINE POTENTIAL
Vectura has become an established expert and partner of choice in 
airways diseases product development. We are evolving our business 
model to leverage that reputation for maximum value.
Innovative technologies 
– formulation, device 
design and 
development and smart 
inhalation systems
Extensive market 
knowledge enabling 
us to take advantage 
of viable opportunities 
through technology, 
products and people 
Developing assets with 
focused investment 
using an established 
project management 
framework
Highly developed 
in-house expertise from 
a talented, experienced 
and committed team  
of individuals
Partnering
Acquisition of knowledge
Transfer of skills
Intellectual companionship
Larger network
Validation of technology 
and expertise
Self-commercialisation
Capturing value
Control over 
commercialisation process
Co-promotion in marketing 
and distribution could be 
the first step
Choice of routes to market
REALISING VALUE FOR
Patients Partners Shareholders Our people
Co-development and co-promotion enable access to innovate  
and commercialise knowledge
A specialty pharmaceutical company focused on the development and 
commercialisation of innovative pharmaceutical products to address the  
unmet need within airways-related diseases
IN ORDER TO BECOME
REVENUE IMPACT
Co-development
Interaction with partners
Rapid transfer of skillsets
Increased collaboration Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 15
Strategic report
From an out-licensing strategy…
The Company is undergoing a transition from a pure out-licensing 
strategy where we provided formulation and/or device (DPI and 
nebuliser) in return for milestones and royalties upon sales. This 
model has been validated by a wide range of successful licensing 
agreements with a broad spectrum of companies, from small 
biotechnology firms to multinational pharmaceutical companies.
…to a hybrid business model
The next step is to implement a hybrid business model that builds 
upon the success of our licensing/royalty model but also offers 
additional business options including co-development, where 
Vectura commits additional resources in return for higher rewards, 
ultimately seeking self-commercialisation capability in niche therapeutic 
areas where a small focused sales force would be applicable.
How it works
The execution of this hybrid model allows for optimising value 
realisation across the spectrum of airways-related diseases, 
partnering with large pharmaceutical companies for large 
indications such as asthma and COPD, whilst exploring 
increased economic returns in more niche areas.
How we generate revenue
How we get there
The sustainable development of our business model is based on 
balancing unmet need with commercial attractiveness and financial 
discipline. In practice, this also means we will selectively develop 
portfolio assets to maximise our return on investment by continually 
evaluating the balance between developing assets in-house and 
licensing to a partner at an appropriate stage.
2014
£58.0m
2015
Royalties
Novartis
Product licensing
GSK
Technology licensing
Baxter
Device sales
Other
The diversified and rapidly growing revenue base from the 
commercialisation of our partnered products underpins the 
cash flow to develop our pipeline and maintain investment 
in technology.
£36.5m
Royalty break down £25.2m
£0.9m
£1.7m
Development services
£13.3m
£16.3m
£6.6m
£2.5m
£19.8m
£25.2m
£0.5m
£3.9m
£4.3m
£8.7m
£3.8m
£12.2m Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 16
OUR STRATEGY
OUR STRATEGIC  
PLAN OF ACTION
Creating the  
value cycle
Leveraging our 
technology base
Priorities
• Technologies underpin our product-to-pipeline focus 
•  Creation and protection of our underlying intellectual 
property assets 
•  Continue to leverage investment in our technology 
and device platforms, intellectual property and 
general know-how
•  Continue to provide low risk revenue generation 
within a structure that allows for the generation 
of future royalty streams
•  Maintain our technology leadership within inhaled 
medicine through appropriate investment in people 
and processes and robust defence of IP
•  Maintain a substantial portfolio of more than 100 
patent families, many of which comprise granted 
European and US patents
Future outlook
•  Develop more innovative products that address the 
needs of patients, physicians and payors
•  Our returns will arise from collaborations with other 
parties, where we earn milestone payments and 
royalties from development and commercialisation 
•  We seek to add collaboration agreements with 
new and existing partners through our DPI and 
smart inhalation technologies
Priorities
•  Transform the business into a significant, profitable 
and self-sustaining specialty pharmaceutical company
•  Expand development portfolio
•  Mitigate specific product development and market risk
•  Appropriate deal making through in-licensing, 
co-development and acquisition
• Deliver superior returns for shareholders
•  Our technologies underpin our products and pipeline 
focus. The cash flow from the commercialisation of 
our products will be invested in a balanced way to 
develop our pipeline and maintain our technology 
leadership, thereby creating the Vectura value cycle
Future outlook
•  Continue to grow our revenue streams and manage 
our portfolio risk
•  Prioritise investment into our pipeline assets 
and make appropriate commercialisation choices
•  Recognise that such a strategy requires 
careful investment, and that we cannot take on 
every opportunity open to us. We must continue to 
expand our revenue streams and manage our portfolio 
risk, prioritise investment into our pipeline assets 
and make appropriate commercialisation choices
•  Aim to maintain our technology leadership within 
inhaled medicine through appropriate investment 
in people and processes and robust defence of IP
KPI
Revenue growth
2 1
KPI
Revenue growth + Innovation performance measure Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 17
Strategic report
Progressing  
our pipeline
Making appropriate 
commercialisation choices
3 4
Priorities
•  Continue with existing partnering model to access 
those markets, such as COPD and asthma, that 
require large general sales forces
•  Endeavour to maximise the economic return 
to shareholders, which will involve sharing an 
increased level of risk in certain indications
•  Seek increased economics in the co-development 
portion of our business model which also has the 
important effect of increasing the knowledge base 
of our own staff
Future outlook
•  Consider co-promotion or self-commercialisation 
of certain assets to harness economic returns 
•  Commercialisation options will be restricted to 
therapeutic indications which can be addressed 
by a small, cost-effective and focused sales and 
marketing infrastructure
•  The Group will continue to evaluate the commercial 
landscape to identify assets and companies that have 
appropriate infrastructure, as well as meeting key 
financial criteria such as being revenue enhancing 
and accretive on a cash earnings basis
Priorities
•  Build a profitable cash-generative business through 
a specialist therapeutic focus and progress our 
development portfolio within airways diseases
•  Broaden and deepen our development pipeline 
covering a wide range of indications within 
the category of airways-related diseases
Future outlook
•  We have set out our intended development pathway 
for VR475 in Europe and clinical trial activities have 
started. Our anticipated filing date for VR475 
remains 2018
•   We intend to continue to develop our pipeline 
within tight parameters to maintain our record 
of capital discipline
•  It is our intention to continue to prioritise our 
development pipeline and to drive the R&D 
to its earliest value inflection point
  Read more about our KPIs on 
pages 18 and 19
  Read more on our risks on  
pages 20 to 25
KPI
Pipeline progression performance measure
KPI
Revenue growth + Innovation performance measure Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 18
Vectura’s Board and management rigorously monitor the progress of our business, maintaining 
strict financial discipline, to facilitate achieving our key strategic objective of becoming a 
profitable, self-sustaining and cash-generative business.
We measure performance against our strategy based upon a range of financial and non-financial 
KPIs. The key financial indicators we monitor are revenue growth, EBITDA progression and free 
cash flow. These have been selected to demonstrate our progress towards executing our key 
strategic objective, reflecting our history of acquisitions and our investment plans. Vectura’s 
bonus scheme uses similar metrics to assess financial performance against targets; refer to 
page 70 for more information.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIs)
MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE 
AGAINST STRATEGY
Financial KPIs
EBITDA
EBITDA is a measure of Vectura’s underlying operating performance. 
As shown on the face of the consolidated income statement, EBITDA 
is calculated by adjusting Vectura’s operational result for non-cash 
and non-recurring items. A positive EBITDA shows Vectura’s ability 
to generate returns on investment over time. EBITDA has increased 
to £16.2m (2013/14: £5.2m) and this reflects a £21.5m increase in 
revenue, offset by continued and measured investment in research 
and development activities.
(£3.4m)
£16.2m
£5.2m
(£4.2m)
2014/15 
2013/14
2012/13 
2011/12
Free cash flow
Careful management of cash resources is vital to ensure that Vectura 
is able to develop and augment its pipeline assets. Free cash flow (FCF) 
is a measure of the cash investment required to support Vectura’s 
operations and it is defined as the net cash flow from operations, less 
net capital expenditure. Free cash flow increased to £6.6m during the 
year, despite the large negative working capital movement which is 
due to the timing of milestone receipts being received by the Group.
(£6.6m)
£6.6m
(£3.0m)
2014/15 
2013/14
2012/13 
2011/12 (£2.1m)
Revenue growth
Revenue increased by 59% to £58.0m, mainly driven by increased 
royalties from recently marketed products and significant milestone 
achievements. Revenue generated by royalties has increased significantly 
over the last two years, and this trend is expected to continue in future 
years. Growing and sustainable royalty revenues will provide stability 
and cash-resources to fund future growth and investment.
2011/12 41% 44% £33.0m
7% 8%
2012/13 43% 54% £30.5m
1% 2%
2013/14 
2%
£36.5m
5%
45% 48%
Royalties Milestones Development services Device sales
2014/15 
4%
£58.0m
7%
43% 46% Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 19
Strategic report
Innovation performance measure
Innovation is the foundation of our business and the Company 
continues to invest in its people and its technologies. This investment 
is important to enable us to deliver our strategy and maintain our 
position as a key enabler of inhaled product delivery within the field 
of airways-related diseases.
Alliance performance measures
Our hybrid business model allows for appropriate deal structures 
for business opportunities based on a rigorous assessment of the 
associated risk, expenditure, and time to value realisation. This allows 
for an appropriate balance of risk and reward and is a key element 
of our strategy and also provides operational focus.
Non-financial KPIs
2014/15 2013/14 2012/13
Total patent families 107 100 107
• Number of patents filed/registered
2014/15 2013/14 2012/13
Project milestones completed 9 13 4
Clinical studies completed 1 2 1
• Number of project milestones completed
• Number of clinical studies completed to stated time
2014/15 2013/14 2012/13
Number of successful 
feasibility outcomes 6 3 1
Number of alliances established 2 2 0
• Number of successful feasibility outcomes
• Number of alliances established
Pipeline progression performance measures
Successful product development is key to creating long-term value. 
Our development pipeline encompasses a broad range of assets 
across various stages of development and includes partnered as 
well as wholly owned assets. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 20
IDENTIFYING AND 
UNDERSTANDING KEY  
RISKS TO THE BUSINESS
RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Our ability to meet our goals and objectives may be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties 
relating to our strategy , business model and operating environment. Our approach to risk management 
is to develop and implement a risk management process which will ensure that significant risks are 
identified, assessed, managed and reported to relevant stakeholders in a concise and timely manner 
to inform and support decision making. 
 Objectives of the Vectura risk management process:
• to identify and understand the risks that Vectura faces 
in the execution of its strategy and the operation of its 
business model;
•  to ensure that the risk appetite of the Board is embedded 
throughout the organisation and fully understood by those 
who are responsible for managing risk and making key 
decisions across the business;
•  to assess the potential impact of identified risks and to create 
and maintain a register of these risks, documenting the decisions 
taken and the judgements made; 
•  to ensure that appropriate mitigating actions and controls are 
in place for all identified risks and that the residual risk is aligned 
to the risk appetite of the Board; 
•  to control systematic risks within the organisation by maintaining 
and improving a system of internal controls to manage risks 
in decision making, legal contract management, quality 
and regulatory processes and the processing of financial 
transactions; and
•  to ensure that identified risks are reported to relevant stakeholders 
in a timely manner to facilitate effective decision making.
Strategy
1
Risk 
identification
Reporting
2 6
Risk 
assessment
3
Risk 
mitigation
4
Executing and 
monitoring
5 Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 21
Strategic report
Vectura’s Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk management process on behalf of the Board. In reviewing the 
effectiveness of the process, the Audit Committee recognises that such 
a process is designed to understand and mitigate, rather than eliminate, 
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 
  Read more on our principal risks 
and uncertainties over the page
Setting the tone Designing the system Completing the review
The Board
Accountable for ensuring that a sound 
system of risk management and 
internal control is in place
Responsible for conducting an annual 
effectiveness review of the Group’s 
risk management and internal control 
systems. This review covers all 
material controls, including financial, 
operational and compliance controls. 
The scope of this review extends to a 
review of the Group’s principal risks
Responsible for reporting to 
shareholders about the Group’s 
risk management
Executive Management Team
Responsible for ensuring that the risk 
management and internal control 
systems are appropriately designed 
and implemented
Responsible for ensuring that the risk 
appetite of the Board is appropriately 
understood by risk owners and key 
decision makers
Responsible for reviewing the 
business-wide and project 
risk registers 
Responsible for conducting an annual 
assessment of strategic risks for 
discussion at Board level
Heads of departments 
and projects
Responsible for updating department 
and project risk registers and 
reporting significant risks to the 
Executive Management Team
Responsible for implementing 
and monitoring any mitigating actions 
and controls
Responsible for training and educating 
department and project team 
members about Vectura’s risk 
management process
Review of process and outputs Review of high risks Risk registers Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 22
RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued
1. Implementation of strategy
In order to become a specialty pharmaceutical company, Vectura 
needs to transition to a hybrid business model focused on driving 
R&D to its earliest inflection point for value realisation whilst actively 
evaluating the landscape for attractive M&A opportunities. 
Delivering this strategy requires significant decisions to be made, 
including decisions on M&A activity, investment capex and balance 
of product development versus partnerships.
Failure to make these strategic decisions in a timely manner may 
mean that strategic or commercial opportunities are missed or 
are not maximised. Perceived exposure to this risk may increase 
as a result of recent changes within the management team.
Mitigating activities
Vectura’s strategy has been endorsed by the Board and 
communicated to shareholders through the Annual Report, 
corporate website and through management presentations 
at investor conferences. 
2.  Identification and execution of merger  
and acquisition activity and integration  
of acquired businesses and assets
Vectura is at a pivotal point in its maturity and strategic direction, 
and in order to deliver our Board-approved strategy of becoming 
a specialty pharmaceutical company we must undertake further 
M&A activity. Realising anticipated benefits from such acquisitions 
depends upon how well we identify M&A targets, how well 
we conduct due diligence and how well we integrate acquired 
businesses and assets into our business operations.
A shortage of skills, experience and transactional capability 
in certain aspects of M&A due diligence and post-acquisition 
integration could result in the sub-optimal management 
of acquisitions, eroding enterprise value and delaying 
our transition to a specialty pharmaceutical company.
Mitigating activities
We have established processes in place to manage acquisitions 
and the associated due diligence prior to acquisition. Our internal 
due diligence teams are supported by external subject matter 
experts to ensure that the wider due diligence team has the 
appropriate breadth and depth of knowledge and experience.
Structured post-acquisition integration plans are established 
to ensure that integration is executed successfully.
3.  Recruitment and retention of key employees
Vectura operates in a specialised industry and in order 
to deliver against our strategic objectives we require highly 
skilled and experienced employees. Challenges in attracting, 
retaining and motivating such employees may impact our ability 
to maintain performance levels and to deliver against our strategic 
growth objectives. 
Mitigating activities
A comprehensive review of total remuneration packages is underway 
to ensure that our pay and benefits are market competitive. 
Vectura is positive about developing all employees for current and 
future roles and our career development and talent management 
programmes remain a key area of focus for our management team. 
We continue to invest in ongoing training and development. 
Succession plans for key roles are being developed to ensure that 
a talent pool is identified, developed and ready for succession.
Operational risks
4. Operational disruption
A significant and prolonged disruption to a research and 
development or manufacturing operation upon which Vectura 
relies could result in a substantial loss of royalty revenues, other 
liabilities or a significant delay to a development programme.
Mitigating activities
Vectura identifies key suppliers in relation to its business and, where 
possible, alternative sources of supply are sought, although this is 
not always economically feasible. 
Where appropriate, Vectura holds duplicates for business-critical 
equipment. We have established good working relationships with the 
manufacturers of business-critical equipment and we monitor our 
supplier relationships to ensure effective and responsive service levels.
Contingency is built into product development plans, and Group-wide 
business continuity plans have been established. Our operational 
team is currently reviewing our business continuity procedures 
and intends to undertake crisis simulations to test the robustness 
of our arrangements.
Vectura has insurance, subject to certain exclusions and deductibles, 
against the usual insurable perils, such as property damage and 
other business interrupting events.
Strategic risks
Our principal risks and uncertainties
The principal risks specific to our business have been outlined below together with an explanation of 
how we manage and mitigate them. Some of these risks are specific to the Group and others are more 
generally applicable to the pharmaceutical industry or specific markets within which Vectura operates.
Risks specific to the Group: Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 23
Strategic report
5. Foreign exchange risk
A substantial proportion of the Group’s income from collaborative 
agreements is received in US dollars and euros and expenditure 
is predominantly incurred in pounds sterling. To the extent that 
Vectura’s foreign currency assets and liabilities are not matched, 
fluctuations in exchange rates between pounds sterling, the US 
dollar and the euro may result in realised or unrealised exchange 
gains and losses on translation of the underlying currency into our 
presentational and functional currency of pounds sterling. Such gains 
or losses may increase or decrease Vectura’s operating result and 
may adversely affect Vectura’s financial condition, each as stated 
in pounds sterling. In addition, if the currencies in which the Group 
earns its revenues and/or holds its cash balances weaken against 
the currencies in which it incurs its expenses, this could adversely 
affect profitability and liquidity.
Mitigating activities
Where known foreign currency liabilities arise, foreign currency revenue 
receipts are retained on deposit in the appropriate currency in order 
to offset the exchange risk on these liabilities. As at 31 March 2015, 
the Group had sufficient euro and US dollar reserves to cover its 
immediate and short-term liabilities in respect of these currencies.
Where a substantial net foreign currency liability exists, Vectura will 
consider hedging against it to minimise foreign currency expense. 
However, such hedging is based on estimates of liabilities and 
future revenues and will not fully eliminate future foreign currency 
exchange fluctuations.
6. Regulatory approvals
The international pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated 
by governmental authorities in the UK, the US and Europe and 
by regulatory agencies in other countries where Vectura or a 
collaborator intends to test or market products they may develop. 
These regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining 
whether a substance can be developed into a marketable product 
and the amount of time and expense associated with such 
development. There can be no assurance that Vectura’s, or a 
collaborator’s, products will receive and maintain regulatory 
approvals. Even if products are approved, they may still face 
subsequent regulatory difficulties. Such difficulties may result 
in financial loss and reputational damage.
Mitigating activities
We work closely with expert regulatory advisors and, when 
appropriate, seek advice from regulatory authorities on the design 
of key development plans for pre-clinical and clinical programmes.
In respect of our collaborations and partnerships, we work with 
a number of blue-chip pharmaceutical partners such as Novartis, 
Sandoz, Baxter and GSK, who have significant regulatory expertise.
7. Unforeseen side effects
All drugs have a risk of adverse reactions and side effects 
and therefore unforeseen side effects may result from the use 
of Vectura’s, or a collaborator’s, products or product candidates. 
This is an inherent risk which may be identified at any time, 
even after a product has been approved and sold commercially. 
Discovery of unforeseen side effects, other than those acceptable 
to the regulators, may result in a substantial loss of royalty 
revenues, other liabilities, a significant delay to a development 
programme or withdrawal or suspension of regulatory approval.
Mitigating activities
Vectura and its collaborators conduct extensive pre-clinical and 
clinical trials, designed to test for and identify any adverse side 
effects. In addition, there is a significant amount of safety data 
available regarding existing marketed products to which our 
generic products relate.
Increase
Decrease
Stable
Broader risks specific to the pharmaceutical industry Financial risks Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 24
8. Partnerships
Vectura currently has a number of strategically important 
partnerships, collaborations and licensing arrangements for 
development, manufacture and commercialisation of certain of 
its pipeline assets. Loss of any one of our strategically important 
partnerships, collaborations or licensing arrangements could have 
a material impact on Vectura’s future prospects. Vectura is also 
reliant on suppliers for the development and manufacture of certain 
devices. Any poor performance of the third parties could delay or 
prevent devices from being successfully developed and delivered to 
plan. This could result in key development milestones being missed 
or associated payments being delayed and could also affect partners’ 
confidence in Vectura’s ability to deliver.
Mitigating activities
Vectura has an agreed process for managing entering agreements 
and this includes appropriate oversight and approval at Board level. 
All collaborations are performed under a suitable legal agreement 
which is assessed by Vectura and its external legal advisors.
Typically, for collaborations a Joint Steering Committee (JSC) will 
be established, which provides a mechanism by which Vectura can 
ensure that any joint project team activity is managed appropriately 
within our standard project management processes.
An alliance manager is identified for all licensing partnerships 
or contract research organisation engagements.
9. Pricing and reimbursement
Vectura or our collaborators may not be able to sell its products 
profitably if reimbursement from third-party payors, including 
government and private health insurers, is unavailable or limited.
A significant portion of Vectura’s future revenue is likely to depend 
on payments by third-party payors, including government health 
administration authorities and private health insurers. As such, 
Vectura may be adversely affected by third-party reimbursement 
and healthcare cost containment initiatives.
Vectura may not be able to sell its products profitably if reimbursement 
from these sources is unavailable or limited. Third-party payors are 
increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs through measures 
that are likely to impact the products Vectura is developing, including:
•  challenging the prices charged for healthcare products, limiting 
both coverage and the amount of reimbursement for new 
therapeutic products, and denying or limiting coverage for new 
products that are approved by the regulatory agencies; and
•  refusing to provide coverage when an approved drug is used 
in a way that has not received regulatory marketing approval.
In addition, in many European countries, there has been an increasing 
trend towards reference pricing, where the amount of reimbursement 
is determined in light of reimbursement levels for comparable drugs in 
other European countries. This is likely to severely restrict the potential 
per unit price for many new drugs unless such drugs can be significantly 
differentiated from existing products. If products developed by Vectura 
or its partners are not covered by government or other third-party 
reimbursement schemes, are reimbursed at prices lower than those 
expected by Vectura, or become subject to legislation controlling 
treatments or pricing, Vectura and/or its partners may not be able 
to generate significant revenue or attain profitability for any product 
candidates which are approved for marketing.
Mitigating activities
Where appropriate, products may be out-licensed to partners who 
have the expertise to commercialise products and negotiate pricing 
structures with third-party payors, especially in disease indications 
that require large sales forces. Should Vectura self-commercialise, 
this would be targeted commercialisation for niche products with 
significant unmet need, which requires a small sales force to target 
specialist physicians.
Our business model includes bringing highly innovative products 
to address unmet needs and we are also involved in a number 
of generics programmes which support government initiatives to 
reduce costs. This adds balance to our business model in an era 
of increasing cost containment.
10. Competition
Our business faces intense competition from a range of pharmaceutical 
and biotechnology companies. Technological changes could overtake 
the products being developed by Vectura or by its collaborators.
Our competitors in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries 
may have superior research and development capabilities, products, 
manufacturing capability or sales and marketing expertise. Many of 
our competitors have significantly greater financial and human resources 
and may have more experience in research, development and 
commercialisation. As a result, our competitors may develop safer 
or more effective products, implement more effective sales and 
marketing programmes or be able to establish superior proprietary 
positions. In addition, we anticipate that we will face increased 
competition in the future as new companies enter Vectura’s markets 
and alternative products and technologies become available.
RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued
Broader risks specific to the pharmaceutical industry continued Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 25
Strategic report
Mitigating activities
Vectura performs detailed reviews of the development process 
and progress of projects through trials.
For programmes managed in-house, Vectura has an established 
project management framework. The potential commercial opportunities 
for each project are assessed at the end of each stage of the project. 
Projects are assessed using widely accepted valuation metrics based 
upon discounted cash flows. These cash flows are discounted using 
a hurdle rate that is in line with industry standards and the expected 
return of each project is further risk adjusted by its phase of 
development. Vectura has experienced development and commercial 
teams who all contribute to this assessment. This in-house review is 
supplemented by well-regarded disease area reports and, where 
appropriate, bespoke market research.
Under this framework, research and development programmes will 
only be approved by the Board if it can be shown that the expected 
benefits outweigh the expected costs. All programmes are subject 
to a stage-gate approval process and in the event that it was no 
longer considered that future revenues would be higher than 
future costs, the Board would consider terminating or redefining 
the programme.
Where appropriate, the Group looks to mitigate the development and 
commercial risk of its product pipeline by partnering drug candidates 
at an appropriate stage. The partnering event crystallises part of the 
programme’s value, with the goal of retaining an attractive proportion 
of the commercial upside through future milestones and an ongoing 
royalty interest from commercial sales. Vectura’s current royalty 
generating products are expected to continue to provide royalties 
until patent expiry or until Vectura is no longer entitled to receive 
royalties in accordance with a licence agreement.
Vectura works closely with its advisors and obtains, where necessary, 
opinions on the intellectual property landscape relevant to the Group’s 
product development programmes and manufacturing activities and 
processes. In addition, Vectura works with a number of key licensing 
partners who have significant expertise in the research, development 
and commercialisation of pharmaceuticals. These licensing partners 
have access to significant financial and human resources.
11. Product liability
In carrying out its activities Vectura will potentially face contractual 
and statutory claims, or other types of claim from customers, 
suppliers and/or investors.
Vectura is exposed to potential product liability risks that are 
inherent in the research, the pre-clinical and clinical evaluation, 
pre-clinical study, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and use 
of pharmaceutical products. Consumers, healthcare producers or 
persons selling products based on Vectura’s and its collaborators’ 
technology may be able to bring claims against Vectura based on 
the use of such products in clinical trials and the sale of products 
based on Vectura’s technology.
Mitigating activities
Vectura maintains an appropriate level of product liability insurance 
and operates quality systems relating to the manufacture of products. 
Vectura has a pharmacovigilance system to monitor safety events 
arising with respects to products sold.
Vectura’s insurance portfolio also includes other third-party liability 
insurances which would provide cover in the event of certain other 
contractual or statutory claims.
12. Intellectual property
Vectura’s success depends in part on its ability to obtain and 
maintain protection for its inventions and proprietary information, 
so that Vectura or our partners can exclude others from making, 
using or selling its patented products. A failure to establish, 
maintain or enforce intellectual property which is significant 
to Vectura’s competitive position may have a material impact 
on our future prospects.
Mitigating activities 
Vectura owns a portfolio of patents and patent applications 
and is the authorised licensee of other patents. Processes are 
in place to ensure that patent applications are filed in a timely 
manner and that applications are prosecuted to grant and 
defended as appropriate.
Vectura has a dedicated IP team, who work closely with legal 
advisors and obtains, where necessary, freedom to operate 
and patentability opinions on the intellectual property landscape 
relevant to our product development programmes, manufacturing 
activities and processes.
Reasonable security measures are adopted to protect other 
intellectual property, including appropriate confidentiality 
provisions and agreements with collaborators, consultants 
and employees.
All our licensing and collaboration agreements contain provisions 
that underpin the strength and value of our patent estate and all 
staff are trained to help Vectura maximise patent value and identify 
opportunities for new patent protection. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 26
OUR PRODUCTS
MARKETED PRODUCTS  
A T A GLANCE
We have eight products marketed by partners. We receive royalty income 
from sales of these products. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 27
Strategic report
Primary indication: 
COPD
Partner: 
Novartis
Description:
A novel, once-daily maintenance 
bronchodilator treatment for adult 
patients with COPD.
History:
Glycopyrronium bromide was exclusively 
licensed to Novartis in April 2005 by 
Vectura and our co-development 
partner Sosei Group Corporation.
Progress:
Approved for use in over 80 countries, 
including countries within the EU, Japan, Latin 
America, Canada, Switzerland and Australia.
Seebri® Breezhaler® (EU & ROW)
 
 
(glycopyrronium bromide; NVA237)
Primary indication: 
COPD
Partner: 
Novartis
Description:
A novel, once-daily, dual bronchodilator 
approved in the EU as a maintenance 
bronchodilator treatment for adult 
patients with COPD.
History:
Glycopyrronium bromide was exclusively 
licensed to Novartis in April 2005 
by Vectura and our co-development 
partner Sosei Group Corporation.
Progress:
Approved for use in over 60 countries, 
including countries within the EU, Japan, Latin 
America, Canada, Switzerland and Australia.
Ultibro® Breezhaler® (EU & ROW)  
(indacaterol/glycopyrronium bromide; QVA149)
Primary indication: 
Asthma and/or COPD
Partner: 
Sandoz
Description:
Innovative inhaler with inhaled combination 
therapy for asthma and/or COPD.
History:
Vectura initially developed the VR315 
product and created the design of the 
innovative inhaler before licensing the 
asset to Sandoz in 2006.
Progress:
Approved in approximately 30 countries 
and launched in twelve European countries 
as well as South Korea and Mexico.
AirFluSal® Forspiro® (EU & ROW)  
(salmeterol/fluticasone; VR315)
Photos of Seebri
®
 Breezhaler
®
 and Ultibro
®
 Breezhaler
®
 courtesy of Novartis AG. Ultibro
®
, Seebri
®
, Breezhaler
®
,  
AirFluSal
®
 and Forspiro
®
 are registered trade marks of Novartis AG.
PARTNERED Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 28
OUR PRODUCTS continued
ADVATE® (Global)
Primary indication: 
Haemophilia A
Partner: 
Baxter
Description:
For the treatment of haemophilia A and is marketed worldwide by Baxter, 
from which Vectura earns royalties from sales.
History:
In 2000, Vectura granted worldwide rights to Baxter to use its stabilisation patents 
in its serum-free recombinant Factor VIII, ADVATE
®
.
Primary indication: 
Prevention of  
surgical adhesions
Partner: 
Baxter
Description:
Adept
®
 is a 4% icodextrin solution used during surgery to reduce post-surgical 
adhesions, a frequent and major complication after gynaecological and other 
abdominal surgery, where abnormal scarring causes the surfaces of internal 
structures to stick together.
Whilst not necessarily dangerous in themselves they can lead to future complications, 
often years later or if further abdominal surgery is required. It has been used in Europe 
since 2000 and since 2006 in the US.
History:
In December 2005, Vectura signed a licence deal with Baxter for the manufacture 
and distribution of Adept
®
.
Adept® (Global)
PARTNERED continued Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 29
Strategic report
Description:
A multi-dose dry powder inhaler containing an anticholinergic, umeclidinium, 
and a long-acting bronchodilator, vilanterol, formulated by GSK using proprietary 
Vectura technology.
Description:
A multi-dose dry powder inhaler containing a steroid, fluticasone furoate,  
and long-acting bronchodilator, vilanterol, formulated by GSK using proprietary 
Vectura technology.
Description:
A multi-dose dry powder inhaler containing an anticholinergic, umecildinum, 
formulated by GSK using proprietary Vectura technology.
In August 2010, GSK entered into a licence and an option-to-license agreement 
for certain of Vectura’s dry powder formulation patents. Vectura is entitled to 
a low single-digit royalty on net sales of products using these patents, capped 
at a maximum amount of £13m per annum.
Anoro® Ellipta® (UMEC/VI)
Relvar® Ellipta®/Breo® Ellipta®(FF/VI)
Incruse® Ellipta®(UMEC)
Primary indication:
COPD
Technology 
licensee:
GSK
Primary indication: 
Asthma, COPD
Technology 
licensee:
GSK
Primary indication: 
COPD
Technology 
licensee: 
GSK
LICENSED
  Read more about our product 
pipeline over the page
Anoro
®
 Ellipta
®
, Relvar
® 
Ellipta
®
/Breo
®
 Ellipta
®
 and Incruse
®
 Ellipta
®
 are registered trade marks of GSK, photos courtesy of GSK Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 30
PRODUCT PIPELINE
PHASE I PHASE II PRE-CLINICAL 
OUR PRODUCTS continued
Our near-term priorities are to:
• accelerate the overall value of our existing pipeline; and
• demonstrate value realisation in our pipeline within the 
strategic period to 2021.
The development focus of the Company will change over time. 
Our current partnered programmes are unaffected and partner 
obligations are contractual and must be supported. However, we will 
seek to focus on value realisation from later-stage products, and from 
an increased number of revenue-generating opportunities in the near 
term arising from the considerable interest in our capabilities.
We have prioritised our portfolio and aligned our resources to ensure that our investment 
in R&D is measured, controlled, realises value in the near term and is supportive of our strategy. 
VR588
Severe Inflammatory  
Airways Disease
(Global)
VR588 is a broad-based, potent and selective 
pan-JAK inhibitor
VR475 
FAVOLIR®
Severe Uncontrolled 
Adult Asthma
(US)
VR475 FAVOLIR
® 
is an investigational product 
that comprises the inhaled corticosteroid 
budesonide delivered with Vectura’s smart 
nebuliser, the AKITA
®
 JET
VR942 (UCB)
Inflammatory  
Airways Disease
(Co-development global)
VR942 has the potential to be the first inhaled, 
highly differentiated biological therapy for severe 
airways disease
VR465 (Ablynx)
RSV Infection
(Global)
Anti-RSV Nanobody
®
 ALX-0171 for the 
treatment of RSV in infants
1
 VR096 (Janssen)
Anti-inflammatory 
Asthma/COPD
(Global)
Novel anti-inflammatory therapies for the 
treatment of asthma/COPD
 VR647
SCIPE
Paediatric Asthma
(Global)
The Safe Corticosteroid Inhalation in Paediatrics 
(SCIPE) programme aims to provide additional 
benefit to persistent asthmatics under the 
age of eight
VR647 SCIPE is an investigational product 
that comprises the inhaled corticosteroid 
budesonide delivered with Vectura’s smart 
nebuliser, the AKITA
®
 JET
VR179 (Grifols)
Cystic Fibrosis
(Global)
VR179 is a nebulised alpha-1-antitrypsin product
VR736 (Ventaleon)
Severe Influenza
(Global)
VR736 is an inhaled treatment for hospitalised 
patients with severe influenza
2 Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 31
Strategic report Strategic report
GENERICS FILED PHASE III 
Generic
Partnered 
Branded
Wholly owned
 Read more over the page for 
details of each project 
VR475
FAVOLIR®
Severe Uncontrolled  
Adult Asthma
(EU)
VR475 FAVOLIR
® 
is an investigational 
product that comprises the inhaled 
corticosteroid budesonide delivered with 
Vectura’s smart nebuliser, the AKITA
®
 JET
 VR876
(Undisclosed partner)
Pulmonary Hypertension
(Europe)
Nebulised version of a currently marketed drug 
using Vectura’s FOX™ device
QVA149 (Novartis)
COPD 
(US)
Twice-daily (indacaterol/glycopyrronium 
bromide) 27.5/12.5mcg. Maintenance 
bronchodilator treatment for COPD in adults
Novartis expects US FDA action in Q4 2015
NVA237 (Novartis) 
COPD 
(US)
Twice-daily (glycopyrronium/bromide) 
12.5mcg. Maintenance bronchodilator 
treatment for COPD in adults
Novartis expects US FDA action in Q4 2015
VR315
(Undisclosed partner)
Asthma and COPD
(US)
VR315 is an inhaled combination therapy 
for asthma and COPD
VR506
(Undisclosed partner)
Asthma 
(US)
VR506 is an inhaled corticosteroid for the 
treatment of asthma
VR632 (Sandoz)
Asthma and COPD
(EU)
VR632 is Vectura’s second inhaled combination 
therapy for asthma and COPD
3 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 32
PRE-CLINICAL
VR588 Severe Inflammatory Airways Diseases
(Global)
VR588 is a broad-based, potent and selective pan-JAK inhibitor that 
demonstrates a pharmacokinetic profile suitable for development as an 
inhaled treatment. Pre-clinical development activities have progressed 
successfully and VR588 will soon commence Phase I-enabling inhalation 
toxicology studies.
• Initial focus on asthma; multiple additional indications possible 
• Minimise investment and focus on activities that generate data 
to support licensing
VR942 (UCB) Inflammatory Airways Disease
(Co-development global)
VR942 has the potential to be the first inhaled, highly differentiated 
biological therapy for severe airways disease. Vectura market research 
indicates an overwhelming US physician preference for inhaled rather 
than parenteral administration of such a product.
The VR942 programme is a co-development deal with UCB for a novel 
therapy currently at the pre-clinical stage. The programme has moved 
successfully through a number of pre-clinical milestones.
PHASE I 1
VR475 Severe Uncontrolled Adult Asthma
FAVOLIR®
(US)
VR475 is an investigational product that comprises the inhaled corticosteroid 
budesonide, delivered with Vectura’s smart nebuliser system, the AKITA
®
 JET.
• Following the revised development strategy for FAVOLIR
®
 in the EU, 
a similar approach will be sought for the US 
• Development plan will be discussed with FDA post completion of the 
EU clinical study
• Targets an increased market opportunity
VR465 RSV (Ablynx) Respiratory Syncytial
Virus infection
(Global)
The Belgian biotech company, Ablynx, is developing the anti-RSV Nanobody
®
 
ALX-0171 for the treatment of RSV infections in infants. Ablynx has demonstrated 
favourable tolerability and PK of ALX-0171 in three Phase I trials. Ablynx 
opened recruitment for the first-in-infant Phase IIa study with ALX-0171 
in December 2014. If recruitment goes to plan, the study is expected to 
be completed in Q2 2015 with results anticipated in Q3 2015. Vectura is 
providing technology and expertise in delivery of the active product.
PHASE II 2
VR096 (Janssen) Anti-inflammatory Asthma/COPD
(Global)
Global development and licence agreement with Janssen Biotech Inc. for the 
exclusive development of novel anti-inflammatory therapies for the treatment 
of asthma/COPD. Initial focus is on the development of a Phase II candidate 
with the possibility to include additional clinical-stage candidates.
Deal will leverage Vectura’s expertise and proprietary dry powder inhaler 
technologies for the development of inhaled therapeutics. Vectura will apply 
its delivery technologies to develop Janssen’s pulmonary products into 
late-stage clinical development and commercialisation.
Janssen will lead the clinical development programmes, with Vectura taking 
responsibility for pharmaceutical development and manufacturing to support 
Phase II clinical trials and beyond.
VR647 Paediatric asthma
SCIPE
(Global)
The Safe Corticosteroid Inhalation in Paediatrics (SCIPE) programme aims 
to provide additional benefit to children who are persistent asthmatics.
Pre-IND meeting scheduled in June 2015 to agree US regulatory strategy.
• Objective is to retain current label/indication of budesonide, with a claim 
for reducing dosing time
• Evaluating incoming licensing requests to expedite value return
BRANDED AND GENERIC 
INVESTIGATIONAL DRUGS 
(PARTNERED AND WHOLLY OWNED)
OUR PRODUCTS continued Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 33
Strategic report
VR179 (Grifols) Cystic fibrosis
(Global)
VR179 is a nebulised alpha-1-antitrypsin product, under investigation 
for the treatment of cystic fibrosis. The programme is partnered with 
the Spanish company Grifols.
VR736 (Ventaleon) Severe influenza
(Global)
VR736 is an inhaled treatment for hospitalised patients with severe influenza 
and is being developed by Ventaleon, a joint venture between Vectura and an 
investment syndicate.
PHASE III 3
VR475 Severe Uncontrolled Adult Asthma
FAVOLIR®
(EU)
VR475 is an investigational product that comprises the inhaled corticosteroid 
budesonide, delivered with Vectura’s smart nebuliser system, the AKITA
®
 JET.
• A clinical study design has been agreed with the CHMP and clinical trial 
activities will start imminently, with filing anticipated in mid-2018
• Refocused to target the broader patient population shift from GINA step 5 
OCS-dependent patients to GINA step 4 and 5 patients
VR876 (Undisclosed partner) Pulmonary hypertension
(Europe)
This is being developed by an undisclosed partner as a nebulised version 
of a currently marketed drug for the treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension (PAH). It uses Vectura’s smart nebuliser technology to 
improve the patient acceptance of the product.
FILED
NVA237 (Novartis) COPD
(US)
Novartis submitted the NDA for NVA237 to the FDA in the US in the fourth 
quarter of 2014 for an indication in COPD. In the first week of March 2015, 
this filing was accepted by the FDA, triggering a milestone payment to 
Vectura of $7.5m. Novartis expects US FDA action in Q4 2015.
Approved in EU and ROW as Seebri
®
 Breezhaler
®
, see page 27.
QVA149 (Novartis) COPD
(US)
Novartis submitted the NDA for QVA149 to the FDA in the US in the fourth 
quarter of 2014 for an indication in COPD. In the first week of March 2015, 
this filing was accepted by the FDA, triggering a milestone payment 
to Vectura of $12.5m. Novartis expects US FDA action in Q4 2015.
Approved in EU and ROW as Ultibro
®
 Breezhaler
®
, see page 27.
GENERICS
VR315 (Undisclosed partner) Asthma and COPD
(US)
VR315 is an inhaled combination therapy for asthma and COPD. 
In August 2011, Vectura signed a licence agreement for the development, 
manufacturing and commercialisation of VR315 in the US with the US 
division of a leading international pharmaceutical company.
• Vectura will receive a royalty from sales of VR315 in the US
• Vectura will receive a further $26m upon achievement of future 
pre-determined development milestones
• During 2014/15, Vectura received two additional milestones, each 
of $1.5m, as a result of further progress with VR315 in the US
VR506 (Undisclosed partner) Asthma
(US)
VR506 is an inhaled corticosteroid for the treatment of asthma, which entered 
clinical development in 2011. In June 2014, Vectura signed a partnership 
agreement in the US. The licence agreement is with Vectura’s existing, 
undisclosed US partner for VR315.
• Under the terms of this agreement, Vectura’s partner is responsible for 
the commercialisation and manufacture of the product together with 
clinical development 
• Vectura has received an initial payment of $4m and will receive up 
to $8m upon achievement of predetermined milestones. In addition, 
Vectura will receive a royalty from all VR506 US sales
VR632 (Sandoz) Asthma and COPD
(EU)
VR632 is Vectura’s second inhaled combination therapy for asthma 
and COPD. The European rights for VR632 were licensed to Sandoz 
in December 2007 in a deal worth up to €15.5m in milestones and 
development funding plus royalties on all products sold. Vectura 
retains the rights for the US and other territories.
Strategic report
Generic
Partnered 
Branded
Wholly owned Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 34
Vectura has a wide range of patent-protected technology platforms, 
used to support the development and delivery of our own, value-adding 
products. We also offer licences to our technologies, generating 
significant revenues for Vectura. 
The development of drugs for inhalation is complex and requires 
specialist processes and know-how. Companies across the world 
are keen to harness our expertise and technology for their own 
inhalation programmes.
Dry Powder Formulation technologies 
Vectura has a long history and successful track record in the 
development of novel formulations. These novel formulation 
approaches together with extensive know-how have been applied 
to a broad range of Dry Powder Inhaler (DPI) products, including 
both generic and branded/innovative products.
Vectura’s expertise enables us to achieve performance aligned 
with product delivery. For a generic product this will mean developing 
a formulation/device combination with performance to match the 
reference branded product both in laboratory testing and in the clinic. 
For a branded/innovative product the goal is to maximise performance 
as befits the target airways disease and mechanism of action of the 
drug. Vectura not only has extensive experience in the development 
of lactose blend based formulations for small molecule drugs but 
also in the development of dry powder formulations of biologics.
Formulation technologies for small molecule DPIs 
Vectura has deep experience and a broad palette of IP that it can 
apply to developing state-of-the-art DPI formulations for small 
molecules. These technologies such as PowderHale
®
 and PowderMax 
make use of Force Control Agent (FCA) technology. The FCA is a 
substance incorporated into the formulation to enhance various 
aspects of performance. 
With PowderMax, the approach is optimised to selectively place the 
FCA where it will provide the most benefit. The technology is used 
across a range of Vectura’s long established and newer partnerships.
Formulation technologies for inhaled biologics
Vectura has a long history of creating novel particle-engineered 
DPI formulations of biologics both for inhaled and other product 
applications and has developed significant know-how and a broad 
portfolio of patents in this field. Vectura uses spray drying to produce 
room-temperature-stable formulations that can be filled into blisters 
and readily aerosolised using one of Vectura’s proprietary devices.
The combination of Vectura’s IP in particle engineering, its ability 
to apply that IP to a product programme and then scale up and 
industrialise the manufacturing process, we refer to as our ParticleMAX 
technologies and capability. This is currently being applied to an 
inhaled biologic being co-developed with our partner UCB.
Pharmaceutical development and GMP manufacturing capability
Vectura is able to apply these technologies to product development 
programmes and through all stages of pharmaceutical and product 
development including pivotal clinical trials and technical transfer 
to commercial production. Vectura has state of the art development 
and Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) facilities in Chippenham, UK, 
serving our requirements in both small molecule and biologic 
product space. This enables us to produce supplies for late-phase 
clinical trials using equipment that is entirely representative of that 
which would be used at the final commercial manufacturing site. 
This product development capability is supported by an extensive 
analytical capability generating the high quality data that is essential 
to the decision making required in product development.
Device technologies
Dry powder inhalers
Vectura’s range of pre-metered foil blister DPIs has been developed 
to meet patients’ needs in inhalation therapy for asthma and COPD. 
The devices are low cost and easy to use, yet they meet challenging 
technical and regulatory requirements, as demonstrated by ongoing 
approvals of Sandoz’s AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
. Forspiro
® 
is the name 
Sandoz gave to Vectura’s GyroHaler
® 
device. This device also gained 
a Red Dot design award in 2011. The core technology and IP used in 
GyroHaler
®
 has also been incorporated in a family of devices aimed 
at meeting future product development and partnering opportunities. 
These include lever-operated, open-inhale-close and single unit 
dose devices which provide a range of dose number, performance 
and user-interface options. The device platform was further 
validated by an agreement with Janssen Biotech Inc. to develop 
the technology for use with Janssen’s pulmonary products.
Smart nebuliser delivery systems
Vectura’s smart nebuliser delivery systems provide targeted inhalation 
therapy for applications where precise and targeted delivery of a drug 
to the lungs is needed. To achieve this the nebuliser device creates a 
liquid aerosol and co-ordinates delivery after the patient has inhaled 
using the FAVORITE principle for precise delivery of drugs to the lungs.
ENABLING THE DEVELOPMENT AND  
DELIVERY OF V ALUE-ADDING PRODUCTS
OUR TECHNOLOGY PLATFORMS, DEVELOPMENT CAPABILITY AND DEVICES  Strategic report
35 Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc
AKITA® JET
The AKITA
®
 JET nebuliser system uses 
proprietary technology to create positive 
ventilation and control the flow and 
volume tailored to the patient’s 
breathing characteristics.
The system is used in conjunction with 
smart card technology that ensures full 
device exclusivity for specific drugs. 
AKITA®
2
 APIXNEB
The AKITA
®2
 APIXNEB nebuliser is similar to the 
AKITA
®
 device, but with a mesh-based nebuliser 
handset instead of a jet nebuliser. The mesh 
provides much higher nebulisation efficiency 
than a jet nebuliser, and can be used to nebulise 
molecules that cannot tolerate the higher shear 
forces of a jet nebuliser. 
FOX™
FOX™ is a hand-held, self-contained, 
battery powered inhalation system that 
delivers nebulised liquid drugs with high 
performance using a vibrating mesh 
technology. The mesh-based aerosolisation 
engine is proprietary to Vectura. The FOX™ 
inhalation system also makes use of a flow 
sensing/controlling value system, is rechargeable 
and can be Bluetooth
®
-enabled.
In January 2015, Vectura received 510(k) 
clearance from the US Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) for its FOX™ mobile 
smart nebuliser device. The FDA clearance 
shows Vectura’s commitment to innovation, 
safety and quality and allows the FOX™ 
device to be marketed in the United States. 
In April 2014, the FOX
TM 
gained a Red Dot Award 
for product design.
All of Vectura’s smart nebuliser systems are 
now CE marked and 510(k) approved. A 510(k) 
is a pre-marketing submission made to the FDA 
to demonstrate that the device to be marketed 
is as safe, effective and substantially equivalent 
to an existing marketed device.
DPI DEVICES SMART NEBULISER SYSTEMS
GyroHaler
®
FAVORITE (Flow And Volume Regulated Inhalation TEchnology)
A patient’s breathing pattern can alter the efficiency of drug 
delivery to different parts of the lung. Control of the inspiratory 
flow rate, the inspiratory volume of aerosol and the timing during 
the inspiration when the drug aerosol is delivered can materially 
affect how much drug gets to central or peripheral parts of the 
lungs. This is the basis of our proprietary, smart nebulisation-based 
technology known as FAVORITE.
This control is achieved through a modified nebuliser unit that 
delivers the nebulised aerosol tailored to the individual patient’s 
breathing capacity. The increased efficiency of delivery means the 
drug is distributed more efficiently allowing targeted deposition in 
the lungs. Other benefits for the patient may also be derived from 
this approach, such as reduced treatment time.
Tidal Breathing
(typical short and abrupt 
inhalation pattern)
FAVORITE Inhalation
(slow and deep inhalation)
Lever-operated
Open-inhale-close
Single unit dose Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 36
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
OUR VALUES PROMOTE AN  
INCLUSIVE WORKING ENVIRONMENT
We remain committed to ensuring that our business activities are 
conducted in a responsible manner for the benefit of our stakeholders. 
In achieving this objective, we focus our activities in four key areas 
which we believe are most relevant to our business: our people, our 
local communities, our environmental footprint and our governance. 
We believe that having empowered people, who understand their 
responsibilities, who display sound judgement and who act in an 
ethical way, is key to the ongoing success and development of Vectura.
Vectura is a member of the FTSE4Good index, a leading investment 
index for businesses that meet globally recognised corporate social 
responsibility standards.
Our people
Our values
Our values clearly articulate our expectations and our 
aspirations. We encourage and reinforce these values through 
our performance management process and the “People’s Champion” 
award. The “People’s Champion” is an annual award which allows 
our employees to recognise and reward those individuals who have 
acted as a behavioural role model, demonstrating our values in a 
way that has inspired and engaged their colleagues.
We believe that our values promote an inclusive working environment 
whereby individuals are rewarded for their individual and collective 
contributions to the business.
Our employment practices
Vectura encourages diversity, throughout all levels of the 
organisation. We believe that individual success depends on 
ability, behaviour, performance and evidenced potential and 
we remain committed to offering career opportunities without 
discrimination. Our commitment to equal opportunities, diversity 
and non-discrimination is enshrined in our working practices and 
policies; we operate on the basis of mutual respect and we do 
not tolerate discrimination or harassment on any basis. Our diversity 
and equal opportunities policy covers all permanent and temporary 
employees, including Executive and Non-Executive Directors, job 
applicants, agency staff, associates, consultants and contractors.
We give full and fair consideration to every job application we 
receive. Vectura has not set formal diversity quotas or targets and 
all appointments, both internal and external, are ultimately made 
on the basis of merit. Where possible, we support part-time and 
flexible working with around 16% of our employees benefiting 
from some kind of flexible working practice. 
Chris Blackwell is the Board member responsible for overseeing 
human resources and non-discrimination issues.
Our culture is fundamental to our success. 
The passion of our people is compelling 
evidence of the strength of our values, which 
encompass enthusiasm, creativity, teamwork, 
respect and trust. Our culture is typified 
through respectful, friendly and inclusive 
behaviours and practices.
Joanne Hombal
Director of Human Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 37
Strategic report
Our employee communications 
We value the opinions and experience of our people. 
Effective and engaging communication is at the heart of our internal 
communication strategy. In an industry based on innovation and 
research and development, our employees are our biggest asset 
and it is therefore critical that we forge strong connections through 
timely and meaningful communication.
We have established Staff and Managers’ Forums. These forums 
provide a mechanism by which all employees can raise issues that 
matter to them for discussion, to enable employee feedback and to 
facilitate the communication and dissemination of key information 
throughout the organisation. 
We recognise that effective communication is a two-way, open 
exchange of ideas and opinions. Our employees host regular 
“Lunchtime Seminars”, during which individuals can present 
on a topic that is relevant to their work or to the work of Vectura. 
These sessions can be accessed remotely by all staff, using video 
conferencing facilities, and they are designed to promote and enable 
peer learning. In addition, we promote the use of employee-led and 
facilitated “creative thinking” workshops; these sessions encourage 
shared problem solving, which we believe fosters an inclusive and 
innovative working environment. 
The circulation of press announcements and internal newsletters, 
monthly all-staff Chief Executive videolink updates as well as quarterly 
individual site Chief Executive Q&A sessions keep employees 
informed of business developments and performance. 
In the forthcoming year, we plan to implement biennial employee 
engagement surveys. The results of these surveys will be openly 
communicated and will form the basis for action plans which 
address any areas for improvement and build on our strengths. 
We monitor our employee turnover on a monthly basis to identify 
any possible employee relations or motivational issues and to assist 
in our recruitment and resource planning. We are pleased to report 
that a significant percentage of our employees have five or more 
years’ continuous service. 
Overall gender breakdown 
as at 31 March 2015
Male Female
141 156
Vectura Group plc’s Director gender split 
as at 31 March 2015
Male Female
1
7
Vectura senior managers 
as at 31 March 2015
Male Female
15–20 years 3%
20–30 years 1.5%
10–15 years 20%
5–10 years 31.5%
0–5 years 44%
5
21
OUR VALUES:
   Achievement
  Enthusiasm
    Participation
   Innovation
  Trust and respect Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 38
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT continued
Our people continued
Developing and rewarding our people 
Attracting and retaining skilled people with values aligned to our 
company ethos is critical for our business and we aim to develop 
and maintain a motivated and professional workforce. As such, 
we recognise the importance of investing in our people, ensuring 
that they are equipped to deliver in their current and future roles 
within the business. In addition to investment in general training 
and development, Vectura offers all employees the opportunity 
to apply for scholarship funding. The Meakin Scholarship provides 
substantial financial assistance to those who wish to pursue further 
self-development, largely in their own time. Any course that would 
significantly enhance an employee’s skills whilst benefiting Vectura 
is considered.
Remuneration plays an important role in retaining and motivating 
our people. We seek to provide well-constructed and fair reward 
systems designed to incentivise superior performance and align 
the interests of our employees with those of our shareholders. 
Our remuneration packages are designed to be both fair and 
competitive and all remuneration packages include an element of 
variable remuneration in the form of an annual bonus. The annual 
bonus allows us to reward employees for achieving and exceeding 
challenging corporate and individual objectives. In addition to our 
remuneration packages, which include a pension entitlement, 
permanent health insurance and life assurance and private medical 
care, all employees are given the opportunity to participate in our 
all-employee share plans. For more details of our all-employee 
share plans, please refer to the Report on remuneration. 
Our commitment to health and safety
Vectura considers health and safety to be a priority in its workplaces. 
We have an established Health and Safety Committee that reviews 
health and safety standards within the organisation. The Committee 
continually monitors and reviews health and safety practices to 
ensure that health and safety management procedures are robust 
and in line with industry best practice. Annual updates are provided 
to the Board for review and additional update reports are provided 
as required. Trevor Phillips is the Board member to whom responsibility 
for health and safety issues has been delegated.
Specialist ongoing training is provided to those individuals who 
are responsible for health and safety across the organisation. 
General health and safety training is delivered to all staff via 
in-house training sessions provided by our Health and Safety 
Manager and by e-learning courses. 
The Group has an excellent safety record and there have been 
no major incidents or accidents reported to the Health and Safety 
Committee during the year (2014/15: none).
Our local communities 
We consider that one of the most significant impacts we can have 
within our local communities is to continue to provide high-quality 
employment opportunities and to develop therapies to help patients 
with airways-related diseases. 
In addition, we support the STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering 
and Mathematics) initiative, which is a major government programme 
whereby our employees actively help local schoolchildren to gain 
the understanding, capabilities and skills to flourish in a scientific 
environment such as ours.
We are proud to have a highly creative and active Social Committee, 
which initiates a calendar of social and charitable events each year. 
With a dedicated budget, this team is empowered to organise engaging 
and rewarding activities to raise money for local charities, as well 
as facilitating our support of nationwide charity campaigns such 
as Comic Relief. Wherever possible, company facilities are made 
available for these events. 
Our environmental footprint
Due to the nature of its activities, Vectura considers that it has 
a low environmental impact. However, we remain committed to 
minimising the impact of our activities on the environment and we 
actively seek to make energy savings in a way that is beneficial for 
the environment and cost effective for the business. Andrew Oakley 
is the Board member to whom responsibility for environmental 
issues has been delegated.
Vectura’s internal operational goals include objectives to reduce our 
environmental footprint by controlling the use of energy and materials. 
To help us achieve these objectives, a Green Action Team meets 
regularly and has responsibility to pursue initiatives for environmental 
sustainability and carbon reduction. 
Green Action Team
Our Green Action Team is responsible for raising environmental 
awareness, driving good environmental behaviours and co-ordinating 
environmental initiatives across the organisation. The team regularly 
publishes articles on environmental matters on our staff intranet and it 
manages internal guidance for the use of heating and air conditioning. 
Each year, the team organises an annual “Green Week” to promote 
ongoing awareness of environmental matters amongst staff.
Our environmental policies
Our company environmental policy is modelled on ISO14001 standards, 
and all staff are required to read and comply with Vectura’s green 
working policy. Induction procedures for new staff include sufficient 
information to ensure a high level of compliance with our 
environmental standards. 
Our environmental initiatives
Vectura has adopted and maintains a number of specific 
environmental initiatives.
Energy efficiency
• 52 solar panels are installed at our Chippenham site which have 
generated over 26,500kwh of electricity since installation in 
November 2012. 
• It is our policy that, when an existing light unit requires replacement, 
it is replaced with an LED light. The LED lights installed are up to 
four times more energy efficient than the traditional light units 
that they replace. The majority of the lighting at our Chippenham 
site is now LED. 39
Strategic report
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc
• Passive infrared light sensors are installed in many general work 
areas. This ensures that lighting is not left on in work areas that 
are not currently in use.
• We continue our commitment to promoting “green IT”. Where 
possible, we use virtual PCs that use c.20% of the electricity 
of a standard desktop PC and we employ virtual servers.
Waste management
Initiatives to effectively manage and reduce waste have been 
implemented throughout the organisation: 
• We recycle all paper and cardboard waste, aluminium cans, 
plastics, printer toners/cartridges and redundant mobile 
telephone handsets. 
• We operate a managed print solution to help control paper usage. 
• We use registered waste disposal contractors and comply with 
all relevant waste legislation.
The Carbon Disclosure Project
Vectura voluntarily reports its environmental performance under 
the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). CDP plays an important role in 
communicating information about greenhouse gas emissions and 
related activities reported by the UK’s largest companies, enabling 
investors and the public to take informed action against climate 
change. There have been no contentious issues or other matters 
having economic, legal, reputational or environmental 
consequences that have arisen this year.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Vectura reports greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) 
Regulations 2013 (“the Regulations”). 
Greenhouse gas assessment parameters
Baseline year FY13/14
Intensity ratio
(1)
GHG by gross building area
(2)
(1)  In order to express total annual emissions in relation to a quantifiable factor associated with 
Vectura’s activities, gross building area has been used as an intensity ratio. 
(2)  Due to the nature of Vectura’s business, a large amount of energy is consumed 
in maintaining air quality in the laboratories and therefore choosing gross building 
area as an intensity ratio gives the fairest reflection of performance.
Emissions data is reported using a financial control approach 
to define our reporting boundary, which meets the requirements 
of the Regulations in respect of those emissions for which we are 
responsible. The information is presented for a twelve-month 
period. Emissions have been measured for all sites.
The amounts shown below for total FY 14/15 Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions are those required to be reported under the Regulations.
Greenhouse gas emission by source 2014/15
(1)
2014/15 2013/14
Scope 1 215 142
Scope 2 1,506 1,272
Total emissions (Scope 1 and 2) 1,721 1,414
Emissions reported (tonnes of CO
2
 per sq ft)
(2)
0.02 0.02
(1)  GHG emissions reported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents. Emissions factors 
were sourced from the UK Defra database.
(2)  Gas and electricity usage information has been obtained from purchase invoices and verified 
by reference to meter readings. Vehicle fuel usage is based upon recorded mileage.
Our governance
Vectura’s corporate governance structure is set out on page 47 
of this Annual Report.
Our ethical and social policies
Vectura’s principal activities are undertaken within the pharmaceutical 
industry, which is subject to a highly regulated ethical framework 
with which the Group complies. In addition, Vectura seeks to conduct 
its activities generally in accordance with good business ethics.
We have adopted a clear anti-bribery policy, which has been 
communicated to all employees so they can recognise and avoid 
the use of bribery and report any suspicion for rigorous investigation. 
Political donations are prohibited and advance approval from 
management is required before management and staff may 
accept or solicit a gift of any kind.
We do not believe that human rights issues present a significant 
issue for Vectura, but we are committed to protecting the human 
rights of our employees and the people who come into contact 
with our business. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 40
FINANCIAL REVIEW FINANCIAL REVIEW
SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS  
FOR FUTURE GROWTH
Financial Highlights
FY 14/15 has been a transformational year for Vectura. We are 
pleased to report a 59% increase in revenues to £58.0m, driven by 
significant organic growth in royalty streams derived from recently 
launched products, augmented by significant development milestones 
in respect of partnered programmes. 
Revenue growth of £21.5m and an increase of £10.5m in operating 
expenditures as we continue to invest in growth, translates to an 
£11.0m increase in EBITDA
1
 to £16.2m. Research and development 
expenditure for the financial year was below our guidance range as 
the result of the timing of certain expenditure commitments relative 
to our financial year end. The phasing of this spend will consequently 
impact our research and development investment for FY 15/16 and, 
as a result, we anticipate that research and development expenditure 
for the forthcoming year will be at the higher end of our stated 
guidance range.
Revenue
Vectura categorises revenues into five streams: royalties, product 
licensing, technology licensing, development services and device 
sales. In FY 14/15, we have seen revenue growth across the board 
in each of our revenue streams.
Royalties
Royalty revenue of £25.2m has increased by 55% year-on-year; this 
increase has been driven by a sustained increase in underlying sales 
of recently launched products.
Net sales of Seebri
®
 Breezhaler
®
, as reported by Novartis, have grown 
by 87% to $153m for the twelve-month period ended 31 March 2015. 
For Ultibro
®
 Breezhaler
®
, which was launched in calendar Q4 2013, 
Novartis reported net sales of $156m for the financial year under 
review. In light of the strong growth in net sales, royalty income 
received from Novartis for these two products has increased to 
£8.5m during the year (2013/14: £2.7m).
In addition, we benefited from a full year of royalty revenue from 
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) for sales of Relvar
®
/Breo
®
 Ellipta
®
 and Anoro
®
 
Ellipta
®
, and we received our first royalties on sales of Incruse
®
 Ellipta
®
. 
GSK reported net sales of £135m for sales of these three products, 
upon which Vectura earned a royalty of £3.8m (2013/14: £0.3m). 
Under the terms of our agreement with GSK, the maximum annual 
royalties payable to Vectura for sales of these products are £13m.
Other royalty revenue is mainly derived from the two products 
licensed to Baxter. Underlying sales of ADVATE
®
 have continued 
to advance by 6% during the year under review on a constant 
currency basis and accordingly royalty revenue earned from 
Baxter from sales of ADVATE
®
 has increased to £11.8m. Adept
®
 
contributed royalty revenues of £0.4m during the year.
FY 14/15 has been a transformational year 
for Vectura. We are pleased to report a 59% 
increase in revenues to £58.0m, driven by 
significant organic growth in royalty streams 
derived from recently launched products, 
augmented by significant development 
milestones in respect of partnered programmes. 
Revenue growth of £21.5m and an increase 
of £10.5m in operating expenditures as we 
continue to invest in growth, translates to 
an £11.0m increase in EBITDA
1
 to £16.2m. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 41
Strategic report
Technology Licensing
Technology licensing revenues of £6.6m (2013/14: £4.3m) primarily 
relates to two significant milestones achieved during the year; £3.3m 
($5m) relates to an upfront milestone recognised upon entering into 
a global development and licensing agreement with Janssen Biotech, Inc. 
for the exclusive development of novel anti-inflammatory therapies for 
the treatment of asthma/COPD and £2.0m relates to the final milestone 
defined in a non-exclusive licence with GSK. As explained in the royalties 
section of this report, Vectura now earns royalties on the commercial 
sale of Relvar
®
/Breo
®
 Ellipta
®
, Anoro
®
 Ellipta
®
, and Incruse
®
 Ellipta
®
.
Development Services
Development service revenues of £3.9m were recognised during 
FY 14/15. This increase is the result of higher demand for these 
specialist services from Vectura’s existing partners as well as a 
positive contribution from new partnerships and those partnerships 
acquired as part of the Activaero acquisition.
Device Sales
Device sales of £2.5m have increased significantly compared to the 
prior year (2013/14: £0.9m) due the launch of AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
, 
which uses Vectura’s GyroHaler
®
 device, in a number of European 
and Rest of the World territories.
Research and Development Expenses
Total investment in research and development (R&D) was £36.1m, 
representing a 29% increase on the previous year (2013/14: £28m).
During the year, we completed a portfolio review which has 
allowed us to prioritise our portfolio and align our resources to 
ensure that our investment in R&D is measured, controlled and 
supportive of our strategic objectives. Accordingly, we have begun 
to exploit two of our newly acquired assets namely VR475 EU and 
VR876 and total external expenditure on these programmes was 
£5.2m during the year. We have continued to develop VR942 
in collaboration with our partner UCB and external expenditure 
on this programme has increased compared to the prior year. 
These increases were partially offset by a decrease in external project 
spend associated with VR315 in the US as we have now effectively 
come to the conclusion of our commitments on this project.
R&D spend in FY 14/15 was lower than our guidance due to the 
timing of certain expenditure commitments relative to our year end. 
We remain committed to managing our research and development 
within a predefined range and we anticipate that our R&D expenditure 
will be at the higher end of this range in the forthcoming year, as 
we undertake clinical activities in respect of VR475 EU. Furthermore, 
during FY 15/16, we will incur non-recurring expenditure as we 
transfer activities from our Gemünden site to our other sites in the 
UK and Germany. Overall the closure of the site will result in cost 
savings, as from FY 16/17, in both R&D expenditure and other 
administrative expenses.
Other Administrative Expenses
Other administrative expenses have increased from £3.4m 
to £4.5m, with the majority of this increase attributed to the 
acquisition of Activaero.
Taxation
The total taxation credit of £9.9m comprises R&D tax credits 
of £3.1m and non-cash taxation credits of £6.8m relating to 
movement in deferred taxation liabilities and assets within 
the Group.
Goodwill
As outlined in the FY 13/14 annual report, given the proximity 
of the Activaero acquisition to Vectura’s year end, the acquisition 
accounting reported as at 31 March 2014 was deemed to be provisional. 
In accordance with IFRS 3 – Business Combinations, the fair values 
assigned to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
have been revised in the period to 18 March 2015 to reflect new 
information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the 
acquisition date.
During the year, an additional payment of €0.6m was made 
to the former shareholders of Activaero. This additional payment 
was in consideration for working capital items that were acquired 
during the acquisition. Accordingly, the goodwill associated with 
the acquisition has increased from €9.3m to €9.9m. 
June 2014 We announced that we had licensed the US rights to VR506 to our existing partner for VR315 US (undisclosed). 
Vectura received an initial milestone of £2.4m ($4m) upon signing of this agreement, and is eligible to receive 
up to a further $8m upon achievement of certain predetermined milestones.
In addition, we recognised a milestone of £0.9m ($1.5m), being the first of two development milestones earned 
during the year in respect of our partnered VR315 US programme.
October 2014 Approval of AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
 in Portugal triggered a milestone receipt of £0.9m (€1.5m) from our partner Sandoz.
November 2014 Approval of AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
 in the Czech Republic triggered another milestone receipt of £0.9m (€1.5m) from Sandoz.
A second development milestone of £0.9m ($1.5m) was recognised in respect of our partnership of VR315 US. 
Under the terms of this agreement, Vectura will receive up to a further $26m upon achievement of future 
predetermined development milestones. In addition, Vectura will receive a royalty on all sales of VR315 in the US.
March 2015 Our partner, Novartis, received acceptance by the FDA for their NDA submissions for QVA149 and NVA237. 
Upon confirmation of this acceptance, Vectura earned milestone revenues of £8.2m ($12.5m) and £4.9m 
($7.5m) respectively.
Product Licensing
Product licensing of £19.8m has increased by 49% year-on-year. FY 14/15 has been a year of excellent progress across new and existing 
partnerships, marked by a number of milestone events which are linked to significant revenue streams to Vectura over the coming years. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 42
The Strategic report, which comprises pages 1 to 42, has been 
approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
Dr Chris Blackwell
Chief Executive 
19 May 2015
Deferred Consideration
The deferred consideration of £25.6m relates to the €35m payment 
in cash which is due to be paid to the former Activaero shareholders 
in August 2015 as part of the acquisition consideration.
Foreign Exchange Rates
The following foreign exchange rates were used during the year:
2014/15 2013/14
Average rates
£/$ 1.61 1.59
£/€ 1.27 1.19
Period end rates
£/$ 1.48 1.67
£/€ 1.37 1.21
Cash Flow
Vectura continues to maintain a strong cash position with cash 
and cash equivalents at 31 March 2015 of £90.0m (2014: £81.7m). 
Vectura achieved a net cash inflow of £8.0m from operating activities 
(2014: £0.7m outflow), which is reflective of growing and sustainable 
cash receipts from royalty revenue and a focus on cost control 
throughout the business. The negative movement in trade and 
other receivables is largely due to the timing of the $20m in 
milestones earned from Novartis following FDA acceptance of 
the NDA filings for QVA129 and NVA237 in the US. This amount 
has now been received during FY 15/16.
By order of the Board,
Andrew J Oakley
Director
19 May 2015
FINANCIAL REVIEW continued
Goodwill continued
In accordance with International Financial Reporting Standard 3 
“Business Combinations”, the revised amounts have been recognised 
as though they were the amounts known at the acquisition date and 
so comparative information for the prior year has been restated. 
The acquisition accounting is now considered to be final.
With the exception of the deferred consideration payment to 
be made in August 2015, which was reflected in the provisional 
acquisition accounting, no additional payments are due to be made 
in respect of this acquisition.
Intangible Assets
Intangible assets of £104.3m include assets of £5.1m relating 
to the Innovata acquisition and assets of £99.2m relating to the 
Activaero acquisition.
The intangible assets of £5.1m (2014: £10.7m) associated with the 
Innovata acquisition have been amortised by £5.6m (2013/14: £6.4m) 
during the year. These assets will be fully written down over the 
forthcoming year. 
The carrying value of the intangible assets associated with the 
acquisition of Activaero is £99.2m (2014: £128.2m), at the prevailing 
exchange rate at the balance sheet date. The assets will continue to 
be amortised over their remaining useful life.
Translation Reserve
The assets and liabilities, including goodwill, acquired from 
Activaero are denominated in euros and therefore, in accordance 
with accounting standards, the Group has recognised a net foreign 
exchange difference of £11.4m within reserves as a result of the 
movement in the exchange rate between 31 March 2014 and 
31 March 2015. In future periods, the movement in this reserve 
will be dependent upon the £/€ exchange rate at the relevant 
balance sheet dates.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Vectura has invested £1.4m in its inhaled product manufacturing 
capabilities during the year (2014: £2.5m). Capital investment is 
expected to increase in FY 15/16 as we transfer manufacturing 
activities previously performed at our Gemünden site to our 
other sites in Germany and the UK.
Deferred Income
Deferred income relates to milestones received in cash but not 
yet recognised as revenue. Of the £1.7m on the balance sheet at 
31 March 2015 (2014: £1.8m), £0.2m will be recognised as revenue 
in 2015/16 and £1.5m, which relates to the VR315 (AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
) 
RoW deal with Sandoz, will be recognised as revenue in later periods.
Revenue
£58.0m
+59%
2013/14: £36.5m
EBITDA
1
£16.2m
+212%
2013/14: £5.2m
Basic EPS
0.9p
2013/14: (0.7p loss)
Cash and cash equivalents
£90.0m
+10%
2013/14: £81.7m
1 Earnings before investment income, finance (costs)/gains, tax, depreciation, amortisation, share based compensation and adjusted for non-recurring expenditure items. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 43
Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Dear shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 
Corporate governance report for the year ended 31 March 2015.
As a Board, we have a collective responsibility to shareholders for 
the sustainable long-term success of Vectura. We believe that a strong 
and balanced corporate governance framework is the foundation 
of a successful organisation. We adhere to the principles-based 
approach set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”), 
whilst recognising that our governance structure must be appropriately 
tailored to suit the needs of our business. 
Our corporate governance framework is built with a focus upon 
effective leadership, clear communication, risk management and 
a commitment to a culture of openness, honesty and integrity. 
This framework is embedded within the culture of our organisation 
through our core values and our underlying policies, procedures 
and management processes. 
Complying with the UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”)
I am pleased to report that throughout the financial year, and 
to the date of this report, Vectura has fully complied with the 
principles and provisions set out in the Code. We will continue 
to adhere to the Code and we will monitor developments and 
implement improvements in our governance framework during 
the year ahead. 
Diversity and leadership
The Board recognises the importance of diversity, in its broadest 
sense, at all levels within the organisation. When making appointments 
to the Board, we have due regard for gender diversity; however, all 
appointments are ultimately made on merit.
There has been one significant change to Board membership during 
the year. On 1 January 2015, Andrew J Oakley was appointed as 
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary. Andrew is a highly 
regarded and well established Chief Financial Officer and he brings 
a wealth of market knowledge and considerable transactional 
experience. We believe that Andrew is well positioned to help 
Vectura achieve its strategic objectives. The Board would like 
to thank his predecessor, Paul Oliver, for his considerable 
contribution to Vectura during his time with the Company. 
During the year, Chris Blackwell also announced his intention 
to step down as Chief Executive with effect from 1 July 2015. 
The Nomination Committee, with the support of independent external 
advisors, are leading the process to recruit Chris’ successor. Succession 
planning as well as overall Board balance and composition continue 
to be key areas of focus for the Nomination Committee. 
In this regard, I am pleased to report that Dr Per-Olof Andersson was 
appointed to the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director 
with effect from 1 April 2015. Per-Olof brings a strong and impressive 
track record to Vectura and we believe he will be of great benefit 
to the Company as we continue our transformation into a specialty 
pharmaceutical business.
Evaluating Board effectiveness
The annual Board performance evaluation was conducted internally 
during the year and, following this process, it was concluded that 
the individual members of the Board continue to be effective in 
their roles and that they have the necessary skills and experience to 
fulfil their duties. Details of the evaluation process and the outcome 
can be found on page 50 of this report. 
Communication with shareholders
The Board maintains its commitment to maintaining an open 
dialogue with our shareholders. As ever, all of Vectura’s Directors 
will be in attendance at our Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 
24 September 2015 and will be available to meet and address 
any questions from our investors. 
Bruno Angelici
Chairman
19 May 2015
INTRODUCTION  
FROM THE CHAIRMAN 44
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
1. Bruno Angelici
MBA
Role
Non-Executive Chairman
Tenure
Bruno Angelici, 67, was appointed to the Board 
of Vectura Group on 1 December 2013 and became 
Non-Executive Chairman on 1 February 2014.
Experience
Bruno is a French national with an MBA (Kellogg 
School of Management) and business and law 
degrees from Reims.
Bruno’s career includes senior management 
roles in pharmaceutical and medical device 
companies. Bruno retired from AstraZeneca in 
2010 as Executive Vice President International 
after a 20-year career. He was responsible 
for Europe, Japan, Asia Pacific, Latin America, 
Middle East and Africa having originally joined 
as President of ICI Pharmaceuticals France. 
Prior to this, he was at Baxter, a US-based global 
supplier of medical devices. He has extensive 
international experience, including in the US, 
and brings a deep understanding to the 
Company of the medical device and 
pharmaceutical industries.
External appointments
Bruno is a Non-Executive Director of Smiths 
Group plc, a FTSE 100 technology group, and 
Novo Nordisk A/S, a global healthcare company 
and world leader in diabetes care. He is also 
a member of the Global Advisory Board of 
Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Ltd Japan, 
the largest pharmaceutical company in Asia, 
and a member of the Supervisory Board 
of Wolters Kluwer NV, a global information 
services and publishing company.
2. Chris Blackwell
BSc, PhD
Role
Chief Executive and Executive Director
Tenure
Dr Chris Blackwell, 53, was appointed 
Chief Executive of Vectura in February 2004. He 
joined the Group in 2002 as Chief Operations Officer 
and Executive Director. 
Experience
Having graduated with a first class honours 
degree in applied biology, Chris received 
a PhD for his work at the University of Bath. 
Throughout both degrees, Chris was sponsored 
by ICI Pharmaceuticals (now AstraZeneca), 
and worked in the fields of respiratory 
and cardiovascular diseases.
Prior to Vectura, Chris was Executive Director of 
Drug Development at Scotia Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 
He was previously at Hoffmann-La Roche, where 
he was UK Director, Global Project Management, 
and before that, at Glaxo Group Research Ltd., 
in the Department of Clinical Pharmacology.
3. Andrew Oakley
BEcon, MBA, ACA
Role
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary
Tenure
Andrew Oakley, 52, was appointed 
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary 
of Vectura in January 2015.
Experience
Andrew holds a Bachelor of Economics Degree 
from Macquarie University and an MBA from 
London Business School and has been 
a Member of the Australian Institute 
of Chartered Accountants since 1987.
Prior to Vectura, Andrew was the Chief Financial 
Officer at the Swiss bio-pharmaceutical companies 
Actelion Ltd and Novimmune SA. Prior to joining 
Actelion, he served in a senior finance capacity 
for the global holding companies of Accenture, 
having previously held executive positions in 
major multinational building material companies 
and has also spent several years as an equity 
analyst with banks in Australia, UK and the US.
4. Trevor Phillips
BSc, PhD, MBA
Role
Chief Operations Officer 
and President of US Operations
Tenure
Dr Trevor Phillips, 54, joined the Board of Vectura 
in June 2012. He was appointed Chief Operations 
Officer in July 2011, having joined the Company 
in January 2010 as President of US Operations.
Experience
Trevor has a BSc in microbiology from the 
University of Reading and a PhD in microbial 
biochemistry from the University of Wales. 
He was awarded an MBA from Henley 
Management College in 1997.
Prior to Vectura, Trevor gained extensive 
international experience in organisational 
leadership, management and pharmaceutical 
drug development in a number of senior roles, 
including positions as CEO and President of the 
US publicly held company Critical Therapeutics 
Inc, following six years as the company’s Chief 
Operating Officer. During his time at Critical 
Therapeutics, Trevor was involved in setting up 
commercial partnerships, product in-licensing 
and out-licensing, managing drug development 
and NDA filings, commercial product manufacturing 
and mergers and acquisitions. Between 1986 
and 2002 Trevor held a number of management 
positions at Sepracor, Scotia Pharmaceuticals, 
Accenture, GlaxoWellcome Research and 
Development and Simbec Research Limited.
 R N
 2 3 4 1 45
Governance
5. John Brown
CBE, PhD, MBA, FRSE
Role
Non-Executive Director 
and Senior Independent Director
Tenure
Dr John Brown, 60, joined the Board of Vectura 
in 2004.
Experience
John was previously Chairman of BTG plc 
and Axis-Shield plc. Until late 2003, John 
was Chief Executive of Acambis plc, a leading 
producer of vaccines to treat and prevent 
infectious disease. John is an Honorary Professor 
of Edinburgh University and is a Fellow of the 
Royal Society of Edinburgh.
External appointments
John is Chairman of CXR Biosciences Ltd, 
Mode Diagnostics Ltd, The Cell Therapy Catapult 
and the Roslin Foundation. He also chairs 
the Life Science Advisory Board for the 
Scottish government.
6. Susan Foden
MA, DPhil
Role
Non-Executive Director
Tenure
Dr Susan Foden, 62, joined the Board of Vectura 
in January 2007.
Experience
Susan has held various positions in 
venture capital and UK biotech companies. 
From 2000 to 2003 she was an Investor Director 
with the London-based venture capital firm Merlin 
Biosciences Limited, and was Chief Executive Officer 
of the technology transfer company 
Cancer Research Campaign Technology Ltd 
from 1987 to 2000. She studied biochemistry 
at the University of Oxford from where she 
obtained an MA and a DPhil.
External appointments
Susan holds a number of Non-Executive 
Directorships with both public and private 
companies in the biotech and healthcare 
field, including BTG plc, Source Bioscience plc, 
Cizzle Biotechnology Ltd, BerGenBio AS 
and Evgen Ltd.
7. Neil Warner
BA, FCA, MCT
Role
Non-Executive Director
Tenure
Neil Warner, 62, joined the Board of Vectura 
in February 2011.
Experience
Neil has significant financial and managerial 
experience in multinational businesses. He was 
Finance Director at Chloride Group plc, a position he 
held for 14 years until the company’s acquisition 
by Emerson Electric. Prior to this, he spent six years 
at Exel plc (formerly Ocean Group plc and acquired 
by Deutsche Post in December 2005), where he 
held a number of senior posts in financial planning, 
treasury and control. He has also held senior 
positions in Balfour Beatty plc (formerly BICC 
Group plc), Alcoa and PricewaterhouseCoopers 
and was a Non-Executive Director of Dechra 
Pharmaceuticals plc, where he was the 
Senior Independent Director and Chair of the 
Audit Committee. Neil has an economics degree 
from the University of Leeds and is a Fellow of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
External appointments
Neil is the Non-Executive Chairman of Enteq 
Upstream plc, a specialist reach and recovery 
products and technologies provider to the 
upstream oil and gas services market.
8. Per-Olof Andersson
MD, PhD
Role
Non-Executive Director
Tenure
Dr Per-Olof Andersson, 62, joined the Board 
of Vectura on 1 April 2015.
Experience
Per-Olof was born in Sweden and studied 
medicine at Lund University. Per-Olof has 
an international R&D track record within the 
pharmaceuticals, bio-pharmaceuticals and 
speciality pharmaceutical industry and considerable 
experience in respiratory therapeutic development. 
In 2011, Per-Olof retired from Almirall where 
he was Executive Director for R&D and Member 
of the Board of Directors. Prior to joining Almirall 
in 2006, Per-Olof had a distinguished international 
career at Pharmacia and Pfizer over a period 
of nearly 20 years. Since 2011, Per-Olof has 
been an independent consultant advising 
biotech and pharmaceutical companies 
and in particular working with Almirall.
 R
 R
 N
 N
 A
 A
 R N A
Committee membership
 R Remuneration Committee
 N Nomination Committee
 A Audit Committee
  Committee chairman
 7 8 5 6 46
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT
1. Karl Keegan
BSc, MPhil, PhD, MSc
Role
Chief Corporate Development Officer
Tenure
Dr Karl Keegan, 48, joined Vectura 
in September 2012.
Experience
Karl is an Irish national who has worked in the 
healthcare industry for over 20 years.
Karl has a BSc in pharmacology from University 
College Dublin, an MPhil and PhD in pharmacology 
from the University of Cambridge and a masters 
degree in finance from the London Business 
School. Following postdoctoral research work at 
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, Karl 
joined SmithKline Beecham as a bench scientist 
and later moved to a strategic commercial role 
within the Neuroscience Strategic Product 
Development team.
Upon leaving the pharmaceutical industry, 
Karl became one of the leading financial 
analysts covering the biotechnology industry 
on a global basis. His most recent analyst role 
was at Canaccord Adams, as Managing Director, 
UK Head of Equity Research and Global Head of 
Life Sciences Research. Prior to joining Vectura 
in 2012, he was CFO of Minster Pharmaceuticals, 
a publicly listed UK company, and most recently 
CFO of Pharming Group, a Dutch biotech 
company listed on Euronext.
2. Roger Heerman
BS, MBA
Role
Chief Commercial Officer
Tenure
Roger Heerman, 42, joined Vectura in 2010 
and was appointed Senior Vice President, 
Commercial Strategy in 2013. 
Experience
Prior to joining Vectura, Roger gained extensive 
US and international commercialisation experience 
in a number of senior roles including VP Sales 
and Marketing of the US publicly held company 
Critical Therapeutics, Inc. and as VP, Director 
of Client Service at McK Healthcare.
At Critical Therapeutics, he was responsible for 
the build-out of the commercial infrastructure 
and the launch of ZYFLO CR in the US. At McK 
Healthcare, Roger supported the launch and 
repositioning efforts of numerous US and global 
brands including UCB’s Neupro
®
 for Parkinson’s 
disease and IROKO’s Aggrastat
®
 for acute 
coronary syndrome.
Roger began his career in the pharmaceutical 
industry as a sales representative in the respiratory 
division at GlaxoSmithKline. He received his BS 
from Babson College and his MBA from the 
F.W. Olin School of Business at Babson College.
3. Joanne Hombal
BSc, PD-HRM
Role
Human Resources Director
Tenure
Joanne Hombal, 41, joined Vectura 
in January 2015.
Experience
Joanne has a BSc in psychology from the 
University of Birmingham, a postgraduate 
diploma in human resource management from 
the University of Glamorgan and is a Chartered 
Member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel 
and Development.
Before joining Vectura, Joanne was 
Vice President HR at Invensys Rail with 
responsibility for setting the people strategy 
for Northern Europe. She has also held senior 
HR roles at AXA Life and led a number 
of organisational development and 
transformation initiatives.
 1 2 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 47
Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS  
AND COMPOSITION
Statement of compliance with the  
UK Corporate Governance Code
The UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”) sets out the 
standards of good practice in relation to corporate governance 
to be applied by companies with a listing on the London Stock 
Exchange. A copy of the Code can be found on the Financial 
Reporting Council’s website (www.frc.org.uk). 
The principles and provisions of the Code cover five areas: 
leadership of the Company, effectiveness of the Board, 
accountability of the Board, remuneration and relations with 
shareholders. The Board confirms that Vectura has fully complied 
with the principles and provisions set out in the Code throughout 
the year under review.
Management and corporate structure
Shareholders
The Board
Chief Executive
Executive 
Management 
Team
Remuneration 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
 page 53 page 57 page 59
Nomination 
Committee Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 48
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued
Leadership
The Board of Directors
The Board is collectively responsible for the leadership, direction 
and sustainable long-term success of Vectura. 
A well-balanced Board is vital to ensure that there is appropriate 
rigour and challenge in the decision making process. Vectura’s 
Board is comprised of Directors from various backgrounds who 
have a breadth of professional and sector skills and experience. 
During the year ended 31 March 2015, Vectura’s Board, headed 
by the Chairman, was comprised of three Executive Directors and 
three Non-Executive Directors who were determined by the Board 
to be independent. The Executive Directors are responsible for 
Vectura’s business operations whereas the Non-Executive Directors 
are responsible for bringing independent and objective judgement 
to Board deliberations and decisions. 
Chairman Bruno Angelici
Board members (Executive) Chris Blackwell
Trevor Phillips
Andrew Oakley (from 1 January 2015)
Paul Oliver (until 1 January 2015)
Board members (Non-Executive) John Brown
Susan Foden
Neil Warner
With effect from 1 April 2015, Dr Per-Olof Andersson was appointed 
to the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director.
Brief biographies of current Board members are set out on 
pages 44 to 45.
The
Board
Audit 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Meetings
attended/(held)
whilst the
 Director was a
 Board member
Meetings 
attended/ 
(held)
Meetings 
attended/ 
(held)
Meetings 
attended/ 
(held)
Bruno Angelici (Chair) 10/(10) n/a 3/(3) 4/(4)
Chris Blackwell 10/(10) n/a n/a n/a
Trevor Phillips 10/(10) n/a n/a n/a
Paul Oliver 7/(8) n/a n/a n/a
Andrew Oakley 2/(2) n/a n/a n/a
John Brown 10/(10) 3/(3) 3/(3) 3/(4)
Neil Warner 9/(10) 3/(3) 3/(3) 4/(4)
Susan Foden 9/(10) 2/(3) 3/(3) 4/(4)
Key responsibilities
Whilst the Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to Board 
committees, there are certain matters that are considered to be 
so important to the long-term success of Vectura that they are 
reserved for Board decision and approval. Such matters include:
• approving business and strategic plans;
• approving budgets and monitoring performance against them;
• approving significant acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure;
• approving Vectura’s Interim Report and Annual Report and Accounts;
• management of Vectura’s risk profile;
• executive appointments and remuneration; and
• monitoring Vectura’s corporate governance arrangements.
Board and committee meetings
The Board holds formal meetings on a bimonthly basis, with further meetings being called when circumstances or urgent 
business dictate. Additional meetings may be held via conference call. 
The Board met ten times during the year. Details of Directors’ attendance at these meetings are set out below. 
In the event that a Director is unavailable to attend a Board meeting, or to attend by telephone link, he or she 
will communicate their views on items to be raised at the meeting through the Chairman.
A well-balanced Board is vital to 
ensure that there is appropriate 
rigour and challenge in the 
decision making process. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 49
Governance
Board agenda
The Board’s main activities during the year are described below:
• review and approval of Vectura’s strategy;
• regular updates on business performance and market conditions;
• review of project and pipeline progress;
• approval of the budget for FY 15/16;
• review of progress against the approved budget for FY 14/15;
• internally facilitated review of Board effectiveness; 
• approval of the corporate goals; 
• resignation of Paul Oliver as Chief Financial Officer 
and Company Secretary;
• appointment of Andrew Oakley as Chief Financial Officer 
and Company Secretary;
• appointment of Dr Per-Olof Andersson as an independent 
Non-Executive Director; and
• initiation of the search for a new Chief Executive, following the 
resignation of Dr Chris Blackwell.
Information and support
To enable the Board to function effectively and to assist Directors 
in discharging their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to 
all relevant information. In the case of Board meetings, this consists 
of a formal agenda and a comprehensive set of papers including 
regular business progress reports. An established procedure is in 
place to ensure that such information is provided to Directors in a 
timely manner in advance of meetings. 
Roles and responsibilities
Division of responsibilities between the Chairman 
and the Chief Executive
Clear roles and responsibilities are fundamental to the effective 
running of the Board. Whilst maintaining a close working relationship, 
our Chairman and Chief Executive have clearly defined and separate 
roles. These roles are set out in writing and have been agreed by 
the Board.
The Chairman
Our independent Chairman, Bruno Angelici, is responsible for the 
effective running of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness in 
all aspects of its role, in particular for creating the conditions for overall 
Board and individual effectiveness by:
• providing a sounding board to the Chief Executive;
• setting the agenda, style and tone of Board meetings;
• ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in the 
development of corporate strategy;
• ensuring the highest standards of leadership and governance 
at Board level;
• ensuring that the performance of the Board, its committees 
and individual Directors are evaluated each year; and 
• ensuring effective communications with shareholders.
The Chief Executive 
Our Chief Executive, Dr Chris Blackwell, is responsible for all aspects 
of the operation and management of Vectura and its business, within 
the authorities delegated to him by the Board. In executing this role, 
Chris Blackwell is responsible for developing the Group’s long-term 
strategic direction and strategy for consideration and approval by 
the Board. He is also responsible for the Group’s operations, strategy 
implementation and achievement of our operational and financial targets.
Chris Blackwell is supported in his role by other members of the 
Executive Management Team (“the EMT”).
Executive Management Team
The Board has delegated responsibility for day-to-day management 
of Vectura to the EMT. The EMT is comprised of the Chief Executive, 
the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Operations Officer, the 
Chief Corporate Development Officer, the Chief Commercial Officer 
and the Director of Human Resources. 
The EMT is responsible for developing the strategy approved by the 
Board and, in particular, is responsible for ensuring that the Group’s 
budget and forecasts are properly prepared, that targets are met 
and that the business is managed and developed within the overall 
Board approved budget. Variations from the budget and changes 
in strategy require approval of the Board.
The EMT normally has eight to ten formal meetings during the year, 
in addition to weekly update calls. Other senior operational personnel 
also attend meetings of the EMT as appropriate.
Brief biographies of the EMT members are set out on pages 44 and 46. 
Non-Executive Directors
The duties of the Non-Executive Directors include contributing to 
the formulation of Vectura’s strategy, shaping proposals on succession 
planning and constructively challenging the Executive Directors where 
they consider it to be appropriate. Vectura’s Non-Executive Directors 
are all experienced and influential individuals and their skills and 
expertise facilitate the effective functioning of the Board, ensuring 
that all relevant matters are fully debated and that no one individual 
can dominate the Board’s decision-making process.
Our Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to meet the Chairman 
without the presence of Executive Directors, as appropriate. Such 
meetings between the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors 
took place during the year and included discussions relating to each 
Executive Director’s performance.
Biographies of the Non-Executive Directors can be found on 
pages 44 to 45.
Senior Independent Director
John Brown is our Senior Independent Director and he is available 
to help shareholders with concerns that they cannot resolve through 
our Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer or for which 
such a contact is inappropriate in the circumstances.
The Senior Independent Director is responsible for performing an 
annual review of the performance of the Chairman and he is available 
to act as an intermediary for Directors, if necessary. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 50
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued
Effectiveness
Independence
The Board has determined that at least half of the Board, excluding 
the Chairman, is comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors. 
Key considerations are set out below:
Share options
The holding of share options by Non-Executive Directors could be, 
amongst other things, relevant in determining whether a Non-Executive 
Director is independent. As explained in previous Annual Reports, 
prior to its listing on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) on 
2 July 2004, in addition to the payment of fees, the Group remunerated 
Non-Executive Directors with options to acquire shares in Vectura. 
At the time that the awards were granted, it was essential for an 
emerging pharmaceutical company such as Vectura to secure the 
recruitment and retention of Non-Executive Directors with the 
appropriate experience and international perspective in the context 
of the Group’s then stage of development. As such, the Board considers 
that the historic granting of share options to Non-Executive Directors 
while the Company was a private company was appropriate. The share 
options did not have performance conditions attached to them and 
thus they were consistent with holding a similar number of shares. 
After detailed consideration, the Board has determined that it does 
not believe the holding of share options by John Brown impacted 
on his independence in character or judgement during the financial 
year under review. 
Dr John Brown exercised his outstanding share options during the 
year and therefore, as at 31 March 2015, no Non-Executive Directors 
hold share options in Vectura. There is no intention to award any 
further options to any Non-Executive Director.
Material business relationships
Other factors that may reflect on the independence of a Non-Executive 
Director include any material business relationships with the Group. 
There were no such relationships during the year up until the date 
of this report, or in the prior year.
Length of service
The Code indicates that serving more than nine years as a Non-Executive 
Director could be relevant to the determination of a Non-Executive 
Director’s independence. Notwithstanding the fact that John Brown 
has been a Non-Executive Director for in excess of nine years, the Board, 
having evaluated his performance, considers that he continues to 
be fully independent in character and judgement when discharging 
his duties and responsibilities. 
Performance evaluation 
The Board has a process for evaluating its own performance and that 
of its committees and individual Directors, including the Chairman. 
An annual formal evaluation takes place through an appraisal process 
and informal evaluation discussions take place on a regular basis 
throughout the year.
During the year, a questionnaire was circulated for all Board members 
to answer and comment upon specific questions covering specific 
topics. These included the responsibilities and the roles of individual 
Directors and the Board as a whole, the conduct of Board meetings 
and committees of the Board, the Board’s role in monitoring the 
performance of the Group and corporate governance practices. 
A detailed, anonymised analysis of the replies to the questionnaire, 
together with conclusions drawn from such analysis, was prepared 
by the consultant and considered by the Board. 
Following this review, it was concluded that the Board and committees 
remained effective and that individual members of the Board have 
the necessary skills and expertise to discharge their responsibilities. 
It was noted that the Board has both formal and informal meetings, 
and this balance provides the dynamics for an effective Board. 
Election and re-election
All Directors have service agreements with indefinite terms, with 
twelve months’ notice for Executive Directors, three months’ notice 
for Non-Executive Directors and six months’ notice in the case 
of the Chairman.
Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity 
following their appointment, and to re-election at intervals of no 
more than three years thereafter. In accordance with the Code, 
Non-Executive Directors who have served more than nine years 
on the Board are subject to annual re-election by shareholders. 
The performance of Andrew Oakley, who is proposed for election, 
and the performances of Neil Warner, Susan Foden, John Brown 
and Trevor Phillips, who are being proposed for re-election, at the 
Annual General Meeting (AGM), have been evaluated and it has 
been determined that they continue to perform effectively and 
show full commitment to their roles on the Board. In accordance 
with our Articles of Association, Dr Per-Olof Andersson will also be 
proposed for election at the forthcoming AGM.
Board appointments and succession
There are formal, rigorous and transparent procedures for the 
appointment of new Directors to the Board. Shortlisted candidates 
are interviewed by the Chairman of the Board and by the individual 
members of the Nomination Committee. Evaluations of appropriate 
candidates are then circulated to all members of the Nomination 
Committee for consideration, before a recommendation is made 
to the Board.
The Board recognises the importance of diversity within all levels 
of the Group and it recognises that the Group, its shareholders and 
other stakeholders are best served by a Board which is diverse in 
skills, experience and background, including gender. Accordingly, 
diversity is considered when making appointments to the Board; 
however, any appointments are ultimately made on merit against 
agreed selection criteria.
The recruitment process for Executive and Non-Executive Directors 
focuses on ensuring that the Board as a whole displays the balance 
of skills necessary to deliver Vectura’s strategy.
Induction and development
It is vital that Directors have a full understanding of the Group and 
its operations. Therefore, upon appointment each Director undergoes 
a formal induction programme, which includes briefing materials tailored 
to his or her particular Board responsibilities. New Directors meet with 
Board members and executive management as part of their induction 
process and tours of the Group’s main facilities are scheduled to provide 
them with the opportunity to meet with operational management.  Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 51
Governance
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary, who ensures that Directors take independent professional 
advice, at Vectura’s expense, when it is judged necessary in order 
for them to discharge their responsibilities.
Directors also receive regular updates on changes and developments 
within the business as well as information regarding legislative and 
regulatory changes. During the annual Board effectiveness review, 
all Directors are encouraged to identify any further training requirements 
which they feel would assist them in discharging their duties. 
Accountability
The Board is committed to providing a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Company’s position and prospects. For information 
regarding the Directors’ responsibility to prepare financial statements, 
please refer to the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities on page 80. 
The Independent auditor’s report includes a statement by the auditor 
on his reporting responsibilities.
The measures in place to ensure the auditor’s independence are set 
out in the Audit Committee report on page 56.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal 
control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness. In 
discharging that responsibility, the Board confirms that it has established 
the procedures necessary to comply with the Code. Employees are 
required to follow clearly defined internal procedures and policies 
appropriate to the business and their position within the business. 
These procedures are regularly reviewed by the Board. 
Risk management 
Vectura adopts a robust risk management process, which is reviewed 
on a regular basis. This process is outlined on page 21 of his report. 
Such a process is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk 
of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost 
of a control procedure should not exceed the expected benefits. 
The significant risks identified are documented on pages 22 to 25 
of this Annual Report.
Internal control 
The Group’s internal controls are regularly reviewed as part of the 
risk management process. The Audit Committee reviews the Group’s 
internal financial control system on an annual basis and makes 
recommendations to the Board regarding any improvements that 
are required. The Board also carries out reviews of the non-financial 
control systems.
The Group’s key systems of internal control include:
• Organisational structure: The Group’s organisational structure 
has clearly established responsibilities and lines of accountability. 
The Group endeavours to appoint employees with appropriate 
skills, knowledge and experience for the roles they undertake.
• Documented policies and procedures: 
•  The Group has documented quality procedures to ensure the 
maintenance of regulatory compliance. These are subject to 
periodic review to ensure current standards of quality compliance 
are maintained. A quality group monitors compliance with good 
laboratory practice, good clinical practice and good manufacturing 
practice through the implementation of a compliance programme 
for in-house and contracted-out activities. 
•  The Group has a formal Health and Safety Committee comprising 
appropriate members of management and other employees 
to be responsible for these issues.
•  The Group has formal procedures to ensure appropriate security 
of documents and proprietary information.
•  The Group has a formal policy in place regarding share 
dealing in Vectura Group plc shares by employees and 
their connected persons.
•  The Group has a comprehensive financial planning and 
accounting framework which includes a robust budgeting 
and forecasting system. Detailed monthly management accounts 
are prepared and reports are provided to the Board showing 
actual results against budget and forecast results, highlighting 
and explaining significant variances. Variance reports are also 
provided to, and discussed with, the budget manager.
•  The Group has specific controls in place regarding the production 
of consolidated financial information. This includes operational 
procedures and validation and review of information.
•  The Group has clear requirements for the approval and control 
of expenditure. Material or strategic investment decisions are 
subject to formal approval by the Board. Day-to-day expenditure 
is controlled using predetermined authorisation limits which 
are approved by the EMT in accordance with tolerance limits 
agreed with the Board.
•  Whistleblowing policy: the Group has a formalised whistleblowing 
policy which is available to all staff via the intranet. This policy 
provides a mechanism through which staff of the Group may, 
in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties 
in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
There have been no significant internal control failings or weaknesses 
throughout the year ended 31 March 2015 and up to the date of 
publication of this report.
Remuneration
The Board has adopted remuneration policies that are considered 
sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the 
highest calibre who are capable of delivering the Group’s strategic 
objectives. Remuneration packages are structured in such a way as 
to link rewards to corporate and individual performance. For further 
details, please refer to the Remuneration report set out on 
pages 59 to 77. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 52
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued
Relations with shareholders
Shareholder relations
The Board recognises the importance of regular dialogue with 
shareholders and regular meetings between institutional shareholders 
and Executive Directors are held throughout the year. The Chief Executive 
and the Chief Financial Officer give annual and half-yearly presentations 
to institutional investors, analysts and the media. Periodic site visits 
are held, as considered appropriate. 
Vectura’s brokers collate anonymous feedback after investor 
presentations. This feedback is then circulated to the Board for its 
consideration. Through this programme of regular dialogue, the 
Executive Directors and the Board are able to develop an understanding 
of shareholder views and objectives and create a mutual understanding 
of the Company’s strategy. 
All meetings with shareholders are held in such a way as to protect 
price sensitive information that has not already been made generally 
available to the Company’s shareholders and similar guidelines apply 
to communications between the Company and other parties, such 
as financial analysts, brokers and the media.
In addition, all Non-Executive Directors have developed an understanding 
of the views of shareholders through corporate broker briefings 
and review of issued analyst notes. The Chairman seeks to meet 
with major shareholders on a regular basis and Non-Executive Directors 
meet with major shareholders as required. 
Where material changes in respect of remuneration schemes or 
governance structures are proposed, the Board seeks to consult 
with its major shareholders before implementing such changes. 
The Company views its website (www.vectura.com) as an important 
investor relations tool, particularly for private investors. In line with 
best practice, the website is regularly updated, ensuring that information 
relating to the Group and its activities is easily accessible. The website 
provides an overview of the business including its strategy, products 
and objectives.
All periodic reports and accounts are made available to shareholders 
on the website and paper copies are mailed to those shareholders 
who have elected to receive them. Separate announcements of all 
material events are made as necessary by press release. All such 
announcements are published on the website without delay along 
with webcasts of both the Interim and Annual Report presentations. 
The terms of reference of each of the Board’s three committees 
and certain corporate governance documents are also published 
on the Group’s website. 
Private shareholders are encouraged to express their views and 
concerns either in person at the AGM or by e-mail using the links 
provided on the Group’s website.
Constructive use of the AGM
The Board seeks to use the AGM (together with other forums) to 
communicate with investors and encourage their participation by 
making business presentations and inviting shareholder questions. 
The Chairs of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees 
are present at the AGM to answer questions through the Chairman 
of the Board. 
Notice of the meeting is posted to shareholders not less than 
20 working days prior to the date of the AGM. The information 
sent to shareholders includes a summary of the business to be 
covered at the AGM, where a separate resolution is prepared for 
each substantive matter. Results of voting at the AGM are posted 
on the Group’s website as soon as they are available. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 53
Governance
Dear shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Vectura’s Audit 
Committee report for the year ended 31 March 2015.
During the financial year, the Audit Committee has continued to focus 
on the quality and integrity of the information provided in the Group’s 
published financial reports. The Committee continually reviews the 
corporate governance landscape and is aware of the forthcoming 
changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”) which 
will come into effect for Vectura during the 2015/16 financial year. 
The Committee is very supportive of these proposed changes to the 
Code, and we believe that it allows the Audit Committee to further 
strengthen its role as the key independent oversight committee at 
Vectura and to add value to the Group and its operations. This report 
highlights how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities as 
set out in the Code.
I hope you will find this report helpful in understanding the work 
of the Committee.
Neil Warner
Chair of the Audit Committee
19 May 2015
Role and responsibilities
The Audit Committee (“the Committee”) operates under written terms 
of reference, which are modelled on the Code and are available on 
the Company website, www.vectura.com. The Committee advises the 
Board as to whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, 
are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
The Committee reviews the annual and half-year financial statements 
and interim management statements. In reviewing these reports, the 
Committee considers whether the accounting policies applied during 
the preparation of the information are consistent year-on-year and 
whether the disclosures made are appropriate, complete and in 
compliance with the relevant financial reporting standards, corporate 
governance standards and regulatory requirements. The Committee 
also considers the significant areas in which judgement has been applied 
in the preparation of the financial statements. In fulfilling this role, 
it supports the Board in discharging its responsibilities in relation to 
Group’s external financial reporting and similar announcements.
The Committee manages the relationship with the external auditor 
on behalf of the Board. During the year, the Committee reviews and 
monitors the independence of the external auditor and considers 
the effectiveness of the external audit process. In addition, the 
Committee is responsible for developing and implementing the Group’s 
policy on non-audit services. The Committee makes recommendations 
to the Board regarding the appointment and, where appropriate, 
reappointment of the external auditor and it approves the external 
auditor’s terms of engagement. On an annual basis, the Committee 
will consider the need for an internal audit function and will make 
recommendations to the Board accordingly.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the integrity and 
effectiveness of the Group’s financial risk management and internal 
control systems.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board on all significant 
matters reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee has access to the external auditor and, if considered 
necessary, is authorised to obtain external professional advice 
including, without limitation, legal and accounting advice to assist 
in the performance of its duties. No such advice has been sought 
during the year.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
  Read more about our business model on 
pages 14 and 15
  Read more on our strategy on   
pages 16 and 17 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 54
Membership and meetings
In accordance with the Code, the Audit Committee comprises 
three independent Non-Executive Directors: Mr Warner, Dr Brown 
and Dr Foden. The Board is satisfied that all members of the Committee 
have the breadth of knowledge, experience and overview of the 
Group’s business and financial dynamics and the risks facing the 
Group to effectively fulfil the Committee’s responsibilities.
The Committee is chaired by Mr Warner, who is a Fellow of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants with significant recent and 
relevant financial experience. Details of Mr Warner’s financial 
experience are set out in his biography on page 45.
The Group Company secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee 
and the Executive Directors also attend Committee meetings at the 
invitation of the Chairman. So as to facilitate open and unreserved 
discussion, the Committee meets with the external auditor at least 
twice a year without management being present. The Committee 
Chairman keeps in touch, as required, with the key people involved 
in the Group’s governance, including the Chairman of the Board, the 
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the external 
audit lead partner.
The composition of the Committee is reviewed annually to ensure 
that it contains the appropriate balance of knowledge, skills and 
experience to support the business.
Financial reporting
As explained above, the Committee is responsible for monitoring 
the integrity of the Group’s financial statements and reviewing 
the significant judgements applied in the preparation of financial 
information. During the year, the Committee reviewed the Group’s 
interim management statement which was issued in August 2014, 
the interim report for the period ended 30 September 2014, and 
the preliminary announcement and Annual Report and Accounts for 
the year ended 31 March 2015. In November 2014, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (“the FCA”) issued a Policy Statement removing the 
requirement to publish interim management statements. The Group’s 
interim management statement issued in August 2014 was the last 
statement required to be published under the FCA regulations.
The significant issues considered and the conclusions reached 
by the Committee are outlined in this report.
Significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements
Acquisition accounting 
On 13 March 2014, the Group announced that it had acquired 100% 
of the share capital of Activaero GmbH for a total consideration of 
€130m (£108m). The provisional accounting for this acquisition was 
set out in the notes to the 2013/14 Annual Report. In accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards, the Group had twelve 
months to finalise the accounting for the acquisition and, as a result 
of this, changes have been made to certain balances and the financial 
statements have been restated to reflect these changes. The full details 
of the acquisition and the revised accounting treatment applied are 
set out in note 29 to the financial statements.
The Committee reviewed the revised accounting treatment applied in 
the 2014/15 financial statements. The key areas of judgement relating 
to the acquisition are the identification of intangible assets and the 
subsequent determination of their fair value. Management provided 
a report to the Committee detailing how intangible assets had been 
identified, how their useful economic lives had been derived and the 
key judgements, and assumptions made in determining likely returns 
and an appropriate discount rate. Each of these issues was discussed 
with management and the external auditor, who also provided 
detailed reporting to the Committee in respect of this matter.
Based upon the evidence reviewed and the discussions held, 
the Committee is satisfied that the identification and calculation 
of intangible assets is reasonable based upon the known facts 
and the information available to the Group, and that the transaction 
has been appropriately presented in the financial statements.
Revenue recognition
As disclosed on page 98 of this report, the Group has five revenue 
streams, being royalty income, product licensing milestone income, 
technology licensing milestone income, development services and 
device sales.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the judgements exercised by 
management in determining when to recognise key milestone events, 
particularly those milestones that were achieved around a period end. 
The Committee also discussed each significant milestone achieved during 
the year with the external auditor. Following discussions held and the 
review performed, the Committee is satisfied that the treatment 
adopted by management is reasonable and in compliance with 
IAS 18 and Vectura’s accounting policies.
Details of the number of meetings held by the Committee and attendance thereat is detailed on page 48.
Member
Date of
 appointment
N W Warner (Chair) 1 February 2011
J R Brown 13 May 2004
S E Foden 18 January 2007
Committee meetings held during the year coincided with key dates in the Group’s financial reporting cycle. The key issues considered by 
the Committee during the year are outlined in this report.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 55
Governance
The recognition of royalty revenue involves accruing for an estimate 
of underlying product sales in the final quarter, and management 
has limited visibility over this information, save for where a licensing 
partner makes the information publicly available, or where a royalty 
statement is provided to the Group in advance of its financial results 
reporting date. This area was an increased focus during 2014/15, 
as the Group has now begun to receive significant royalty streams 
from a number of new products and therefore management does 
not have significant historic evidence upon which to base the 
revenue accrual. The basis for each accrual was discussed with 
both management and the auditor, and the Committee is satisfied 
that appropriate assumptions have been made, where actual 
revenue information is not available to the Group.
Goodwill impairment
During the year, particular attention was paid to the carrying value 
of goodwill. Goodwill associated with the acquisition of Innovata, 
Vectura Delivery Devices (VDD) and Co-ordinated Drug Development 
(since renamed Vectura Limited) totals £49.6m and, as such, it 
represents one of the largest assets on the Group’s balance sheet. 
For the purposes of impairment testing, management has determined 
that there is only one cash-generating unit (CGU) relating to these 
assets. This is considered appropriate in light of the fact that these 
entities have now fully integrated into the Group and future 
projects will use a mixture of Innovata, VDD and Vectura Limited 
technologies and expertise.
The Committee reviewed the judgements and assumptions underlying 
the models used to support the carrying value of goodwill in the 
consolidated balance sheet. The primary judgement areas relate to 
the achievability of long-term business plans and the discount rate 
applied to the relevant cash flows. Management provided the 
Committee with a report, outlining the basis for the assumptions 
made. The Committee reviewed this document and challenged 
management assumptions where appropriate.
The carrying value of goodwill was also a key area of focus for 
the external audit team and, accordingly, Deloitte LLP (“Deloitte”) 
provided a detailed report to the Committee regarding management’s 
assumptions and conclusions. This report also included the results 
of sensitivity testing performed, which assessed whether a “reasonably 
possible” change in a key assumption could result in an impairment 
of the balance. The Committee noted that there were no disagreements 
between the conclusions of management and the conclusions made 
by the external auditor. Following a review of the evidence provided 
and discussions with both management and the audit team, the 
Committee is satisfied that no impairment charge should be recorded 
in 2014/15 and that the disclosures made in the financial statements 
are appropriate.
Risk management and internal control
The Board as a whole, including the Audit Committee members, 
considers the nature and extent of Vectura’s financial risk management 
framework and the risk profile that is acceptable to achieve the Group’s 
strategic objectives. The Committee is responsible for reviewing 
the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control systems. In order to discharge this responsibility, 
the Committee receives reports from Vectura’s management team 
and the external auditor as appropriate. The Committee has noted 
the upcoming changes to the Code in respect of risk management 
and reporting of risk and notes that the Group is currently performing 
a review of risk management practices in conjunction with an external 
specialist to ensure that risk management policies and practices 
remain compliant with evolving best practice.
Each year, the Audit Committee considers the need for an internal 
audit function and has concluded that, given the size of the Group’s 
operations at this time, it is not necessary.
Whistleblowing
The Audit Committee reviews arrangements by which staff 
of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible 
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters. 
The Audit Committee’s objective is to ensure that arrangements 
are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation 
of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The Group has a formal whistleblowing policy, which is available 
to all staff via the Group’s intranet.
UK Bribery Act
The Group has continued to operate its anti-bribery policy, introduced 
in 2010, in response to the UK Bribery Act 2010. This has included 
the conduct of due diligence on new key business partners who 
may act on behalf of the Group in higher risk areas of business.
External audit
The external auditor, Deloitte, is engaged to express an opinion 
on the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements.
The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations 
to the Board on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the 
external auditor. When considering reappointment, the Committee 
considers the independence of the audit firm and the effectiveness 
of the overall external audit process.
Audit engagement partner rotation
Deloitte adheres to a rotation policy which is in accordance with 
the ethical standards of the Audit Practices Board (“the APB”) and the 
Group engagement partner is rotated every five years. David Hedditch, 
the current engagement partner, was appointed during the 2012/13 
financial year and therefore the next rotation is scheduled to take 
place in time for the 2017/18 financial year audit. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 56
External audit continued
Independence and non-audit work performed 
by the external auditor
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the 
independence and objectivity of the external auditor. On an annual basis, 
the auditor confirms its policies for ensuring auditor independence 
and provides the Committee with a confirmation that it continues 
to be independent in respect of the forthcoming audit engagement.
Vectura’s policy on the provision of non-audit services is a key 
mechanism which safeguards the independence of the external 
auditor. The provision of non-audit services by the auditor is 
governed by a “non-audit services policy”, which is reviewed by the 
Committee on an annual basis. The policy sets out the circumstances 
in which the external auditor may be permitted to undertake 
non-audit services and the overriding purpose of the policy is 
to ensure that the auditor does not provide a service that: 
• creates a mutuality of interest;
• places the auditor in a position of auditing their own work;
• results in the auditor acting as a Vectura manager or employee; or
• places the auditor in a position to advocate for Vectura.
Vectura does not impose an automatic restriction on the provision 
of non-audit services by the external auditor. The external auditor is 
eligible for selection to provide non-audit services that are not, and 
are not perceived to be, in conflict with auditor independence, provided 
that the auditor has the skill, competence and integrity to carry out 
the work in the best interest of the Group. Where appropriate, services 
are tendered prior to awarding work to the external auditor.
During the year, Deloitte undertook non-audit services, and the 
relevant fees are disclosed in note 5 to the financial statements. 
These services were provided in compliance with the policy 
outlined above and no actual conflicts of interest were found to 
exist between the audit work and the non-audit work performed, 
which related to the interim financial report and tax compliance 
work. The Committee considered that it was appropriate for the 
auditor to undertake these services given the nature of the work 
to be performed. During a planning meeting held in February 2015, 
the external auditor confirmed to the Audit Committee that it had 
met its statutory requirements with regard to independence. 
Accordingly, the Audit Committee confirms that the Group continues 
to receive an independent audit service. On this basis, the Committee 
has recommended to the Board that Deloitte be reappointed as the 
Group’s auditor for a further year. This recommendation has been 
accepted by the Board.
Effectiveness
The Committee places great importance on ensuring that there 
are high standards of audit quality and effectiveness in the external 
audit process. The effectiveness of the external audit process is 
reviewed on an annual basis, and this includes consideration of the 
qualification, expertise, resources, remuneration and independence 
of the auditor. Where appropriate, actions are agreed in respect 
of any issues identified and these are monitored for progress.
At the conclusion of the 2014/15 financial year audit, the 
Committee performed a formal evaluation of the performance 
of the external auditor. In performing this evaluation, the Committee 
worked with the external auditor, Executive Directors and relevant 
senior management. In addition to this, the Committee performs 
its own ongoing evaluation of audit quality and effectiveness, taking 
into account such matters as the quality of reporting to the Committee 
by the external auditor and the level and quality of the interactions 
between the Committee and the audit partner.
Tendering
Deloitte has been Vectura’s auditor since 2007 following its full 
listing on the London Stock Exchange. During that time, the audit 
has not been formally tendered and, whilst this is not currently 
a formal requirement for Vectura under the Code, the Committee 
has due regard for the transitional rules of the Competition and 
Markets Authority and the EU and will continue to monitor the need 
to put the audit out to tender. There are no contractual restrictions 
in place that would restrict the choice of the external auditor. 
Committee effectiveness review
During the year, the Committee reviewed its own effectiveness 
as part of the overall Board evaluation process. The Committee 
considered that it acted transparently and, given the number of 
Committee and Board meetings scheduled throughout the financial 
year, maintained a thorough understanding of the Group and its 
business. The results of the review were advised to the Board.
Neil Warner
Chairman of the Audit Committee
19 May 2015
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 57
Governance
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT
Dear shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Vectura’s Nomination 
Committee report for the year ended 31 March 2015. The role of 
the Committee is to ensure that the Group maintains a Board which 
is appropriately balanced and, as a unit, functions as efficiently and 
effectively as possible.
During the year, the Committee has continued to focus on the issues 
of succession planning and overall Board balance and composition. 
The Committee considered and made recommendations to the 
Board regarding the appointment of Andrew Oakley as our new 
Chief Financial Officer and Per-Olof Andersson as Non-Executive Director. 
The Committee also began a search for a new Chief Executive to 
replace Dr Chris Blackwell, who announced in February 2015 that 
he would be standing down from this role.
On 1 April 2015, I stood down as Chairman of the Nomination Committee 
and I was succeeded by Bruno Angelici, Chairman of the Board.
Dr John Brown
Chair of the Nomination Committee
19 May 2015
Role and responsibilities
The Nomination Committee (“the Committee”) operates 
under written terms of reference, which are modelled on the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”) and are available on 
the Company website, www.vectura.com. The Committee reviews 
these terms on an annual basis. No material changes were made 
to the terms of reference during the year.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the structure of the 
Board and Board Committees and evaluating the balance of skills, 
experience, independence and knowledge of the Board as a whole. 
On the basis of this evaluation, the Committee makes recommendations 
to the Board regarding Board appointments. Where the need for a 
new Executive or Non-Executive Director is identified, the Committee 
is responsible for preparing a description of the role and the capabilities 
required for a particular appointment and for identifying and 
nominating potential candidates to fill the vacancy.
The Committee also ensures that appropriate succession plans 
for Non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors and the Group’s 
senior management are kept under review with a view to ensuring 
the long-term success of the Group.
Membership and meetings
The membership of the Committee, the number of Committee 
meetings held and attendance thereat can be found on page 48 
of the Governance section of this annual report.
The Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive Directors, 
John Brown, Susan Foden, Neil Warner and the Chairman of the 
Board, Bruno Angelici.
During the financial year FY 14/15, the Committee was chaired 
by John Brown. With effect from 1 April 2015, Bruno Angelici, 
the Chairman of the Board, has been appointed as the Chairman. 
Details of Bruno Angelici’s experience are set out in his biography 
on page 44. 
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee. 
The Executive Directors, other members of Executive Management 
and external advisors may also attend Committee meetings as 
required, at the invitation of the Chairman.  Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 58
Membership and meetings continued
The Committee is authorised to obtain external professional advice 
including, without limitation, legal and other professional advice to 
assist in the performance of its duties. During the year, the Committee 
has utilised the services of Russell Reynolds and Spencer Stuart, as 
outlined below. Both firms are signatories to the Voluntary Code of 
Conduct for Executive Recruitment Firms (as recommended by the 
Davies Report). There were no other services provided by these 
firms during the year.
The Committee met three times during the year ended 31 March 2015, 
and all members were present at each meeting. Additionally, the 
Committee held a number of informal meetings and discussions 
during the year.
The key issues considered by the Committee during the year are 
outlined below.
Appointment of Directors
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the 
appointment of new Directors to the Board under which the Committee 
interviews suitable candidates who are proposed either by existing 
Board members or by an external executive recruitment firm. 
The Committee gives careful consideration to the appointment of 
any proposed appointee, to ensure that the candidate has sufficient 
time available to devote to the role as well as the required level of 
skill and knowledge to ensure that the balance of skills, experience 
and knowledge on the Board is maintained. 
During the year, Paul Oliver announced his intention to stand down 
as Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary. The Committee 
appointed an executive recruitment firm, Russell Reynolds, to find 
a suitable replacement for Paul, giving due regard to the experience 
and skills required for the role. Russell Reynolds has no other 
connection to the Company.
Following this recruitment process, the Committee recommended 
to the Board that Andrew Oakley be appointed as Paul’s successor. 
Andrew gained considerable experience at two Swiss bio-pharmaceutical 
companies, including nearly eleven years at Actelion, a leading 
international bio-pharmaceutical company. He joined Actelion as 
Chief Financial Officer in 2003 and during his tenure the company 
enjoyed a period of strong growth, with sales rising more than ten-fold 
to CHF1.8bn in 2013. During his time at Actelion, Andrew accumulated 
considerable transaction experience, including acquisitions, out-licensing 
and in-licensing deals. After leaving Actelion in 2013, he served as 
Chief Financial Officer at privately held Swiss biotech Novimmune. 
As such, Andrew was well placed to succeed Paul as the Group’s 
Chief Financial Officer and the Board was unanimous in accepting 
the recommendation of the Committee to appoint him as an 
Executive Director and Company Secretary.
The Committee undertook a search for a Non-Executive Director 
during the year. This followed a review of the existing skills and 
experience of the Non-Executive Directors and it was assessed that 
a non-executive director with an extensive background in research 
and development would bring much benefit to the Board. The 
Committee subsequently appointed the executive recruitment firm, 
Spencer Stuart, to assist with this search. The Committee worked 
with Spencer Stuart who drew up a list of candidates from a range 
of industries and backgrounds for initial appraisal by the Committee. 
From this list, a shortlist of suitable candidates who met the search 
and selection criteria was prepared and these candidates were 
interviewed by members of the Nomination Committee. 
Spencer Stuart has no other connection to the Company.
Following this extensive international search, the Committee 
recommended the appointment of Per-Olof Andersson to the 
Board as a Non-Executive Director. Per-Olof disclosed his significant 
commitments to the Board prior to his appointment and the Board 
as a whole were satisfied that he had sufficient time to devote to 
this role. Per-Olof Andersson was appointed on 1 April 2015 and 
he has been appointed for an initial term of three years, subject 
to election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 
24 September 2015. The appointment may be terminated earlier 
than three years at the discretion of either party upon three 
months’ notice.
Per-Olof Andersson has an international R&D track record within the 
pharmaceuticals, bio-pharmaceuticals and specialty pharmaceutical 
industry and considerable experience in respiratory therapeutic 
development. In 2011, Per-Olof retired from Almirall where he was 
Executive Director for R&D and Member of the Board of Directors. 
Prior to joining Almirall in 2006, Per-Olof had a distinguished 
international career at Pharmacia and Pfizer over a period of 
nearly 20 years. 
Per-Olof was independent at the time of his appointment to the 
Board, in accordance with B.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. Full biographical details can be found on page 45.
Following the announcement in February 2015 that Dr Chris Blackwell 
will step down as Chief Executive, the Committee appointed a well 
known search firm in the search for a suitable replacement. The 
Committee has provided them with a role description, together with 
a list of the required skills and personal attributes to be considered. 
The Nomination Committee is in the process of interviewing shortlisted 
candidates and the final recruitment decision will be taken by the 
Board as a whole.
Diversity
The Board’s policy on diversity is set out on page 50.
The search for Board candidates is conducted, and appointments 
made, on merit against objective selection criteria and having due 
regard, amongst other things, to the benefits of diversity on the 
Board, including the inclusion of women. Diversity is considered 
by the Nomination Committee in considering Board composition 
and in the process of making Board appointments.
Committee effectiveness review
During the year, the Committee reviewed its own effectiveness 
as part of the overall Board evaluation process. The Committee 
considered that it acted transparently and, given the number of 
Committee and Board meetings scheduled throughout the financial 
year, maintained a thorough understanding of the Group and its 
business. The results of the review were advised to the Board.
Dr John Brown
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
19 May 2015
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 59
Governance
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
Dear shareholder
On behalf of the Board, it is my pleasure to present Vectura’s 
Remuneration Committee report for the year ended 31 March 2015.
This has been an important year for Vectura. The Group has 
delivered significant progress against its financial and non-financial 
KPIs, Activaero has been successfully integrated and the Group has 
completed its portfolio review and set its strategy for future growth. 
Revenues have increased by 59% as a result of organic growth in high 
quality royalty streams and significant development milestones earned 
during the year. These milestone events are linked to what we expect 
to be significant revenue streams to Vectura over the coming years. 
As such, Vectura is well positioned to deliver on its current strategy 
and ambitions to become a speciality pharmaceutical business.
In light of the excellent performance of the Group and the continued 
development of Vectura’s structure and profile, the Committee has 
approved adjustments in the base salary of each of the Executive 
Directors for the forthcoming year. Details of each Director’s base 
salary are set out on page 77 of the report. This review has been 
undertaken in accordance with our approved remuneration policy 
whereby the Committee has considered a number of parameters 
in determining appropriate base salary levels including, inter alia, 
pay awards across the general workforce, Company growth and 
complexity and alignment of salaries with our policy statement 
in regard of mid-market levels.
The Committee also recommended bonus payments to the 
Executive Directors of 80%–84% of base salary in respect of the 
year ending 31 March 2015 after performing a detailed review 
of performance against the agreed corporate and personal bonus 
objectives. The Committee considers that these awards appropriately 
reflect Vectura’s performance over the past financial year, which 
represents demonstrable and significant progress against stretching 
financial and non-financial targets.
The Committee believes that long-term incentives should 
comprise the most significant element of the remuneration package 
for Executive Directors, with stretching performance metrics that 
are clearly aligned to the creation of shareholder value. During the 
year, the Committee has considered the vesting of LTIP awards 
made in 2010 and approved an LTIP award equal to 100% of base 
salary for Executive Directors which was granted on 1 July 2014. 
The Committee continues to review Vectura’s long-term incentive 
arrangements. The Committee will continue to engage with major 
shareholders and their representative bodies regarding the 
development and implementation of Vectura’s remuneration policy 
in respect of long-term incentives and variable pay arrangements.
In assessing the vesting of the 2010 LTIP award, the Committee 
engaged PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) to assess Vectura’s 
performance against the relevant metrics over the measurement 
period. Over the measurement period, Vectura’s TSR exceeded that 
of the upper quartile of the FTSE SmallCap Index and the average 
share price requirement of £1.27 was also exceeded. Accordingly, the 
Committee approved 100% vesting of the award.
During the year, the Committee applied Vectura’s approved 
remuneration policy as the basis for determining the remuneration 
package of the new Chief Financial Officer, Andrew J Oakley. 
Andrew’s base salary was set at £275,000, which the Committee 
believes is representative of the mid-market salary for this position. 
In addition, the Committee gave due regard to Vectura’s remuneration 
policy on termination and loss of office with respect to the departure 
of Paul Oliver as Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary and 
considered the treatment of Paul’s unvested LTIP awards and awards 
made under Vectura’s all-employee share schemes. Details of the 
payments made to Paul and the arrangements for his share option 
awards are set out on page 75 of this report.
This year’s report retains the same structure as last year’s 
remuneration report; it consists of three sections:
1. This annual statement.
2.  A policy report, which describes the remuneration of Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors and, save for minor amendments 
to reflect the passage of time, is unchanged from that which was 
approved by shareholders for three years at the 2014 Annual 
General Meeting. This section of the report is not subject to audit.
3.  The Annual report on remuneration, which is prepared in 
accordance with the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 
and the relevant provisions of the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Conduct Authority. Certain parts of this report are subject to 
audit and these areas have been clearly identified.
Our Annual report on remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote 
at our forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 24 September 2015. 
I hope that you will join me in supporting this resolution.
Yours sincerely
Dr Susan Foden
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
19 May 2015
  Read more about our KPIs on   
pages 18 and 19
  Read more about our strategy on  
pages 16 and 17 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 60
LINKING REMUNERATION  
TO PERFORMANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT
The report that follows has been prepared in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 (“the Act”), the Large 
and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013 (“the Regulations”). It also meets 
the requirements of the UK Listing Authority’s Rules and the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules. 
In this report, we also describe how the principles of good 
governance relating to Directors’ remuneration, as set out in the 
Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”), are applied in practice. 
The Committee confirms that Vectura has complied with these 
governance rules and best practice provisions throughout the 
year ended 31 March 2015.
The Regulations require our auditor to report to shareholders 
on the audited information contained within this report, and to 
state whether, in their opinion, the relevant sections have been 
prepared in accordance with the Act. The elements of the Annual 
report on remuneration which are subject to audit have been clearly 
identified, and the auditor’s opinion is set out on page 81 of this 
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015.
Introduction
The following report is presented in two separate sections:
• Directors’ remuneration policy – set out on page 60 to 67; and
• Annual report on remuneration – set out on pages 67 to 77.
At the 2014 Annual General Meeting (“the AGM”), 98.2% 
of shareholders approved the Directors’ remuneration policy. 
The policy report is therefore included for reference only, with 
minor amendments made to reflect the passage of time and 
changes to the composition of the Board during the year.
The Annual report on remuneration continues to be subject to 
an advisory vote by shareholders at the AGM.
Unaudited information
Directors’ remuneration policy
Vectura’s remuneration policy is driven by its strategy and business 
model and the core principles underlying the policy remain unchanged. 
Vectura aims to provide a remuneration package that is sufficient to 
attract, retain and motivate high-calibre Executive Directors who have 
the necessary skills and expertise to deliver the business strategy. 
The Committee recognises that remuneration packages should be 
appropriately structured, including both fixed and variable pay 
elements and a mixture of short, medium and long-term incentives. 
The Committee believes that appropriately structured remuneration 
packages serve to align the actions and interests of our Executive 
Directors with those of our shareholders.
Summary remuneration policy
The following table and accompanying notes set out the main 
principles of reward for the Executive Directors of Vectura Group plc.
For the avoidance of doubt, any commitments entered into by the 
Company prior to the approval and implementation of the policy 
outlined below may be honoured, even if they are not consistent 
with the policy prevailing at the time the commitment is fulfilled. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 61
Governance
Executive Directors
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary
To recruit and retain executives 
of the highest calibre who are capable 
of delivering the Group’s strategic 
objectives, reflecting the individual’s 
experience and role within the Group.
Base salary is designed to provide 
an appropriate level of fixed income  
to avoid an over-reliance on variable 
pay elements that could encourage 
excessive risk taking.
The Committee aims to provide 
base salary at levels that are broadly 
aligned with the mid-points for 
equivalent roles in comparable 
companies in the UK, adjusted to 
reflect company size and complexity.
Salaries are normally reviewed 
annually and changes are generally 
effective from 1 April.
The annual salary review of Executive 
Directors takes a number of factors 
into consideration, including:
• business performance;
• salary increases awarded to the 
overall employee population;
• skills and experience of the 
individual over time;
• scope of the 
individual’s responsibilities;
• changes in the size and complexity 
of the Group;
• market competitiveness; and
• the underlying rate of inflation.
Base salary increases are awarded 
at the discretion of the Committee; 
however, salary increases will normally 
be no greater than the inflationary pay 
rises awarded to the wider workforce.
Where peer review data indicates  
that a role is under-remunerated, 
or where there has been a change in 
responsibilities, the Committee retains 
the discretion to award more significant 
base salary increases.
No formal metrics although increases 
will take account of Group performance.
Benefits
Benefits in kind offered to 
Executive Directors are provided on 
a market-competitive basis, to assist 
with the retention and recruitment 
of staff.
The Company aims to offer benefits 
that are in line with market practice.
The main benefits currently provided 
are life assurance, permanent health 
insurance and private medical and 
dental insurance.
Under certain circumstances the  
Group will offer relocation allowances 
to employees.
The value of each benefit is not 
predetermined and is based upon 
the cost to the Group.
Not performance related. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 62
REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Pensions
The Group aims to provide  
market-competitive retirement 
benefits, to reward 
sustained contribution.
The Group operates a money  
purchase scheme and all employees, 
including Executive Directors, are 
invited to participate.
For executives who are affected 
by the HMRC lifetime or annual 
allowances, the Company may 
provide cash supplements in respect 
of benefits above the allowance.
Up to 20% of base salary contribution 
to the Group Personal Pension Plan or 
equivalent cash allowance.
Not performance related.
Annual performance bonus
An annual cash bonus rewards the 
achievement of stretching objectives 
that support the Group’s corporate 
goals and delivery of the business 
strategy together with goals in relation 
to personal performance.
Objectives are agreed with the 
Committee, and the Board as a whole, 
at the start of each financial year.
Different performance measures 
and weightings may be used each 
year, as agreed with the Committee,  
to take into account changes in the 
business strategy.
Bonuses are paid at the discretion 
of the Remuneration Committee. The 
Committee takes into account overall 
corporate performance and individual 
performance when determining the 
final bonus amount to be awarded.
Bonuses are paid in cash, typically 
in June.
Under the rules of the scheme, the 
Committee can claw back up to 100% 
of the bonus awarded in the event 
of material misstatement of the 
Company’s financial results, an error 
in assessing the performance conditions 
to which an award is subject or for any 
other matter which it deems relevant.
Bonuses are limited to a maximum 
of 100% of base salary for each 
Executive Director.
Corporate goals typically include 
revenue generation, development 
of pipeline progress, partnering 
successes and control of cash 
expenditure, although the Committee 
has discretion to set other targets.
Goals set are specific, 
measurable and linked to the 
Group’s longer-term strategy.
0% of the maximum is payable 
at threshold performance.
Executive Directors continued Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 63
Governance
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Long-Term Incentive Plan (L TIP)
The Remuneration Committee believes 
that a key component of the overall 
remuneration package is the provision 
of equity awards to senior executives 
through the LTIP, which is designed to 
develop a culture which encourages 
strong corporate performance on an 
absolute and relative basis.
Awards are made on an annual 
basis, at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Awards consist of shares that vest 
according to performance conditions.
Typically, awards are granted 
following the release of full-year 
or interim financial results.
Awards are discretionary and do 
not vest until the date on which 
the performance conditions are 
determined. If employment ceases 
during a three-year performance 
period, awards will typically lapse, 
save in certain good leaver situations.
The Committee may decide that 
an award will be subject to clawback 
where there has been a misstatement 
of the Company’s financial results, 
an error in assessing the performance 
conditions to which an award is 
subject or for any other matter 
which it deems relevant.
Awards of up to 200% may be 
granted; however, Executive Directors 
would normally receive grants 
of 100% of salary.
Awards are subject to challenging 
performance measures.
Current awards are based on relative 
total shareholder return (TSR) measured 
over a three-year period against two 
peer groups each determining the 
vesting of 50% of the awards.
The Committee retains the discretion to 
vary the peer groups and the weighting 
between them, and to introduce new 
metrics for awards in future years, 
providing they are not materially 
less challenging in the circumstances. 
The Committee would normally 
consult with its major shareholders 
before making significant changes 
to the performance conditions.
Awards are subject to an “underpin” 
based on the Committee’s assessment 
of the Group’s underlying performance 
against a range of factors, including 
the Company’s underlying financial 
performance, absolute shareholder 
return and progress against milestones 
over the three-year performance 
period. Any exercise of discretion 
will be fully disclosed to shareholders. 
Furthermore, the Company will consult 
with its major shareholders before 
exercising its discretion to increase 
the percentage that vests.
The performance conditions for 
previous long-term incentive awards 
are described in the Annual report 
on remuneration section.
For the current TSR performance 
conditions 25% of the award vests 
at median against the peer group, 
increasing on a straight-line basis so 
that 100% vests for performance at 
or above the upper quartile. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 64
REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
All-employee share schemes
All employees, including Executive 
Directors, are encouraged to become 
shareholders of Vectura Group plc 
through participation in our 
all-employee share schemes.
The Group currently offers employees 
the opportunity to participate in the 
Vectura Sharesave Scheme and the 
Vectura Share Incentive Plan (SIP).
Both of the schemes offered are 
HMRC approved schemes and 
operate on standard terms.
Participation limits are set by the 
relevant tax authorities from time 
to time.
Not performance related and no 
performance conditions apply.
Share ownership guidelines
Share ownership guidelines 
for Executive Directors and senior 
employees are designed to align the 
interests of senior management to 
those of Vectura’s shareholders.
In accordance with best practice, 
Executive Directors are required to 
retain at least half of any share awards 
vesting as shares (after paying any tax 
due) until they have reached the 
required level of holding.
Executive Directors are required to 
build and retain a holding of Vectura 
Group plc shares equivalent to at least 
100% of their base salary.
Not performance related.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Fees
Set at a level that is sufficient to attract 
and retain high-calibre Non-Executives. 
The Chairman and the Non-Executive 
Directors receive fees paid in cash, 
with additional fees received for 
chairing committees of the Board 
or fulfilling the role of Senior 
Independent Director.
Fees are paid monthly 
and reviewed annually.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive 
Directors do not participate in any 
performance-related incentive 
schemes, nor do they receive any 
benefits, other than limited travel 
and hospitality-related benefits 
in connection with their roles.
When reviewing fee levels, account 
is taken of market movements in 
the fees of Non-Executive Directors, 
Board committee responsibilities 
and ongoing time commitments.
Not performance related.
Notes to the policy table
Performance conditions
The Committee selected the performance conditions outlined in the 
remuneration policy because they are central to the Group’s overall 
strategy and they are the key metrics used by the Executive Directors 
to oversee the operations of the business. The Committee considers 
that the performance targets for the LTIP and the bonus represent 
an appropriate balance between the long-term and short-term 
performance of the Group, as well as an appropriate balance 
between external and internal assessments of performance.
The targets for the bonus scheme for the forthcoming year will be set 
out in general terms, subject to limitations with regards to commercial 
sensitivity. The full details of the targets will be disclosed when they 
are in the public domain, usually following the end of the relevant 
financial year in the Annual report on remuneration.
Committee discretion
The Committee operates under the powers it has been delegated 
by the Board. In addition, it complies with rules that have either 
been approved by shareholders (Long-Term Incentive Plan) or by 
the Board (annual performance bonus scheme). These rules provide 
the Committee with certain discretions which serve to ensure that 
the implementation of the remuneration policy is fair, both to the 
individual Director and to the shareholders. The Committee also 
has discretions to set components of remuneration within a range, 
from time to time. The extent of such discretions is set out in the 
relevant rules, the maximum opportunity or the performance 
metrics section of the policy table above.
Executive Directors continued Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 65
Governance
To ensure the efficient administration of the variable incentive plans 
outlined above, the Committee will apply certain operational discretions. 
These include the following:
• selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis;
• determining the timing of grants of awards and/or payments;
• determining the quantum of awards and/or payments 
(within the limits set out in the policy table overleaf);
• determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment 
of performance; 
• making the appropriate adjustments required in certain 
circumstances, for instance for changes in capital structure;
• determining “good leaver” status for incentive plan purposes 
and applying the appropriate treatment; and
• undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance 
measures and setting targets for the annual bonus plan and 
other incentive schemes, where applicable, from year to year.
If an event occurs which results in the annual bonus plan or LTIP 
performance conditions and/or targets being deemed no longer 
appropriate (e.g. material acquisition or divestment), the Committee 
will have the ability to adjust appropriately the measures and/or 
targets and alter weightings, provided that the revised conditions 
are not materially less challenging than the original conditions.
Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors
The charts below show hypothetical values of the remuneration 
package for each Executive Director under three assumed performance 
scenarios and these scenarios are based upon the remuneration 
policy set out above. The information presented below uses the 
level of salary, benefits and pension entitlements for each of the 
Directors as at 1 April 2015. Refer to page 77 of this report for details 
of base salary levels set for the coming year.
Below target remuneration receivable – this scenario assumes that there 
is no annual bonus payment and no awards under the L TIP award vest.
On-target performance – this scenario assumes that the Directors 
receive a 50% bonus payout. It is assumed that a face value limit 
of 100% base salary applies to the LTIP award and that 25% of the 
LTIP granted would ultimately vest.
Stretch remuneration receivable – this scenario assumes that the 
Directors receive a maximum bonus payout of 100% of their salary. 
It is assumed that a face value limit of 100% base salary applies to the 
LTIP award and that 100% of the LTIP granted would ultimately vest.
Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors
£513,600 Below target 83% 17%
£834,600 13% On target 51% 10% 26%
£1,369,600 Maximum 31% 31% 7% 31%
Chris Blackwell
Trevor Phillips and Andrew J Oakley
£338,250 Below target 83% 17%
£549,656 13% On target 51% 10% 26%
£902,000 Maximum 31% 31% 7% 31%
Base salary
Pension
Fixed elements
Bonus
LTIP
Variable elements
The actual amounts earned by Executive Directors under these three scenarios will depend on share price 
performance over the vesting period. For the purpose of these illustrations, any share price appreciation 
has been ignored. For simplicity, the value of participating in the Company’s all-employee share schemes 
has also been ignored. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 66
REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Other remuneration policies
Termination and loss of office payments
The Group’s policy on remuneration for Executive Directors who 
leave the Group is consistent with general market practice and it 
is set out below. The Committee will exercise its discretion when 
determining amounts that should be paid to leavers, taking into 
account the facts and circumstances of each case. When calculating 
termination payments, the Committee will take into account a variety 
of factors, including individual and Company performance, the length 
of service of the Executive Director in question and, where appropriate, 
the obligation for the Executive Director to mitigate loss. 
In the case of a “good leaver”, the following policy will normally apply:
• notice period of twelve months and pension and contractual 
benefits, or payment in lieu of notice;
• statutory redundancy payments will be made, as appropriate;
• executives have no entitlement to a bonus payment in the event 
that they cease to be employed by the Group; however, they 
may be considered for a prorated award by the Committee 
in good leaver circumstances;
• the rules of the LTIP contain provisions setting out the treatment 
of awards where a participant ceases to be employed by the 
Vectura Group. Other than in good leaver circumstances, awards 
will normally lapse. In the event of a participant’s death, retirement, 
ill health, injury, disability or redundancy or the sale of his employing 
company or business out of the Vectura Group or for any other 
reason at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, awards 
will not be forfeited but will instead vest on the normal vesting 
date. Vesting in these circumstances will be subject to the 
satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions measured 
at that time and time prorating. In exceptional circumstances, 
the Remuneration Committee may allow the awards to vest 
on cessation of the participant’s employment, subject to the 
satisfaction of the performance conditions measured at that time 
and time prorating. In either case, the Remuneration Committee 
can decide to disapply time prorating if it thinks it is appropriate 
to do so in the particular circumstances;
• any other share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director 
under the Company’s share and share option plans will be determined 
based upon the relevant plan rules; and
• the Committee may also provide for the leaver to be 
reimbursed for a reasonable level of legal fees in connection 
with a settlement agreement.
In circumstances in which a leaving Director may be entitled to 
pursue a legal claim, the Company may negotiate settlement terms 
if it considers this to be in the best interests of the Company and, 
with the approval of the Committee on the remuneration elements 
therein, enter into a settlement agreement.
Executive Directors’ service contracts
It is the Group’s policy that Executive Directors should have contracts 
with an indefinite term and which provide for a maximum period of 
twelve months’ notice. 
This applies to the contract of Chris Blackwell, which was effective 
from 24 June 2004, Trevor Phillips’ contract, which was amended 
with effect from 16 July 2012, and Andrew J Oakley’s contract, 
which took effect from 1 January 2015. Executive Directors are subject 
to re-election at an AGM at intervals of no more than three years.
The Executive Directors may accept outside appointments, with prior 
Board approval, provided that these opportunities do not negatively 
impact on their ability to fulfil their duties to the Group. Whether any 
related fees are retained by the individual or are remitted to the Group 
will be considered on a case-by-case basis. None of the Executive 
Directors currently hold any outside directorships.
Non-Executive Directors’ terms of engagement
All Non-Executive Directors have specific terms of engagement which 
are terminable on not less than three months’ notice by either party 
and six months’ notice in the case of the Chairman. The remuneration 
of Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Board within the limits 
set by the Articles of Association and based on a review of fees paid 
to Non-Executive Directors of similar companies. All Non-Executive 
Directors are subject to re-election at an AGM at intervals of no more 
than three years.
The dates of appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors 
serving at 31 March 2015 are summarised in the table below.
A Board evaluation has been performed and the results of 
this exercise confirmed that all Non-Executive Directors were 
independent, including John Brown, who has service greater than 
nine years. John Brown’s independence is considered valid due to 
the major change in the operating activities of the Group and the 
refreshment of Non-Executive and Executive members of the 
Board during the term of his appointment.
Remuneration for new appointments
Where it is necessary to recruit or replace an Executive Director, 
the Committee has determined that the new Executive Director will 
receive a compensation package in accordance with the provisions 
of the policy.
In setting base salary for new Executive Directors, the Committee 
will consider the existing salary package of the new Director, and the 
individual’s level of experience. In setting the annual performance 
bonus, the Committee may wish to set different performance metrics 
(to those of other Executive Directors) in the first year of appointment. 
Where it is appropriate to offer a below-median salary on initial 
appointment, the Committee will have the discretion to allow phased 
salary increases over a period of time for a newly appointed Director, 
even though this may involve increases in excess of inflation and the 
increases awarded to the wider workforce. 
Non-Executive Directors’ dates of appointment
Date of appointment
J R Brown 13 May 2004
S E Foden 18 January 2007
N W Warner 1 February 2011
B F J Angelici 1 December 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 67
Governance
The Committee wishes to retain the ability to make buyout awards 
to a new Executive Director, to facilitate the recruitment process. 
The amount of any such award would not exceed the expected value 
being forfeited and, to the extent possible, would mirror the form 
of payment, timing and degree of conditionality, etc. Where awards 
are granted subject to performance conditions, these would be 
relevant to Vectura Group plc. Any such award would only be made 
in exceptional circumstances and shareholders would be informed 
of any such payments at the time of appointment. Share-based 
awards would be made using the existing share plans where possible 
although the Committee may also use the flexibility provided under 
the Listing Rules to make awards without prior shareholder approval.
In respect of internal appointments, any commitments entered into in 
respect of a prior role, including variable pay elements, may be allowed 
to pay out according to its prior terms.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may consider 
it appropriate to pay reasonable relocation or incidental expenses, 
including payment of reasonable legal expenses. Tax equalisation 
may be considered if an Executive Director is adversely affected 
by taxation due to their employment with the Company.
The terms of appointment for a Non-Executive Director would be in 
accordance with the policy for remuneration of Non-Executive Directors 
as set out in the policy table.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group
Whilst the Committee does not consult directly with employees 
regarding the policy, the Committee considers the general basic 
salary increase for the broader employee population when determining 
the annual salary increases and remuneration packages for the 
Executive Directors. Accordingly, the Committee confirms that the 
remuneration policy outlined above has been designed with due 
regard to the policy for remuneration of employees across the Group.
The remuneration of senior executives below Board level is reviewed 
by the Committee on an annual basis. The remuneration packages 
of these executives are consistent with the policy outlined above, 
save that lower bonus percentages and lower LTIP opportunities 
are applicable. Variable pay elements for senior executives are 
driven principally by market comparatives and the overall impact 
of the role the individual holds at Vectura. Long-term incentives 
are provided to those individuals identified as having significant 
potential to influence Group performance.
Vectura aims to provide all employees with a market-competitive 
remuneration package that includes certain key benefits such as life 
assurance, permanent health insurance, private medical insurance, 
access to the pension scheme, participation in Vectura’s all-employee 
share schemes and eligibility to receive a bonus. The bonus scheme 
for Directors and employees is designed to reward performance, 
and all individuals are required achieve challenging personal goals.
How shareholders’ views are taken into account
The Committee takes an active interest in shareholders’ views and 
voting on the Remuneration report. Throughout the year, the Committee 
has engaged directly with major shareholders and their representative 
bodies regarding the application of Vectura’s remuneration policy for 
the financial year ended 31 March 2015. The Committee will continue 
to engage directly with major shareholders and their representative 
bodies should any material changes to the policy be proposed.
The Committee also considers shareholder feedback received 
in relation to the AGM each year and guidance from shareholder 
representative bodies more generally.
Annual report on remuneration
Remuneration Committee (“the Committee”)
Governance
The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors. 
The Committee is chaired by Susan Foden and, during the year ended 
31 March 2015, its members were Bruno Angelici, John Brown and 
Neil Warner.
In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, the Board has confirmed that Bruno Angelici was independent 
upon his appointment to the Board, and he continues to be independent. 
No conflicts of interest have arisen during the year and none of the 
members of the Committee have any personal financial interest in 
the matters discussed, other than as shareholders. The fees of the 
Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board on the joint 
recommendation of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Committee takes account of information from both internal and 
independent sources, including New Bridge Street (an Aon Hewitt Ltd 
company, part of Aon plc), which acts as the Committee’s principal, 
and only material, advisor. New Bridge Street (NBS) advises on all 
aspects of Vectura’s remuneration policy and reviews Vectura’s 
remuneration structures against corporate governance best practice.
NBS is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group 
and complies with its Code of Conduct, which sets out guidelines 
to ensure that its advice is independent and free of undue influence. 
The Committee reviews the performance and independence of its 
advisors on an annual basis. During the year, Vectura incurred fees 
of £81,000 from NBS. The Committee also engaged the services of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) to undertake total shareholder 
return (TSR) calculations in respect of the LTIP award which vested 
in 2014. PwC was paid £8,000 in respect of this engagement.
The Group’s Director of Human Resources provides updates to 
the Committee, as required, to ensure that the Committee is fully 
informed about pay and performance issues throughout the Group. 
The Committee takes these factors into account when determining 
the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior executives.
No Executive Director or employee is allowed to participate in any 
discussion directly relating to their conditions of service or remuneration.
Role
The Committee’s principal function is to support Vectura’s strategy by 
ensuring that those individuals responsible for delivering the strategy 
are appropriately incentivised by Vectura’s remuneration policy. 
In determining the Group’s current policy, and in constructing the 
remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors and senior 
employees, the Board, advised by the Committee, aims to provide 
remuneration packages that are competitive and designed to attract, 
retain and motivate Executive Directors and senior employees 
of the highest calibre.  Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 68
REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Annual report on remuneration continued
Remuneration Committee (“the Committee”) continued
Governance continued
Role continued
The Committee is responsible for:
• setting a remuneration policy that is designed to promote the 
long-term success of the Company;
• ensuring that the remuneration of the Executive Directors and 
other senior executives reflects both their individual performance 
and their contribution to the overall Group results;
• determining the terms of employment and remuneration of the 
Executive Directors and senior executives, including recruitment 
and retention terms;
• approving the design and performance targets for any 
annual incentive schemes that include the Executive Directors 
and senior executives;
• agreeing the design and performance targets, where applicable, 
of all share incentive plans requiring shareholder approval;
• rigorously assessing the appropriateness and subsequent 
achievement of the performance targets related to any share 
incentive plans;
• recommending to the Board the fees to be paid to the Chairman. 
The Chairman is excluded from this process; and
• selection and appointment of the external advisors to the Committee 
to provide independent remuneration advice where necessary.
The Committee is formally constituted and operates on written 
terms of reference, which are modelled on the Code and are 
available on Vectura’s website, www.vectura.com.
Meetings and key decisions during FY14/15
The Committee met formally four times during the year ended 
31 March 2015.
The key decisions made by the Committee during the year are 
summarised below:
• approval of overall pay levels for 2014/15 for the Group 
as a whole;
• approval of base salary increases for Executive Directors and 
other members of the Executive Management Team, ensuring 
these are aligned appropriately both internally and externally;
• review of achievement against corporate goals and approval 
of the percentage of the bonus pool to be paid out across the 
Group and a review of achievement against personal goals for 
Executive Directors;
• approval of the remuneration package for the new Chief Financial 
Officer, following his appointment to the Board;
• determining the arrangements for outgoing Executive Directors;
• review of the performance conditions for the 2010 Long-Term 
Incentive Plan (LTIP), including the approval of 100% of the option 
awards vesting;
• approval of awards under the 2012 LTIP scheme; and
• review of Vectura’s remuneration policy for Executive Directors 
and consultation with shareholders, and approval of overall pay 
levels for 2015/16 for the Group as a whole.
Audited information
Directors’ remuneration – year ended 31 March 2015
The total remuneration of the individual Directors who served during the year is shown below. Total remuneration is the sum 
of emoluments plus Company pension contributions and the value of long-term incentive awards vesting by reference to performance 
in the year to 31 March 2015, being £1,460,000 (2013/14: £117,000).
Base
salary
(a)
£000
Benefits
(b)
£000
Bonus
(c)
£000
LTIP
(d)
£000
Pension
entitlements
(e)
£000
Other
(f)
£000
SIP/SAYE
awards
(g)
£000
Total
remuneration
£000
Executive Directors
C P Blackwell 400 2 320 1,144 80 — 5 1,951
T M Phillips
(1)
275 16 231 316 55 — 5 898
A J Oakley
(2)
69 — 58 — 14 — 4 145
P S Oliver
(3)
165 2 108 — 33 278 5 591
Non-Executive Directors
B F J Angelici 120 — — — — — — 120
J R Brown 52 — — — — — — 52
S E Foden 52 — — — — — — 52
N W Warner 52 — — — — — — 52
1,185 20 717 1,460 182 278 19 3,861
(1)  T M Phillips receives benefits of £15,000 (US$24,541 at an average annual exchange rate) relating to US medical and dental insurance. T M Phillips also makes employee contributions towards this plan.
(2) A J Oakley was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2015.
(3) P S Oliver stepped down as Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary with effect from 1 January 2015. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 69
Governance
Directors’ remuneration – year ended 31 March 2014
The total remuneration of the individual Directors who served during the year is shown below. Total remuneration is the sum of emoluments 
plus Company pension contributions and the value of long-term incentive awards vesting by reference to performance in the year 2014: 
£117,000 (2013: £nil).
Base
salary
(a)
£000
Benefits
(b)
£000
Bonus
(c)
£000
LTIP
(d)
£000
Pension
entitlements
(e)
£000
Other
(f)
£000
SIP
awards
(g)
£000
Total
remuneration
£000
Executive Directors
C P Blackwell 337 2 337 — 67 — 5 748
A P Hyland
(1)
55 1 — 117 11 178 3 365 
T M Phillips
(2)(3)(4)
241 15 241 — 48 91 5 641
P S Oliver
(5)
150 2 150 — 30 — 2 334
Non-Executive Directors
B F J Angelici
(6)
40 — — — — — — 40
J P Cashman
(7)
83 — — — — — — 83
J R Brown 45 — — — — — — 45
S E Foden 45 — — — — — — 45
N W Warner 45 — — — — — — 45
1,041 20 728 117 156 269 15 2,346
(1) A P Hyland stepped down as Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary, effective from 1 July 2013. Payments made to A P Hyland were disclosed in the prior year remuneration report.
(2) T M Phillips was paid in US$; the amount shown above is converted at the annual average exchange rate of US$1.59/£1.
(3)  T M Phillips received benefits of £13,000 (US$21,357 at an average annual exchange rate) relating to US medical and dental insurance. T M Phillips also makes employee contributions 
towards this plan. 
(4) T M Phillips received a one-off relocation allowance of £90,909 during the year; this is shown within “other” remuneration in the single figure above. 
(5) P S Oliver was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2013.
(6) B F J Angelici was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2013 and appointed Chairman of the Board on 1 February 2014. 
(7) J P Cashman stepped down as Chairman of the Board on 1 February 2014.
Notes to the remuneration table
(a) This is the amount earned in respect of the financial year.
(b)  This is the taxable value of benefits paid in respect of the 
financial year. These benefits typically relate to death, disability 
and medical insurance. As disclosed in note footnote (3) above, 
T M Phillips also receives benefits in relation to US medical and 
dental insurance. 
(c)  This is the total bonus earned under the annual bonus scheme 
in respect of the financial year.
(d)  The amount shown relates to the market value of LTIP awards 
that vested during the year. Refer to page 71 for details of LTIP 
awards which have vested during the year.
(e)  UK tax legislation imposes penalty taxes on annual pension 
contributions where prescribed maximum amounts are 
exceeded. The Committee has previously determined that 
impacted Executive Directors would receive pension benefits 
limited by the prescribed maximum amounts and an additional 
taxable supplementary cash payment equal to the cost to the 
Company of the pension benefit foregone. The amount of the 
allowance awarded to any Executive Director so impacted has 
been set by the Committee so that there is no additional cost 
to the Company resulting from this arrangement.
(f)  Other payments in 2014/15 relate to payments made under 
an agreement with P S Oliver; these amounts are explained 
on page 75 of this report. 
(g)  This relates to SIP and SAYE which have been granted during 
the year. The benefit of the SIP awards is calculated as the 
number of shares awarded multiplied by the share price on the 
date of the award. The benefit of the SAYE award is calculated 
as the number of options awarded multiplied by the discount 
to the market share price on the date the option was awarded. 
Only A J Oakley subscribed to Vectura’s Sharesave Scheme plan 
during the current financial year. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 70
REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Additional requirements in respect of the single 
total figure table (audited information)
Performance-related pay earned in the year
Annual performance bonus
All employees are eligible for an annual discretionary cash bonus, 
whereby performance objectives are established at the beginning 
of the financial year by reference to suitably challenging corporate 
goals. The scheme is offered to all staff below Board level and 
maximum bonus opportunities range from 10% to 75% of salary, 
depending on grade. Bonus payments are not pensionable. 
The Committee has consistently set stretching corporate goals, including 
goals around revenue generation, development pipeline progress, 
partnering successes and control of cash expenditure, which are 
weighted towards goals with the highest corporate significance.
In addition, a significant percentage of the bonus potential is set 
against challenging personal objectives which are linked to the 
overall business strategy. Bonuses are limited to a maximum 
of 100% of basic salary for each Executive Director. 
For the year ended 31 March 2015 the performance objectives 
against which bonus payments were calculated are set out in 
the table below.
The Committee assessed that a bonus of 80% to 84% (2013/14: 100%) 
of salary was appropriate for the Executive Directors when judged 
by the achievement of the metrics in the table below and this was 
confirmed when looking at a broader picture of the Group’s corporate 
performance over the period.
Performance measure Weighting Target Achievement
Level of bonus 
awarded as a
% of metric 
(% of 
full bonus)
Commentary (full disclosure has been 
restricted due to commercial sensitivity)
EBITDA progression 10% 37% growth 212% growth 100% (10%) 
Revenue growth 10% £52.4m £58.0m 100% (10%) 
Cash balance 
(excluding working capital)
10% £90.8m £103.5m 100% (10%)  
 
Create strategic 
growth opportunities
20% Qualitative assessment 70% (14%) Strategic and portfolio 
review complete; product 
and technology strategies 
were developed to optimise 
commercial value
Delivery against agreed plans
Complete successful integration 
of the Activaero business in line 
with Vectura’s strategic and 
operational objectives
15% Qualitative assessment 80% (12%) Completed integration 
of Activaero operations
Board approval of product and 
technology strategy for acquired 
programmes and technologies
Secure existing pipeline value 15% Qualitative assessment 80% (12%) Continued delivery of 
pipeline value and programmes 
progressed according to agreed 
plans and timelines
Personal objectives 20% Qualitative assessment 65%–80% (13%–16%) Challenging personal objectives 
were set for all Directors
Total bonus payment as a % 
of total salary
80%–84%
 
LTIP scheme
Scheme interests vested during the year
In 2010, an award of LTIP options was made to the Executive Directors 
who were in office at this time. 
The award was made in two tranches and for the first tranche 
performance was assessed over a performance period of three years. 
The performance conditions for the first tranche of this award were 
considered by the Committee in FY 13/14; the performance conditions 
were not met and therefore 0% of this award vested.
The performance of the second tranche was assessed over a 
four-year performance period ending 7 June 2014. During the 
year, the Committee engaged PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) 
to independently assess Vectura’s performance against the LTIP 
scheme performance conditions. Following this review, it was 
determined that 100% of the second tranche award made in 
2010 would vest. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 71
Governance
Measure Performance target Actual performance
TSR against FTSE 
SmallCap Index
Level of comparative performance 
during the performance period
Percentage of LTIP award released
%
Vectura’s TSR exceeded that of the upper 
quartile of the FTSE SmallCap Index over 
the measurement period. Consequently, 
up to 100% of the awards were eligible 
to vest, subject to the average share 
price requirement being met.
Below median —
At or above median 30*
Upper quartile 100*
* Linear vesting between points.
Average share price In order for any of the awards to vest, Vectura’s average share 
price for the three months ending 7 June 2014 (vesting date) 
must be no less than £1.27.
The average share price for the  
three-month period ended 7 June 2014 
was £1.40 and therefore 100% of the 
award vested in full.
The value of LTIP options which have vested during the year is as follows:
Director
Number
of options
 awarded
Share price
at vesting
p
Percentage
of award
vested
Exercise
price
p
Value of
LTIP awards
vesting
£
C P Blackwell 878,684 130.25 100% 0.025 1,144,486
T M Phillips 242,664 130.25 100% 0.025 316,070
Total 1,121,348 1,460,556 
Scheme interests awarded during the year (audited)
LTIP
On 1 July 2014, the following awards of nominal cost options were granted to the Executive Directors under the 2012 LTIP scheme:
Director
Number
of options
 awarded
Value of
award
Share price
used to
 determine
level of award
p
Face
value
£
Exercise
price
p
% that vests
at threshold
Vesting
date
C P Blackwell 300,751 100% 133.0 400,000 0.025 25% 01/07/2017
T M Phillips 206,766 100% 133.0 275,000 0.025 25% 01/07/2017
P S Oliver 165,413 100% 133.0 220,000 0.025 25% 01/07/2017
Total 672,930 895,000 
Award levels were calculated based on the closing share price of 133.0p on the trading day immediately preceding the date of grant. 
The face value of each award shown above is based upon this share price.
The awards granted under the 2012 LTIP scheme on 1 July 2014 are subject to relative TSR measured over a three-year period against 
two comparator groups (each representing 50% of the total award), as set out in the table below.
TSR performance vs. FTSE SmallCap over three years 
(% of award vesting)
TSR performance vs. Euro Stoxx Pharmaceuticals and 
Biotechnology Index over three years (% of award vesting)
Below median 0% 0%
Median 12.5% 12.5%
Between median 
and upper quartile Between 12.5% and 50% on a straight-line basis Between 12.5% and 50% on a straight-line basis
Upper quartile or above 50% 50% Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 72
REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Additional requirements in respect of the single 
total figure table (audited information) continued
Scheme interests awarded during the year (audited) continued
LTIP continued
Performance against the conditions will be measured by the 
Committee’s independent advisors.
Vesting of awards is also subject to an “underpin” enabling the 
Committee to decrease or increase the percentage of the award 
which vests based on its assessment of the Group’s underlying 
performance over the period against a range of factors including 
the Group’s underlying financial performance, absolute shareholder 
return and progress against milestones. Any exercise of this discretion 
by the Committee will be fully disclosed to shareholders with an 
explanation of the Committee’s reasoning in the Report on remuneration 
for the relevant year. Furthermore, the Committee will consult with 
its major shareholders before exercising its discretion to increase 
the percentage of any award that vests. 
To the extent that the performance conditions are not met in full 
at the end of the three-year performance period, awards lapse.
The Committee has the power to claw back all or part of the awards/
payments for one year following vesting in the event of a material 
misstatement, an error in the calculation of performance against the 
performance conditions of the plan or any other matter which it 
deems relevant to this provision.
Free share awards
An award of free shares was made to all employees on 25 June 2014, 
under Vectura’s Share Incentive Plan (SIP). The awards are subject to 
a three-year holding period and no performance conditions are attached. 
The awards made to Directors who held office on 25 June 2014 are 
shown on the table below.
Director
Number of
shares
awarded
Closing share
 price on
date of grant
p
Face
value
£
% that vests
at threshold
Vesting
date
C P Blackwell 2,727 132.0 3,600 — 25/06/2017
T M Phillips 2,727 132.0 3,600 — 25/06/2017
P S Oliver 2,727 132.0 3,600 — 25/06/2017
Total 8,181 10,800 
Matching share awards
On 7 July 2014, the Directors listed below purchased shares through the SIP. For every one share purchased, Vectura awarded a free 
matching share pursuant to the scheme rules. The value of the matching shares is shown below. The awards are subject to a three-year 
holding period and no performance conditions are attached.
Director
Number of
shares
awarded
Closing share
price on
date of grant
p
Face 
value
£
% that vests
at threshold
Vesting
date
C P Blackwell 1,212 148.5 1,800 — 08/07/2017
T M Phillips 1,212 148.5 1,800 — 08/07/2017
P S Oliver 1,212 148.5 1,800 — 08/07/2017
Total 3,636 5,400 
Sharesave
Vectura Group plc also operates a Sharesave (SAYE) Share Option Scheme for both employees and Executive Directors. Under this scheme all 
eligible employees and Executive Directors are invited to subscribe for options, which may be granted at a discount of up to 20% of market 
value and which vest after three years. The Sharesave Share Option Scheme is an HMRC approved all-employee plan to which performance 
conditions do not apply.
In March 2015, the following Sharesave options vested:
Director
Number
of options
 awarded
Share price
at vesting
p
Percentage
of award
vested
Exercise
price
p
Value of
SAYE awards
vesting
£
C P Blackwell 18,987 145.75 100% 47.0 18,674
P S Oliver 18,987 145.75 100% 47.0 18,674
Total 37,974 37,348 Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 73
Governance
In March 2015, the following options were awarded under Vectura’s Sharesave Scheme:
Director
Number
of options
 awarded
Share price
on invitation
date
p 
Option
price
p
Face value
of award
 £
A J Oakley 15,734 143.0 114.4 22,500
Total 15,734 22,500 
Gain on exercise of share options
Date of
exercise
Number of
options
exercised
Exercise
price
p
Market value
at date
of exercise
p
Gain on
exercise of
share options
£
Executive Directors
C P Blackwell 29/05/2014 1,023,355 36.00 131.00 972,187
C P Blackwell 29/05/2014 716,966 56.00 131.00 537,724
1,740,321 1,509,911
T M Phillips 01/07/2014 242,664 0.025 133.00 322,682
T M Phillips 15/01/2015 3,133 0.025 144.50 4,526
T M Phillips 15/01/2015 208,877 95.75 144.50 101,828
454,674 429,036
P S Oliver 01/07/2014 27,460 44.25 133.00 24,371
P S Oliver 01/07/2014 8,000 71.00 133.00 4,960
35,460 29,331
Non-Executive Directors
J R Brown 01/07/2014 238,989 56.00 133.00 184,022
238,989 184,022
Aggregate gain on exercise of share options 2,152,300
Chris Blackwell exercised a total of 1,740,321 unapproved options 
during the year. Of the total shares acquired through the exercise, 
Chris Blackwell sold a total of 1,132,265 shares solely to cover the 
cost of the exercise including related tax liabilities. Chris Blackwell 
retained the balance of 608,056 shares.
Trevor Phillips exercised a total of 454,674 options during the 
year. 242,664 of the options, which were exercised on 1 July 2014, 
were nominal cost LTIP options. Trevor Phillips sold a total of 109,500 
shares solely to cover the cost of the exercise including related tax 
liabilities. Trevor Phillips retained the balance of 133,164 shares. 
On 15 January 2015, Trevor Phillips exercised a further 212,010 
unapproved options. Trevor Phillips sold a total of 171,777 shares 
solely to cover the cost of the exercise including related tax liabilities. 
Trevor Phillips retained the balance of 40,233 shares.
Paul Oliver exercised a total of 35,460 approved options during the 
year. Paul Oliver retained all the shares resulting from this exercise. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 74
REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Additional requirements in respect of the single 
total figure table (audited information) continued
Gain on exercise of share options continued
John Brown exercised a total of 238,989 unapproved options during 
the year. John Brown sold a total of 159,100 shares solely to cover the 
cost of exercise, including related tax liabilities. John Brown retained 
the balance of 79,889 shares. As explained in previous annual reports, 
the share options awarded to John Brown were made prior to Vectura’s 
public listing in 2004. No further share option awards have been made, 
or will be made, to Non-Executive Directors. Following John Brown’s 
exercise, there are no Non-Executive Directors that hold share options.
Approved and Unapproved Share Option Plans and the EMI Plan 
Executive Directors hold options under the Approved and Unapproved 
Share Option Plans as detailed above. Historically, no performance 
conditions have been attached to the options granted under the 
above schemes. The exercise price is equal to the market value 
of Vectura Group plc’s shares at the time the options are granted.
Total pension entitlements
As stated in the notes to the single figure table, UK tax legislation 
imposes penalty taxes on annual pension contributions where 
prescribed maximum amounts are exceeded. Impacted Executive 
Directors receive an additional taxable supplementary cash payment 
in lieu of pension contributions in excess of any limits.
Paid into
pension
fund
£000
Received 
in cash
£000
Total
pension
£000
Executive Directors
C P Blackwell 40 40 80
T M Phillips 55 — 55
A J Oakley 14 — 14
P S Oliver 33 — 33
142 40 182
Shares owned
LTIP awards subject to performance conditions* Share option awards not subject to performance conditions
Unvested Vested
(6)
Unvested Vested
31 March 2015
Ordinary shares
 of 0.025p each
Value of
owned
shares as
a % of
salary
2012 
award
2013
award
2014
award
Unapproved
scheme
Approved
scheme Sharesave
Unapproved
scheme
Approved
scheme Sharesave
Executive Directors
C P Blackwell
(1)
1,306,156 476% 401,889 458,110 300,751 2,149,833 — — — 906,605 37,383 18,987
T M Phillips
(2)
206,027 109% 410,659 611,246 206,766 — — — 11,718 — — —
P S Oliver
(3)
105,727 71% 34,785 158,489 82,857 — — — — 119,063 — 18,987
A J Oakley
(4)
— — — — — — — — 15,734 — — —
Non-Executive Directors
B F J Angelici 12,903 — — — — — — — — — — —
J R Brown
(5)
322,570 — — — — — — — — — — —
S E Foden 11,000 — — — — — — — — — — —
N W Warner 30,477 — — — — — — — — — — —
(1) The holding of C P Blackwell includes 64,281 ordinary shares of 0.025p each, which are held in the Vectura Group plc Employee Benefit Trust (Share Incentive Plan).
(2) The holding of T M Phillips includes 21,178 ordinary shares of 0.025p each, which are held in the Vectura Group plc Employee Benefit Trust (Share Incentive Plan).
(3)  P S Oliver stepped down from the Board with effect from 1 January 2015. The shareholding shown for P S Oliver is his shareholding as at the date he ceased to be a Director of Vectura 
Group plc, 1 January 2015. The percentage of his salary held in shares is calculated using the share price as at 31 March 2015 and his annual salary at the point of his departure, £220,000.
(4) A J Oakley was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2015.
(5) The holding of J R Brown includes 20,457 ordinary shares of 0.025p each, which are held through nominees.
(6) Vested LTIP awards relate to outstanding awards granted between 2005 and 2010.
* Details of the performance conditions applicable to the unvested LTIP awards are set out on page 71. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 75
Governance
Payments made for loss of office and payments to past Directors 
(audited information)
On 18 November 2014, it was announced that Paul Oliver would 
step down as Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary of 
Vectura, with effect from 1 January 2015. 
The Company entered into an agreement with Paul Oliver and, pursuant 
to this agreement, Paul Oliver received a payment of £341,622 as 
settlement of his legal entitlement. This included £234,122 as payment 
in lieu of salary and benefits during his twelve-month contractual 
notice period and in respect of his accrued holiday entitlement. 
The balance of £107,500 was a payment in respect of his pro-rata 
bonus entitlement for the financial year ended 31 March 2015. 
This is equivalent to 9/12ths of his bonus opportunity for FY 14/15 
and it assumes a 65% payout against the relevant bonus objectives, 
representing the Committee’s assessment of the likely payout under 
the bonus scheme at the time of his departure. In addition, he will 
receive a 20% pension contribution and will be provided with insured 
benefits for the duration of his twelve month notice period.
The amounts paid to Paul Oliver under this agreement relate to his 
service as a Director and therefore they have been included in the 
“bonus” and “other” amounts disclosed in the total remuneration table.
In accordance with Vectura’s approved remuneration policy, 
Paul Oliver was treated as a good leaver under the various share 
schemes that the Group operates. Awards that may vest under 
the 2012 LTIP scheme will vest at the normal vesting date and be 
prorated, according to length of service. Awards made under the 
Group’s Share Incentive Plan and Sharesave Scheme will vest in 
accordance with the rules of those schemes.
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests 
(audited information)
As a direct link between executive remuneration and the interests of 
shareholders, the Committee has implemented shareholding guidelines 
for Executive Directors and key senior employees. The guidelines 
require that Executive Directors build up and maintain an interest 
in the ordinary shares of the Company that is equal in value to their 
annual base salary. In assessing compliance with this requirement, 
the value of the shareholding shown below is assessed using the share 
price on 31 March 2015, being 145.75p. The value as a percentage 
of salary has been calculated using base salary as at 31 March 2015, 
as shown in the single figure remuneration table.
Until this level of shareholding has been attained, Executive Directors 
are required to retain at least half of any share awards vesting as 
shares (after paying any tax due) until they have a holding equivalent 
to at least 100% of their base salary. 
The Directors who have held office during the year ended 
31 March 2015 and their interests (in respect of which transactions 
are notifiable to the Company under the Financial Conduct Authority’s 
Transparency Rules) in the share capital of Vectura Group plc at 
31 March 2015 are shown in the table below.
There was no change in the Directors’ interests between 
31 March 2015 and 19 May 2015, the date of this report.
Shares owned
LTIP awards subject to performance conditions* Share option awards not subject to performance conditions
Unvested Vested
(6)
Unvested Vested
31 March 2015
Ordinary shares
 of 0.025p each
Value of
owned
shares as
a % of
salary
2012 
award
2013
award
2014
award
Unapproved
scheme
Approved
scheme Sharesave
Unapproved
scheme
Approved
scheme Sharesave
Executive Directors
C P Blackwell
(1)
1,306,156 476% 401,889 458,110 300,751 2,149,833 — — — 906,605 37,383 18,987
T M Phillips
(2)
206,027 109% 410,659 611,246 206,766 — — — 11,718 — — —
P S Oliver
(3)
105,727 71% 34,785 158,489 82,857 — — — — 119,063 — 18,987
A J Oakley
(4)
— — — — — — — — 15,734 — — —
Non-Executive Directors
B F J Angelici 12,903 — — — — — — — — — — —
J R Brown
(5)
322,570 — — — — — — — — — — —
S E Foden 11,000 — — — — — — — — — — —
N W Warner 30,477 — — — — — — — — — — —
(1) The holding of C P Blackwell includes 64,281 ordinary shares of 0.025p each, which are held in the Vectura Group plc Employee Benefit Trust (Share Incentive Plan).
(2) The holding of T M Phillips includes 21,178 ordinary shares of 0.025p each, which are held in the Vectura Group plc Employee Benefit Trust (Share Incentive Plan).
(3)  P S Oliver stepped down from the Board with effect from 1 January 2015. The shareholding shown for P S Oliver is his shareholding as at the date he ceased to be a Director of Vectura 
Group plc, 1 January 2015. The percentage of his salary held in shares is calculated using the share price as at 31 March 2015 and his annual salary at the point of his departure, £220,000.
(4) A J Oakley was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2015.
(5) The holding of J R Brown includes 20,457 ordinary shares of 0.025p each, which are held through nominees.
(6) Vested LTIP awards relate to outstanding awards granted between 2005 and 2010.
* Details of the performance conditions applicable to the unvested LTIP awards are set out on page 71. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 76
REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Unaudited information
Performance graph and table
The following graph shows Vectura Group plc’s cumulative total shareholder return (TSR) over the last six financial years relative to the 
FTSE SmallCap Index. This index was chosen as Vectura is one of the constituent companies and the Committee feels that it is one of the most 
appropriate against which to measure performance.
TSR is defined as the return on investment obtained from holding a company’s shares over a period. It includes dividends paid, the change 
in the capital value of the shares and any other payments made to or by shareholders within the period.
Value (£)
31 March 2009 31 March 2010 31 March 2011 31 March 2012 31 March 2013 31 March 2014
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2015, of £100 invested in Vectura Group PLC on 31 March 2009 compared with the value of £100 invested in the 
FTSE Small Cap Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening ﬁnancial year ends. 
FTSE Small Cap Vectura Group plc 
Total shareholder return
Source: Thomson Reuters
31 March 2015
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2015, of £100 invested in Vectura Group plc on 31 March 2009, compared with the value 
of £100 invested in the FTSE SmallCap Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Aligning pay with performance
Chief Executive remuneration compared with annual growth in TSR:
2009/10
£000
2010/11
£000
2011/12
£000
2012/13
£000
2013/14
£000
2014/15
£000
Annual growth in TSR (%) (13.8) 29.8 (11.1) 67.3 68.9 (4.9)
Salary, pensions and benefits 384 383 396 401 411 487
Annual performance bonus 150 196 174 193 337 320
Long-Term Incentive Plan vesting 177 90 401 — — 1,144
Chief Executive total remuneration 711 669 971 594 748 1,951
Actual bonus as a % of the maximum 47% 62% 53% 59% 100% 80%
Actual share award vesting as a % of the maximum
(1)
83.3% 62.9% 100% 0% 0% 100%
(1) No LTIP awards vested during FY 12/13 or FY 13/14.
Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive
Set out below is the change over the prior period in base salary, benefits, pension and annual performance bonus of the Chief Executive 
and the Group’s employees:
2014/15
£000
Chief Executive All employees
Percentage change (FY 13/14 v FY 14/15) Percentage change (FY 13/14 v FY 14/15)
Salary 400 19% 4%
Benefits 2 0% 0%
Bonus 320 (20%) (15%) Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 77
Governance
Relative importance of Executive Director remuneration
FY 14/15
£m
FY 13/14
£m
Change
£m
Total employee remuneration 18.3 13.4 4.9
Revenue 58.0 36.5 21.5
Research and development expenditure 36.1 28.0 8.1
(Loss)/profit before tax (6.2) (4.8) (1.4)
Distributions to shareholders — — —
Statement of shareholder voting at 2014 AGM
At last year’s AGM held on 19 September 2014, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors’ remuneration were 
as follows:
For (including
discretionary
votes) Against
Total votes cast
(excluding votes
withheld)
Votes
withheld
(1)
Total votes
cast (including
withheld votes)
To approve the Directors’ remuneration policy 298,881,466 5,521,975 304,403,441 4,655,592 309,059,033
% of votes cast 98.19 1.81 100
To approve the Remuneration report 199,895,156 107,436,092 307,331,248 1,727,785 309,059,033
% of votes cast 65.04 34.96 100  
(1) A vote that is withheld does not constitute a vote in law and has therefore not been included in the totals above.
In the forthcoming year, the Committee will continue to engage with major shareholders and their representative bodies regarding the 
development and implementation of Vectura’s remuneration policy.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the 
following financial year
Base salaries
As disclosed last year, the Committee planned to reposition 
Chris Blackwell’s salary at a broadly mid-market level over two 
years, taking into account his performance in the role and the 
Company’s performance as a whole. In light of strong corporate 
and personal performance, the Committee decided to complete this 
review by increasing his salary by 7% with effect from 1 April 2015. 
As a result, Chris Blackwell’s salary increased from £400,000 
to £428,000.
The Committee determined that a 2.5% increase is appropriate 
for the roles of Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer. 
This increase is below the overall increase of 3.3% across the 
wider workforce.
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
Non-Executive fees remain unchanged at £52,000 for the forthcoming 
year. Per-Olof Andersson will receive fees of £44,000 per annum, 
plus an allowance of £2,000 for each Board meeting requiring his 
transatlantic travel.
The Chairman’s fee has been repositioned to £130,000 per annum.
Bonus
The performance targets set for the performance bonus for future 
years will be disclosed in accordance with the policy set out on 
pages 61 to 67 of this report.
Performance measures will include targets relating to creating 
strategic growth opportunities, securing existing pipeline value 
and achieving financial growth.
LTIP
It is currently intended that the 2015 LTIP awards will be granted 
shortly after the Company’s AGM in September 2015.
The Remuneration Committee’s philosophy is that the remuneration 
arrangements for the Group as a whole should support value creation 
for shareholders over the longer term and be subject to challenging 
performance conditions measured over a period of at least three years 
and ideally longer. We believe that long-term incentives should comprise 
the most significant element of the remuneration package, with the 
other elements of remuneration set at a mid-market level. Overall, the 
Committee believes that Vectura’s Long-Term Incentive Plan should 
be capable of delivering exceptional rewards, but only for 
exceptional performance. 
During the forthcoming year, the Committee will continue to review 
Vectura’s existing long-term incentive arrangements to ensure that 
they continue to be aligned to shareholder interests and Vectura’s 
remuneration philosophy, as outlined above. The Committee will 
continue to engage with major shareholders and their representative 
bodies regarding the development and implementation of Vectura’s 
remuneration policy in respect of long-term incentives and variable 
pay arrangements.
On behalf of the Board
Dr Susan Foden
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
19 May 2015 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 78
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The following matters are reported by the Directors in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006 requirements in force at the date 
of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Principal activity
The principal activity of the Group undertaken during the year was 
research, development and commercialisation of novel therapeutic 
products and drug delivery systems for human use.
Review of business
The consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 March 2015 
is set out on page 86. Key events during the past year are described 
in the Strategic report; highlights of FY 14/15 are shown on pages 1 to 3 
and are referred to in more detail in the Chairman’s statement, the 
Chief Executive’s statement and the Financial review. These reports, 
together with the Chairman’s introduction, the Corporate governance 
statement, the Audit Committee report, the Nomination Committee 
report and the Remuneration Committee report, are incorporated 
into this report by reference and should be read as part of this report.
The Group’s risk management process and the Board’s assessment 
of the key risks and uncertainties facing the business are set out on 
pages 20 to 25. During the year, the Board has reviewed the risk 
management policies in place, as summarised in the Corporate 
governance statement on pages 47 to 52. Key performance 
indicators are set out on pages 18 and 19.
Group’s result and dividend
The consolidated profit after tax for the year was £3.7m  
(2013/14: loss of £2.3m). The Directors do not recommend 
the payment of a dividend (2013/14: £nil).
Financial instruments
The policy and practice of the Group with regard to financial 
instruments is disclosed in note 21 of the financial statements.
Directors
The Directors listed on pages 44 to 45 served throughout the year 
with the exception of Andrew J Oakley and Dr Per-Olof Andersson. 
Andrew J Oakley was appointed as Chief Financial Officer and Company 
Secretary on 1 January 2015 and Dr Per-Olof Andersson was appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 April 2015.
In addition, Paul Oliver served as an Executive Director during the 
financial year from 1 April 2014 to 31 December 2014.
Brief biographical details of each Director are set on pages 44 to 45.
Details of Directors’ remuneration and their interests in the share capital 
of the Company are given in the Remuneration report. None of the 
Directors has any interest in any contract of significance to the 
financial statements.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the 
Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation. 
The Articles of Association themselves may be amended by special 
resolution of the shareholders. The powers of Directors are described 
in the Board’s terms of reference, copies of which are available on 
request, and the Corporate governance report on pages 47 to 52.
Directors’ indemnities
The Company has granted an indemnity to its Directors against 
liability in respect of proceedings brought by third parties, which 
remains in force as at the date of approving the Directors’ report.
Other than the indemnity provisions described above, none of the 
Directors had a material interest in any contract of significance to 
which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a 
party during the year ended 31 March 2015 and up to the date 
of the publication of this report.
Shares
Share capital
At 15 May 2015, the nearest practical date to the date of this 
report, the Company had a total of 3,244 ordinary shareholders 
and 404,623,173 ordinary shares in issue.
Rights and obligations
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are set 
out in the Company’s Articles of Association (“the Articles”). The Articles 
may only be amended by special resolution of the members of the 
Company. A copy of the Articles is available upon request.
Share price
The mid-market share price as shown by the London Stock Exchange 
Daily Official List on 31 March 2015 was 145.75p. The mid-market 
share price ranged from 154.75p to 115.00p during the year to 
31 March 2015. The average share price for the period was 135.55p.
Capital structure
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with 
details of the movements in the Company’s issued share capital 
during the year, are shown in note 22. The Company has one class 
of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. Each share 
carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company. 
The redeemable preference shares carry no interest, nor do they 
carry voting rights. The percentage of the issued nominal value 
of the ordinary shares is 74.8% of the total issued nominal value 
of all share capital.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the 
transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions 
of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. The Directors 
are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Company’s 
shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or 
on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 23. Shares held 
by the Vectura Group plc Employee Benefit Trust abstain from voting.
No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s share 
capital and all issued shares are fully paid. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 79
Governance
Significant shareholdings
On 15 May 2015, the Directors were notified of the following substantial holdings in the Company’s share capital:
Number of shares
‘000 %
Invesco Asset Management Limited 58,256 14.4%
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 34,100 8.43%
Baillie Gifford & Co 26,372 6.52%
Neptune Investment Management Limited 20,760 5.13%
OppenheimerFunds Inc. 19,000 4.70%
Franklin Resources Inc. 18,955 4.86%
AXA SA 16,691 4.12%
Employee engagement
The Group’s policies on the environment, health and safety, ethical 
and social issues and its employees are disclosed in the Strategic 
review; refer to pages 36 to 39.
Political and charitable donations
Vectura encourages employee involvement in charitable causes, but 
does not contribute itself because it is loss-making. There were no 
political donations during the year (2013/14: £nil).
Going concern
The accounts have been prepared on the going concern basis. 
Although certain economic conditions may place pressures on 
customers and suppliers who may face liquidity issues, the Group’s 
product diversity and customer and supplier base substantially 
mitigate these risks. In addition, the Group operates in the relatively 
defensive pharmaceutical industry, which we expect to be less 
affected compared to other industries.
The Group made a profit after tax of £3.7m for the financial year ended 
31 March 2015 (2013/14: loss after tax of £2.3m) and had £90.0m 
of cash and cash equivalents as at 31 March 2015 (2014: £81.7m). 
The Board operates an investment policy under which the primary 
objective is to invest in low-risk cash or cash equivalent investments 
to safeguard the principal. The Group’s forecasts, taking into account 
likely revenue streams, show that the Group has sufficient funds to 
operate for the foreseeable future.
After reviewing the Group’s forecasts and assessing the uncertain 
nature of some of the Group’s forecast revenues, the Directors 
believe that the Group is adequately placed to manage its business 
and financing risks successfully. Accordingly, they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at the offices 
of Covington & Burling LLP, 265 Strand, London WC2R 1BH 
on 24 September 2015 at 12.00 noon. Details of the business to 
be transacted at the forthcoming AGM will be given in a separate 
circular to shareholders.
Auditor
Deloitte LLP has expressed a willingness to continue in office 
as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be put to 
the members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors that were members of the Board at the time 
of approving the Directors’ report are listed on pages 44 and 45. 
Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Company’s 
auditor, each of these Directors confirms that:
• to the best of each Director’s knowledge and belief, there is no 
information relevant to the preparation of their report of which 
the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
• each Director has taken all the steps a director might 
reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor 
is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the Board
Andrew J Oakley
Company Secretary
19 May 2015 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 80
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors 
are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have 
also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements 
under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. Under company 
law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that 
period. In preparing these financial statements, IAS 1 requires 
that directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in 
a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable 
and understandable information; 
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions 
on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
• make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
• the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties which they face; and
• the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as whole, are 
fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
Andrew J Oakley
Director
19 May 2015
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
STICKING TO OUR VALUES Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 81
Financial statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
to the members of Vectura Group plc
Opinion on the financial statements of Vectura Group plc
In our opinion:
•  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 2015 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
•  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union;
•  the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
•  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement, the 
Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 30. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation 
is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB
As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors’ statement contained on page 79 that the Group is a going concern. 
We confirm that:
•  we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements 
is appropriate; and
• we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 82
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT continued
to the members of Vectura Group plc
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below, which are unchanged from the prior year, are those that had the greatest 
effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team:
Risk How the scope of our audit 
responded to the risk
Acquisition accounting
The Group acquired Activaero GmbH on 18 March 2014 for a total consideration 
of €130m. Management exercised judgement in the prior year in determining their 
provisional valuation of the intangible assets, land and buildings, liabilities and resultant 
goodwill associated with the acquisition. In the current year management has finalised 
its provisional acquisition accounting by assessing any facts and circumstances which 
arose subsequent to the initial acquisition accounting which might indicate an 
adjustment was required within one year from the date of acquisition. This process 
has resulted in material adjustments to the allocation of the fair value of the intangible 
assets acquired between different product categories. The key consideration relates 
to when the information was obtained, whether it meets the requirements of IFRS 3 
for adjustment to the initial acquisition accounting and the assumptions used in the 
revised cash flows.
See notes 1 and 29 to the financial statements, where the key assumptions around the 
acquisition accounting have been disclosed.
We focused our audit work on the key 
judgements taken by management around the 
finalisation of the valuation of intangible assets. 
We have reviewed the forecasts for the relevant 
products and held discussions with operational 
management to validate the facts surrounding 
the revisions made to the acquisition accounting. 
In conjunction with the firm’s valuation experts, 
we have critically assessed and challenged 
management on the most recent information 
presented in respect of the acquired intellectual 
property to assess whether the information 
was obtained within the twelve month window 
prescribed by IFRS 3, and that it reflected 
conditions that existed at the date of acquisition, 
and is not indicative of new information that 
would not result in adjustment to the 
provisional acquisition accounting.
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment
The carrying value of goodwill (31 March 2015: £56.8m; 31 March 2014: £57.8m) 
and intangible assets (31 March 2015: £104.3m; 31 March 2014: £138.9m) relies on 
assumptions and judgements made by management concerning the estimated future 
cash flows from a combination of early and late-stage research and development 
programmes, future royalty receipts and regulatory milestones; associated discount 
rates; and clinical commercial risk and market growth rates. Management have 
performed an impairment review under IAS 36.
See notes 1 and 9 to the financial statements, where the key assumptions used in their 
impairment model have been disclosed.
We assessed management’s assumptions used 
in its impairment model for goodwill, including:
•  the cash flow projections by discussing 
with senior operational management 
and considering the consistency of the 
forecasts with clinical and licensing partner 
data and contractual agreements;
•  discount rates by engaging our valuation 
specialists to independently recalculate 
the group’s weighted average cost of capital 
(WACC) and then performing an assessment 
of the risk adjustments applied by 
management; and
•  sensitivity analysis of management’s 
forecasts including assessing the impact 
of applying further sensitivities. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 83
Financial statements
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued
Risk How the scope of our audit 
responded to the risk
Revenue recognition
The Group’s two principal revenue streams are licence milestones and royalty income:
•  recognition of revenue on product and technology licence milestones (31 March 2015: 
£26.4m; 31 March 2014: £17.6m) can be subjective and management exercises judgement 
in determining whether the Group has fulfilled all of its performance obligations, such 
as a regulatory approval or transfer of intellectual property, under that contract and 
therefore the relevant period over which to recognise revenue. This is a material 
judgement that impacts the financial statements; and
•  royalty income (31 March 2015: £25.2m; 31 March 2014: £16.3m) needs  
to be accrued for at year end based on management’s estimate of the licence 
partners’ global sales in the final quarter or statements received from the licence 
partners. This requires management to exercise judgement in ensuring all royalty 
streams are recognised as revenue in the year, which has a material impact on the 
financial statements.
See notes 1 and 2 to the financial statements, where the key assumptions in relation 
to revenue recognition have been disclosed.
We reviewed the key contracts for the 
Group and management’s calculations for 
each milestone to assess consistency with the 
Group’s accounting policies and compliance 
with IAS 18 ‘Revenue’. We challenged 
management’s assumptions through discussions 
with the development team and review of 
supporting documentation and regulatory 
announcements to assess whether the period 
of recognition for each milestone was appropriate.
Our audit work focused on the royalty income 
accrued in the final quarter of the year and we 
reviewed a range of sources, such as third-party 
announcements, news feeds, royalty statements 
and post year end correspondence with the 
licensing partners to challenge the completeness 
of management’s estimates around the 
amount accrued.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on 
pages 54 and 55.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to 
express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the 
risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions 
of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work 
and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £2m (2014: £2m), which is approximately 1% of equity (2014: 1%). Equity has been 
used as the basis for determining materiality as it represents the most stable aspect of the business, with year on year fluctuations seen 
in revenues and loss before tax as the Group progresses its R&D programmes; equity also reflects the Group’s focus on cash generation 
and cash management.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all misstatements identified in excess of £40,000 (2014: £40,000), 
as well as misstatements below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit 
Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing 
the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope on the UK businesses which are managed from Chippenham, UK. 
These were subject to a full scope audit by the Group audit team using component materialities which were lower than Group materiality. 
Component materialities range from £1m to £1.9m. The UK businesses account for 100% (2014: 99%) of the components with net assets, 
95% (2014: 99%) of the Group’s revenue and 100% of the components with a profit before tax (2014: 85% of the Group’s loss before tax).
In addition, audit procedures were performed by the Group audit team in respect of the German business using a component materiality 
which is lower than Group materiality. Including goodwill and intangible assets this business accounts for 99% of the components with 
net liabilities (2014: 1% of Group’s net assets), 5% (2014: 1%) of the Group’s revenues and 96% of the components with a loss before 
tax (2014: 15% of the Group’s loss before tax).
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and performed analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that 
there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject 
to audit or audit of specified account balances. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 84
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT continued
to the members of Vectura Group plc
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
•  the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have not 
been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. 
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s 
compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual 
report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
•  apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course 
of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the 
audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual 
report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been 
disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 
(UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied. 
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 85
Financial statements
Matters on which we are required to report by exception continued
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
David Hedditch (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Bristol, United Kingdom
19 May 2015 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 86
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2015
 Note
2015
£m
Restated
(1)
2014
£m
Revenue 2 58.0 36.5
Cost of sales (2.4) (1.0)
Gross profit 55.6 35.5
Research and development expenses (36.1) (28.0)
Other administrative expenses (4.5) (3.4)
Non-recurring acquisition costs — (2.5)
Amortisation of intangible assets (20.9) (6.9)
Share-based compensation (1.1) (0.9)
Total administrative expenses (26.5) (13.7)
Operating loss 5 (7.0) (6.2)
Presented as:
EBITDA
(2)
16.2 5.2
Non-recurring acquisition costs — (2.5)
Amortisation of intangible assets (20.9) (6.9)
Depreciation of assets (1.2) (1.1)
Share-based compensation (1.1) (0.9)
Operating loss (7.0) (6.2)
Investment income 4 0.5 1.6
Finance gains/(costs) 4 1.7 (0.2)
Share of result of joint venture 13 (1.4) —
Loss before taxation (6.2) (4.8)
Taxation 7 9.9 2.5
Profit/(loss) after taxation attributable to equity holders of the Company 3.7 (2.3)
Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share: basic 8 0.9p (0.7p)
Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share: diluted 8 0.9p (0.7p)
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share: basic 8 4.0p 1.5p
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share: diluted 8 3.9p 1.5p
(1) Restated to reflect the final allocation of the cost of the acquisition of Activaero GmbH (see note 29).
(2) Earnings before investment income, finance gains/(costs), tax, depreciation, amortisation, share-based compensation and adjusted for non-recurring items.
All results are derived from continuing activities. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 87
Financial statements
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Note
2015
£m
Restated
(1)
2014
£m
Profit/(loss) after taxation attributable to equity holders of the Company 3.7 (2.3)
Other comprehensive loss:
Items that may be subsequently reclassified through the income statement
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operation 22f (11.4) (1.6)
Other comprehensive expense (11.4) (1.6)
Total comprehensive loss attributable to equity holders of the Company (7.7) (3.9)
(1) Restated to reflect the final allocation of the cost of the acquisition of Activaero GmbH (see note 29). Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 88
BALANCE SHEET
at 31 March 2015
Note
Group Company
2015
£m
Restated
(1)
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Assets
Goodwill 9 56.8 57.8 2.0 2.0
Intangible assets 10 104.3 138.9 — —
Property, plant and equipment 11 11.5 11.6 — —
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 12 — — 234.3 233.8
Investment in joint venture 13 1.7 3.4 — —
Other receivables 14 0.4 0.4 — —
Non-current assets 174.7 212.1 236.3 235.8
Inventories 15 0.9 1.0 — —
Trade and other receivables 16 27.9 13.7 — —
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 17 — — 89.2 86.7
Cash and cash equivalents 21 90.0 81.7 — —
Current assets 118.8 96.4 89.2 86.7
Total assets 293.5 308.5 325.5 322.5
Liabilities
Trade and other payables 18 (20.6) (17.4) — —
Deferred income 19 (0.2) (0.1) — —
Deferred consideration 29 (25.6) — (25.6) —
Current liabilities (46.4) (17.5) (25.6) —
Deferred income 19 (1.5) (1.7) — —
Deferred consideration 29 — (28.7) — (28.7)
Deferred tax liabilities 20 (23.7) (33.9) — —
Non-current liabilities (25.2) (64.3) — (28.7)
Total liabilities (71.6) (81.8) (25.6) (28.7)
Net assets 221.9 226.7 299.9 293.8
Equity
Share capital 22a 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Share premium 22b 99.2 97.4 99.2 97.4
Special reserve 22c 8.2 8.2 8.2 8.2
Other reserve 22d 124.9 124.9 123.7 123.7
Share-based compensation reserve 22e 14.9 13.8 14.9 13.8
Translation reserve 22f (13.0) (1.6) — —
Retained (loss)/profit (12.4) (16.1) 53.8 50.6
Total equity 221.9 226.7 299.9 293.8
(1) Restated to reflect the final allocation of the cost of the acquisition of Activaero GmbH (see note 29).
The financial statements of Vectura Group plc, registered number 03418970, were approved and authorised for issue by the Board 
of Directors on 19 May 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
Dr C P Blackwell  A J Oakley
Director   Director Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 89
Financial statements
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Group Company
2015
£m
Restated
(1)
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Operating loss (7.0) (6.2) (1.0) (2.6)
Depreciation and amortisation 22.1 8.0 — —
Share-based compensation 1.1 0.9 — —
Decrease in inventories 0.1 0.2 — —
Increase in trade and other receivables (14.2) (3.9) — —
Increase in inter-company receivables — — (2.5) (9.6)
Increase/(decrease) in payables 0.6 (4.6) — —
(Decrease)/increase in deferred income (0.1) 0.4 — —
Exchange movements 1.8 (0.2) 3.5 —
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operations 4.4 (5.4) — (12.2)
Research and development tax credits received 3.6 4.7 — —
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 8.0 (0.7) — (12.2)
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 0.4 0.4 — —
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1.4) (2.3) — —
Disposal of investments — 1.2 — —
Acquisition of Activaero GmbH (0.5) (37.8) — (37.8)
Non-recurring acquisition costs — (2.5) — —
Net cash outflow from investing activities (1.5) (41.0) — (37.8)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) before financing activities 6.5 (41.7) — (50.0)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 1.8 55.3 — 52.0
Costs of raising equity — (2.0) — (2.0)
Net cash inflow from financing activities 1.8 53.3 — 50.0
Increase in cash and cash equivalents 8.3 11.6 — —
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 81.7 70.1 — —
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 90.0 81.7 — —
(1) Restated to reflect the final allocation of the cost of the acquisition of Activaero GmbH (see note 29). Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 90
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Group
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Special 
reserve 
£m
Other 
reserve 
£m
Share-based
 compensation
 reserve
 £m
Translation
reserve
£m
Retained
(loss)/profit
£m
Restated
(1)
Total
equity
£m
At 1 April 2013 0.1 2.8 8.2 124.9 12.9 — (13.8) 135.1
Loss for the year — — — — — — (2.3) (2.3)
Other comprehensive loss — — — — — (1.6) — (1.6)
Total comprehensive loss — — — — — (1.6) (2.3) (3.9)
Share-based compensation — — — — 0.9 — — 0.9
Shares issued on acquisition — 41.3 — — — — — 41.3
On placement of new shares — 52.0 — — — — — 52.0
Costs of raising equity — (2.0) — — — — — (2.0)
Exercise of share options — 3.3 — — — — — 3.3
At 31 March 2014 0.1 97.4 8.2 124.9 13.8 (1.6) (16.1) 226.7
Profit for the year — — — — — — 3.7 3.7
Other comprehensive loss — — — — — (11.4) — (11.4)
Total comprehensive loss — — — — — (11.4) 3.7 (7.7)
Share-based compensation — — — — 1.1 — — 1.1
Exercise of share options — 1.8 — — — — — 1.8
At 31 March 2015 0.1 99.2 8.2 124.9 14.9 (13.0) (12.4) 221.9
(1) Restated to reflect the final allocation of the cost of the acquisition of Activaero GmbH (see note 29).
Company
Share 
capital 
£m
Share
premium
£m
Special
reserve
£m
Other
reserve
£m
Share-based
compensation
reserve
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Retained
profit
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 1 April 2013 0.1 2.8 8.2 123.7 12.9 — 52.8 200.5
Loss for the year and total 
comprehensive loss — — — — — — (2.2) (2.2)
Share-based compensation — — — — 0.9 — — 0.9
Shares issued on acquisition — 41.3 — — — — — 41.3
On placement of new shares — 52.0 — — — — — 52.0
Costs of raising equity — (2.0) — — — — — (2.0)
Exercise of share options — 3.3 — — — — — 3.3
At 31 March 2014 0.1 97.4 8.2 123.7 13.8 — 50.6 293.8
Profit for the year and total 
comprehensive income — — — — — — 3.2 3.2
Share-based compensation — — — — 1.1 — — 1.1
Exercise of share options — 1.8 — — — — — 1.8
At 31 March 2015 0.1 99.2 8.2 123.7 14.9 — 53.8 299.9 Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 91
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2015
1. Significant accounting policies
General information
Vectura Group plc is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act. The address of the registered 
office and principal place of business is given on the final page of this Annual Report. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal 
activities are set out in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 42.
The Company’s ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) under the ticker VEC.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
the Group operates. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out below.
Adoption of new and revised standards
The following amendments to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and a new interpretation issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (IASB) have been applied by the Group in the current year. Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts 
reported in these financial statements. 
• Amendments to IAS 32 – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
  The Group has adopted the amendments to IAS 32 – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities for the first time in the current 
year. The amendments to IAS 32 clarify the requirements relating to the offset of financial assets and financial liabilities. Specifically, 
the amendments clarify the meaning of “currently has a legally enforceable right of set-off”, “simultaneous realisation and settlement”.
• Amendments to IAS 36 – Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets
  The Group has adopted the amendments to IAS 36 – Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets for the first time in the 
current year. The amendments to IAS 36 remove the requirement to disclose the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit (CGU) 
to which goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives have been allocated when there has been no impairment or reversal 
of impairment of the related CGU. Furthermore, the amendments introduce additional disclosure requirements applicable to when the 
recoverable amount of an asset or a CGU is measured at fair value less costs of disposal. These new disclosures include the fair value 
hierarchy, key assumptions and valuation techniques used which are in line with the disclosure required by IFRS 13 – Fair Value Measurement.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these 
financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU):
• IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments
• Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 – Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
• Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 – Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception
• Amendments to IFRS 11 – Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations
• IFRS 14 – Regulatory Deferral Accounts
• IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers
• Amendments to IAS 1 – Disclosure Initiative
• Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 – Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation
• Amendments to IAS 19 – Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions
• Amendments to IAS 27 – Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements
•  Annual IFRS Improvements Process 2010–2012 Cycle (December 2013): Amendments to: IFRS 2 – Share-based Payments,  
IFRS 3 – Business Combinations, IFRS 8 – Operating Segments, IFRS 13 – Fair Value Measurement, IAS 16 – Property, Plant and Equipment, 
IAS 24 – Related Party Disclosures and IAS 38 – Intangible Assets 
•  Annual IFRS Improvements Process 2011–2013 Cycle (December 2013): Amendments to: IFRS 1 – First-time Adoption of International 
Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS 3 – Business Combinations, IFRS 13 – Fair Value Measurement and IAS 40 – Investment Property
•  Annual IFRS Improvements Process 2012–2014 Cycle (September 2014): Amendments to: IFRS 5 – Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations, IFRS 7 – Financial Instruments: Disclosures, IAS 19 – Employee Benefits and IAS 34 – Interim Financial Reporting
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the 
Group in future periods, except as follows:
•  IFRS 15 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 and replaces all existing revenue requirements in IFRS. 
The core principle is that revenue will be recognised at an amount reflecting the consideration to which the Company expects to be 
entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer. It may have an impact on revenue recognition and related disclosures.
• IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments. 
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review 
has been completed. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 92
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015
1. Significant accounting policies continued
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and IFRSs and related interpretations as adopted 
by the European Union and, therefore, the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU International Accounting Standard 
(IAS) Regulation. The Group and Company financial statements are also consistent with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as issued by the IASB.
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006 and have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The Company is taking advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the 
Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual statement of comprehensive income and the related notes that form a part of these 
approved financial statements. The parent company profit for the year ended 31 March 2015 is £3.2m (2013/14: £2.2m loss). 
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, revised for use of fair values where required by applicable IFRSs. 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique. In estimating 
the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if a market participant would 
take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. Fair value measurements and/or disclosures 
in these consolidated financial statements are determined on such basis, except for share-based payment transactions that are within the 
scope of IFRS 2, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS 17, and measurements that have some similarities to fair value but 
are not fair value, such as net realisable value in IAS 2 or value in use in IAS 36.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Going concern
The accounts have been prepared on the going concern basis. Although certain economic conditions may place pressures on customers 
and suppliers who may face liquidity issues, the Group’s product diversity and customer and supplier base substantially mitigate these 
risks. In addition, the Group operates in the relatively defensive pharmaceutical industry, which we expect to be less affected compared 
to other industries.
The Group made a profit after tax of £3.7m for the financial year ended 31 March 2015 (2013/14: £2.3m loss) and had £90.0m of cash 
and cash equivalents as at 31 March 2015 (2014: £81.7m). The Board operates an investment policy under which the primary objective 
is to invest in low-risk cash or cash equivalent investments to safeguard the principal. The Group’s forecasts, taking into account likely 
revenue streams, show that the Group has sufficient funds to operate for the foreseeable future. 
After reviewing the Group’s forecasts and assessing the uncertain nature of some of the Group’s forecast revenues, the Directors believe 
that the Group is adequately placed to manage its business and financing risks successfully. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated annual financial statements comprise the financial statements of Vectura Group plc and entities controlled by the Company 
(its subsidiaries) as at 31 March each year. Control is achieved when the Company:
• has power over the investee;
• is exposed, or has rights, to variable return from its involvement with the investee; and
• has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more 
of the three elements of control listed above.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on 
which control is transferred out of the Group. Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include 
the results for the part of the reporting year during which the Group had control.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting 
policies. Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist.
All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Revenue recognition
Revenue represents the amount receivable for goods and services provided and royalties earned, net of trade discounts, VAT and other 
sales-related taxes. Revenue is recognised as follows:
Royalty income
Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis and represents income earned as a percentage of product sales in accordance with the 
substance of the relevant agreement net of amounts payable to other licensees. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 93
Financial statements
1. Significant accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition continued
Technology and product licensing
Technology and product licensing income represents amounts earned for licences provided under licensing agreements, including up-front 
payments, milestone payments and technology access fees. Revenues are recognised where they are non-refundable; the Group’s obligations 
related to the revenues have been discharged and their collection is reasonably assured. Refundable licensing revenue is treated as deferred 
until such time that the above criteria have been met. Milestone payments relating to scientific or technical achievements are recognised 
as income when the milestone is accomplished.
Development Services
Development Services revenues principally comprise contract product development and contract clinical trial manufacturing fees invoiced 
to third parties. Revenues are recognised upon the completion of agreed tasks or numbers of person days and in the period to which 
they relate.
Device sales
Device sales are recognised when goods are delivered to customers.
Interest income 
Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate 
of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in 
exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement as they are incurred. 
In accordance with IFRS 3 – Business Combinations, the Group has a twelve-month period in which to finalise the fair values allocated to 
assets and liabilities determined provisionally on acquisition.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, 
and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any) over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of 
the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. If, after reassessment, the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable 
assets acquired and the liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest 
in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held interest in the acquiree (if any), the excess is recognised immediately in 
profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the 
Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Those provisional amounts are adjusted during 
the measurement period, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances 
that existed as of the date of acquisition that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
Goodwill
Goodwill recognised under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) prior to 1 April 2004 is stated at net book value at that 
date. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary or associate undertakings and businesses subsequent to 1 April 2004, representing 
any excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
acquired, is capitalised. 
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for 
impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. For the 
purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored by management. Where the recoverable 
amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated 
income statement. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination 
of the profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately from a business combination are carried initially at fair value. An intangible asset acquired as part 
of a business combination is recognised outside goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its 
fair value can be measured reliably. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 94
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015
1. Significant accounting policies continued
Intangible assets continued
Development expenditure on internally developed intangible assets is taken to the consolidated income statement in the year in which it is 
incurred except where expenditure relating to clearly defined and identifiable development projects meets the following criteria, in which case 
development expenditure will be recognised as an intangible asset, in accordance with IAS 38:
• the project’s technical feasibility and commercial viability can be demonstrated;
• the availability of adequate technical and financial resources and an intention to complete the project have been confirmed;
• the correlation between development costs and future revenues has been established; and
• the economic benefit is expected to flow to the entity.
Following initial recognition, the historic cost model is applied, with intangible assets being carried at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment losses. Intangible assets with a finite life have no residual value and are amortised on a straight-line basis 
over their expected useful lives with charges included in administrative expenses as follows:
Patents, trademarks and licence agreements – between three and ten years
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying 
value may not be recoverable. 
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of depreciation and provision for impairment. Depreciation is provided on all property, 
plant and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost of each asset, less its estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis over its 
expected useful life, as follows:
Buildings – twenty years
Laboratory equipment – three to seven years
Office and IT equipment – three years
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate the carrying 
values may not be recoverable. Useful life and residual value are reviewed annually.
Assets are classified as “under the course of construction” until such a time as the asset is capable of being used in the manner intended.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there 
is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is 
estimated to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from 
other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. When a reasonable and 
consistent basis of allocation can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual cash-generating units, or otherwise they 
are allocated to the smallest group of cash-generating units for which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication that the 
asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows 
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments for the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the 
asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated income 
statement, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate 
of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined 
had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised 
immediately in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is 
treated as a revaluation increase. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 95
Financial statements
1. Significant accounting policies continued
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are eliminated upon consolidation. In the Company accounts investments are carried at historic cost, less provision 
for impairment.
Investments in associates and joint ventures
The Group’s interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor 
joint ventures, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. The Group’s interests in its joint ventures are also accounted for 
using the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, the investment is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition 
changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the entity, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of individual investments. 
The Group’s consolidated income statement reflects the Group’s share of any income and expense recognised by the associate or joint 
venture outside profit and loss. The Group does not recognise losses in excess of the value of its investments.
Inventories
Inventories comprise goods held for resale and are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs include the direct costs and, 
where applicable, an attributable proportion of distribution overheads incurred in bringing inventories to their current location and condition. 
Cost is determined on a first-in, first-out basis. Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less any further costs expected to be 
incurred to completion and disposal.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition 
or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are 
added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction costs 
directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognised immediately 
in profit or loss.
Financial assets
Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to the contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial assets 
at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments, or as available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate. 
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each financial year end. 
When financial assets are recognised, initially they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets 
not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of 
three months or less. For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined 
above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount. Provision is made when 
there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full. Balances are written off when the probability of recovery 
is assessed as being remote.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, interest-bearing 
loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses arising on the 
repurchase, settlement or cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively as finance income or finance costs. The effective interest rate 
is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments (including all fees on points paid or received that form an integral part 
of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the financial liability or, where 
appropriate, a shorter period.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value and, if material, are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest 
expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments throughout 
the expected life of the financial liability. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 96
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015
1. Significant accounting policies continued
Leasing
Operating leases and the annual rentals are charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the 
lease in accordance with the terms of the lease agreements.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date. Any gain or loss 
arising from a change in exchange rate subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the statement 
of comprehensive income. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the 
dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates 
at the date when the fair value was determined.
For the purposes of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated 
at the exchange rate prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the 
period. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the 
Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance 
sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using cash flows 
estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the value of those cash flows.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is 
recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Taxation
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured as the amounts expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on 
tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts 
in the financial statements, with the following exceptions:
•  where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill, or from an asset or liability in a transaction that is not 
a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
•  in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing 
of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future; and
•  deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related 
asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity. Otherwise, deferred tax 
is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current liabilities 
and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and 
liabilities on a net basis.
Research and development tax credits are recognised on an accruals basis.
Post-retirement benefits
The Group contributes a set proportion of employees’ gross salary to defined contribution personal pension plans. The amount charged 
to the consolidated income statement in respect of pension costs is the contribution payable in the year. Differences between contributions 
payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown either as prepayments or as payables in the balance sheet. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 97
Financial statements
1. Significant accounting policies continued
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributed to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily 
take a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the 
assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted 
from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of executive and employee share option schemes, including a Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), under which 
shares may be granted to staff members. The level of grant to members of staff under the LTIP is dependent upon the total shareholder 
return of Vectura (a market condition) compared to a peer group of UK pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. In accordance with 
IFRS 2, for all grants of share options and awards, the cost of equity-settled transactions is measured by reference to their fair value at the 
date at which they are granted. The Black-Scholes model is used to determine fair value for options and the Monte Carlo binomial model 
for LTIP awards.
The cost of equity-settled share transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period until the award 
vests. No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, 
which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions 
are satisfied. At each reporting date, the cumulative expense recognised for equity-based transactions reflects the extent to which the vesting 
period has expired and the number of awards that, in the opinion of the Directors at that date, will ultimately vest. The Group has taken 
advantage of the exemptions afforded by IFRS 1 in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards 
granted after 7 November 2002 and not vested at 1 January 2005.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In preparing the financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions, in accordance with IFRSs, that affect 
the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses reported in the financial statements. The estimates and associated assumptions 
are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual amounts and results could differ from those 
estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised 
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the 
revision affects both current and future periods.
The critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustment 
to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the determination of the fair value of acquired intangible 
assets, the measurement and review for impairment of definite and indefinite-life intangible assets (goodwill), revenue recognition and the 
treatment of research and development expenditure in line with the relevant accounting policy. 
Estimation uncertainty – Intangible assets
The measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill on a business combination involves estimation of future cash flows and the selection 
of a suitable discount rate. In determining the fair value of acquired intangibles, the Group uses market-observable data to the extent that 
is available. To the extent that such inputs are not available, the Group works closely with external valuation experts to establish the appropriate 
valuation techniques and inputs to the model.
Estimation uncertainty – Impairment of goodwill
The Group determines on an annual basis whether goodwill is impaired and this requires the estimation of the value in use of the 
cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated. The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows 
expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value. 
Critical accounting judgements – Revenue recognition
The recognition of milestone revenue income requires an assessment of the Group’s future obligations under a given contract, which 
determines the period over which the revenue is recognised.
Critical accounting judgements – Research and development costs.
The treatment of research and development expenditure requires an assessment of the expenditure in order to determine whether or not 
it is appropriate to capitalise onto the balance sheet in accordance with IAS 38. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 98
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015
2. Revenue
Revenue represents amounts invoiced to third parties, derived from the provision of licences and services that fall within the Group’s sole 
principal activity, the research, development and commercialisation of novel therapeutic products and drug delivery systems for human use.
Revenue by category
2015
£m
2014
£m
Royalties 25.2 16.3
Product licensing 19.8 13.3
Technology licensing 6.6 4.3
Development services 3.9 1.7
Device sales 2.5 0.9
58.0 36.5
Investment income:
Total investment income (note 4) 0.5 1.6
Total revenue per IAS 18 58.5 38.1
Revenue by customer location
2015
£m
2014
£m
United Kingdom 6.0 2.8
Rest of Europe 29.0 17.4
United States of America 23.0 16.2
Rest of World — 0.1
58.0 36.5
Information about major customers
Revenue earned from the Group’s major customers was as follows: Customer A – £26.4m (2013/14: £14.9m), Customer B – £12.4m 
(2013/14: £12.9m), and Customer C – £5.8m (2013/14: £2.5m).
3. Segmental information
The Group is engaged in a single business activity of pharmaceuticals and the Group does not have multiple operating segments. The Group’s 
pharmaceutical business consists of the research, development and commercialisation of pharmaceutical products. The Executive Management 
Team is the Group’s chief operating decision-making body, as defined by IFRS 8, and all significant operating decisions are taken by the 
Executive Management Team. In assessing performance, the Executive Management Team reviews financial information on an integrated 
basis for the Group as a whole, substantially in the form of, and on the same basis as, the Group’s IFRS financial statements. Resources are 
allocated between activities and products on a Group-wide basis on merit.
All revenue and losses before taxation originate in the United Kingdom and Germany. Revenues from external customers in the United Kingdom 
were £54.3m (2013/14: £36.2m) and non-current assets originating in the United Kingdom were £174.4m (2014: £179.3m).
4. Investment income and finance gains/(costs)
2015
£m
2014
£m
Investment income:
Income from sale of investments 0.1 1.2
Interest receivable on bank deposits and similar income 0.4 0.4
Total investment income 0.5 1.6
Finance gains/(costs):
Foreign exchange gains/(losses) 1.8 (0.2)
Finance costs (0.1) —
Total finance gains/(costs) 1.7 (0.2) Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 99
Financial statements
5. Operating loss
Operating loss is the result for the Group before investment income, finance gains/(costs) and taxation, and is stated after charging:
2015
£m
Restated
(1)
2014
£m
Amortisation of intangible assets 20.9 6.9
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1.2 1.1
Share-based compensation 1.1 0.9
Cost of inventories recognised as expense 0.3 0.3
Staff costs (note 6) 18.3 13.4
Non-recurring acquisition costs — 2.5
Operating lease rentals:
– land and buildings 0.5 0.5
(1) Restated to reflect the final allocation of the cost of the acquisition of Activaero GmbH (see note 29).
Auditor’s remuneration
The analysis of auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 20 20
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services to the Group:
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 72 63
Total audit fees 92 83
Audit-related assurance services 17 15
Taxation compliance services 4 4
Other taxation advisory services — 20
Other services — 315
Total non-audit fees 21 354
Total fees 113 437
Details of the Group’s policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather than another 
supplier and how the auditor’s independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee report on page 56. 
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
In the prior year, other services included financial due diligence work to support the acquisition of Activaero GmbH.
6. Employees
The average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors) employed by the Group during the year was as follows:
2015
Number
2014
Number
Research and development 228 199
Business development and administration 15 16
243 215 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 100
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015
6. Employees continued
The aggregate remuneration comprised:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Wages and salaries 15.4 11.5
Social security costs 2.2 1.3
Other pension costs 0.7 0.6
18.3 13.4
In addition to the wages and salaries analysis above are the effects of the charge for share-based compensation under IFRS 2 during the year 
of £1.1m (2013/14: £0.9m).
The ultimate parent company, Vectura Group plc, had no employees during the years ended 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014.
7. Taxation
The major components of the income tax credit for the years ended 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014 were as follows:
2015
£m
Restated
(1)
2014
£m
Research and development tax credits:
– current year 2.5 3.3
– in respect of prior years 0.6 0.9
Decrease/(increase) in net deferred tax liability 6.8 (1.7)
Total 9.9 2.5
(1) Restated to reflect the final allocation of the cost of the acquisition of Activaero GmbH (see note 29).
Research and development tax credits are accrued based on the estimated receipt from Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (HMRC). 
The credit for the year can be reconciled to the loss per the consolidated income statement as follows:
2015
£m
Restated
(1)
2014
£m
Loss before tax (6.2) (4.8)
Loss before tax multiplied by standard rate of UK corporation tax of 21% (2013/14: 23%) (1.3) (1.1)
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.2 0.2
Unrecognised tax losses carried forward 1.1 0.9
(Decrease)/increase in net deferred tax liability (6.8) 1.7
Research and development tax credits:
– current year (2.5) (3.3)
– in respect of prior years (0.6) (0.9)
Total tax credit for the year (9.9) (2.5)
(1) Restated to reflect the final allocation of the cost of the acquisition of Activaero GmbH (see note 29).
In March 2014 the UK government announced the main rate of UK corporation tax would reduce to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. 
This change has been substantively enacted and therefore UK deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised at a rate of 20% (2014: 20%). 
Factors that may affect future tax charges are set out in note 20. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 101
Financial statements
8. Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share
The calculation of earnings/(loss) per share is based on the following data:
2015
Restated
(1)
2014
Profit/(loss) after tax for the year (£m) 3.7 (2.3)
EBITDA for the year (£m) 16.2 5.2
Weighted average number of ordinary shares – basic earnings per share (m) 401.6 337.8
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares (share options) (m) 10.0 10.8
Weighted average number of ordinary shares – diluted earnings per share (m) 411.6 348.6
Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share
Basic 0.9p (0.7p)
Diluted 0.9p (0.7p)
EBITDA per ordinary share
Basic 4.0p 1.5p
Diluted 3.9p 1.5p
(1) Restated to reflect the final allocation of the cost of the acquisition of Activaero GmbH (see note 29).
9. Goodwill
Group
2015
£m
Restated
(1)
2014
£m
Cost:
At 1 April 57.8 49.6
Recognised on acquisition of a subsidiary (note 29) — 8.3
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (1.0) (0.1)
At 31 March 56.8 57.8
Net book value:
At 1 April 57.8 49.6
At 31 March 56.8 57.8
The carrying value of goodwill is made up of balances arising on acquisition of the following companies:
Group
2015
£m
Restated
(1)
2014
£m
Co-ordinated Drug Development Limited (since renamed Vectura Limited) 1.5 1.5
Vectura Delivery Devices Limited 0.5 0.5
Innovata Limited 47.6 47.6
Activaero GmbH
(2)
7.2 8.2
56.8 57.8
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs), which are tested for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if there are 
indications that goodwill might be impaired. The recoverable amounts of the cash-generating units are assessed using a value-in-use model. 
An impairment provision is recognised only if the goodwill carrying value exceeds this value in use. 
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to contribution 
during the period. The model has been based on the most recent pre-tax cash flow forecasts prepared by management, which consist of 
detailed probability weighted product-by-product analyses. These forecasts are based on development timings and specific projections for 
sales volumes over the likely period in which cash flows could be expected. No terminal values have been included in the cash flow forecasts. 
No general growth rates are assumed. The discount rates used in the forecasts range from 10.5% to 11.5%. Following the acquisition of 
Activaero GmbH in March 2014, and for the purpose of impairment testing of goodwill, the Group is split into two CGUs, being the Vectura 
CGU and the Activaero CGU.  Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 102
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015
9. Goodwill continued
Goodwill has been allocated to the following cash-generating units:
2015
£m
Restated
(1)
2014
£m
Vectura CGU 49.6 49.6
Activaero CGU
(2)
7.2 8.2
56.8 57.8
The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of each CGU’s carrying value. In each case the valuations indicate 
sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change in a key assumption is unlikely to result in an impairment of the related goodwill.
Company £m
Carrying amount:
At 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2015 2.0
The goodwill in the Company arose on the acquisition of the Centre for Drug Formulation Studies, an unincorporated entity, in 1999. 
Amortisation of £0.7m was applied prior to 1 April 2004. Goodwill in the Company is tested for impairment using the same discount 
rates and on the same basis as for the Group.
(1) Restated to reflect the final allocation of the cost of the acquisition of Activaero GmbH (see note 29).
(2)  The underlying currency of the goodwill associated with Activaero GmbH CGU is the euro. The restated goodwill balance of €9.9m is translated into sterling at the prevailing exchange rate 
on the balance sheet date. Any foreign exchange gain or loss is taken to the translation reserve, as shown in the statement of comprehensive income. The movement of £1m shown in the 
table above relates solely to movements in the £/€ exchange rate between 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2015.
10. Intangible assets
Group
Restated
(1)
Patents and
trademarks
£m
Licences
£m
Total
£m
Cost:
At 1 April 2013 3.5 74.6 78.1
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary (note 29) 115.6 15.1 130.7
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (1.7) (0.3) (2.0)
At 31 March 2014 117.4 89.4 206.8
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (13.1) (1.7) (14.8)
At 31 March 2015 104.3 87.7 192.0
Amortisation:
At 1 April 2013 (3.5) (57.5) (61.0)
Charge for the year (0.5) (6.4) (6.9)
At 31 March 2014 (4.0) (63.9) (67.9)
Charge for the year (13.5) (7.4) (20.9)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 0.9 0.2 1.1
At 31 March 2015 (16.6) (71.1) (87.7)
Net book value:
At 31 March 2014 113.4 25.5 138.9
At 31 March 2015 87.7 16.6 104.3
(1) Restated to reflect the final allocation of the cost of the acquisition of Activaero GmbH (see note 29).
Intangible assets are being amortised on a straight-line basis over a period of between eight and ten years. The ultimate parent company, 
Vectura Group plc, had no intangible assets at 31 March 2015 or 31 March 2014. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 103
Financial statements
11. Property, plant and equipment
Group
Assets in
the course of
construction
£m
Freehold land
and buildings
£m
Lab
equipment
£m
Office and IT
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost:
At 1 April 2013 4.8 0.9 13.0 0.5 19.2
Additions 1.6 — 0.9 — 2.5
Acquired on acquisition of Activaero GmbH (note 29) — 0.3 0.9 — 1.2
At 31 March 2014 6.4 1.2 14.8 0.5 22.9
Additions — — 1.4 — 1.4
Disposals — — (0.9) — (0.9)
At 31 March 2015 6.4 1.2 15.3 0.5 23.4
Depreciation:
At 1 April 2013 — — (9.8) (0.4) (10.2)
Charge for the year — — (1.1) — (1.1)
At 31 March 2014 — — (10.9) (0.4) (11.3)
Charge for the year — — (1.1) (0.1) (1.2)
Disposals — — 0.6 — 0.6
At 31 March 2015 — — (11.4) (0.5) (11.9)
Net book value:
At 31 March 2014 6.4 1.2 3.9 0.1 11.6
At 31 March 2015 6.4 1.2 3.9 — 11.5
The ultimate parent company, Vectura Group plc, had no property, plant and equipment at 31 March 2015 or 31 March 2014.
12. Investments in subsidiary undertakings
Company
Shares in
subsidiary
undertakings
£m
Cost: 
At 1 April 2013 125.7
Additions (note 29) 108.2
At 31 March 2014 233.9
Additions (note 29) 0.5
At 31 March 2015 234.4
Amounts written off: 
At 1 April 2013, 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2015 (0.1)
Net book value: 
At 31 March 2014 233.8
At 31 March 2015 234.3 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 104
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015
12. Investments in subsidiary undertakings continued
Details of the Company’s significant subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
Name of undertaking
Country of
incorporation Holding
Proportion
held
Nature of
Business
Vectura Group Investments Limited England Ordinary 100% Pharmaceuticals
Vectura Limited
(1)
England Ordinary 100% Pharmaceuticals
Vectura Delivery Devices Limited
(1)
England Ordinary 100% Pharmaceuticals
Vectura Inc. USA Ordinary 100% Pharmaceuticals
Innovata Limited
(1)
England Ordinary 100% Pharmaceuticals
Innovata Biomed Limited
(2)
Scotland Ordinary 100% Pharmaceuticals
Vectura GmbH (formerly Activaero GmbH) Germany Ordinary 100% Pharmaceuticals
(1) A subsidiary of Vectura Group Investments Limited.
(2) A subsidiary of Innovata Limited.
In addition, the Group has a number of subsidiaries that are dormant or whose residual activities are not material to the Group.
13. Investments in joint venture
The investment balance shown below relates to the Group’s investment in Ventaleon GmbH, whose principal activity is the research and 
development of pharmaceuticals. Ventaleon is incorporated in Germany and its principal place of business is also Germany. The Group holds 
a 48% share in the Company.
Group £m
Cost:
At 1 April 2013 —
Additions (note 29) 3.5
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (0.1)
At 31 March 2014 3.4
Share of result of joint venture (1.4)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (0.3)
At 31 March 2015 1.7
Net book value:
At 31 March 2014 3.4
At 31 March 2015 1.7
14. Other receivables
Group
Other receivables represent an investment bond of £0.4m (2014: £0.4m) in respect of a rental deposit paid under the terms of a lease 
agreement for the Company’s premises at Chippenham. The deposit is for a fixed period of one year and is renewed annually. Under the 
terms of the lease agreement the deposit must be maintained until the Group has made three years of consecutive profits. The interest 
rate is 1% below the Royal Bank of Scotland base rate and was 0% for the year ended 31 March 2015. Interest is recognised using the 
effective interest method.
15. Inventories
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Finished goods 0.9 1.0 — — Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 105
Financial statements
16. Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade receivables 16.2 4.4 — —
Other receivables
(1)
2.9 3.4 — —
Prepayments and accrued income 8.3 5.0 — —
VAT recoverable 0.5 0.9 — —
27.9 13.7 — —
(1) Includes research and development tax credits of £2.8m (2014: £3.3m).
The Directors consider that the carrying value of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
17. Amounts due from and owed to subsidiary undertakings
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Due from subsidiary undertakings — — 89.2 86.7
— — 89.2 86.7
18. Trade and other payables
Group Company
2015
£m
Restated
(1)
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade payables 2.5 2.3 — —
Other payables 1.0 1.0 — —
Accruals 17.1 14.1 — —
20.6 17.4 — —
(1) Restated to reflect the final allocation of the cost of the acquisition of Activaero GmbH (see note 29).
The Directors consider that the carrying value of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
19. Deferred income
Deferred income relates to amounts received under product licensing agreements. Vectura continues to provide services to these licensing 
partners over a period of time. Milestone payments under these licensing agreements are therefore spread over future periods and income 
is deferred as follows: 
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts due within one year 0.2 0.1 — —
Amounts due in more than one year 1.5 1.7 — —
1.7 1.8 — — Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 106
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015
20. Deferred tax liability
A net deferred tax liability of £23.7m (2014: £33.9m) has been recognised on the Group balance sheet, being a deferred tax liability 
of £29.0m (2014: £37.6m), offset by a deferred tax asset of £5.3m (2014: £3.7m). 
A total deferred tax liability of £29.0m exists as at 31 March 2015. This balance is broken down as follows:
£m
Restated
(1)
Arising on
 acquisition
of Activaero 
Arising on
 acquisition
of Innovata
Other
temporary
 differences Total
At 1 April 2014 (34.6) (1.8) (1.2) (37.6)
Credited to the consolidated income statement 4.2 0.8 — 5.0
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 3.6 — — 3.6
At 31 March 2015 (26.8) (1.0) (1.2) (29.0)
(1) Restated to reflect the final allocation of the cost of the acquisition of Activaero GmbH (see note 29).
This liability is offset by a deferred tax asset in respect of German and UK cumulative tax losses. UK cumulative tax losses of approximately 
£54.0m (2014: £66.9m), subject to agreement with HMRC, are available within the Group to carry forward against future taxable profits. 
The total potential deferred tax asset in respect of UK tax losses, calculated at the rate of 20% (2014: 20%), is £10.7m (2014: £13.2m) and 
of this total an asset of £2.2m (2014: £1.1m) has been recognised.
The total recognised deferred tax asset of £5.3m is broken down as follows:
£m
Recognised
on German
 cumulative
tax losses
Recognised
on UK
 cumulative
tax losses Total
At 1 April 2014 2.6 1.1 3.7
Credited to the consolidated income statement 0.7 1.1 1.8
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (0.2) — (0.2)
At 31 March 2015 3.1 2.2 5.3
The Group has the following unrecognised potential deferred tax assets as at 31 March 2015:
2015
£m
2014
£m
On UK cumulative tax losses 8.5 12.1
On unclaimed capital allowances 0.2 0.3
On unexercised share options 1.0 0.6
9.7 13.0
21. Financial instruments
Categories of financial instruments
Unless stated otherwise, all disclosures relate to the Group.
Under IFRS 7, and for the purposes of risk management, the following classes of financial assets and their carrying values have been identified:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 90.0 81.7
Loans and receivables 28.3 14.1
118.3 95.8
All financial assets fall due within the first quarter of the year, with the exception of the investment bond which is included within loans 
and receivables in the table above, the repayment of which is determined by the Group’s results (see note 14).
There were no provisions against impaired assets at 31 March 2015 (31 March 2014: £nil). There are no amounts past due but not impaired 
(2014: £nil). Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 107
Financial statements
21. Financial instruments continued
Categories of financial instruments continued
Cash and cash equivalents comprise current accounts held by the Group with immediate access and short-term bank deposits with a maturity 
value of three months or less.
Under IFRS 7, and for the purposes of risk management, the following classes of financial liabilities and their carrying values (at amortised 
cost) have been identified:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Other (20.6) (17.4)
All financial liabilities fall due within one year.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The Directors consider there to be no material difference between the book value and the fair value of the Group’s financial assets 
and liabilities at the balance sheet date. 
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern whilst maximising the 
return to stakeholders. The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders 
of Vectura Group plc, comprising issued share capital (note 22), reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the statement of changes 
in equity. 
Externally imposed capital requirement
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Significant accounting policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the 
basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are 
disclosed in note 1 to the financial statements.
Financial risk management
The Group’s objective in using financial instruments is to maximise the returns on funds held on deposit, to minimise exchange rate risk where 
appropriate, and to generate additional cash resources through the issue of shares where appropriate. Balance sheets at 31 March 2015 and 
31 March 2014 are not necessarily representative of the positions throughout the year, as cash and short-term investments fluctuate 
considerably depending on when share issues have occurred. 
It is, and has been throughout the year, the Group’s policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments is undertaken.
The Group is funded principally with equity and invests its funds in short-term bank deposits. The Group has access to the majority of these 
deposits at a maximum of 24 hours’ notice. The Group’s policy throughout the period has been to minimise the risk by placing funds in 
low-risk cash deposits, but also to maximise the return on funds placed on deposit.
Interest on overnight cash deposits is calculated on the basis of a floating rate set at between 5 and 10 basis points below seven-day 
sterling London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR).
Foreign currency risk management
The Group’s principal functional currency is sterling. However, the Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. 
The Group’s policy is to offset its currency exposure by matching foreign currency revenues with expenditure in the same foreign currency. 
Where there are no imminent foreign exchange transactions, the balances are exchanged for sterling at spot rate. 
All assets and liabilities are denominated in sterling other than those shown below:
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net assets:
Euro 1.9 5.7 — —
US dollar 22.9 2.5 — —
24.8 8.2 — — Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 108
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015
21. Financial instruments continued
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in sterling against the euro and US dollar; 10% represents 
management’s assessment of a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding 
foreign currency denominated items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates. A positive 
number below indicates an increase in profit and other equity where sterling weakens against the relevant currency and a negative number 
indicates a decrease in profit and other equity where sterling strengthens against the relevant currency.
Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Euro currency impact – gain 0.2 0.5
US dollar currency impact – gain 2.5 0.2
Euro currency impact – loss (0.2) (0.5)
US dollar currency impact – loss (2.1) (0.2)
Company
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated items, being the euro deferred consideration liability. 
As explained above, the sensitivity analysis is conducted assuming a 10% increase and decrease in sterling against the euro. A positive 
number below indicates an increase in profit and other equity where sterling strengthens against the euro and a negative number 
indicates a decrease in profit and other equity where sterling weakens against the relevant currency.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Euro currency impact – gain 2.3 2.6
Euro currency impact – loss (2.8) (3.2)
The Group and Company have a legal right of offset between all foreign currency bank accounts and all sterling bank accounts.
Interest rate risk management
The Group has no external borrowings and is not exposed to interest rate risk through borrowings. Cash and cash equivalents earned 
£0.4m of finance income during the year (2013/14: £0.4m). If interest rates had been 0.5% higher/lower, being management’s assessment 
of a reasonably possible change in interest rates, and all other variables were constant, the Group’s operating loss for the year ended 
31 March 2015 would decrease/increase by £0.4m (2013/14: £0.3m).
All of the Group’s monetary assets and liabilities are held at floating rates.
Liquidity risk management
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and by continually monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching 
the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. 
Credit risk management
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributed to its cash and cash equivalents. The Board operates an investment policy, under which the 
primary objective is to invest in a diverse portfolio of low-risk cash or cash equivalent investments to safeguard the principal.
The Group’s credit risk on trade and other receivables is low as the amounts are owed by large, multinational pharmaceutical companies. 
For the same reason, the Directors assess the quality of these assets as high.
Market risk management
The Group’s exposure to market risk primarily comprises interest rate exposure. Group funds are invested in cash deposits with the 
objective of maintaining a balance between accessibility of funds and competitive rates of return.  Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 109
Financial statements
22. Equity
(a) Share capital
2015
£m No. ‘000
2014
£m No. ‘000
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
Ordinary shares of 0.025p each:
At 1 April 0.1 399,654 0.1 334,456
Issued on exercise of share options — 3,062 — 5,174
Issued on exercise of Sharesave options — 181 — 172
Issued on exercise of LTIP options — 561 — 646
Issued on placement of shares — — — 33,565
Issued on acquisition of subsidiary (note 29) — — — 25,641
At 31 March 0.1 403,458 0.1 399,654
Redeemable preference shares of £1 each: 
At 1 April and 31 March — 34 — 34
The rights attaching to the redeemable preference shares are summarised as follows: (a) the shares do not confer any right to dividend 
or other distributions; (b) on a return of capital on liquidation or otherwise, the assets of the Company available for distribution among the 
members are to be applied first in repaying to the holders of the redeemable preference shares the amounts paid up or credited as paid 
up in respect of such shares; (c) holders of redeemable preference shares have the right to receive notice of and attend general meetings, 
but have no right to vote thereat; (d) the price per share at which redeemable preference shares are transferred may not exceed the 
amount paid or credited as being paid up; and (e) the Company may specify by notice in writing the date upon which it intends to redeem 
all (but not some only) of the shares. The price per share payable by the Company to the holders of the redeemable preference shares on 
their redemption shall be the amount paid up or credited as paid up on each such share.
Between 1 April 2014 and 31 March 2015 the Company did not issue any ordinary shares to the Vectura Group plc Employee Benefit Trust 
(2013/14: nil).
Between 1 April 2014 and 31 March 2015 the Company issued 3,062,229 (2014: 5,173,784) ordinary shares of 0.025p each on the exercise of 
employee share options at a weighted average exercise price of 56.38p per share (2014: 61.19p). 
Between 1 April 2014 and 31 March 2015 the Company issued 180,691 (2014: 171,736) ordinary shares of 0.025p each on the exercise of 
Sharesave options at a weighted average exercise price of 64.25p (2014: 55.5p) per share. 
Between 1 April 2014 and 31 March 2015 the Company issued 561,253 (2014: 646,484) ordinary shares of 0.025p each on the exercise of 
LTIP nil-cost options. 
During 2013/14, the Company placed 33,565,280 new shares at a price of £1.55 per share and the Company issued 25,641,398 to the 
shareholders of Activaero GmbH as part of the purchase consideration for 100% of its ordinary share capital. The ordinary shares issued 
have the same rights as the other shares in issue. The fair value of the shares issued amounted to £41m (£1.609 per share).
(b) Share premium 
The share premium account consists of the proceeds from the issue of shares in excess of their par value (which is included in the share 
capital account) less amounts transferred to distributable reserves through capital conversion. Certain costs relating to share issues have 
also been charged to the share premium account.
(c) Special reserve
The special reserve was created on 19 May 2004 as part of the process prior to the Company’s initial public offering (IPO) on 2 July 2004, 
to enable re-registration as a public company. It is a non-distributable reserve. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 110
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015
22. Equity continued
(d) Other reserve
The other reserve was created on the acquisition by the Company of Co-ordinated Drug Development Limited (since renamed Vectura Limited) 
in August 1999, of Vectura Delivery Devices Limited in February 2002 and of Innovata plc in January 2007. It is a non-distributable reserve.
(e) Share-based compensation reserve
The share-based compensation reserve represents the credit arising on the charge for share options, matching and free shares awarded 
under the Vectura Group plc Share Incentive Plan, calculated in accordance with IFRS 2.
(f) Translation reserve
Exchange differences relating to the translation of the net assets of the Group’s foreign operations, which relate to subsidiaries only, from 
their functional currency into the parent’s functional currency, being sterling, are recognised directly in the translation reserve.
23. Equity-settled share option schemes and Long-Term Incentive Plan 
The Company’s Directors, officers and employees hold options under the Vectura Unapproved Share Option Plan (“Unapproved Plan”) and 
under the Vectura Approved Share Option Plan (“Approved Plan”). Options are granted to acquire shares at the opening market price ruling 
on the date of grant. In general, options vest after three years and are exercisable during a period ending ten years from the date of grant.
On 18 January 2007, upon the acquisition of Innovata plc and in accordance with a scheme of arrangement, options over Innovata shares 
issued and outstanding at that date under the ML Laboratories plc 1989 Executive Option Scheme and the ML Laboratories plc 1999 Executive 
Option Scheme were exchanged for options over Vectura shares in accordance with the rules of the relevant Innovata Option Scheme. 
The exchange was on the basis that the option holders received new options representing 0.2858 Vectura shares for every one Innovata share.
The Company operates a Sharesave Scheme. All employees and Executive Directors are invited to subscribe for options to acquire shares 
in the Company, which may be granted at a discount of up to 20% of the market value on the offer date. The options granted vest after 
three years and are exercisable during a period of six months of the vesting date.
The Company also operates a Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) under which Executive Directors and certain senior managers are granted 
conditional rights in the form of nil-cost options to receive a maximum number of shares at the beginning of a three-year period, a proportion 
of which they will be entitled to receive at the end of that period, depending on the extent to which the challenging performance conditions 
set by the Remuneration Committee at the time the allocation was made are satisfied. The nil-cost option entitlement is exercisable from 
the beginning of the fourth year to the end of the tenth year following the date of grant. Further information on the performance conditions 
of the LTIP is detailed in the Remuneration report. At 31 March 2015, Executive Directors and eligible senior managers hold rights to ordinary 
shares awarded under the LTIP, as follows:
Date of vesting
Ordinary
shares
vesting
12 September 2008 315,745
22 November 2009 257,565
2 March 2010 104,758
25 May 2010 446,636
23 May 2011 1,348,100
7 June 2014 1,739,647
18 September 2015
(1)
1,551,964
7 June 2016
(1)
1,963,022
1 July 2017
(1)
983,594
(1) Maximum number of shares, subject to performance conditions. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 111
Financial statements
23. Equity-settled share option schemes and Long-Term Incentive Plan continued
Fair value calculations
With the exception of the LTIP awards, the fair value of the options was determined using the Black-Scholes pricing model. The fair value of 
the LTIP awards has been estimated using the Monte Carlo model, using the same basis for the assumptions for volatility, option life, expected 
dividend yield and risk-free rate of return as used for the Black-Scholes model. For the purposes of calculating the fair value of the LTIP, it was 
considered equally probable that the Company’s performance would be such that it would perform in each of the quartiles established 
under the LTIP scheme, as described in the Remuneration report. 
Year of grant 2015 2014
The assumptions input into the Black-Scholes model were as follows:
Weighted average share price of grants during the year 136.3p 163.0p
Weighted average exercise price of grants during the year 114.4p 130.4p
Expected volatility
(1)
39%–41% 41%–45%
Expected life
(2)
3 years 3–5 years
Expected dividends Nil Nil
Risk-free interest rate
(3)
0.6%–1.4% 0.3%–1.2%
The assumptions input into the Monte Carlo model were as follows:
Weighted average share price of grants during the year 135.3p 81.0p
Weighted average exercise price of grants during the year 0.025p 0.025p
Expected volatility
(1)
40% 43%
Expected life
(2)
3 years 3 years
Expected dividends Nil Nil
Risk-free interest rate
(3)
1.5% 0.6%
(1)  Expected volatility has been calculated by reference to the Company’s historic share price since the IPO in July 2004, considered alongside the volatility of similar companies. The expectation 
of the cancellation of options has been considered in determining the fair value expense charged in the consolidated income statement.
(2) The expected life used in the models is based on management’s best estimate of behavioural consideration based on historic exercise patterns.
(3) The risk-free interest rate is the UK gilt rate at the date of grant, commensurate with the expected term.
The charge is spread over the expected vesting period, utilising the fair value calculated by using the two models described above, 
and after adjusting for the likelihood of cancellation of options when employees leave.
The share-based compensation charge for the year ended 31 March 2015, including the LTIP, was £1,060,000 (2013/14: £890,000). Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 112
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015
23. Equity-settled share option schemes and Long-Term Incentive Plan continued
Fair value calculations continued
The aggregate of the estimated fair value of options granted under share option schemes and Share Incentive Plan during the year ended 
31 March 2015 was £373,000 (2013/14: £493,000) and under the SAYE Scheme £241,000 (2013/14: £59,000). The estimated fair value of 
LTIP awards during the year ended 31 March 2015 was £768,000 (2013/14: £780,000).
Options outstanding
Share option schemes SAYE Scheme LTIP
Number of
options
WAEP
(1)
p
Number of
options
WAEP
(1)
p
Number of
options
WAEP
(1)
p
At 1 April 2013 12,689,439 60.64 1,559,668 53.50 9,999,733 0.025
Options granted — — 115,930 130.40 2,004,878 0.025
Options exercised (5,167,784) 61.19 (171,736) 55.50 (646,484) 0.025
Options cancelled — — (37,539) 47.95 (3,015,107) 0.025
At 31 March 2014 7,521,655 61.67 1,466,323 59.41 8,343,020 0.025
Options granted — — 621,775 114.40 1,076,791 0.025
Options exercised (3,062,229) 56.38 (180,691) 64.25 (561,253) 0.025
Options cancelled (55,597) 62.63 (75,693) 85.12 (147,527) 0.025
At 31 March 2015 4,403,829 65.34 1,831,714 77.16 8,711,031 0.025
Range of exercise prices 36.0p–104.0p 47.4p–130.4p 0.025p
Weighted average remaining 
contractual life (years) 1.77 (2014: 2.19) 1.71 (2014: 1.67) 5.65 (2014: 6.05)
Options vested 
At 31 March 2014 6,986,739 59.75 — — 2,791,393 0.025
At 31 March 2015 4,276,365 65.30 — — 4,212,451 0.025
Weighted average remaining 
contractual life (years) 1.60 (2014: 1.80) — — 1.53 (2014: 2.82)
(1) Weighted average exercise price.
24. Analysis of net funds
Group
1 April
2014
£m
Cash flow
£m
31 March
2015
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 81.7 8.3 90.0
The Company had no net funds at 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014.
25. Retirement benefit plans 
The Group operates a number of defined contribution personal pension plans for all qualifying employees. The assets of the schemes are 
held separately from those of the Group and are independently administered. The total cost charged to the consolidated income statement 
is detailed in note 6.
26. Operating lease arrangements
At the balance sheet date, the Group has aggregate outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable 
operating leases, which fall due as follows:
Group
Land and buildings Other
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Expiry date:
Within one year 0.5 0.5 0.1 —
In the second to fifth years inclusive 0.5 0.8 — 0.1
1.0 1.3 0.1 0.1 Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 113
Financial statements
26. Operating lease arrangements continued
On 26 July 2002, the Group entered into a 25-year lease agreement in respect of the lease of premises at One Prospect West, Chippenham, 
Wiltshire. The Group has the right to break the lease in July 2017.
On 29 September 2011, the Group entered into an agreement in respect of the lease of premises at Five Prospect West, Chippenham, Wiltshire. 
The Group has the right to break the lease in September 2015. 
On 13 November 2014, the Group extended two leases for adjacent premises at Cambridge Science Park, Milton Road, Cambridge for 
a further three years commencing 25 December 2014 and expiring on 24 December 2017. The Group and the landlord have the option 
to cancel the leases on 31 December 2015 or at any time thereafter on giving six months’ prior written notice.
On 18 March 2014, the Group acquired, as part of the Activaero GmbH acquisition, an agreement in respect of premises at Gauting, Germany. 
The Group has the right to break the lease with a maximum of nine months’ notice.
The Company had no operating lease arrangements at 31 March 2015 or 31 March 2014.
27. Capital and other commitments
At 31 March 2015 the Group had no capital commitments contracted, but not provided for (2013/14: £0.3m). The Company had no capital 
and other commitments at 31 March 2015 or 31 March 2014.
28. Related party transactions
Group
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation. Except as 
disclosed below, no Group company entered into a transaction with a related party that is not a member of the Group.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Short-term employee benefits 3.8 2.3
Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2
Share-based compensation 0.3 0.3
4.3 2.8
Three Directors are members of money purchase pension schemes.
Please refer to the Remuneration report on page 68 for the single figure of remuneration for each Director.
Company
Details of the Company-related party transactions with parties outside of the Group are noted above. In addition, the following details 
of trading within the Group are disclosed in accordance with IAS 24.
Related party
Recharge
from
related
parties
£m
Recharge
to
related
parties
£m
Amounts
owed by
related
parties
£m
Amounts
owed to
related
parties
£m
Subsidiaries:
2014 — 0.9 86.7 —
2015 — 1.1 89.2 —
Amounts outstanding are unsecured. No provisions have been made for doubtful debts owed by related parties.
29. Business combinations
On 18 March 2014, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital and obtained control of Activaero GmbH (“Activaero”), a company 
focused on the development of products for the treatment of respiratory diseases.
In accordance with IFRS 3 – Business Combinations, the fair values assigned to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
acquired with the Activaero business on 18 March 2014 were determined provisionally on that date and these provisional estimates have 
been revised in the period to 18 March 2015 to reflect new information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition 
date. The revised amounts have been recognised as though they were the amounts known at the acquisition date and so comparative 
information for the prior year has been restated. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 114
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015
29. Business combinations continued
During the year, an additional payment of €0.6m was made in respect of working capital items that were acquired during the acquisition. 
Accordingly, the goodwill associated with the transaction has increased from €9.3m to €9.9m.
The following table shows the original fair values of the net assets acquired from Activaero and the adjustments made to the original 
fair values.
£m
Provisional
£m
Revisions
£m
Final
Identifiable intangible assets (note 10) 130.7 — 130.7
Property, plant and equipment (note 11) 1.2 — 1.2
Investment in joint venture (note 13) 3.5 — 3.5
Inventories 0.4 — 0.4
Trade and other payables (2.7) — (2.7)
Deferred tax liability (32.7) — (32.7)
Total identifiable assets 100.4 — 100.4
Goodwill 7.8 0.5 8.3
Acquisition value 108.2 0.5 108.7
The transaction contains certain translations of euros into amounts in pounds sterling based on the exchange rate of £1.00 = €1.1913, 
being the published exchange rate by the Financial Times at the close of business on 18 March 2014, the date of acquisition. 
Satisfied by:
£m
Cash 37.8
Equity instruments (25,641,398 ordinary shares) 41.3
Additional cash payment 0.5
Deferred consideration payable in August 2015 29.1
Total consideration 108.7
The initial cash payment of €45m (£37.8m) and the equity component of the consideration were payable upon legal completion of the 
acquisition. During the year, an additional payment of €0.6m (£0.5m) was made to reflect working capital items acquired.
The final element of consideration, being the deferred consideration of €35m, is payable in August 2015. The deferred cash consideration 
is non-contingent. The total liability has been translated into sterling at the prevailing £/€ exchange rate on the balance sheet date and is 
shown as a current liability of £25.6m on the balance sheet as at 31 March 2015.
30. Post-balance sheet events
In April 2015, the share capital of Ventaleon GmbH increased following an additional capital injection by certain of the Company’s 
investors. Vectura did not participate in this round of funding and, accordingly Vectura’s percentage holding in this joint venture 
decreased from 48% to 42%. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 115
Financial statements
Unaudited
Year ended 31 March
2011
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Revenue 42.9 33.0 30.5 36.5 58.0
Gross profit 40.2 30.8 29.8 35.5 55.6
Gross profit margin 94% 93% 98% 97% 96%
Research and development expenses (36.4) (31.7) (29.9) (26.9) (36.1)
Other administrative expenses (3.3) (3.3) (3.3) (3.4) (4.5)
EBITDA 0.5 (4.2) (3.4) 5.2 16.2
Non-recurring acquisition costs — — — (2.5) —
Amortisation of intangible assets (10.7) (7.5) (6.3) (6.9) (20.9)
Depreciation of assets (1.3) (1.1) (1.0) (1.1) (1.2)
Share-based compensation (1.8) (1.1) (0.9) (0.9) (1.1)
Operating loss (13.3) (13.9) (11.6) (6.2) (7.0)
Investment income 0.8 0.7 0.5 1.6 0.5
Finance gains/(costs) (0.8) — 0.7 (0.2) 1.7
Share of result of joint venture — — — — (1.4)
Loss before taxation (13.3) (13.2) (10.4) (4.8) (6.2)
Taxation 4.5 8.8 4.5 2.5 9.9
Profit/(loss) after taxation (8.8) (4.4) (5.9) (2.3) 3.7
Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share (2.7p) (1.3p) (1.8p) (0.7p) 0.9p
Cash flow statement
Operating loss (13.3) (13.9) (11.6) (6.2) (7.0)
Depreciation and amortisation 12.0 8.6 7.3 8.0 22.1
Share-based compensation 1.8 1.1 0.9 0.9 1.1
(Increase)/decrease in working capital 0.2 2.4 (1.1) (8.3) (13.5)
(Decrease)/increase in deferred income 2.8 (0.7) (3.4) 0.4 (0.1)
Exchange movements (0.8) — 0.7 (0.2) 1.8
Taxation paid (0.1) — — — —
Research and development tax credits received 8.2 4.6 4.4 4.7 3.6
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 10.8 2.1 (2.8) (0.7) 8.0
Net capital expenditure (1.4) (4.2) (3.8) (2.3) (1.4)
Free cash flow inflow/(outflow) 9.4 (2.1) (6.6) (3.0) 6.6
Balance sheet
Cash and cash equivalents 74.4 75.5 70.1 81.7 90.0
Shareholders’ equity 140.3 139.5 135.1 226.7 221.9
Net current assets 59.6 61.7 60.3 79.4 72.4
FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY
year ended 31 March Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 116
REFERENCES
The references listed below relate to the sourced text 
on pages 10 to 13 of this report.
1) WHO (World Health Organization)
2)  Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease. 
“Global strategy for the diagnosis, management, and prevention 
of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.” 
www.goldcopd.org/uploads/users/files/GOLD_Report_2014
3) www.who.int/respiratory/copd/en/
4)  Hoyert DL, Xu JQ (2012). “Deaths: preliminary data for 2011.” 
Natl Vital Stat Rep. 61(6): 1–65. Hyattsville, MD: National Center 
for Health Statistics.
5)  “Influenza (seasonal) fact sheet N°211” (March 2014).  
www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs211/en/
6)  Ebell MH, Call M, Shinholser J (2013). “Effectiveness of oseltamivir 
in adults: a meta-analysis of published and unpublished clinical trials.” 
Family Practice. 30(2): 125–33. doi:10.1093/fampra/cms059. 
PMID 22997224.
7)  Michiels B, Van Puyenbroeck K, Verhoeven V, Vermeire 
E, Coenen S (2013). “The value of neuraminidase inhibitors 
for the prevention and treatment of seasonal influenza: a 
systematic review of systematic reviews.” PLoS ONE. 8(4): 
e60348. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0060348. PMC 3614893. 
PMID 23565231.
8) www.who.int/genomics/public/geneticdiseases/en/index2.html
9) www.cdc.gov/rsv/about/infection.html
10)  Peacock AJ, Murphy NF, McMurray JJV, et al. (2007). 
“An epidemiological study of pulmonary arterial hypertension.” 
Eur Respir J. 30: 104–9.
11)  Benza RL, Miller DP, Barst RJ, Badesch DB, Frost AE, McGoon MD 
(2012). “An evaluation of long-term survival from time of 
diagnosis in pulmonary arterial hypertension from the REVEAL 
Registry.” Chest. 142(2): 448–56. doi:10.1378/chest.11–1460. 
PMID 22281797.
12)  www .census.gov/population/international/data/idb/
worldpoptotal.php (Accessed 8 May 2015).
13)  World Population Ageing 1950–2050 – Population Division, 
DESA, United Nations.
14) Data on file – Source IMS Disease Insight Series 2014. Directors
Bruno F J Angelici
(Non-Executive Chairman)
Dr Christopher P Blackwell 
(Chief Executive)
Andrew J Oakley
(Chief Financial Officer)
Dr Trevor M Phillips
(Chief Operations Officer and President 
of US Operations)
Dr John R Brown 
(Non-Executive and Senior Independent 
Director)
Dr Susan E Foden 
(Non-Executive)
Neil W Warner
(Non-Executive)
Dr Per-Olof Andersson
(Non-Executive)
Company Secretary
Andrew J Oakley
Corporate broker
Peel Hunt LLP
Moor House 
120 London Wall 
London 
EC2Y 5ET, UK
Corporate broker
J.P. Morgan Cazenove
25 Bank Street 
Canary Wharf 
London 
E14 5JP, UK
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services plc
PO Box 82 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol 
BS99 7NH, UK
Public relations
Citigate Dewe Rogerson
3 London Wall Buildings 
London Wall 
London 
EC2M 5SY, UK
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
3 Rivergate 
Temple Quay 
Bristol 
BS1 6GD, UK
Bankers
Barclays Bank plc
28 Chesterton Road 
Cambridge 
CB4 3AZ, UK
Legal advisors
Olswang
90 High Holborn 
London 
WC1V 6XX, UK
Legal advisors
Covington & Burling LLP
265 Strand 
London 
WC2R 1BH, UK
Vectura Group plc
One Prospect West 
Chippenham 
Wiltshire 
SN14 6FH, UK
Vectura trade marks
Adept
®
 is a registered trade mark of Innovata Limited
AKITA
®
 and FAVOLIR
®
 are registered trade marks of Activaero GmbH
Clickhaler
®
 and Duohaler
®
 are registered trade marks of Innovata Biomed Limited. 
These trade marks are in the process of being transferred to Tianjin Kinnovata 
Pharmaceutical Company Limited, in certain territories
FOX™ is a trade mark of Vectura GmbH
GyroHaler
® 
and Omnihaler
®
 are registered trade marks of Vectura Delivery Devices Limited
PowderHale
®
 and Vectura
®
 are registered trade marks of Vectura Limited
Third-party trade marks
ADVATE
®
 and Extraneal
®
 are registered trade marks of Baxter International Inc.
Anoro
® 
Ellipta
®
, Relvar
®
 Ellipta
®
/Breo
®
 Ellipta
®
 and Incruse
®
 Ellipta
® 
are registered 
trade marks of GSK
Breezhaler
®
, Onbrez
®
, Seebri
®
, Ultibro
®
 AirFluSal
®
 and Forspiro
®
 are registered trade marks 
of Novartis AG
Bluetooth
®
 is a trade mark of Bluetooth SIG
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Vectura Group plc
One Prospect West 
Chippenham 
Wiltshire SN14 6FH 
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)1249 667700 
F +44 (0)1249 667701 
www.vectura.com
Registered in England and Wales 
Number: 03418970
The Group’s commitment to environmental issues is reflected in this Annual Report, which has 
been printed on FSC
®
 certified uncoated Edixion offset. It was printed in the UK using environmental 
Waterless printing technology, and vegetable-based inks were used throughout.
Both the manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management 
System ISO14001 and are FSC
®
 chain-of-custody certified. The unavoidable carbon emissions 
generated during the manufacture and delivery of this document have been reduced to net zero 
through a verified carbon offsetting project.
