 The Vitec Group plc  
Annual Report 
& Accounts  
2015
The Vitec Group plc
Bridge House
Heron Square
Richmond  
TW9 1EN
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 8332 4600
F +44 (0)20 8948 8277
info@vitecgroup.com
www.vitecgroup.com
Registered in England and Wales no. 227691
The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Designed and produced by Design Motive Ltd
Printed and bound in the UK by CPI Colour Ltd
Inside this report
Corporate 
Governance
38 Board of Directors 
40  Chairman’s Report
52  Audit Committee Report
Remuneration  
Report
56  Remuneration Committee Chairman    
 Statement
58  Summary of Remuneration Policy Report
63  Annual Report on Remuneration 
Independent  
Auditor’s Report
76 Independent Auditor’s Report 
Directors’ Report
74 Directors’ Report 
Corporate 
Responsibility
28  Commitment to Sustainable Business
29 Business Ethics 
30  Environment 
32 Employees 
36 Community & Charitable Donations 
Financial Statements
79  Table of Contents
80  Primary Statements 
85  Section 1 - Basis of Preparation 
87 Section 2 - Results for the Year 
95 Section 3 - Operating Assets and Liabilities 
108  Section 4 - Capital Structure
115  Section 5 - Other Supporting Notes 
124 Company Financial Statements 
131 Five Year Financial Summary 
132  Shareholder Information and  
 Financial Calendar 
Strategic Report
01  Highlights 
02  Chairman’s Statement 
04  Vitec Group Overview
06  What We Do
08  Group Chief Executive’s Review 
10  Our Business Model 
12  Progress On Our Strategic Priorities
13  Key Performance Indicators 
14 Market Update: Broadcast 
16 Market Update: Photographic 
18 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
20  Financial Review
24  Broadcast Division 
26  Photographic Division 
Where 
the story 
comes to 
life
The Vitec Group plc
Cautionary statement: Statements made in the Strategic Report through to the end of 
the Directors’ Report (pages 1 to 75) contain forward-looking statements that are subject to 
risk factors associated with, among other things, the economic and business circumstances 
occurring from time to time in the countries and sectors in which the Group operates. It is 
believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may 
be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially 
from those currently anticipated. Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be 
construed as a profit forecast.
The Vitec Group plc website
www.vitecgroup.com
Annual Report & Accounts online
www.vitecgroup.com/annual_report_2015 1
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Highlights
Key points
Vitec Group - 2015 Financial highlights
Broadcast Division
**
Photographic Division
Revenue
Operating profit*
Operating margin*
£128.8m
£15.1m
11.7%
*  Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses. Profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share are also before disposal of business. 
**
 
 Excluding the IMT business that was disposed during 2014.
Revenue
Operating profit*
Operating margin*
£189.0m
£20.3m
10.7%
Down  
1.6%
Down  
20.1%
Down  
270 bps
Up  
10.5%
Down  
4.2%
Down  
170 bps
£317.8m
Revenue 
                 £351.0m
                £345.3m
            £315.4m
           £309.6m
            £317.8m 
11 11 11 11 12 12 12 12 13 13 13 13 14 14 14 14 15 15 15 15 
£35.4m
Operating profit
*
 
                    £34.5m   
                          £39.3m
                          £39.5m
                        £38.8m
                     £35.4m
49.4p
Adjusted basic 
earnings per share*
                        51.4p
                              55.8p
                             56.1p
                            55.9p
                      49.4p
£76.3m
Net debt 
                    £50.4m
                                £63.7m
                            £61.5m
                                     £70.9m
                                        £76.3m
Strategic Report
• Full year performance in line with the Board’s expectations
•   Benefits from new products, acquisitions and IMT exit offset by anticipated headwinds from FX and  
non-repeat of Sochi Winter Olympics and FIFA World Cup
•  Growth in revenue and operating profit* at constant exchange rates excluding prior year impact of 
major sporting events
• Investments in higher technology products and related markets generating good growth
• Streamlining of activities with lower growth prospects on track and further actions planned 2 The Vitec Group plc
Performance and dividend
The Group delivered a good underlying performance in 2015 with the overall results 
reflecting the non-repeat of the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics and FIFA World Cup  
and a negative impact from foreign exchange. The higher technology broadcast 
businesses have continued to grow well, while the traditional broadcast and 
photographic businesses have faced challenging market conditions. The Group is 
investing in its higher technology products and driving new product launches while 
taking proactive actions to streamline certain activities with lower growth prospects. 
These self-help actions are progressing to plan and some further actions are being 
taken to drive profitable medium-term growth despite uncertain market conditions.  
The Board remains confident about the Company’s future and we recommend a  
final dividend of 15.1 pence per ordinary share (2014: 14.7 pence). The final dividend, 
subject to shareholder approval at the 2016 Annual General Meeting will be paid on 
Friday, 20 May 2016. This brings the total dividend for 2015 to 24.6 pence per share 
(2014: 24.0 pence).
Strategy and Board focus
The Board has continued to develop the Group’s strategy with its focus on our core 
Broadcast and Photographic markets particularly given the context of the fast pace  
of change in technology and market needs. In April 2015 we held an investor day 
for our major shareholders showcasing our key brands and growth strategy through: 
allocating resources to the fast growing independent content creator segment and 
a focus on content sharing opportunities; increasing resources, brand presence and 
sales in APAC; and continuing to make strategic acquisitions which make financial 
sense. Stephen Bird will give further explanation on progress against each of these  
in his report.
Chairman’s Statement
Total dividend for 2015
Recommended final dividend  
per share
Interim dividend per share
24.6 pence
15.1 pence
9.5 pence
The higher technology broadcast businesses have 
continued to grow well, while the traditional broadcast 
and photographic businesses have faced challenging 
market conditions.
Governance Report 
Turn to page 40
Chairman’s Statement 
www.vitecgroup.com/chairman
Up  
2.5%
Chairman John McDonough  
reports on performance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 3
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Governance and Board changes
The Board is responsible for setting the right tone from the  
top and ensuring that a robust governance structure is in  
place to enable the business to succeed and deliver long-term 
sustainable growth. As part of this responsibility the Board  
has continued in 2015 with its programme of visiting key 
operations and meeting as many people as possible, with  
a visit to Manfrotto in Italy that included a detailed update  
from the senior Photographic Division management team  
on market trends, product development, innovation and 
operations. This has built on the Board’s visit in 2014 to  
the Company’s West Coast Broadcast businesses in the  
US including Teradek and Bexel. We will continue with this 
practice in 2016 by visiting our operations and people on  
the East Coast in the US. Each individual Board member  
is also encouraged to visit our operations at their own 
convenience to further build on their understanding of   
the business.
To enforce the importance of good governance and setting the 
right standards throughout the Group, we have re-launched 
our Code of Conduct to all employees setting out the  
values and standards we expect in the conduct of business. 
This covers issues such as health and safety, conduct of 
employees, diversity, financial controls and business integrity, 
and is available on our website. We also undertook a re-
communication of our whistleblowing service in 2015 to further 
strengthen the importance of our governance processes.
In 2015 I have continued with my practice of meeting with 
several of our major shareholders to discuss the Company’s 
performance, strategic direction and governance 
arrangements.
During 2015, Carolyn Fairbairn stood down as an independent 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee to take on a new role as Director-General of the 
CBI. Carolyn had served on the Board since February 2012 
and provided outstanding independent advice. This change 
necessitated our search for a replacement and we have been 
fortunate to secure the services of Caroline Thomson who  
was appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director  
and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 November 
2015. Caroline brings excellent skills and experience to the 
Board with her background working at the highest level in the 
BBC. Caroline has undertaken a thorough induction to the 
Group having already met with senior management and key 
advisors and will be visiting our key operations during 2016. 
As explained in my report in the 2014 Annual Report, 
Christopher Humphrey succeeded Nigel Moore as Chairman 
of the Audit Committee at the conclusion of the Company’s 
AGM in May 2015. Christopher has successfully taken on  
this Chairmanship and ensured that there has been no break  
in continuity in this important role. Similarly, Mark Rollins at  
the conclusion of the 2015 AGM succeeded Nigel Moore in 
the role of Senior Independent Director and likewise has 
ensured a seamless transition, including leading the evaluation 
of my own performance as part of the 2015 Board evaluation. 
The Board now comprises seven directors and following our 
2015 Board evaluation we believe has the right balance of 
skills and diversity to meet the challenges the Company faces. 
The Board over the last couple of years has refreshed itself in 
terms of the independence of its Non-Executive Directors and 
continues to monitor its composition to ensure a structured 
process of succession delivering the right skills, experience 
and independence to support the successful execution of  
the Company’s strategy.
Building on the externally facilitated Board evaluation in 2014 
the Board set itself objectives for 2015, against which we have 
tracked progress. We have also carried out an internal Board 
evaluation in 2015 reviewing progress of the Board against 
these objectives and the Board’s overall performance against 
the agreed strategy, financial performance, governance, 
succession and Board dynamic. The detail of the 2015 
objectives and the Board evaluation is set out in the 
Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report.
Bill Vinten
The Board was sad to hear about the death of Bill Vinten  
in late 2015. Bill Vinten was a key founding figure in the 
Company’s business being instrumental in establishing the 
Vinten product name and our Broadcast supports business 
based in Bury St Edmunds. The Vinten name is synonymous  
in the broadcast market with quality products and Bill Vinten’s 
legacy is reflected in the quality of products produced and  
sold bearing the Vinten name.
Annual General Meeting
Our AGM will be on 18 May 2016 and the Notice of Meeting 
and explanatory notes accompany this Annual Report and  
can be found on our website. All resolutions will be conducted 
on a poll as in previous years. The Board believe that this is 
more democratic enabling the views of a wider number of 
shareholders to be taken into account by way of proxies being 
voted. All members of the Board plan to attend the AGM and 
look forward to the opportunity to meet with shareholders.  
The detail of the AGM resolutions is set out in the AGM  
Notice accompanying this Annual Report.
Our people
2015 has been a challenging year for Vitec with uncertain  
end markets and the need to restructure operations to achieve 
a good performance. This has been achieved through the 
dedication, passion and hard work of all our people. On behalf 
of the Board I would like to thank all of our people for their 
contribution in 2015. 
John McDonough CBE 
Chairman
22 February 2016
Strategic Report 4 The Vitec Group plc
Find out more 
www.vitecgroup.com/about_us
Vitec Group Overview
What we do
Turn to page 6 
World class products and services
Turn to page 7
Our business model
Turn to pages 10 and 11
Find out more about our Broadcast Division 
Turn to page 24
Vitec is an international Group principally serving  
customers in the Broadcast and Photographic markets. 
Vitec is based on strong, well known, premium brands 
on which its customers worldwide rely. 
The Vitec Group is organised into two Divisions:
Broadcast Division
* National Geographic bags are manufactured and distributed under licence.
The Broadcast Division designs, manufactures and distributes premium branded products for broadcasting, 
film and video production for broadcasters and independent content creators. It also provides premium 
services including equipment rental and technical solutions to TV production teams and film crews.
Find out more about our Photographic Division 
Turn to page 26
The Photographic Division designs, manufactures and distributes premium branded equipment for 
photographic and video cameras and provides dedicated solutions to professional and non-professional 
image takers.
Photographic Division
* Annual Report & Accounts 2015 5
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Our operations
Find out more 
www.vitecgroup.com/locations
Strategic Report
Our global footprint Revenue by destination
•  We manufacture and distribute our products and services from 
our facilities in 10 countries
•  We employ around 1,800 people in our business
•  Our products and services are sold in over 100 countries 
•  Some highlights from 2015 are shown below
North America 47%
Europe 30%
Asia-Pacific 18%
Rest of the  
world 5%
US
Costa Rica
China
Singapore
Japan
UK, Netherlands,
Germany, France, Italy
The evolution of PIXI
Manfrotto made several additions to its 
highly popular PIXI table tripod family 
in 2015. This included the: PIXI Smart, 
dedicated to the latest generation of 
smartphones; PIXI Extreme, designed for 
action cameras; and the newest addition, 
PIXI Evo, which provides sturdy support 
for larger lenses. We have expanded our 
distribution of this product and PIXI can 
now be purchased directly through Apple, 
both online and in stores globally.
Growth in Asia-Pacific
Following continued investment in the Asia-
Pacific region, our Japanese operations in 
both Divisions, and our Chinese operations 
in the Photographic Division, recorded 
significant year on year sales growth  
in 2015.
Q3 Mini Camera-Tracking System 
debuts at the Rugby World Cup 
Camera Corps’ Q3 robotic cameras 
were placed behind both posts for 
the major Rugby World Cup games at 
Twickenham Stadium. The track systems 
were managed by a single operator and 
captured some unique close-up images 
of the games.
The Pope’s visit to Ecuador 
Bexel provided support and infrastructure 
for the Pope’s visit to Ecuador in 2015. 
This included providing two international 
broadcast centres to ensure continuous 
coverage and wireless camera systems 
installed in the popemobile. 6 The Vitec Group plc
Vitec’s purpose is to support the capture and sharing of exceptional images in its chosen 
Broadcast and Photographic markets. Our products encompass a variety of technologies 
and are carefully designed to ensure that, whatever the conditions, the image taker has 
the best equipment to “capture the moment”. 
These technologies range from traditional mechanical engineered products, for example 
in our manual camera supports businesses, through to electronics and software, for 
example in our wireless businesses. Nonetheless the user is the same – an image taker, 
whether a professional cameraman for a broadcaster or corporate event, an independent 
content creator or an enthusiast.
In the markets we serve, our brands are often market leaders both in terms of the 
premium product or service supplied and the share of the market our brands capture. 
Our products and services have enabled some of the most amazing moments to be 
captured and shared.
What We Do
Our Operations Executive 
The Operations Executive is responsible for leading the organisation. Together the team develops strategy, implements our business 
plans and ensures we run the Group effectively. It meets monthly to discuss the business and drive collaboration. The strength of 
this team derives from a diverse range of personal and functional skills and experience.
Paul Hayes
Group Finance Director
Stephen Bird
Group Chief Executive
Martin Green
Group Development  
and HR Director
Jon Bolton
Group Company Secretary
Marco Pezzana
Photographic Divisional   
Chief Executive Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Strategic Report
We design, manufacture and supply high quality, world class, branded products and services that enable end users 
to capture and share exceptional images.
Our products typically attach to or support a camera – primarily for broadcast, video and photographic applications.
We also provide high-end technical services to major broadcasters.
We are structured as one group; our products serve a variety of end users and are offered as a cohesive package.
Supports (pedestals, tripods and heads)
» Avenger
» Gitzo
» Manfrotto
» OConnor
» Sachtler
» Vinten
» Manfrotto
» OConnor
Lighting & controls
» Colorama
» Lastolite
» Litepanels
» Manfrotto
Wireless systems
» Haigh-Farr
» Paralinx
» Teradek
Mobile power
 » Anton/Bauer
Prompters
» Autocue
» Autoscript
Robotic camera systems
» Camera Corps
» Vinten
Monitors
» SmallHD
Distribution, rental & services
» Bexel  
» Camera Corps
» The Camera Store 
Bags
» Manfrotto
» National Geographic*
» Sachtler
View Vitec brands
www.vitecgroup.com/brands
* National Geographic bags are manufactured and distributed under licence.
Camera accessories
7 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 8 The Vitec Group plc
* Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses. Profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share are also before disposal of business.
+
 Free cash flow: cash generated from operating activities in the financial year after net capital expenditure, net interest and tax paid.
Delivering our strategy
The Group continued to implement its strategy of focusing on 
its core Broadcast and Photographic markets and investing 
and growing sales in new technologies and regions. Our 
core markets are showing some signs of stabilisation and are 
expected to grow in the medium-term. This growth is being 
driven by the increase in the capture and sharing of high quality 
images, and by the continued evolution of new technologies.
Our strategy is to grow the Group’s core business by leveraging 
our premium brands and strong market positions supported 
by new product development. This includes launching new 
premium products and services, particularly for the growing 
number of independent content creators. These independent 
content creators provide video to a growing number of platforms 
including educational and religious establishments, corporate 
entities and governmental bodies. 
In our Broadcast market we have launched a number of 
innovative products including: Teradek’s VidiU Pro and COLR; 
the Paralinx Ace; and new ranges of SmallHD on-camera 
monitors. The Teradek VidiU Pro is an easy to use portable 
device that enables users to broadcast their events live to 
the internet. The Teradek COLR is a camera accessory that 
allows creative colour correction to be completed in real 
time on a cinema camera. The Paralinx Ace is a lightweight, 
portable device offering uncompressed real-time wireless 
monitoring, ideal for UAVs (“drones”). The SmallHD 702 Bright 
is an on-camera field monitor offering very high brightness 
and reduced glare, allowing high resolution monitoring and  
accurate colour correction in outdoor daylight.
In our Photographic market we have launched the Manfrotto 
Digital Director – an Apple-certified electronic device that 
connects a camera and iPad and enables photographers to fully 
control the camera through the iPad. We have also launched a 
new range of LED lights specifically for photographers and two 
new ranges of Manfrotto branded bags and accessories for 
action cameras and drones.
We believe that the Asia-Pacific region is a particularly important 
medium-term growth market with good opportunities. We have 
continued to make investments in this region including the 
introduction of a new direct distribution model in China for  
the Photographic Division.
Driving profitable growth in a changing market
The Group is investing in its higher technology product 
businesses and streamlining those activities with lower growth 
prospects. The restructuring actions identified in our 2015 half 
year results announcement are underway and progressing  
to plan. 
As a result of continuing challenging markets, we are 
supplementing our initial actions that were predominately 
in the Broadcast Division with the streamlining of additional 
operations. This includes the restructuring of some back office 
operations within our Photographic Division and further actions 
within our Broadcast businesses. As a result, the one-off costs 
are anticipated to increase from the previously announced 
estimate of £6 million to approximately £10 million, the majority 
of which will be in cash. These overall actions, which principally 
relate to restructuring in the UK, US and Europe, will be 
completed by the end of 2016 and will deliver an approximate 
two year payback on an annualised basis.
Vitec has continued to deliver its strategy of focusing 
on its core Broadcast and Photographic markets 
and investing and growing sales in new technologies 
and regions.
Group Chief Executive’s Review
Group Chief Executive Stephen Bird  
reviews strategy and performance
Chosen markets 
www.vitecgroup.com/chosen_markets
Group Chief Executive’s Review 
www.vitecgroup.com/ceo Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Post year-end we have sold the main UK Broadcast 
manufacturing site based in Bury St Edmunds for proceeds 
of £3.9 million. We plan to relocate the business to a smaller, 
more efficient, leased facility nearby, having transferred a 
significant proportion of the manufacturing to Costa Rica in 
recent years, and will use the net cash proceeds from the sale 
to reduce the Group’s debt.
2015 Performance overview
We have continued to invest additional resources in driving 
new product sales in line with our strategy. As expected, the 
full year results reflect the non-repeat of the 2014 Sochi Winter 
Olympics and FIFA World Cup, and an anticipated negative 
impact from foreign exchange. There was growth in revenue 
and operating profit* over the prior period excluding these items. 
The Group is making good progress in streamlining certain 
activities with lower growth prospects, with some further actions 
being taken to drive profitable growth. 
The Broadcast Division performed satisfactorily in variable 
market conditions. Our higher technology product businesses 
are performing well, including further strong growth of our 
wireless products. This partially offset lower sales of large 
camera supports, the non-repeat of major sporting events,  
and investments in the future growth of our higher  
technology businesses. 
The Photographic Division continued to face challenging 
markets, particularly in the US, but there are some signs of 
stabilisation. The Division delivered broadly similar sales to  
the prior year at constant exchange rates, having benefitted 
from the launch of new products and expanding its distribution 
geographically and across online distribution channels. 
Profit before tax of £31.5 million was £3.8 million lower than 
the prior year (2014: £35.3 million). Adjusted earnings per 
share* decreased by 11.6% to 49.4 pence per share (2014: 
55.9 pence per share). Group profit before tax of £18.5 million 
(2014: £20.1 million) was after £4.9 million of restructuring 
costs (2014: £2.7 million) and £8.1 million charges associated 
with acquired businesses (2014: £8.5 million). 2014 also 
included a £4.0 million loss arising from the disposal of the  
IMT business. 
Vitec continues to be a cash generative Group with free cash 
flow
+
 of £16.2 million (2014: £18.2 million) after £3.5 million 
of cash outflows on restructuring actions (2014: £3.2 million). 
The Group’s balance sheet remains strong with net debt at 
31 December 2015 at £76.3 million (31 December 2014: 
£70.9 million) including a net adverse foreign exchange impact 
of £2.1 million, and a net debt to EBITDA ratio (covenants 
definition) of 1.5 times (31 December 2014: 1.2 times).
Product development
We continue to invest in new products and enhancements  
to our existing product ranges and I am pleased with the new 
products that we have launched this year. The level of product 
development collaboration across our Divisions has also 
remained strong in 2015, including products for the growing 
number of independent content creators. Further examples  
of our new products can be seen in the Divisional case studies  
on pages 25 to 27. We continue to invest over 4% of Group 
product sales into research, development and engineering.
Acquisitions and disposals
The Group continues to identify and make appropriate, value-
adding acquisitions. This year’s acquisitions have met our  
pre-acquisition expectations and introduced a number of 
leading edge products. In 2015, Vitec acquired Paralinx,  
a leading provider of high quality wireless radio transmission 
systems, which has been fully integrated into the Teradek 
wireless business. In January 2016 we acquired Provak for  
a net consideration of £0.9 million. Provak is a photographic 
distribution business based in the Netherlands which will 
complement our owned distribution channels.
Market overview
An overview of our two markets is provided on the  
following pages.
Approval of Strategic Report 
We have provided information in this report on our strategy, 
business model and objectives which is contained in the 
Strategic Report. You will find the Strategic Report on pages  
1 to 39 and its content has been approved by the Board.
Outlook
Vitec remains in a sound financial position and the Board 
remains confident about the future growth prospects of the 
Group. Although challenging market conditions look likely to 
continue in 2016, we have taken actions to streamline our 
lower growth businesses while building a strong platform and 
making investments in higher technology products that will 
position us to grow sales and margins in the future.
Stephen Bird 
Group Chief Executive
22 February 2016
Strategic Report
Market updates
Turn to page 14 to 17
9 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 We create value by:
Receiving feedback from customers 
Our businesses continually obtain 
feedback on the markets, competitors 
and products from customers as well  
as from research. As our businesses   
are often the market leaders, this  
enables us to anticipate and respond  
to developments to ensure our brands 
remain renowned for their premium 
offerings. 
Designing and developing innovative 
product and service offerings for  
our brands  
We are at the forefront of embracing new 
technologies, products and materials that 
result in innovative high-quality yet 
cost-effective solutions. We develop 
innovative products and services that are 
protected by patents and trademarks and 
which are marketed under our world-
renowned brands. 
Sourcing and lean manufacturing 
We procure materials from reputable 
suppliers and produce our products   
in efficient and environmentally friendly 
operations and, where appropriate,  
in lower cost countries such as Costa 
Rica and China. The majority of our 
operations are relatively low-volume, 
small-batch processes.
Working with global logistics 
providers 
We have distributors and customers 
across the globe and we engage with  
a number of leading logistics partners to 
ensure responsive and timely delivery of 
our products to the relevant geography.
Having a global distribution  
and sales network to serve   
our customers 
We market our products and services 
through our own sales and marketing 
teams. The majority of our sales are 
conducted via a global network of 
distributors, dealers and retailers who sell 
on to customers. We are expanding our 
e-commerce capabilities through working 
closely with our customers to develop our 
online presence. The breadth of products 
and our strong brand heritage means that 
our network of channel partners is 
unrivalled in the markets we serve.
We create value by: 
Strategy  
We set Group and Divisional strategy in 
the medium-term, especially with regards 
to markets served, customer segments 
and products supplied.
Budgeting and monitoring  
Vitec sets Group and Divisional budgets 
annually and regularly reviews Group and 
Divisional performance during the year. 
This includes regular forecasts to ensure 
that the financial performance is clearly 
understandable and appropriate targets 
are set.
Investor relations 
We communicate our strategy, 
performance, outlook and governance 
with our investors on a regular basis.
Treasury and tax 
Vitec manages its financing, hedging and 
tax planning activities centrally to ensure 
that the Group has an appropriate 
structure and funding to support its 
geographically diverse business. 
Acquisitions and disposals  
We buy businesses that provide a good 
return with clear synergies such as 
extending our technological, product or 
geographic footprint. We dispose of those 
businesses that do not fit strategically or 
do not offer scope to deliver attractive 
returns.
Compliance and governance  
Vitec ensures that an effective Group-
wide governance framework and policies 
are in place to ensure a strong culture  
of governance and ethical behaviour. 
Risk management 
We set an overall framework for reviewing 
and assessing risk and taking mitigating 
actions as part of the execution of our 
strategy. 
Health and safety 
Vitec sets policies to ensure a healthy, 
safe and productive work environment  
for all our employees, and ensures they 
are complied with.
Talent management  
We work across the Group to have 
consistent policies, processes and 
initiatives for acquiring, retaining and 
engaging our best talent.
Our Business Model
We create value by:
Product excellence 
Everything we make and do  
is exceptional
Vitec products and services are 
exceptional because they are delivered  
by outstanding people. We set the 
highest standards of technical 
performance and aftercare, designing 
solutions that do precisely what image 
takers need them to do. All our activities 
reflect our obsession with quality.
Customer focus 
We are nothing without  
our customers
At Vitec, the focus is always on the 
customer, allowing us to support them no 
matter what changes and challenges they 
face. If we respect our customers’ 
creative expertise, they will respect ours.
Creative solutions
We are constantly looking to break  
new ground
At Vitec we learn fast and are always 
looking for new ways to support our 
customers and meet their needs. To stay 
ahead of the game, our creativity has  
to be applied to every aspect of our 
business, not just our products. Our 
passion, flair and ability to ask “why not?” 
are at the heart of everything we do.
Collaboration
We work better when we work together
The closer we are to our colleagues and 
customer contacts, the more successful 
we will be. If we celebrate achievements, 
share knowledge, pool resources, test 
ideas and support each other, life will  
be more rewarding and more satisfying.
Integrity
What you see is what you get
Commitment, fairness and honesty 
towards our customers, our suppliers  
and our own people. By being authentic 
we develop loyalty and trust between 
ourselves and all those we engage with.
We engage our employees 
through clear values
At the Divisional level At the Group level
10 The Vitec Group plc Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Strategic Report
Read about our engagement 
with shareholders on pages 50 
and 51
Read the Financial Review 
on pages 20 to 23
Read the Financial
Review on pages
20 to 23
Read about our 
strategy and our 
markets on
pages 6 to 17
Increasing
shareholder
value
Customer 
focus
Product
excellence
Creative
solutions
Collaboration
Integrity
management
Risk
governance
Compliance and
and safety
Health
Acquisitions
and disposals
Treasury
and tax
Investor
relations
Talent
management
Budgeting
and monitoring
Strategy
to our customers
Distribution and sales
Global logistics
network
Sourcing and lean
manufacturing
Feedback from end
users on our brands
Designing and developing
innovative product and
service offerings
Read about our principal 
risks and their mitigations
on pages 18 and 19
Read the Corporate 
Governance Report
on pages 40 to 55
Read the Group
Chief Executive’s
Review on pages  
8 and 9
Read about our Health and 
Safety policy, practice and
statistics on pages 32 and 33
Read about 
employee
engagement
on page 33
Broadcast
We provide high quality, 
branded equipment 
for broadcasters, 
cinematographers and 
independent content creators.
Photographic
We provide a complete range of 
innovative branded accessories 
for professional photographers, 
photographic enthusiasts, social 
recorders and independent 
content creators.
Vitec’s strategy is to focus 
on two primary markets 
that offer good long-term 
growth potential:
11 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 12 The Vitec Group plc
Progress On Our Strategic Priorities
Vitec has industry-leading product 
development teams. The Group 
continues to invest in developing 
premium innovative products for its 
customers, including: 
•  Teradek VidiU Pro – an easy to use portable 
device that enables users to broadcast their 
events live to the internet
•  Teradek COLR a compact device to manage 
real-time colour correction on set
•  Paralinx Ace – a lightweight, portable device 
offering uncompressed real-time wireless 
monitoring aimed at drones
•  SmallHD 500 and 700 series – high definition 
on-camera monitors with enhanced 
functionality and displays
•  Anton/Bauer healthcare batteries and 
chargers – lightweight batteries featuring   
a visual display to communicate battery life 
•  Manfrotto’s Digital Director – an Apple certified 
electronic device that connects a DSLR 
camera to an iPad to enable dynamic 
management of the photo and video workflow
•  Manfrotto bags and accessories –  
for drones and action cameras
•  Litepanels Brick Bi-Color and Manfrotto Lykos 
ranges – innovative LED lighting products for 
broadcasters and photographers
Vitec provides premium products and 
services, and we believe our margins 
should reflect this. During 2015 we 
have invested in future sales growth, 
managed the cost base and are 
realising benefits from streamlining 
actions: 
•  Grown the Group’s gross margin* at constant 
exchange rates
•  Invested in higher growth segments of the 
market including e-commerce, product 
development and launching new products 
•  Commenced a £10 million restructuring 
programme during 2015 across the UK, US 
and Europe which is progressing well and will 
deliver an approximate two year payback
•  Invested in product development at 4.5%  
of Group product sales (2014: 4.1%)
Vitec has strong relationships with its 
customers and end users. The Group 
continues to develop products and 
provide services that meet its 
customers’ needs, supplementing  
this with appropriate acquisitions.  
Key developments in the year include: 
•  Driven sales of our higher technology 
products leading to higher Broadcast  
revenue in the absence of major sporting 
events in 2015
•  Expanded our product offering to 
independent content creators in the 
Broadcast market with the acquisition  
of Paralinx
•  Significantly increased sales of products 
aimed at independent content creators 
•  Gained market share in our Manfrotto 
branded range of bags after the consolidation 
of the portfolio completed in 2015
• Enhanced our e-commerce platforms 
Our people are our most important 
asset and we aim to retain and recruit 
suitable talent to support the 
business. During 2015 Vitec: 
•  Appointed new talent to senior roles in key 
markets in the US and Asia-Pacific
•  Awarded internal promotions for high-
potential employees both within and  
across Divisions
•  Continued to encourage diversity within  
our business across all the countries we 
operate in
•  Held a management conference bringing 
together over 130 of our senior employees 
across the Group
Vitec has a broad geographical spread 
with customers in over 100 countries. 
We are investing in growing our sales 
globally. Key results and initiatives 
include: 
•  Grown sales in our key Asia-Pacific market  
to £55.9 million (2014: £53.3 million)
•  Strong revenue growth in Japan in both  
our Broadcast and Photographic Divisions
•  Continue to strengthen our teams in the 
Asia-Pacific region across both Divisions
•  Worked with multi-national retail and 
broadcast customers to support them 
internationally
•  Moved to a direct distribution model  
in China for our Photographic business
•  Successfully implemented e-commerce 
initiatives in China
Vitec generates strong levels of 
operating cash flow
#
 to support the 
development of the business, maintain 
a good progressive dividend policy and 
fund appropriate acquisitions. Cash 
generation is a priority for the Group 
with senior management incentivised 
to manage Vitec’s working capital 
effectively. During the year Vitec: 
•  Maintained a strong balance sheet while using 
cash generated to grow the business through 
targeted acquisitions
•  Maintained a strong control over working 
capital and continued to invest in driving sales 
growth
•  Improved operating profit* into operating cash 
flow
#
 conversion and achieved a conversion 
of 83% in 2015, maintaining an average of 
87% over three years
•  Retained good processes for tracking and 
managing working capital based on clearly 
defined metrics
Strategic priority
Driving sales growth 
through innovation
Strategic priority
Managing margins
Strategic priority
Growing sales in our  
core markets
Strategic priority
Developing our talent
Strategic priority
Delivering growth through 
geographical expansion
Strategic priority
Strong cash generation
* Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses.
#
 Cash generated from operating activities after net capital expenditure, before restructuring costs paid.  Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Strategic Report
     
KPI measure 2015  2014 Definition/Calculation
Growing the business    
Constant currency revenue growth 1.3% 3.3% % increase in revenue at constant exchange rates
Constant currency operating profit* growth (1.8%) 7.4% % increase/(decrease) in operating profit* at constant  
   exchange rates
Return on sales 11.1% 12.5% Operating profit* divided by revenue
Investing in product development 4.5% 4.1% Total research, development and engineering costs  
   before capitalisation and amortisation of development  
   costs, divided by revenue from product sales
Delivering value to shareholders    
Basic earnings per share*  49.4p 55.9p Profit after tax, before restructuring costs, charges  
   associated with acquired businesses and disposal of  
   business, divided by the weighted average number of  
   shares in issue during the financial year
Total dividend per share 24.6p 24.0p Sum of interim and final dividend per share in respect  
   of the financial year
Managing cash generation    
Operating cash generation 83% 73% Operating cash flow
#
 divided by operating profit*
Working capital to sales 18.9% 17.9% Inventories, receivables and payables at the end of the  
   financial year, divided by annualised Q4 revenue
Inventory days 105 days 100 days Inventories at the end of the year divided by Q4 cost of  
   sales (before exchange gains/losses) times number of  
   days in Q4
Trade receivable days 40 days 41 days Trade receivables at the end of the financial year divided  
   by Q4 revenue times number of days in Q4
Trade payable days 44 days 49 days Trade payables at the end of the financial year divided by  
   Q4 cost of sales (before exchange gains/losses) times  
   number of days in Q4
Safety    
Accident record (number of accidents) 5 1 Number of accidents resulting in greater than  
   3 days absence
Environment    
Electricity usage  34.5 36.4 Actual usage in MWh per £million of Group revenue
Gas usage 23.1 22.3 Actual usage in MWh per £million of Group revenue
Water usage 0.09 0.09 Actual usage in cubic metres per £million of   
   Group revenue
The Board and Operations Executive monitor a number of key performance indicators (KPIs),  
to measure our performance over time. Targets for most KPIs are set annually during our 
budgetary process and include our strategic priorities: 
Key Performance Indicators
* Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses. Earnings per share is also before disposal of business.
#
 Cash generated from operating activities after net capital expenditure, before restructuring costs paid. 
13 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 14 The Vitec Group plc
Chosen markets 
www.vitecgroup.com/chosen_markets
Broadcast
Market Update
The growth drivers
Increase in video
There has been a significant increase in the amount of video 
being shot globally. This has been stimulated by the ease with 
which independent content creators can capture, edit and 
distribute content, for example over the internet and the rise  
in popularity of hand-held devices. It has also grown thanks  
to the increased video capabilities of photographic cameras.
High definition transition and higher image quality led by 
sporting applications 
Television production is increasingly being shot in high definition 
which has resulted in studios being upgraded, camera 
replacement cycles shortening and increased demand for our 
products. As producers seek to shoot higher quality images,  
4K high definition cameras are being manufactured, although 
their adoption is in its infancy. Sports broadcasting remains at 
the forefront of higher quality images as broadcasters seek to 
differentiate their offerings.  
Vitec supplies broadcasters, 
cinematographers and independent 
content creators with a variety of products 
and services to assist in the capture and 
transmission of video images.
The Broadcast market comprises products and services 
used in the production of content for broadcasters and 
cinematographers, whether in studio or on location. The 
growing professional video segment includes products and 
services used in the production of video by independent 
content creators including education and religious 
establishments, corporate entities and governmental bodies. 
We estimate that the Broadcast addressable market 
for products and services supplied by Vitec is worth 
around £880 million annually. This includes the traditional 
broadcast and film markets as well as the video 
production market. Vitec is well positioned due to its 
broad geographical reach and premium products. We 
have a global sales team that provides strong international 
coverage and is able to offer a full range of products and 
services to our customers all over the world. This market 
has seen some variability in demand in 2015 with declines 
in the traditional broadcast studio segment and growth  
in video production by independent content creators.
Broadcasters’ capital expenditure
Broadcasters’ ability and willingness to incur capital expenditure 
on the construction or refurbishment of studios depends partly 
on their financial performance. Those broadcasters funded by 
subscription income have performed well and expanded with 
new operations globally. Those broadcasters reliant on 
advertising expenditure continue to invest in their capabilities  
but tend to be more susceptible to macroeconomic conditions. 
The savings and efficiencies offered by LED lighting compared 
with traditional lighting drive the sale of those products too.
Wireless transmission of data 
We see accelerating growth in the use of wireless devices to 
transmit data and images. We believe this will continue including 
the use of high performance antennas alongside low latency 
transmitters and receivers. The cost-effectiveness, range  
and quality of video data encoders, decoders and related 
components allows users to monitor and transmit images  
at increasingly lower costs. Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Product 
category
Supports Prompters Lighting - 
LEDs
Mobile 
power
Wireless 
systems
Monitors Robotic 
camera 
systems
Distribution, 
rental & 
services
Brand OConnor, 
Sachtler, 
Vinten 
Autocue, 
Autoscript
Litepanels Anton/
Bauer
Haigh-
Farr,
Teradek, 
Paralinx
SmallHD Camera 
Corps, 
Vinten 
Bexel, 
Camera 
Corps, The 
Camera 
Store
Market 
position*
1 1 1 1 1 3 2 1
Vitec market position
Vitec is the market leader in most of its niche product 
categories, providing leading products through our 
brands to the Broadcast market.
* Management estimates by sales value in the market segments in which these products are sold.
TV Revenue Growth Forecasts – 2014-2019
TV Advertising Spend         TV Subscription & Licence Fees
10
5
0
North 
America
EMEA
Asia-
Pacific
Latin
America
CAGR
+
 %
Source:  PwC Media & Entertainment Outlook (2014-2019)
+
 Compound Annual Growth Rate
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Strategic Report
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 15 16 The Vitec Group plc
Chosen markets 
www.vitecgroup.com/chosen_markets
Vitec supplies photographers and videographers   
with a variety of products for use alongside a 
photographic camera. 
The majority of our products are designed for use with an inter-changeable 
lens camera (ILC) such as a single lens reflex (SLR) camera and a compact 
system camera (CSC or mirrorless). 
We estimate that the Photographic market for product categories supplied or 
distributed by Vitec is worth around £800 million annually. Approximately half of 
this market is accounted for by professional photographers and the remainder 
by consumers who have a keen interest in photography or simply want to 
record and share images. Photography continues to attract new consumers as 
the number and type of image-taking devices and accessories increases and 
the distribution of images via social media continues to grow in popularity.
Photographic
Market Update
Growth in installed base of  
Inter-changeable Lens Cameras* 
100
80
60
40
20
0
*Management estimate, assuming five year replacement cycle
Volume in millions
The growth drivers Vitec market position
Vitec has the leading premier 
brands in photographic 
camera tripods, heads and 
bags for the professional and 
consumer photographer.
Product 
category
Supports Bags Lighting
Brand Avenger, 
Gitzo, 
Manfrotto 
Manfrotto, 
National 
Geographic
+
Colorama, 
Lastolite, 
Manfrotto
Market 
position*
1 2 2
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Sales of cameras with inter-changeable 
lenses  
The installed base of ILCs continues to 
grow globally and global shipments started 
to show signs of stabilisation in 2015 after  
a number of years of decline. In addition, 
there has been rapid growth in the volumes 
of CSCs which are being bought by end 
users who upgrade from their smart 
phones, and by professionals and 
enthusiasts who use them as a  
second camera. 
The new social recorders 
There is a new population of photographers 
who are interested in recording images. 
These “social recorders” are using smart 
phones to take images and share them 
using social media platforms. As these new 
entrants become more interested in 
photography, they may migrate to ILCs 
(often initially by buying a CSC) and become 
more likely to acquire our products for use 
with the camera. 
New distribution channels 
The emergence of new distribution channels 
for photographic products,  such as online 
and in consumer electronics stores, has 
helped stimulate demand from new 
customers. The growth of sales through 
online channels is continuing.
+
 Manufactured and distributed under licence.
*  Management estimates by sales value in the market 
segments in which these products are sold. Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Strategic Report
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 17 18 The Vitec Group plc
Specific Risk Mitigation
Demand for Vitec’s products
Demand for our products may be adversely affected by many factors, 
including changes in customer and consumer preferences and our ability 
to deliver appropriate products or to support changes in technology.   
The Group’s strategy includes producing and selling products that are 
more technologically advanced, including encoders, transmitters and    
field monitors. These products have a shorter life cycle than our historical 
products, and continuous investment in new product development is 
needed to keep up with the changing demand. Demand may also be 
impacted by competitor activity, particularly from low-cost countries. 
We value our relationships with our customers and closely monitor our target 
markets and user requirements. We maintain good relationships with our key 
customers and make significant investments in product development and 
marketing activities to ensure that we remain competitive in these markets.  
In support of our new product launches, we have completed consumer 
research before developing new products to ensure that they are 
appropriately designed for our target markets. We keep our strategy under 
close review. We monitor the demand for new products and phase out of old 
product lines. We are actively pursuing growth in selected emerging markets. 
New markets and channels of distribution
As we enter new markets and channels of distribution we may achieve 
lower than anticipated trading volumes and pricing levels or higher costs 
and resource requirements. This may impact the levels of profitability and 
cash flows delivered. During the year we have substantially increased our 
online presence by developing our e-commerce activity, which increases 
the cyber security threat. We have developed new routes-to-market in 
emerging markets, and introduced several new products. 
We have a thorough process for assessing and planning the entry into new 
markets and related opportunities. This includes marketing and advertising 
strategies for our products and services. We continuously assess our 
performance in these markets and the related opportunities and risks.    
We adapt our approach taking into account our actual and anticipated 
performance. We review our channels of distribution to make sure they 
remain appropriate. The Group is addressing the increased cyber security 
threat through appropriate risk assessment and mitigation actions.
Acquisitions
In pursuing our business strategy we continuously explore opportunities 
to enhance our business through development activities such as 
strategic acquisitions. This involves a number of calculated risks 
including: acquiring desired businesses on economically acceptable 
terms; integrating new businesses, employees, business systems and 
technology; and realising satisfactory post-acquisition performance.     
In 2015, we acquired Paralinx. This business has been fully integrated 
with Teradek and is performing in line with expectations.
We mitigate these risks by having a clear acquisition strategy with  
a robust valuation model. Thorough due diligence processes are 
completed including the use of external advisers where appropriate.  
The post-acquisition performance of each business is closely monitored 
and a plan is developed to integrate the acquired businesses in an 
effective way.
Pricing pressure
Vitec provides premium branded products and faces a number of 
competitors. The strength of this competition varies by product and 
geographical market.
In 2015 we have continued to see price pressure by low-cost entrants  
to the market. In addition, there has been continued price pressure in 
services as major broadcasters continue to manage their budgets tightly.
We ensure that our product and service offering remains competitive by 
investing in new product development and in appropriate marketing and 
product support, and by improving the management of supply chain costs. 
This allows us to support price increases when required by working closely 
with our suppliers and managing our expenses and cost base appropriately. 
We are rationalising our product range to reduce complexity which will also 
allow us to achieve some cost savings on production. Most of our products 
and services have a premium or niche differentiation which commands a 
price point that is higher than that of our competitors. 
Dependence on key suppliers
We source materials and components from many suppliers in various 
locations and in some instances are more dependent on a limited 
number of suppliers for particular items. If any of these suppliers or 
subcontractors fail to meet the Group’s requirements, we may not have 
readily available alternatives, thereby impacting our ability to provide an 
appropriate level of customer service. Our overall dependence on key 
suppliers has increased as a result of the Group’s decision to reduce   
its costs by outsourcing some manufacturing and assembly activities. 
We aim to secure multiple sources of supply for all materials and 
components and develop strong relationships with our major suppliers. 
We review the performance of strategically important suppliers and 
outsourced providers globally on an ongoing basis. Where economical 
we look to source materials closer to the manufacturing facilities to 
reduce lead times and improve control over the supply chain.
Vitec is exposed to a number of risk factors which may affect its performance. 
The Group has a well-established framework for reviewing and assessing 
these risks on a regular basis, and has put in place appropriate processes 
and procedures to mitigate against them. However, no system of control or 
mitigation can completely eliminate all risks. The Board has determined that 
the following are the principal risks facing the Group:
Increased risk
Constant risk
Decreased risk
Change in risk profile 
during 2015
Principal Risks and Uncertainties Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Specific Risk Mitigation
Dependence on key customers
While the Group has a wide customer base, the loss of a key 
customer, or a significant worsening in their success or financial 
performance, could result in a material impact on the Group’s results. 
As in previous years, Vitec has no customer that accounts for more 
than 10% of sales. The business works with a variety of customers  
on large sporting events and the extent of these activities varies 
year-on-year.
We monitor closely our performance with all customers through 
developing strong relationships, and we monitor the financial 
performance of our key customers. We continue to expand our 
customer base including entering into new channels of distribution  
to expand our portfolio of customers.
People
We employ around 1,800 people and are exposed to a risk of  
being unable to retain or recruit suitable diverse talent to support  
the business. We manufacture and supply products from a number  
of locations and it is important that our people operate in a 
professional and safe environment. Several of our more recently 
acquired businesses are led by the previous owners, and it is 
important that we leverage their know-how for the Group’s long-term 
benefit. Although we endeavour to reduce our dependency on key 
employees, there is a risk from staff turnover in key positions.
We recognise that it is important to motivate and retain capable people 
across our businesses to ensure that we are not exposed to risk        
of unplanned staff turnover. We fairly reward our people and have 
appropriate staff recruitment, appraisal, talent management and 
succession planning strategies to ensure we recruit and retain good 
quality people and leadership across the business. We take our 
employees’ health and safety very seriously and have appropriate 
processes in place to allow us to monitor and address any issues 
appropriately. With regards to acquisitions, we may offer performance-
related earn-out incentive arrangements to the previous owners,        
to secure their long-term commitment to the business. We seek         
to transfer the knowledge from the previous owners, over time.
Laws and regulations
We are subject to a comprehensive range of legal obligations  
in all countries in which we operate. As a result, we are exposed to 
many forms of legal risk. These include, without limitation, regulations 
relating to government contracting rules, anti-bribery provisions, 
competition, and health and safety laws in numerous jurisdictions 
around the world. Failure to comply with such laws could significantly 
impact the Group’s reputation and could expose the Group to fines 
and penalties. We may also incur additional cost from any legal action 
that is required to protect our intellectual property. 
We have resources dedicated to legal and regulatory compliance 
supported by external advice where necessary. We enhance our 
controls, processes and employee knowledge to maintain good 
governance and to comply with laws and regulations such as the 
provisions of the UK Bribery Act 2010. The Group has processes       
in place, including senior management training, to ensure that its 
worldwide business units understand and apply the Group’s culture 
and processes to their own operations. We actively protect our 
intellectual property, and will legally pursue any party that infringes  
our intellectual property rights. 
Reputation of Vitec Group 
Damage to our reputation and our brand names can arise  
from a range of events such as poor product performance, 
unsatisfactory customer service, and other events either within  
or outside our control.
We recognise the importance of our reputation and attempt  
to identify any potential issues quickly and address them appropriately. 
We recognise the importance of providing high quality products,  
good customer service and managing our business in a safe and 
professional manner. This requires all employees to commit to and 
comply with the Vitec Code of Conduct.
Exchange rates 
The global nature of the Group’s business means it is exposed to 
volatility in currency exchange rates in respect of foreign currency 
denominated transactions, and the translation of net assets and 
Income Statements of foreign subsidiaries and equity accounted 
investments. The Group is exposed to a number of foreign currencies, 
the most significant being the US Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen. 
There were significant currency headwinds in 2015 mainly reflecting 
the unwinding of previous hedging contracts.
We regularly review and assess our exposure to changes in exchange 
rates. We reduce the impact of sudden movements in exchange rates 
with the use of appropriate hedging activities on forecast foreign 
exchange net exposures. We do not hedge the translation effect of 
exchange rate movements on the Income Statement or Balance Sheet 
of overseas subsidiaries.
Business Continuity 
There are risks relating to business continuity resulting from specific 
events that may impact our manufacturing plants or supply chain, 
particularly where these account for a significant amount of our 
trading activity. We are also dependent on our IT platforms continuing 
to work effectively in supporting our business. 
We address this risk with Business Continuity Plans and Disaster 
Recovery Plans at our key sites, and by carrying out periodic IT 
vulnerability assessments. We have global insurance schemes  
in place which provide cover for business interruption. 
Effectiveness and impact of restructuring projects 
In 2015 we initiated a number of restructuring projects to streamline 
the business further, and to identify cost savings. There is a risk that 
the restructuring activity is poorly executed and that the objectives are 
not achieved. 
The projects are monitored closely by the operational management with 
regular updates provided to the Board. We anticipate that there will be 
significant year-on-year savings. The status of the restructuring activities 
and risks relating to these projects are being carefully monitored. 
Strategic Report
19 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 20 The Vitec Group plc
Financial Review
Group Finance Director  
Paul Hayes reviews performance
Adjusted basic earnings 
per share*
Revenue
Operating profit* 
49.4p
£317.8m
£35.4m
Up  
2.6%
Down  
8.8%
Down  
11.6%
2015 Performance overview
Reported revenue increased by 2.6% to 
£317.8 million (2014: £309.6 million) and 
operating profit* decreased to £35.4 million 
(2014: £38.8 million). These results reflect 
the benefit from acquisitions, new product 
launches and the disposal of the IMT 
business in 2014, offset by an anticipated 
foreign exchange headwind, and the non-
repeat of the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics 
and FIFA World Cup.
The Broadcast Division performed 
satisfactorily in variable market conditions. 
The Division’s results included strong sales 
of higher technology products including 
wireless transmitters and receivers, 
camera monitors, mobile power and LED 
lighting products. We have continued to 
invest in higher growth segments of the 
market resulting in higher revenue that  
has been partly offset by lower broadcast 
service revenue due to the non-repeat of 
major sporting events, and lower sales  
of large camera supports. 
The Photographic Division delivered sales  
at a broadly similar level to the prior year at 
constant exchange rates in a challenging 
market. Sales benefitted from the launch of a 
number of new product ranges. Profit* was 
lower than the prior year reflecting investments 
to launch new products and to upgrade our 
online offering and in-store presence.
The Group gross margin* % was 80 bps 
lower than the prior period at 40.8% 
(2014: 41.6%). This reflects a 150 bps 
adverse impact from foreign exchange 
partly offset by the beneficial impact of 
acquisitions, a disposal, and increased 
sales of higher technology products. 
Operating expenses* were £4.4 million 
higher than in 2014 at £94.4 million.     
This reflects a full year effect of acquisitions 
net of the IMT disposal, investments in 
new and higher technology products in  
the Broadcast Division, and investments  
to drive sales in the Photographic Division.
The reported results reflect a significant 
impact from foreign exchange. Revenue 
increased by £4.2 million year-on-year  
due to the benefit of translational exchange 
gains and therefore revenue at constant 
currency was 1.3% higher. There was a 
£2.7 million adverse year-on-year impact 
on operating profit* from foreign exchange, 
principally reflecting the unwinding of 
previous cash-flow hedges that are part   
of the Group’s well-established hedging 
policy. Operating profit* was 1.8% lower 
on a constant currency basis.
The operating profit* margin % at 11.1% 
was 140 bps lower than prior year (2014: 
12.5%). This mainly reflects the negative 
effect of foreign exchange of 100 bps,     
the impact of acquisitions and a disposal, 
and targeted investments in research and 
development and sales and marketing 
initiatives. There was also a £0.5 million 
initial benefit from the 2015 restructuring 
actions that will further benefit the   
business in 2016.
Vitec is investing in higher technology products and 
targeted growth opportunities while streamlining 
activities with lower growth prospects and  
continuing to closely manage its costs.
Financial Review  
www.vitecgroup.com/financial_review
* Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses; profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share are also before disposal of business.
#
 Cash generated from operating activities after net capital expenditure, before restructuring costs paid. Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
The investment in new product development and innovation 
was higher than the prior year at 4.5% of Group product   
sales (2014: 4.1%). Research, development and engineering 
expenditure on a like-for-like basis was £12.9 million (2014: 
£11.3 million) after adjusting for capitalised development 
expenditure of £2.9 million (2014: £3.4 million) and £1.4  
million of amortisation (2014: £0.8 million). 
Profit before tax* of £31.5 million was £3.8 million lower than the 
prior year (2014: £35.3 million). Adjusted earnings per share* 
decreased by 11.6% to 49.4 pence per share (2014: 55.9 
pence per share). Group profit before tax of £18.5 million (2014: 
£20.1 million) was after £4.9 million of restructuring costs (2014: 
£2.7 million) and £8.1 million charges associated with acquired 
businesses (2014: £8.5 million). 2014 also included a £4.0 
million loss arising from the disposal of the IMT business.
Free cash flow
+
 of £16.2 million (2014: £18.2 million) is reported 
after £3.5 million of cash outflows on restructuring actions 
(2014: £3.2 million). The year-on-year decrease mainly reflects 
lower operating profit* , and higher net interest and tax payments 
partly offset by a lower net investment in working capital. There 
was a total cash outflow of £3.3 million (2014: £7.3 million 
outflow) after investing £9.0 million in acquisitions (2014: £13.3 
million), including £5.2 million of deferred consideration due to 
Teradek’s performance in 2014, and £10.7 million of dividend 
payments (2014: £10.3 million).
Net debt at 31 December 2015 was £76.3 million (31 December 
2014: £70.9 million) including a net adverse foreign exchange 
impact of £2.1 million. The Group’s balance sheet remains strong 
with a year end net debt to EBITDA ratio (covenant definition)  
of 1.5 times (31 December 2014: 1.2 times).
Management’ s estimate of the main drivers that reconcile the 2015 
to the 2014 operating profit* are summarised in the following table:
Operating profit* bridge  
(£ million)
2014 Operating profit*  38.8
 
Underlying gross profit* 0.1
Restructuring savings 0.5
Underlying operating expenses* (3.9)
    (3.3)
Acquisitions   1.3
Disposals   1.3 
    2.6
Foreign exchange effects:
- Translation   (0.5)
- Transaction after hedging (2.2)
    (2.7)
2015 Operating profit*  35.4
 
Net financial expense
Net financial expense totalled £3.9 million (2014: £3.5 million) 
mainly reflecting the benefit from a one-off receipt of £0.3 
million interest on a repayment from the Costa Rica tax 
authorities in 2014. Interest payable was £4.0 million (2014: 
£3.6 million) and was covered 13 times (2014: 15 times) by 
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Profit before tax
Profit before tax* decreased by £3.8 million to £31.5 million 
(2014: £35.3 million). The reported profit before tax after 
restructuring costs, charges associated with acquired 
businesses and disposal of business decreased by 8.0%  
to £18.5 million (2014: £20.1 million).
Taxation
The effective taxation rate on profit before tax* was 30% in 
2015 (2014: 30%). We anticipate that the tax rate will remain 
at 30% in 2016. The Group’s tax charge is higher than the 
UK statutory rate because the majority of our profits arise in 
overseas jurisdictions with higher tax rates.
Earnings per share
Earnings per share before restructuring costs, charges 
associated with acquired businesses and disposal of a 
business was 49.4 pence per share (2014: 55.9 pence per 
share). The basic reported earnings per share was 29.3  
pence per share (2014: 29.4 pence per share).
Acquisitions
In February 2015, the Group acquired the assets of Paralinx 
LLC, based in the US, for a net cash consideration of $6.2 
million (£4.0 million). Paralinx is a leading provider of high 
quality wireless video transmission systems and has been  
fully integrated into the Teradek business.
In November 2015, the Group acquired the whole of the 
issued share capital of Panlight Limited, a private company 
based in the UK, for a consideration of £0.1 million. Panlight 
has developed a remote controlled lightweight pan and tilt 
device which gives directional control of speedlight flashes, 
LED lighting and Wi-Fi controlled mirrorless cameras. Panlight 
operates within the Photographic Division.
In January 2016, the Group acquired the whole of the issued 
share capital of Provak, incorporated as Provak Foto Film B.V., 
our former distribution partner in the Netherlands for a net 
consideration of £0.9 million.
We continue to review various acquisition opportunities.  
These will be assessed as to the strategic, commercial and 
financial benefits that they could provide against acceptable  
risk parameters.
Restructuring costs
In 2015 there was a total restructuring charge of £4.9 million 
(2014: £2.7 million) relating to actions to streamline operations 
with lower growth prospects, which we commenced in the 
second half of 2015. These actions relate predominantly to 
redundancy costs and are progressing in line with our plans. 
The total year-on-year benefit from these restructuring actions to 
our profitability was £0.5 million (2014: £4.0 million). Cash outflows 
relating to restructuring were £3.5 million in the year (2014: £3.2 
million) and we estimate a further £8 million outflow during 2016.
Charges associated with acquired businesses
The 2015 charges relate to the Group’s acquisition activities 
and amortisation of previously acquired intangibles. 
The amortisation of acquired intangibles of £5.4 million (2014: 
£3.4 million) related to: Manfrotto Lighting (formerly Lastolite) 
acquired in March 2011; Haigh-Farr acquired in December 
2011; Camera Corps acquired in April 2012; Teradek acquired 
in August 2013; SIS acquired in March 2014; Autocue 
acquired in October 2014; SmallHD acquired in December 
2014; and Paralinx acquired in February 2015.
Transaction costs of £0.1 million were incurred in relation to  
the acquisitions of Paralinx and Panlight. (2014: £0.9 million  
in relation to the acquisitions of SIS, Autocue and SmallHD). 
Strategic Report
21 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 22 The Vitec Group plc
Net debt
Financial Review continued
Contingent consideration of £2.6 million ($4.0 million) was 
accrued during the year to be paid to the previous owners 
of Teradek in 2016 in relation to the business’s performance 
in 2015 and is subject to final agreement. The business has 
delivered strong growth in the year and has performed ahead  
of our pre-acquisition expectations. 
Cash flow and net debt 
Cash generated from operating activities was £41.7 million 
(2014: £42.0 million). 
The Group uses a number of key performance indicators to 
manage cash including the percentage of operating cash flow
‡
 
generated from operating profit*, the percentage of working 
capital to sales, inventory days, trade receivable days and 
trade payable days. Inventory, trade receivable and trade 
payable days are stated at year end balances; inventory and 
trade payable days are based on Q4 cost of sales (excluding 
exchange gains/losses) while trade receivable days are based 
on Q4 revenue. 
The operating profit* into operating cash flow
‡
 conversion  
at 83% is higher than 73% conversion achieved in 2014.  
This mainly reflects the timing of cash flows and changes  
in working capital levels in response to changing markets.  
78% cash conversion over the last two years is consistent  
with our established track record for strong cash generation. 
The working capital to sales metric has increased to 18.9%  
(31 December 2014: 17.9%) and overall working capital 
increased by £5.2 million (2014: £6.9 million increase).
Trade receivable days decreased to 40 days (2014: 41 days) 
and remain well controlled with a good ageing profile. Trade and 
other receivables decreased by £0.8 million (2014: £2.7 million 
increase) on positive collection efforts across the Group.
Inventory increased by £3.0 million (2014: £2.1 million increase) 
to £58.9 million at the year end, reflecting acquisitions, new 
products and geographical sales initiatives. Inventory days 
increased to 105 days (2014: 100 days).
Trade payable days decreased to 44 days (2014: 49 days).  
There was a £3.0 million overall decrease in trade and other 
payables (2014: £2.1 million decrease) including lower 
commission accruals.
Capital expenditure, including £4.2 million of software and 
capitalised development costs (2014: £4.7 million), totalled 
£20.6 million (2014: £22.2 million), of which £10.9 million (2014: 
£12.7 million) related to rental assets. This was partly financed 
by the proceeds from rental asset disposals of £4.4 million 
(2014: £5.0 million). Overall capital expenditure was equivalent 
to 1.3 times depreciation (2014: 1.4 times) and included 
investments in manufacturing processes and production tooling.
The net tax paid in 2015 of £5.6 million was higher than the  
£3.5 million paid in 2014 due to the timing of tax payments.
As a result, free cash inflow
+
 decreased by £2.0 million to  
£16.2 million (2014: £18.2 million).
There was a £9.0 million net cash outflow relating to acquisitions 
during the year (2014: £13.3 million). There was a net cash 
outflow in the period of £0.7 million relating to costs provided  
for on the disposal of IMT in 2014 (2014: £1.3 million).
Dividends paid to shareholders totalled £10.7 million (2014: 
£10.3 million) and there was a net cash inflow in respect of 
shares purchased and issued of £0.9 million (2014: £0.6 million 
net outflow). The net cash outflow for the Group was £3.3 
million (2014: £7.3 million outflow) which, after £2.1 million 
adverse exchange (2014: £2.1 million adverse), increased  
the net debt to £76.3 million (2014: £70.9 million).
Free cash flow
+
    
 2015  2014 
 £m  £m
Operating profit* 35.4 38.8
Depreciation
(1)
 16.2 16.1
Changes in working capital (5.2) (6.9)
Restructuring costs (3.5) (3.2)
Other adjustments
(2)
 (1.2) (2.8)
Cash generated from operating activities 41.7 42.0
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (16.4) (17.5)
Capitalisation of software and development costs (4.2) (4.7)
Proceeds from sale of property,  
plant and equipment and software 4.7 5.2 
Interest paid (4.0) (3.3)
Tax paid (5.6) (3.5)
Free cash flow
+
 16.2 18.2
*   Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses. 
+
  Cash generated from operating activities after net capital expenditure, net 
interest and tax paid.
‡
  Cash generated from operating activities after net capital expenditure, before 
restructuring costs paid.
(1) 
 Includes depreciation and amortisation of software and capitalised 
development costs.
(2)
  Includes change in provisions, share-based payments charge, gain on 
disposal of property, plant and equipment, fair value derivatives and 
transaction costs relating to acquisitions.
85
80
75
70
65
60
55
50 £70.9m (£16.2m)
Free  
cash flow
Transactions 
in own  
shares
Exchange
movements
Dec 
2014
Net
debt
Dec 
2015
Net
debt
Dividends
Acquisitions 
& Disposal
£10.7m £9.7m (£0.9m) £2.1m £76.3m
(£m) Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Treasury
Vitec manages its financing, hedging and tax planning activities 
centrally to ensure that the Group has an appropriate structure 
to support its geographically diverse business. It has clearly 
defined policies and procedures with any substantial changes 
to the financial structure of the Group, or to its treasury practice, 
referred to the Board for approval. The Group operates strict 
controls over all treasury transactions including clearly defined 
currency hedging processes to reduce risks from volatility in 
exchange rates. 
The Group is hedging a portion of its forecast future foreign 
currency transactions to reduce the volatility from changes in 
exchange rates. Our main exposure relates to the US Dollar 
and the table below summarises the contracts held as at 31 
December 2015. 
The Group does not hedge the translation of its foreign currency 
profits. A portion of the Group’s foreign currency net assets are 
hedged using the Group’s borrowing facilities.
Financing activities 
The Group’s principal financing facility is a £100 million five year 
multi-currency revolving credit facility involving five relationship 
banks, expiring on 19 July 2017. At the end of December 
2015, £53.9 million (2014: £45.8 million) of the facility  
was utilised.
The Group has a $50 million (£33.7 million) private placement 
facility which has been drawn down in two tranches of $25 
million each. This financing has a combined fixed interest rate  
of 4.77% and is due for repayment on 11 May 2017.
The Group therefore has a total of £133.7 million of committed 
facilities at the year end with drawings of £87.6 million  
(31 December 2014: £77.9 million).
The average cost of borrowing for the year which includes 
interest payable, commitment fees and amortisation of set-up 
charges was 4.1% (2014: 4.3%) reflecting an interest cost of 
£4.0 million (2014: £3.6 million). 
The Board has maintained an appropriate capital structure without 
exposing the Group to unnecessary levels of risk and Vitec has 
operated comfortably within its loan covenants during 2015.
Foreign exchange
2015 operating profit* included a £2.7 million net adverse 
foreign exchange effect after hedging, mainly due to less 
favourable £/$ and £/e rates when compared to 2014. 
Viability Statement 
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, as published in September 2014 (“the Code”), 
the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three 
year period, taking account of the Group’ s current position and 
prospects, its strategic plan, risk appetite, and the principal risks 
and how these are managed. Further details on these items are 
set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 39.
Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation 
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over this period. 
In making this assessment, the Directors have considered the 
resilience of the Group in severe but plausible scenarios, taking 
into account the principal risks facing the Group as detailed on 
pages 18 and 19, and the effectiveness of any mitigating 
actions. The Board reviews these risks in detail throughout the 
year, and the Audit Committee has a structured programme  
for the review of risks and mitigating actions. This is explained  
in more detail on pages 52 to 55.
The Directors’ assessment considered the potential impacts  
of these scenarios, both individually and in combination, on  
the Group’s business model, future performance, solvency and 
liquidity over the period. Sensitivity analysis was also used to 
stress test the Group’s strategic plan and to confirm that 
sufficient headroom would remain available under the Group’s 
credit facilities. The Directors consider that under each of these 
scenarios, the mitigating actions would be effective and sufficient 
to ensure the continued viability of the Group. 
The Directors believe that three years is an appropriate period  
for this assessment, reflecting the nature of the Group’s key 
markets, the nature of its businesses and products, and its 
limited order visibility. This timeframe is consistent with reviews 
undertaken annually by the Board during which the Group and 
Divisional three year strategic plans are presented for approval.
The Directors have made an assumption that the Group’s two 
main credit facilities, the £100 million Revolving Credit Facility 
which expires in July 2017 and the $50 million Private Placement 
Loan Notes which expire in May 2017, will be renewed during 
the three year assessment period.
Dividend 
The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 15.1 pence 
per share amounting to £6.7 million (2014: 14.7 pence per 
share, amounting to £6.5 million). The dividend, subject to 
shareholder approval at the AGM, will be paid on Friday, 20 May 
2016 to shareholders on the register at the close of business  
on Friday, 22 April 2016. This will bring the total dividend for  
the year to 24.6 pence per share (up 2.5%).
Paul Hayes
Group Finance Director
22 February 2016
Strategic Report
 
  
  Average   Average 
 December rate of December rate of 
 2015 contracts 2014 contracts
US Dollars sold 
for Euros    
Forward contracts $47.2m 1.15 $36.0m 1.33
US Dollars sold 
for Sterling    
Forward contracts $21.0m 1.52 $14.8m 1.62
Currency hedging
23 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 24 The Vitec Group plc
Broadcast Division
**
The Broadcast Division designs, 
manufactures and distributes 
premium branded products for 
broadcasting, film and video 
production for broadcasters  
and independent content 
creators. It also provides 
premium services including 
equipment rental and technical 
solutions to TV production 
teams and film crews. It offers  
a complete one-stop solution  
for producers globally, enabling 
customers to deliver the most 
demanding projects.
The broadcast market has seen variability  
in demand in 2015, with a more positive  
US market offsetting more challenging 
conditions in EMEA. Despite the non-repeat 
of large sporting events, the Division has 
grown revenue at constant exchange rates. 
It has further expanded its offering of higher 
technology products to the independent 
content creator segment, which has shown 
continued strong growth. This has offset 
lower sales of large camera supports.
Revenue for 2015 was £189.0 million,  
an increase of 10.5% on the prior year after 
excluding the IMT business that Vitec exited 
in 2014. At constant exchange rates sales 
grew by 7.0% on prior year. Underlying sales 
at constant currency increased by 11.7% 
after excluding the benefit of the Winter 
Olympics and FIFA World Cup in the prior 
year. Acquisitions contributed £13.4 million 
of the year-on-year underlying increase.
Operating profit* at £20.3 million was £0.9 
million below 2014, reflecting the non-repeat 
of major sporting events and a £0.6 million 
adverse impact from foreign exchange, 
partially offset by the benefit of acquisitions 
and new product launches. At constant 
exchange rates and excluding the impact  
of the Olympics and World Cup, operating 
profit* increased by 15.0% and the operating 
margin* % improved by 30 bps. Acquisitions 
contributed £1.3 million of the year-on-year 
underlying increase.
We have continued to invest in new product 
development in line with the changing 
nature of the broadcast market. New 
products include two ranges of SmallHD 
camera monitors; wireless transmitters  
and receivers; several LED lights for 
broadcasters; and broadcast batteries. 
While driving the development of sales of 
newer high technology products, we are 
streamlining certain activities with lower 
growth prospects. This includes simplifying 
and improving our systems and processes 
within the Division. 
Teradek, our wireless products business, 
continues to grow strongly and benefitted 
from the integration of Paralinx acquired  
in February 2015. We continue to invest  
in product development and engineering 
resources to support the future 
development of the business.
SmallHD, the camera monitor business 
acquired in December 2014, is growing 
sales with two new series of monitors 
launched during the year. As anticipated 
this investment in future growth is 
impacting margins in the short-term. 
Our mobile power and LED lighting 
businesses grew following the launch of 
new product ranges at the end of 2014.  
In the camera supports business, sales 
decreased due to a lower level of 
investment in larger supports by studios.
Haigh-Farr, our conformal antennas 
business, benefitted from certain non-
recurring revenues during 2015. We plan 
to make a number of cost investments  
in this business in 2016. 
The equipment rental and services business 
saw a decrease in revenue as a result of the 
non-repeat of the Olympics and World Cup 
partly offset by growth in premium technical 
solutions revenue. We continue to focus on 
driving sales and securing attractive pricing 
for our premium services. This business will  
benefit from supporting the Olympics  
in Rio de Janeiro in 2016.
* Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses.
** 2014 results exclude sales of £7.6 million and operating loss of £1.3 million from IMT which was disposed in 2014.
Revenue
Operating profit*
Operating margin*
£189.0m
£171.1m
£20.3m
£21.2m
10.7%
12.4%
Revenue
Operating profit*
Operating margin*
£189.0m
£20.3m
10.7%
Up  
10.5%
2015
2014
2015
2014
2015
2014
Down  
4.2%
Down  
170 bps Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Anton/Bauer launches new healthcare batteries 
Anton/Bauer has provided new batteries for the medical  
industry with the launch of its Elora Modular Battery System. 
These new lightweight batteries feature Anton/Bauer’s 
Battery Pain Scale which uses visual displays already 
recognised within the healthcare industry to communicate 
battery life to users. Another key feature is the use of the 
latest UV LED technology to aid in the disinfection of the 
battery’s surfaces while it is being recharged.
Paralinx acquisition enhances Broadcast Division
The addition of Paralinx to the Broadcast Division in 
February 2015 supplements our range of products targeted 
at a growing number of independent content creators. 
Based in Los Angeles, US, Paralinx is known for high-quality 
wireless video transmission systems and particularly with 
independent content creators in cinema, live production  
and UAVs (“drones”). The acquisition complements Vitec’s 
existing Teradek business into which Paralinx has been 
integrated. The two are working together to address a wider 
spectrum of customers’ needs and offer an even wider 
range of wireless video devices, at cost-effective prices.
Litepanels Brick Bi-Color makes its worldwide debut  
at IBC 2015
Litepanels has launched its Brick Bi-Color on-camera LED light  
as the new solution for on-the-go camera operators. The Brick 
Bi-Color has an IP65 rating due to its dust-tight design with 
water protection that provides a durable LED light in harsh 
weather conditions. The textured dials and a power button that 
can’t be switched off accidentally suits operators who need a 
rugged light source with all the power and efficiencies of LED. 
The Brick Bi-Color was recognised at the International 
Broadcasting Convention in 2015 winning News Shooter’s 
award for Best Lighting Product.
Vitec in action 
www.vitecgroup.com/vitec_in_action
Vitec in action
Strategic Report
Small HD Launches the 702 Bright Field Monitor 
The 702 Bright is the first on-camera monitor in the 700 series and 
represents a new breed of daylight viewable displays. The 7-inch 
monitors’ LCD panel features anti-reflective coating which helps to 
reduce glare whilst allowing the high resolution, colour accurate display 
to remain visible in even the brightest of environments. It is durable and 
functional with the ideal screen for daylight shooting, and the 702 Bright 
won the TV Technology Best of Show award at IBC 2015.
25 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 26 The Vitec Group plc
Photographic Division
The Photographic Division 
designs, manufactures and 
distributes premium branded 
equipment for photographic  
and video cameras and  
provides dedicated solutions  
to professional and non-
professional image takers.  
This consists primarily of camera 
supports, tripods, camera bags, 
lighting supports, LED lights, 
lighting controls and filters.  
We also supply an expanding 
range of premium accessories 
for action cameras, drones  
and smartphones.
The Photographic Division has continued 
to face challenging markets, with data 
from the Camera & Imaging Products 
Association (CIPA) indicating a slowing in 
the rate of decrease in global shipments 
of interchangeable lens cameras after 
several years of double digit decline. 
There are some signs of stabilisation, 
including an increase in demand for 
high-end DSLRs and premium compact 
system cameras. 
Revenue decreased by 1.6% to £128.8 
million, and was 0.8% lower than prior 
year at constant exchange rates. In 
challenging markets, sales of our core 
camera supports performed well and  
we are pleased with the sales of new 
products. We increased revenue through 
our owned distribution channels outside 
of the US, offset by lower sales through 
our third party distributors into the 
Russian and Middle East markets. 
We have continued to launch new, 
innovative products across all of our 
product ranges including the Manfrotto 
Digital Director, LED lights, Off road 
accessories for action cameras, Aviator 
accessories for drones, and additions  
to the successful Manfrotto 190, BeFree 
and PIXI tripod ranges.
Our Manfrotto branded range of bags 
continued to gain market share following 
the consolidation of the portfolio under 
the Manfrotto brand, which was 
completed in the first half of the year. 
Sales have benefitted from four new 
ranges of bags launched  
in 2015. We are pleased with the 
performance in this segment, which  
has been the most affected by lower 
interchangeable lens camera sales  
over the last few years. 
Operating profit* decreased by £3.8 
million to £15.1 million including a £2.1 
million adverse impact from currency.  
The underlying decrease in operating 
profit* reflects marketing investment in 
new product launches, the implementation 
of a worldwide premier dealership 
programme, and further investment  
in our online sales platform.
As part of our sales and marketing 
initiatives, we have changed our 
distribution model in China and moved  
to selling direct rather than through third 
parties. We have invested further in our 
owned distribution channels including  
the acquisition in January 2016  
of Provak, formerly our distribution 
partner in the Netherlands.
We continue to take actions to improve 
profitability by strengthening and 
streamlining the Division, and investing  
in growth segments and geographies. 
During 2016 we will continue to drive 
savings by streamlining the Division and 
through the continued implementation    
of lean processes.
* Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses.
Revenue
Operating profit*
Operating margin*
£128.8m
£15.1m
11.7%
Down  
1.6%
Down  
20.1%
Down  
270 bps
Revenue
Operating profit*
Operating margin*
£128.8m
£130.9m
£15.1m
£18.9m
11.7%
14.4%
2015
2014
2015
2014
2015
2014 Manfrotto Distribution Shanghai 2015 –  
The Year of Change 
We continue to invest in the Asia-Pacific region with the  
opening of Manfrotto Distribution Shanghai which allows us  
to directly distribute our products to our customers. This has 
allowed us to engage more effectively with local users with  
a growing market of passionate photographers supporting  
Gitzo tripods and Manfrotto bags. We have also intensified  
our efforts in online channels in the Asia-Pacific region.  
During 2015 Manfrotto successfully implemented three key 
e-commerce initiatives in China: launched flagship stores on 
one of the major e-commerce platforms in China; created 
promotional partnerships with leading camera brands; and 
increased leverage of social media to support online sales.
Manfrotto Bags growth:  
new channels and lifestyle collections 
We have integrated all our bag collections under the Manfrotto 
brand and launched several new ranges during 2015. A focus  
on the urban photographer saw the launch of the NX and Street 
ranges featuring versatile everyday bags that are both practical 
and safe, and ensure the photographers’ cameras and 
accessories are protected. Manfrotto has also responded to 
growth in aerial photography with the introduction of the Aviator 
Collection. This new collection is dedicated to professional and 
advanced photographers and videographers looking for a 
carrying solution for their drones, either disassembled inside the 
bag or fully assembled within a front zippered opening, whilst 
also offering space for a camera and tripod within the bag.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Vitec in action
Illuminate your shoots with Lykos:  
ultimate lighting excellence
Lykos, with “Manfrotto, Powered by Litepanels” technology,  
has created an innovative, high-quality LED light for photography 
and videography. Lykos is a powerful portable continuous light 
solution for professionals and advanced amateurs who want to 
experiment with light without the technical complexity of a flash. 
This new line revolutionises the use of continuous LED light in 
photography. A powerful output, high quality colour rendition, 
portability, long lasting battery and Bluetooth connection  
allow for creative possibilities in an affordable and easy  
to use format.
Stay focused on digital with Digital Director 
Presented at the National Association of Broadcasters  
show in Las Vegas, Manfrotto’s Digital Director gained 
international attention by winning the award for the Most 
Innovative Product of 2015. It is an Apple certified electronic 
device that connects a DSLR camera to an iPad to enable 
dynamic management of the photo and video workflow. It utilises 
a reliable USB cabled connection and a dedicated app to enable 
real-time monitoring, remote control of focus and key camera 
parameters, image post-production tools and sharing options. 
The Digital Director also allows remote control of compatible 
Manfrotto LED lights through Bluetooth technology, providing  
full control of the set in one place.
Vitec in action 
www.vitecgroup.com/vitec_in_action
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Strategic Report
“Made for iPod,” “Made for iPhone,” and “Made for iPad” mean that an electronic accessory 
has been designed to connect specifically to iPod, iPhone, or iPad, respectively, and has 
been certified by the developer to meet Apple performance standards.
Apple is not responsible for the operation of this device or its compliance with safety and 
regulatory standards. Please note that the use of this accessory with iPod, iPhone, or iPad 
may affect wireless performance.
Apple, the Apple logo are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. 
App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc.
27 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 28 The Vitec Group plc
In 2015 we launched our updated Code of Conduct. The Code, 
which is available on our website and Group intranet, was developed 
to improve communication, expand disclosures and utilise Q&As  
to give practical examples. It was translated into several 
languages widely spoken in the Group, given to each employee 
and subsequently to all new starters. We also recommunicated 
our whistleblowing procedures to all employees in 2015 and 
more detail on this is given under the Business Ethics section.
The Board has overall responsibility for corporate responsibility 
and considers and approves our key policies including the Code 
of Conduct, Environmental Policy and Health and Safety Policy. 
These policies set a standard for all of our businesses and  
1,800 employees worldwide. All of these policies are available 
on our website and Group intranet and are central to our 
approach on corporate responsibility. The Board has delegated 
the co-ordination of our corporate responsibility efforts to me 
and, with the Operations Executive and senior management, we 
focus our efforts on the areas of business ethics, environment, 
employees, and community and charitable donations. Our size 
dictates that our approach to corporate responsibility must be 
flexible and pragmatic, focusing our resources where necessary 
to comply with legal requirements. The Board and Operations 
Executive regularly considers the Group’s reputation with 
progress against our corporate responsibility objectives actively 
measured. For example, each month health and safety 
performance is reviewed to learn important lessons in this vital 
area, adapting our policies, reporting structure and practices  
in light of our performance, experience and regulatory changes.
We also launched a Group intranet in 2015, MyVitec, providing 
employees with a centralised location to find important 
information on all Group policies, procedures and benefits. 
The following pages describe our 2015 corporate responsibility 
activities organised in the following areas:
In 2015 we have undertaken several 
initiatives to strengthen the Group’s 
Corporate Responsibility with a focus 
on our values, ensuring that all our 
employees understand what is 
expected of them and that these 
values are clearly communicated to 
our stakeholders. We are committed 
to sustainable business that ensures 
the long-term success of Vitec for  
all our stakeholders.
Our reputation is central to our 
continued success and the corporate 
responsibility programme is structured 
and followed by all our employees in 
delivering our corporate purpose:
T o provide vital products and 
services that support the capture 
and sharing of exceptional images. 
To do this we operate with the 
following values:
 >  Product excellence –   
everything we make and do  
is exceptional
 >  Creative solutions –   
we are constantly looking to  
break new ground
 >  Integrity –     
what you see is what you get
 >  Customer focus –    
we are nothing without our  
customers
 >  Collaboration –    
we work better when we  
work together
Environment
Page 30
Employees 
Page 32
Business Ethics 
Page 29
Community & 
Charitable Donations 
Page 36
Corporate Responsibility Report online 
www.vitecgroup.com/responsibility
Corporate Responsibility
Commitment to  
sustainable business 
In 2016 we plan to ensure that our Code of Conduct is 
communicated to all our major suppliers and customers and 
that we ensure our supply chain is robust with no reputational 
issues associated with it. We will undertake further training of 
our employees in this area to ensure our values are understood. 
We will continue our review of health and safety procedures  
to improve working practices and to ensure a safe and healthy 
working environment for all our employees and third parties  
on our sites. We will continue to focus on diversity, talent 
development and succession planning to ensure we have the 
best talent and resources to deliver on our strategic objectives. 
Progress against each of these will be reported on in the 2016 
Annual Report. 
Stephen Bird
Group Chief Executive 29 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Our Approach
Vitec’s Code of Conduct clearly sets out our values, 
beliefs and behaviours and has been communicated 
to all employees and business partners. We train 
our employees on key issues including bribery  
and corruption, inside information, conflicts of 
interest and good governance, and promote a 
whistleblowing service as a back-up control.
Our Vision
To ensure our employees have a clear 
understanding of what is expected of them in 
conducting business in the right way with a 
common set of values. We expect our business 
partners to abide by standards that are compatible 
with our own.
Business Ethics
Code of Conduct Anti-bribery Whistleblowing service
Our Code of Conduct (“Code”) provides 
clear guidance to our employees on how 
they are expected to behave towards 
colleagues, suppliers, customers, 
shareholders and on our wider 
responsibility to the communities  
within which we operate. 
In 2015 our Code was relaunched  
in seven different languages and was 
distributed to all 1,800 employees  
with copies also provided to all new 
employees on joining the Group.  
Our Code is accessible by employees  
via the Group intranet and can also be 
found on our website. Employees are 
expected to comply with our Code  
which sets out our approach to business 
integrity including an express prohibition 
on bribery and kickbacks, guidance on 
gifts and hospitality, conflicts of interest, 
books and records, competition, share 
dealing, respect for the UN Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, compliance 
with anti-slavery legislation, respect for 
the individual and privacy, diversity, health  
and safety, environmental sustainability, 
business partners, charitable donations 
and a clear prohibition on political 
donations. Any violations of the Code  
are to be reported to local management 
or the Group Company Secretary  
for investigation.
We are currently in the process of 
recommunicating our Code to our  
major suppliers, customers, agents  
and distributors and expect our partners 
to abide by similar values to our Code.  
In 2016 we will be working with our 
partners towards making a statement  
that our organisation and supply chain  
is clear of any human trafficking or slavery. 
In 2015 we recommunicated our 
independent whistleblowing service that 
is run in conjunction with Expolink to all 
employees with a letter from the Group 
Chief Executive and a letter from Expolink 
explaining the service to ensure that it 
remains visible and understood. Posters 
are prominently visible at all sites and 
available on the Group intranet with all 
literature and communications translated 
into several languages.
This whistleblowing service enables any 
employee or third party who feels that the 
normal reporting channels through line 
management are not appropriate, to 
report confidentially on any issues around 
dishonesty, fraud, bribery, malpractice, 
bullying, unfair treatment, unsafe working 
practices or other Code contraventions. 
In accordance with a clearly  
agreed documented procedure,  
all such reports are notified to the  
Group Company Secretary, the Group 
Chief Executive and the Chairman of  
the Audit Committee, and are investigated 
independently by senior management 
who are not connected to the report.  
The outcome of investigations is reported 
to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
All whistleblowing reports are 
independently investigated with remedial 
action taken where necessary. 
In 2015 we had several incidents reported 
through the whistleblowing service, all of 
which were fully investigated. This clearly 
demonstrates it is a service which is 
visible within the business.
We have continued with the development 
of our employees’ understanding of 
anti-bribery and corruption as reflected  
in our Code. All senior new starters with 
the Group have completed an online 
training module including the Board of 
Directors, Operations Executive, senior 
management and customer-facing 
employees covering anti-bribery and 
corruption. All participants were required 
to complete the module and to take a 
test on the issues covered by the training. 
We also ensured that the management 
conference in March 2015 covered this 
issue with our senior management team.
Agents and distributors have formal 
agreements in place which clearly prohibit 
bribery and set out our expectation on 
behaviour and values. We carry out due 
diligence on major customers and 
suppliers with a more detailed screening 
of backgrounds using a third party 
provider focusing on reputational risk.  
We have standardised due diligence  
with a common third party questionnaire 
and thorough reputational screening.
Corporate Responsibility 30 The Vitec Group plc
Our Vision
To ensure our decision making and operations  
are mindful of the environment while enhancing 
our competitiveness.
Our Approach
We are creating a culture that adopts 
technologies, materials and processes to ensure 
we minimise our impact on the environment.
Environment
Vitec’s products and processes 
We continue to implement initiatives aimed at sustaining  
and protecting the environment, in the areas of research and 
development, production, packaging and waste disposal.
Our products and services have a low impact on the 
environment. We use low-hazard materials, we minimise the  
use of resources during the manufacturing process and we 
search for materials that are sustainable and can be recycled 
and reused. Our efforts and environmental awareness have 
continued to evolve, not only to comply with regulations but  
also to make our business better. By putting in place a proper 
environmental management system we are reducing operating 
costs and business risks, while ensuring sustainability. 
Vitec’s green practices 
As part of our commitment to responsible business practices,  
we have continued initiatives aimed at reducing energy, paper  
and water use, encouraging recycling and proper waste disposal, 
and promoting a culture of sustainability among our employees.
We monitor and track our usage of electricity, gas and water across 
our manufacturing, warehouse and administrative sites and make 
Corporate Responsibility
efforts, where possible, to reduce our usage both to reduce  
costs and the impact on the environment. Many buildings within 
the Group have timer and motion sensors for lighting to save on 
electricity usage. Other buildings have programmable thermostats 
that are centrally managed to optimise the building’s heating and 
cooling needs, therefore maintaining a steady temperature. 
The Broadcast Division’s Shelton site has initiated a project to 
reduce the light usage on site by 50%. They are replacing all light 
fixtures with LED lights which last ten times longer than a regular 
incandescent bulb and are four times more energy efficient.
The electricity contracts with Green Certificates at the Italian sites 
were renewed in 2015, confirming the commitment to use energy 
generated by renewable sources. 
The Photographic Division’s sites in Cassola and Feltre in Italy  
and the Broadcast Division’s site in Costa Rica had their  
ISO 14001 status confirmed in 2015 showing that these 
operations have designed and implemented effective 
environmental management systems.
The Group’s electricity, gas and water usage per £million  
of Group revenue over the last five years is set out below. 
Electricity (MWh) Gas (MWh)
2015 2015
2014
Water (cubic metres, thousands)
2015
28.15 10,954 7,356
27.15 11,480 6,892
2014* 2014
Actual electricity, gas and water usage in 2015 and 2014 
* The figures for 2014 have been re-stated following receipt of final invoices for consumption during 2014 that were not available at the time of publication of the 2014 Annual Report.
Gas - MWh / £m Group revenue*
30.00
25.00
20.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
2011 2012 2013
20.3
Water - cubic metres / £m Group revenue
0.12
0.10
0.08
0.06
0.04
0.02
2011 2012
0.08
2013
0.08
2014
0.09 0.09
2015
Electricity - MWh / £m Group revenue
40.00
30.00
20.00
10.00
2011 2012 2013
35.2
2014
35.7
2015
36.5 36.4
2014
18.7
2015
20.8
22.3
Our electricity, gas and water usage based on usage per £million of Group revenue 
34.5
23.1 0.09 31 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
The table below shows the quantities of materials that  
were recycled in 2015 (2014 are shown in brackets) at our 
major manufacturing sites in the UK, Italy and Costa Rica.  
All measurements are in kilograms.
The recycling largely covers the cost of waste management at our 
main manufacturing sites while similar recycling initiatives are carried 
out at our smaller manufacturing sites. Offices and manufacturing 
sites throughout the Group have waste recycling points to enable 
the sorting of waste into different recycling streams (paper, glass, 
plastics, ink toners, electronic waste and batteries). 
This Annual Report is produced using vegetable-based inks  
and materials approved by The Forest Stewardship Council.  
We also encourage our shareholders to receive the Annual 
Report electronically thereby saving on production and 
distribution resources and costs.
Most of the Group’s operating sites including the Head Office, 
Divisional head offices and business units have video conference 
facilities in place enabling employees to video conference with 
both internal and external parties, reducing the need for 
business travel.
In accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
(Directors Reports) Regulations and the requirement to report  
on greenhouse gas emissions, we have developed processes to 
accurately capture and report all material Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
as defined by the Greenhouse Gas protocol as of 31 December 
2015. We have applied the financial control basis for our reporting 
boundary. These emissions have been recorded at 21 of our major 
operating sites in the 12 months to 30 September 2015, and arise 
from on-site energy use and any fugitive emissions, and transport 
from owned vehicles. We have identified these major operating 
sites as the material sites for the Group for this requirement as  
it covers our principal sites: Feltre, Italy; Bury St Edmunds, UK; 
Cartago, Costa Rica; Burbank, US; Ashby-de-la-Zouch, UK; Irvine, 
US; and Shelton, US. These sites account for over 95% of the 
Group by revenue. We have excluded our smaller sites as their size 
and scale of operations are not material with respect to their Scope 
1 and 2 emissions. For this reporting year we have included 
SmallHD that was acquired in December 2014 and was therefore 
excluded from the 2014 year end numbers. As well as enabling the 
reporting of emissions, this information will enable us to identify 
potential cost savings going forward.
Our most significant emissions arise from the use of electricity 
which makes up all our Scope 2 emissions. Approximately two 
thirds of our Scope 1 emissions arise from the use of natural gas 
with the remainder mostly arising from transport fuel. All our 
emissions have been calculated using the latest Defra 
conversion factors available at www.gov.uk/measuring-and-
reporting-environmental-impacts-guidance-for-businesses.
We have selected a reporting date of 30 September each year 
to enable accurate data to be collated to compile the table 
above in time for inclusion in this Annual Report. We have 
conducted an internal review to check the completeness  
and accuracy of the reported data.
Potential areas of saving have been identified in our larger 
production sites in the UK, Italy and Costa Rica. These include 
energy efficient lighting, staff awareness, regular maintenance 
programmes, optimisation of machinery and equipment switch 
off, and optimisation of control around air conditioning. Associated 
capital requirements and payback periods will be assessed as 
opportunities arise to identify the best opportunities to pursue, 
balancing the need to deliver on other business priorities in 2016 
and beyond.
In 2015, the Company carried out an audit in conjunction with  
a third party at its UK sites of Bury St Edmunds, Ashby-de-la-
Zouch, Twickenham, Byfleet and Richmond upon Thames to 
identify cost effective energy reduction opportunities at each of 
the sites to comply with the requirements of the Energy Savings 
Opportunity Scheme (ESOS). ESOS is a mandatory energy 
assessment scheme for organisations in the UK that meet 
qualification criteria (employing more than 250 employees  
or an annual turnover greater than £38 million), with assessments 
to be carried out every 4 years from 2015 onwards. The audit 
covered the period from 1 October 2014 to 30 September 
2015 and identified an energy consumption for the UK sites of 
5,082,642 KwH/year. The audit identified opportunities to save 
on energy consumption including opportunities to introduce an 
energy management system, improved lighting and heating 
systems and other operational measures. The audit has been 
filed with the Environment Agency in compliance with ESOS 
regulations and each of the sites has the detail of the report to 
review opportunities to implement recommendations balancing 
the capital costs and estimated payback periods.
Feltre, Italy Bury St Edmunds, UK Cartago, Costa Rica
Aluminium –  
62,424 (56,825)
Aluminium –  
22,800 (26,620)
Aluminium –  
53,010 (29,480)
Iron & Steel –  
58,612 (40,703)
Steel –  
6,450 (5,660)
Iron & Steel – 
9,650 (12,900)
Paper & Cardboard – 
70,798 (85,600)
Paper & Cardboard – 
30,600 (33,200)
Paper & Cardboard – 
21,000 (26,130)
Plastic –  
17,036 (18,101)
Plastic –  
2,500 (1,500)
Plastic –  
3,590 (4,610)
Wood –  
16,025 (9,560)
Wood –  
8,290 (14,000)
-
Carbon Fibre –  
3,361 (1,770)
- Carbon Fibre –  
460 (1,390)
Copper, Bronze  
and Brass – 
130 (380)
Brass –  
2,660 (6,440)
-
Magnesium –  
2,075 (1,069)
-  Magnesium –  
750 (980)
Packaging Mixed 
Material –  
13,290
General Waste –  
20,500 (18,850)
-
Environmental Policy online 
www.vitecgroup.com/environmental_policy
Greenhouse Gas Emissions for the period from 1 October 
2014 to 30 September 2015 (Tonnes of CO
2
 equivalent)
 2015 2014
Scope 1 emissions  1,599 1,653
Scope 2 emissions 4,458 4,923
Total gross emissions 6,057 6,576
Total carbon emissions per 
£m of Group revenue  19.1 21.2
Corporate Responsibility 32 The Vitec Group plc
There have been no work related fatalities since the Group 
began collating health and safety statistics in 2002.
The Operations Executive reviews health and safety 
performance every month, discussing accidents and any 
incidents of note, sharing best practice initiatives and supporting 
the Divisions in the management of local health and safety 
committees and the implementation of regular training activity. 
The Group Chief Executive updates the Board regularly on 
health and safety performance by way of monthly reports  
and verbal updates at Board meetings. 
Our people are a key asset for the Group 
Our employees are critical to our success. Passionate, motivated 
and skilled employees in a good working environment directly 
contribute to our strategy, performance and reputation.
In 2015 we continued to focus time and resources on our 
employees, including initiatives on subjects such as wellbeing, 
engagement, diversity, employee benefits and training events.
As an example, the Photographic Division was awarded the 
Assiteca prize in 2015 for being one of the best large-sized 
companies in the North East of Italy for the management  
of corporate welfare.
Health and Safety 
The provision of a healthy, safe and productive work environment 
for all our employees is a priority for Vitec, for which all our 
management and employees are responsible. 
We have continued to impress the need for excellent health  
and safety procedures in compliance with the Group’s Health  
and Safety Policy, which is available on our website and to all 
employees on the Group intranet. This policy sets the Group-wide 
guidelines for the prevention of accidents and work-related 
ill-health and provides guidance for the adequate control of  
health and safety risks arising from work-related accidents. 
All accidents and near misses, whether they result in absence 
from work or not, are reported, with remedial action identified and 
implemented to prevent such occurrences in the future. Reporting 
is prompt and any accident resulting in over three days’ absence 
is reported to senior Divisional management as well as the Group 
Chief Executive within 24 hours. Our eight year accident record is 
shown opposite, which details the number of accidents resulting 
in over three days’ absence from work across the Group.  
The number of accidents resulting in over three days’ absence 
increased in 2015 compared to 2014. While it is our aim to have 
no such accidents, the outturn for 2015 is still a reasonable 
performance given the number of employees, sites and 
operations. Each accident has been fully investigated and key 
issues identified to try to ensure that there is no such repeat.  
This process should deliver continued improvement in health  
and safety across the Group’s operations and we will continue  
to develop our practices to deliver further improvements in  
this important area.
Our Approach
To attract and engage a committed workforce, 
ensuring diversity and non-discrimination. Vitec is 
committed to respecting the UN Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights.
Our Vision
Be a responsible employer providing attractive 
opportunities for our people to develop.
Employees
Corporate Responsibility
4 accidents
representing 211 accidents per 100,000 employees
Average number of employees – 1,898 
2013
5 accidents
representing 273 accidents per 100,000 employees
Average number of employees – 1,833
2015
1  accident
representing 53 accidents per 100,000 employees
Average number of employees – 1,876 
2014
2012
6 accidents
representing 288 accidents per 100,000 employees
Average number of employees – 2,085
2011
8 accidents
representing  390 accidents per 100,000 employees
Average number of employees – 2,052
2010
10 accidents
representing  525 accidents per 100,000 employees
Average number of employees – 1,907
2009
10 accidents
representing  511 accidents per 100,000 employees
Average number of employees – 1,957
2008
16 accidents
representing  723 accidents per 100,000 employees
Average number of employees – 2,214
Our eight year accident record (over 3 days absence) 33 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Photographic Division’s Sales & Marketing Team
Employees receive training on health and safety procedures 
that are appropriate to their line of work and environment.  
This may, for example, involve training in warehouse 
operations, working at heights, fire safety or more general 
initiatives to make employees aware of the dangers that  
can be encountered in the execution of their various duties. 
Within each of the Group’s Divisions separate assessment  
and training appropriate to operations is carried out for health 
and safety. Employees are regularly reminded of the need  
to work safely with posters on notice boards at all sites.  
For example, the Cassola and Feltre sites in Italy promote the  
“Are you working safely?” campaign which provides regular 
tips and key notes on health and safety subjects. Health and 
Safety Committees at all major sites hold regular meetings to 
review safety, ensure that operating practices are safe and 
address potential safety concerns. At the Photographic 
Division’s manufacturing sites in Feltre, Italy and Ashby-de-la-
Zouch, UK, a procedure has been set up to observe 
employees’ health and safety behaviour in the workplace. 
Using an industrial safety management approach, the 
procedure checks whether employees’ working practices are 
compliant with standards and procedures related to personal 
protective equipment, tools, substances, machinery, handling 
and other activities, and enables feedback to be given to avoid 
workplace accidents. In 2015 a total of 42,209 work actions 
were observed at both sites with an average of 99.6 per cent 
compliance with safe working practices.
The Broadcast Division’s site in Cartago, Costa Rica, as well  
as the Photographic Division’s sites at Cassola and Feltre, Italy, 
have further been awarded the OHSAS 18001 occupational 
health and safety accreditation. This confirms that the sites 
operate with a robust health and safety management system, 
with policies, procedures and controls needed to achieve the 
best possible working conditions aligned to internationally 
recognised best practice. 
Engagement
We aim to provide our employees with an engaging and 
stimulating environment where they are encouraged to learn 
and develop. We communicate with our employees on a 
regular basis, keeping them informed of business performance 
at a Group, Divisional and business unit level. Reflecting the 
diverse global nature of our employees we use multiple 
channels and a variety of media to communicate with them. 
A business overview, focusing on results and key events, is 
shared with all employees via two annual, global communication 
videos presented by the Group Chief Executive which are 
uploaded to the Group intranet.
Alongside Group-wide communications, employees receive 
briefings on performance and business issues on a regular 
basis from Divisional and business unit senior management. 
This takes the form of internal announcements, breakfast 
meetings with Divisional management, quarterly business 
updates via video and via the intranet sites. 
As an example of the progress made within Divisional 
communications, during 2015 two new intranet sites were 
developed and launched to which all employees in the 
Broadcast Division and Group head office are directed when 
opening a web browser. The sites contain divisional news, 
policies, organisation structure charts, key contacts and more. 
These new intranet sites complement the existing site within 
the Photographic Division and all three sites are linked for  
ease of access across Divisions. 
In March 2015 we held a management conference in London 
bringing together the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance 
Director, and Divisional and senior management across the 
Group covering strategy, results and achievements with an 
emphasis on cross-divisional collaboration. Those attending 
the management conference cascaded key messages to  
the wider employee population to ensure consistent 
communication across the Group.
We further communicate with our employees through  
our Group website. This contains a section on Working  
at Vitec including links to find out about career opportunities 
throughout the Group.
Wellbeing 
Good3
The Good3 project, launched in 2011 by the Group’s 
Photographic Division, continued in 2015 with more initiatives 
undertaken at several sites. 
The programme was developed to help employees stay  
healthy, by providing them with training and tools to develop 
good habits in the areas of diet, exercise and the prevention  
of illnesses. One example includes discounted gym 
memberships at the principal Italian sites of Cassola and  
Feltre and Manfrotto’s US distribution business based in  
New Jersey. The Italian sites launched a new project in  
2015 to encourage employees to share their membership with 
a family member to contribute to their sense of wellbeing both 
inside and outside of the workplace. Healthy eating initiatives 
also continued to be promoted with a Good3 discounted 
healthy product line included within site vending machines. 
Manfrotto Team Meeting Sharesave invitation 2015 and Japanese 
whistleblowing poster
Corporate Responsibility 34 The Vitec Group plc
The focus on educating employees to enable them to make 
healthy decisions is also active within the Broadcast Division. 
Initiatives include occupational health services and talks, the 
cycle to work scheme under the Government’s cycle initiative in 
the UK, annual flu vaccinations, healthy eating, health and safety 
initiatives and exercise programmes across the UK, US and 
Costa Rica. 
Working environment 
We continue to invest in improving the work environment for  
our employees, creating contemporary spaces with upgraded 
technology and communication systems that enable 
collaboration and personal efficiency. 
We have also listened to and responded to our employees’ 
views. Following a trial in 2014, the Photographic Division’s site 
in Cassola, Italy, launched its Break Area in 2015 with the aim  
of providing a breakout space where employees could meet  
and talk during their breaks to increase networking and 
collaboration. 2015 has seen further promotion of family friendly 
working with a focus on eliminating negative work patterns and 
stress. Initiatives linked to this have included Summer Camps  
at the Photographic Division’s sites in Cassola and Feltre, Italy, 
offering activities to children between the ages of 3 and 14  
when schools are closed. This project helps to foster the 
balance between the private and working lives of employees. 
Flexible working opportunities are also available across the 
Group in both Divisions.
Benefits 
We employ around 1,800 employees in 10 countries who  
are managed in accordance with local employment legislation, 
policies and our organisational values. Attracting the talent we 
need and retaining their commitment to our organisation in all  
of the territories we operate in has required the organisation  
to commence an assertive approach to our benefits packages,  
to support our employees and remain competitive in a global 
market where talent is in short supply. 
In the US our employees participate in a consolidated Health 
Benefits Plan that provides a valued level of healthcare. 
Employees at the Cassola and Feltre sites in Italy now benefit 
from the new Benefit Salute health care plan which has been 
promoted to provide an increasing number of services in line 
with our policies in terms of health, welfare and support of the 
individual employee. Similar plans are offered to employees in 
other territories.
Employees are also given the option to join pension plans 
appropriate to local markets. In the UK this involves a Company 
approved pension plan with minimum employer and employee 
contributions and in the US a 401k plan. Since April 2014 in the 
UK, all employees except for those who have expressly opted 
out, are now in a qualifying pension plan.
All employees in the UK, US, Italy, Costa Rica, France, Germany 
and for the first time in 2015, Japan, are given the opportunity  
to join an all-employee Sharesave scheme on an annual basis, 
enabling the employee to save to purchase shares in the 
Company at a discounted rate. Employees save a fixed monthly 
amount of up to £350 (or $500 in the US or foreign currency 
equivalent in other territories) over a fixed term (usually three 
years but two years in the US) with the option to purchase  
a fixed number of shares at a discount of up to 20% on the 
prevailing share price at the time of the offer. The following 
participation levels were achieved in 2015:
Participation levels vary from year to year due to the fact that 
employees in a particular territory may already be saving at the 
maximum rate. We plan to continue offering Sharesave to our 
employees in future years. 
The Photographic Division’s Italian sites offer employees  
a Vitec Shopping Card that allows employees to benefit from 
special prices on food, drink, travel, clothing, sport, cinema  
and medicine through agreements with local retailers. These 
discounts of up to 50% help employees to increase their 
purchasing power. 
Capability and development
Learning and development activity continued to take place in 
our businesses in accordance with personal development plans, 
results of annual performance appraisals and organisational 
need. The Organisation and Talent Review (OTR) has continued 
to be developed to fully understand the organisation’s capacity 
and capability for achieving its strategic plans. The OTR enables 
the Operations Executive to create the leadership pipeline for its 
critical roles and specify the development requirements to be 
offered to employees. 
The performance appraisal process, in operation in both 
Divisions, provides the opportunity for the employee to discuss 
current performance and future potential with their line manager 
in an objective and positive manner. The development needs 
identified by the discussions will continue to be used to enhance 
the global programme of talent development for release more 
widely across the Group. 
In 2015, the Photographic Division implemented its Performance 
Appraisal (“PA”) system for all its employees. The new system  
is designed to evaluate the distinctive competencies and skills  
of each employee. It will enable the business to manage 
employees’ performance in a fair and inclusive way with a 
structure that is common across the Division, enabling career 
development that is aligned to the strategic objectives of the 
business. All Photographic employees can access the PA 
system and can find induction models on the Divisional intranet.
Targeted learning and development activities have continued 
within the Group’s businesses. In 2015, Manfrotto Distribution 
 in the US offered a Tuition Programme for eligible employees  
for educational assistance with ongoing training which is related 
to the employee’s current duties or a foreseeable-future position 
with the company. SmallHD in the US also offers assistance with 
education expenses and continued development of e-learning 
for all employees to target specific subjects or current issues 
within the business. Within the Photographic Division, 
Manfrotto’s School of Xcellence offers a three day induction 
Country Number
of eligible 
employees
Number of 
accounts 
opened
Take-up
US 541 152 28%
UK 331 116 35%
Italy 505 97 19%
Germany 60 11 18%
Costa Rica 179 29 16%
France 13 1 8%
Japan 37 35 95%
Sharesave participation in 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 35
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Management conference 2015 attendees Broadcast Division’s team in Costa Rica
programme for all employees called “Shoot and  
Capture Imaging”, to educate employees on photography  
and videography. 
In 2015, Manfrotto Distribution in the US held a two day 
structured training and development programme to identify 
obstacles to progress, develop collaborative working  
and collectively embrace change. The programme was a 
continuation of the initial project that ran over several months  
in 2014. New projects and priorities were identified and will  
be pursued in 2016.
Equal opportunity
Vitec has an equal opportunities culture with an express 
prohibition on discrimination of any kind. In 2011, Lord Davies’ 
report on Women on Boards was considered by the Board 
leading to a reiteration of our diversity statement, which is set 
out on page 45 of the Governance Report and on our website. 
The Board has continued to monitor progress on this issue 
and the Group Chief Executive is responsible for developing 
diversity throughout the Group. The organisation’s current 
gender breakdown is as follows:
We continue to recognise the importance of diversity 
throughout our workforce and the human resources teams 
continue with efforts to attract women to Vitec and encourage 
them to apply for promotions. We continue to strive to employ 
a diverse workforce. 
Vitec’s approach to diversity has always followed a strict policy 
of sourcing the best person for the role irrespective of race, 
gender, age or disability. We are keen to develop further the 
recruitment of talented women to the organisation at all levels 
and are developing policies and procedures across the Group 
to achieve this. Recruitment processes have been reviewed to 
ensure a diverse mix of candidates is reviewed and shortlisted 
for interviews, where appropriate, with a view to increasing the 
number of women in senior roles. Flexible working policies 
have been introduced in all the major business units, allowing 
all employees, regardless of gender, to request flexible 
working. This is usually granted, unless the needs of the 
business cannot otherwise be met. 
It is Vitec’s policy that applications for employment by disabled 
persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the 
respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicant concerned. 
The Broadcast Division’s site in Shelton was selected as the 
Kennedy Center’s Competitive Employer of the Year, an award 
recognising employers that hire individuals with disabilities and 
promote their empowerment. The Shelton office was chosen 
for the understanding, encouragement and sensitivity that 
management and employees have demonstrated in working 
with people with disabilities. In the event of employees 
becoming disabled all reasonable effort is made to ensure  
that their employment within the Group continues. It is our 
policy that the training, career development and promotion  
of disabled persons should be, as far as possible, identical  
to that of all other employees.
Gender statistics as at 31 December 2015
Number
of men
% of 
men
Number
of women
% of 
women
Board 5 71% 2 29% 
Operations Executive 5 100% 0 0%
Senior Management 22 92% 2 8% 
Rest of organisation 1,159 72% 458 28% 
This data does not include contractors
Working at Vitec 
www.vitecgroup.com/working_at_vitec
Corporate Responsibility
The Kennedy Center’s “Competitive Employer of the Year” team at 
the Shelton site 36 The Vitec Group plc
Corporate Responsibility
Our Approach
We emphasise initiatives and projects strongly 
backed by employees, that are relevant to what  
we do and can be supported for several years.
Our Vision
Support the communities in which  
we operate.
Community & Charitable Donations
We have continued to support charitable and community based causes in 2015. The following are a few examples of 
the good work completed by our employees in the communities within which we operate.
The Stemettes
In September 2015 representatives from the Broadcast  
Division travelled to London to do a New Product Introduction 
presentation to 40 girls who were taking part in the Stemettes.
The Stemettes is a voluntary group formed in 2013 to 
encourage girls and women in the STEM subjects: Science, 
Technology, Engineering and Maths. Their mission is to inspire 
the next generation of females in STEM fields by showing  
them inspirational women already in STEM fields. Over the 
six-week summer holidays, girls aged 12 to 22 were selected  
to spend the summer in a house in London as part of the 
Outbox Incubator Programme. The programme started with  
a three-week germination period; a demo day where they  
pitched their ideas to a panel who offered support and  
pledged money; then a further four weeks where the ideas  
were refined with the ultimate goal of going live.
The Broadcast Division representatives presented to the girls on 
how to turn an idea into an actual product. They used one of the 
Group’s current New Product Initiative projects and asked the 
girls to come up with ideas on how to improve it. 
Continuing educational support
Vitec has continued its support of Kingston University’s 
Television and Video Technology department. Further to financial 
donations made over several years, the Company agreed to 
provide the time and services of certain employees to provide 
training for students at the university in the use of broadcast 
equipment and other general broadcast training. This included 
giving over 200 students the opportunity to use the Company’s 
broadcast and photographic equipment including Vinten, 
Manfrotto and Autoscript products. 
The Camera Corps business provided six QBall cameras  
to Ravensbourne College for their Broadcast Engineering 
Degree Show in June 2015 to support further education in  
the broadcast industry. The Broadcast business based in  
Bury St Edmunds supported the William & Ellen Vinten Trust 
with employees offering their time at the Smallpiece Trust 
workshop for aspiring young engineers. Annual Report & Accounts 2015 37
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Cheru Cup 
Manfrotto Italy held their fourth edition of the Cheru Cup in 
June 2015, an annual football event involving four teams of 
employees to mark the life of a former employee who passed 
away. The event raised money which was donated to “Citta 
della Speranza” a local Italian foundation helping children 
suffering from onco hematology diseases.
Picture of Life
In 2015, Manfrotto Italy won a Positive Business Award  
from Palo Alto School for their Picture of Life educational 
photography programme which was launched in 2014 for  
young people from underprivileged backgrounds. The 2015 
programme saw participants from the Jonathan Rehabilitation 
Centre in Scisciano, Italy and from the Donna Chiama Donna 
association in Vicenza, Italy embark on a three month 
educational programme that led towards a professional 
qualification in theoretical and practical photography lessons 
provided by teachers from the Manfrotto School of Xcellence. 
The course provided each participant with photographic 
equipment including a camera, tripod, bag and lighting 
equipment and all of the creations were exhibited in Bassano 
during the international photography biennale, Bassano 
Fotografia. The programme has since been extended to the  
US with the NYC Salt organisation and the UK with the  
BID Association based in Birmingham. 
Local Community Donations
The Broadcast Division’s site in Cartago, Costa Rica invests 
many hours supporting the community including sponsoring 
the local Red Cross Committee and a nursery which is located 
in the same business park. Employees also volunteer their time 
at a local community residence and nursing home.
The Manfrotto business in New Jersey and the  
Broadcast Division’s Shelton site both took part in the  
Toys for Tots campaign, collecting Christmas gifts for abused, 
underprivileged and institutionalised children in their local 
areas. Similarly, the Bexel business in Burbank held their own 
toy and supplies drive to support the Children’s Hospital of  
Los Angeles and Glendale Humane Society.
The Group head office in Richmond in 2015 made a total 
donation of £10,000 to several charities including Alzheimer’s 
Research UK, Blue Ventures, Combat Stress, Juvenile 
Diabetes Research Foundation, Live Life Give Life, Smile Train, 
The Brain Tumour Charity, Tommy’s, West London Day Centre 
and Women for Women International.
Corporate Responsibility 38 The Vitec Group plc
Board of Directors
John McDonough  
CBE, BSc (Eng) & ACGI
Appointed  
15 March 2012  
(Chairman from 1 June 2012)
Role  
Chairman
Skills & experience  
John is also Chairman of 
Vesuvius plc, a Director of 
Cornerstone Property Assets 
Ltd and Sunbird Business 
Services Ltd. John was most 
recently Group Chief Executive 
of Carillion plc from January 
2001 to December 2011. He 
was previously a non-executive 
director of Tomkins plc from 
June 2007 to September 2010, 
where he was also Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee, 
and Excel plc from February 
2004 to December 2005. Prior 
to Carillion, John worked for 
Johnson Controls and Massey 
Ferguson. He was awarded a 
CBE in 2011 for services to 
Industry.
  
Stephen is currently a  
Non-Executive Director and 
the Senior Independent 
Director of Dialight plc. He 
was formerly a Non-Executive 
Director of Umeco plc. 
Previously he was Divisional 
Managing Director of Weir 
Oil & Gas, part of Weir Group 
plc. Prior to this he worked 
in senior roles at Danaher 
Corporation, Black & Decker, 
Unipart Group, Hepworth   
PLC and Technicolor Group.
  
Paul was previously Group 
Financial Controller at Signet 
Jewelers Limited (formerly 
Signet Group plc) between 
2007 and 2011. Prior to that,  
he held a senior role at RHM plc 
from 2004 to 2007, through  
its flotation in 2005 and 
subsequent sale to Premier 
Foods plc. Paul was with 
Smiths Group plc for over ten 
years from 1993, including a 
number of divisional and 
operating company finance 
director roles. He is a Chartered 
Accountant having qualified with 
EY, and has a first class Masters 
degree in Mechanical 
Engineering, Manufacture         
& Management.
Committee membership  
Nominations (Chairman)
Nationality  
British
Age  
64
  
55
  
49
  
Nominations
  
British
  
-
  
British 
 
 
14 April 2009
 
Group Chief Executive
 
13 June 2011
 
Group Finance Director
Stephen Bird  
MA
Paul Hayes  
M.Eng & Man, ACA
 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
  
61
  
British 
 
1 November 2015 
Caroline Thomson 
BA and D.Univ 
  
Caroline is currently Chair of 
Digital UK, a Non-Executive 
Director of CN Group, Deputy 
Chair of the National Gallery, 
Executive Director of English 
National Ballet, a Trustee of 
Tullie House Gallery and a 
Non-Executive Director of 
the Advisory Board to the 
Shareholder Executive. Until 
September 2012 Caroline was 
Chief Operating Officer at the 
BBC, serving for 12 years as a 
member of the Executive Board. 
Caroline also worked at Channel 
Four for 11 years, including 
as Head of Corporate Affairs. 
Caroline received an honorary 
doctorate from York University 
in 2013 and was made an 
honorary Fellow of the University 
of Cumbria in July 2015.
  
Audit
Nominations
Remuneration (Chairman 
from 1 November 2015) 39 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Skills & experience  
Christopher was formerly 
Group Chief Executive Officer 
of Anite plc, holding that 
position from 2008 until August 
2015. Previously he was 
their Group Finance Director 
between 2003 and 2008. He 
has held senior positions in 
finance at Conoco, Eurotherm 
International plc and Critchley 
Group plc. He was previously 
a Non-Executive Director of 
Alterian plc between 2011 
and 2012. He is a Chartered 
Management Accountant and 
a Fellow of CIMA.
Age  
58
Committee membership  
Audit (Chairman from  
12 May 2015)
Nominations
Remuneration
Nationality  
British 
Appointed 
1 December 2013
Role
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Christopher Humphrey  
BA, MBA, FCMA
Corporate Governance
 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director, Senior Independent 
Director (from 12 May 2015)
Mark Rollins 
B.Eng, ACA 
  
53
  
British
 
2 October 2013
  
Mark was Chief Executive 
of Senior plc until 1 June 
2015, being appointed to 
that position in March 2008. 
He joined Senior plc in 1998 
from Morgan Crucible plc, 
and became Group Finance 
Director in 2000. He is currently 
a Non-Executive Director of 
Tyman plc and was formerly a 
Non-Executive Director of WSP 
Group from 2006 to 2012. He 
is a Chartered Accountant and 
holds a degree in Engineering. 
  
Audit
Nominations
Remuneration
Lorraine Rienecker  
B.Eng, MBA
  
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
 
52
 
British
  
1 December 2013
 
Lorraine is currently President, 
Meggitt Customer Services  
& Support, having previously 
held the role of Executive Vice 
President, Strategy, Sales  
& Marketing at Meggitt plc 
between 2005 and 2014. 
Previously she was Director of 
Strategy & Planning at BAE 
Systems and Marconi 
Electronic Systems (GEC) 
between 1998 and 2002 and 
has held several other senior 
roles at Booz Allen & Hamilton 
and Bombardier. Lorraine was 
made a Fellow of the Royal 
Aeronautical Society in  
April 2015.
  
Audit
Nominations
Remuneration 40 The Vitec Group plc
Your Board, under my Chairmanship, is 
responsible to all Vitec’s stakeholders for 
providing strong leadership and effective 
decision-making to ensure the long-term  
success of the Group through the 
implementation of our strategy. This report 
explains how the Board and Operations 
Executive has operated in delivering this and 
setting the right tone from the top during 2015. 
We strive to work in accordance with best 
corporate governance practice and evolve those 
practices and procedures to deliver long-term 
sustainable shareholder value.
We appointed a new Non-Executive Director in 2015,  
Caroline Thomson, who has also been appointed as Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee. This followed Carolyn Fairbairn 
standing down from the Board and as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee to take on the role as Director-General 
of the CBI. Caroline brings excellent skills and experience to the 
Board with her background working at the highest level in the 
BBC. She has undertaken a thorough induction with a focus  
on remuneration matters. Nigel Moore stood down as a 
Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee at the conclusion of the 2015 
AGM. Christopher Humphrey took on the role of Chairman of 
the Audit Committee and Mark Rollins as Senior Independent 
Director. Both role transitions proceeded smoothly, with no 
break in continuity. I would like to thank both Carolyn and  
Nigel for their important contributions to the Company during 
their tenures.
The Board visited operations in Italy during 2015 that included  
a detailed update from the Photographic management team on 
market trends, product development, innovation and operations. 
I also met with several major shareholders during 2015 to  
hear first-hand their views on the business, governance and 
remuneration matters, and to ensure we continue to maintain  
a clear and open dialogue. 
To demonstrate the importance of good governance and  
setting the right standards within the Company, we launched  
an updated Code of Conduct to all employees setting out the 
values and standards we expect in the conduct of business. 
This covers issues such as health and safety, conduct of 
employees, diversity, financial controls and business integrity 
and is available on our website in seven languages, reflecting 
the importance of communicating our Code to all our people 
and stakeholders. We also undertook a recommunication of  
our whistleblowing service in 2015 to further strengthen the 
importance of our governance processes.
Building on the externally facilitated Board evaluation in 2014, 
the Board set itself objectives for 2015 which are set out in  
this report. We carried out an internal Board evaluation in 2015 
reviewing progress against these objectives and the Board’s 
overall performance against the agreed strategy, financial 
performance, governance, succession and Board dynamic.  
I am pleased to report that the Board continues to perform 
effectively and further detail can be found later in this section.
The Board continued to review and track progress against the 
Group’s strategy and future prospects, following the detailed 
strategic review completed in 2014. We regularly consider  
the Group’s principal risks, the associated processes and 
procedures to mitigate them and our risk appetite. We are 
required to include a statement on the Group’s long-term 
viability as part of changes introduced by the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the “Code”). The Audit Committee and 
Board were involved in its drafting and review and the 
statement, along with further detail on the Group’s principal 
risks, can be found on pages 18 to 23.
Following the 2016 AGM, the Board will continue to comprise 
seven directors including myself as Chairman, four independent 
Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors. I believe 
this to be the right size for the Board given the scale of our 
operations. Each Director has skills in the areas of strategy, 
finance and technology to assist with the implementation of  
our strategy. They also enhance our diversity in terms of gender, 
professional and global experience. Three of our Directors are 
currently or have recently worked in other international 
companies, ensuring they have relevant and current global 
commercial experience of the fast-paced changing environment 
in which we operate. 
Corporate Governance
Chairman John McDonough, CBE describes Vitec’s 
corporate governance framework and the work of 
the Board and its committees during 2015
Corporate Governance online 
www.vitecgroup.com/corporate_governance 41 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
All Directors will stand for reappointment at the 2016 AGM  
and their biographies are set out on pages 38 and 39. 
My governance review has taken into account the Code as 
published in September 2014, and explains how we have 
applied its main principles. I confirm that the 2015 Annual 
Report has been drafted in full compliance with the latest 
version of the Code as it applies to financial years ending  
31 December 2015 including its supporting principles and 
provisions. Each has been complied with throughout 2015,  
as required by the Listing Rules. 
Leadership
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the creation and 
delivery of sustainable performance and long-term shareholder 
value. There are separate roles for each member of the Board  
and we have agreed a clear division of responsibilities between 
the Chairman and Group Chief Executive. Full details of our 
respective roles and responsibilities can be found on our website. 
It is my responsibility to manage the Board, ensuring its 
effectiveness in all aspects of its role. I work closely with the 
Group Chief Executive and Group Company Secretary to 
achieve this by ensuring that all Directors: are kept advised 
of key developments; receive accurate, timely and clear 
information; and actively participate in the decision-making 
process. Board agendas are reviewed and agreed in advance 
to ensure each Board meeting utilises the Board’s time most 
efficiently. I encourage all Board members to openly and 
constructively challenge the proposals made by executive 
management led by the Group Chief Executive. I ensure that 
each Director properly exercises the power vested in them 
and in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, 
relevant law and any directions as provided by the Company 
in general meeting. Apart from the remuneration of Directors 
or Directors’ fees there were no instances when a Director had 
to abstain from voting on a matter due to a conflict of interest 
during 2015. The Board has adopted a formal procedure for 
dealing with any such conflicts or potential conflicts of interest. 
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for managing the 
day-to-day running of the business. The Operations Executive 
supports the Group Chief Executive in this duty, the five 
members of which are shown on page 6. The Group Chief 
Executive and I have a good working relationship, meeting  
and speaking regularly outside of scheduled Board meetings 
to discuss strategy and performance, and to ensure that Board 
meetings cover relevant matters. Our relationship and regular 
dialogue helps to underpin the working of the Board, providing 
for an open forum in which matters are discussed.
Mark Rollins was appointed Senior Independent Director at the 
conclusion of the 2015 AGM, the role previously having been 
held by Nigel Moore. A key task during 2015 was for Mark 
to lead the evaluation of my performance as part of the 2015 
internal Board evaluation. Information on the outcome of my 
evaluation is provided later in this report.
The Board operates under a Schedule of Matters Reserved 
to it which includes: consideration and development of the 
Group’s strategy; setting of annual operating budgets; regular 
review of progress against strategy and budgets; financial 
results; dividends; changes in Board composition including 
key roles; acquisitions and disposals; material litigation; capital 
structure; risk management strategy; and various statutory and 
regulatory approvals. During 2015, the Schedule of Matters 
Reserved to the Board was reviewed and updated to ensure 
compliance with best practice. The full Schedule of Matters 
Reserved to the Board is available on our website.
The Board has taken into account the Code requirement that  
it confirms that the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, 
balanced and understandable, and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position  
and performance, business model and strategy, and has 
retained this power for itself. To achieve this we have asked  
the Executive Directors and Operations Executive to provide  
us with clear documentary evidence around the content and 
process of the 2015 Annual Report. The Audit Committee has 
confirmed to us that: the financial statements as contained  
in the 2015 Annual Report are true and fair; the work of the 
external auditor has been effective; and the process 
supporting the Viability Statement was robust. As a 
consequence we are able to confirm that the 2015 Annual 
Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable 
through reliance on management and knowledge of the 
following processes: 
•  a detailed planning stage including drafting guidance and 
coordinated project management;
•  a verification process dealing with the factual content of the 
Annual Report;
•  comprehensive reviews undertaken at different levels in the 
Group that aim to ensure consistency and overall balance; 
and 
• comprehensive review by the senior management team.
Corporate Governance 42 The Vitec Group plc
Corporate Governance
The Board dealt with a diverse range of matters 
during 2015 which are summarised here.
At each scheduled meeting the following 
standing items are considered:
•  Directors’ duties and any new conflicts  
of interest
• Reviews minutes of previous meetings
• Reviews actions from previous meetings
•  Reviews progress against agreed Board 
objectives
•  Reviews reports from the Group Chief 
Executive, Group Finance Director, Group 
Company Secretary and Group Development 
and HR Director on key aspects of the 
business including health and safety, current 
trading, strategy, acquisitions and disposals, 
financial results, governance, HR and legal 
matters
• Reviews performance against KPIs
There were six scheduled Board meetings  
and one short notice Board meeting in 2015. 
Apart from the standing items described above, 
the following is a summary of the material items 
considered at each meeting in 2015:
Board activities during 2015
February (held in Richmond, UK)
• Annual Results, including review and approval, 
where appropriate, of:
 -Report from the Audit Committee Chairman 
 - Report from the Remuneration Committee 
Chairman 
 -  Report from the Nominations Committee 
Chairman 
 - Principal risks and mitigation
 - Report on going concern
 - Final dividend recommendation
 -  Full year results announcement for the year 
ended 31 December 2014
 -  2014 Annual Report including an assessment 
that the Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable
 -  Resolutions to be submitted to the AGM and 
content of Notice of AGM
 - Management Representation letter
• Approved the re-appointment of KPMG LLP 
as auditor
• Received an update on Group strategy
• Received presentation on the Broadcast 
Division’s supports business
• Considered discretionary increases for the 
Vitec Group Pension Scheme
• Noted outcome of performance conditions for 
vesting of LTIP and DBP awards
January  (short notice meeting held by   
conference call)
• Considered details of and approved 
expenditure on a strategic development 
matter
July (held in Bassano, Italy) 
• Visited Manfrotto facilities and received 
presentations on market trends, product 
development, innovation and operations
• Received a strategic update from the 
Photographic Divisional Chief Executive
• Received an update on Group strategy including 
associated risks, mitigations and risk appetite
• Reviewed the re-forecast of 2015 performance
• Received a presentation on wireless technology
• Received an update on property matters
• Approved an internal re-structure of Group 
subsidiaries
• Reviewed the Group’s 2014/15 insurance 
renewals
• Received a report from the Audit Committee 
Chairman
• Received a report from the Nominations 
Committee Chairman
August (held in Richmond, UK)
• Half year results, including review and 
approval, where appropriate, of: 
 -Report from the Audit Committee Chairman
 - Principal risks and mitigation
 - Report on going concern
 - Interim dividend
 -  Half year results announcement for the period 
ended 30 June 2015
 - Management Representation letter
• Received a presentation on markets and 
customers
• Received an update on property matters
• Received an update on the Modern Slavery 
Act 2015
• Approved the format of the 2015 internal 
Board evaluation
• Approved a proposal to offer Sharesave  
to employees
October  (held in Richmond, UK)
• Received an update on Group strategy 
including a review of competitors
• Received a presentation on restructuring plans
• Considered a post-acquisition review  
of Autocue
• Reviewed the re-forecast of 2015 performance
• Received an update on the change of  
Audit Partner
• Approved a capital expenditure request for 
new equipment to support the 2016 Olympics
• Received an update on the Group’s HR 
structure
• Received a litigation report
• Received a report from the Remuneration 
Committee Chairman
• Received a report from the Nominations 
Committee Chairman
• Noted the circulation of the revised Code  
of Conduct
• Received an update on property matters
• Received an update on the process and 
timing of the internal Board evaluation
• Received an update on various pension 
scheme matters relating to the defined benefit 
and defined contribution schemes, auto 
enrolment, and legislative changes
• Received a presentation from Rothschild on 
strategic matters
• Approved in principle the appointment of 
Caroline Thomson as a Non-Executive 
Director
December (held in Richmond, UK)
• Received an update on the Enterprise Video 
Market
• Considered and approved the 2016 budget
• Received an update on property matters
• Approved the circulation of a letter to 
shareholders regarding the adoption of FRS 
101 Reduced Disclosure Framework
• Reviewed the outcome of the 2015 internal 
Board evaluation and approved 2016  
Board objectives
• Received a report from the Audit Committee 
Chairman
• Received a report from the Remuneration 
Committee Chairman
• Received a report from the Nominations 
Committee Chairman
• Reviewed Board governance arrangements 
and key policies 
• Approved the appointment of a new 
Company-Nominated Trustee Director to the 
Board of the Vitec Group Pension Scheme
• Reviewed the Chairman’s and Non-Executive 
Directors’ fees
• Received a legal update from Slaughter  
and May
May (held in central London, UK)
• Received a briefing on the business to be 
conducted at the AGM
• Considered the content of the Interim 
Management Statement (including re-forecast 
of 2015 performance)
• Reviewed Capital Markets Day held in April 
2015 and agreed outline for strategy update 
to be provided to July meeting
• Received a post-acquisition review of the  
SIS business 
• Received a presentation on the Broadcast 
Division’s production services’ specialty 
camera technology activities
• Approved a capital expenditure request for 
new Broadcast product development
• Received an update on investor relations from 
Investec 
• Reviewed a revised draft of the Group’s Code 
of Conduct
• Agreed an increase to the Chairman’s fee
• Received a property update relating to the 
sale of the Bury St. Edmunds site 43 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
We hold a dinner for the Board around scheduled Board 
meetings to enable Directors to informally discuss current 
business matters. It also gives an opportunity for senior 
management or external advisors to attend to give updates on 
trading, markets or wider industry matters. This is a very useful 
format enabling a less formal opportunity for the Board to get 
to know one another and executive management. It also gives 
the opportunity as required for the business to be discussed  
at the Board meeting to be introduced and for more time to 
consider matters. 
At least twice a year we also hold Non-Executive Director  
only meetings, scheduled around the February and August 
Board meetings. These enable the Non-Executive Directors  
to raise any issues that they may wish to without executive 
management present. In my role as Chairman I feed back  
to the Executive Directors on these discussions and take any 
actions necessary to address matters raised. In December  
we also took the opportunity to hold a dinner with the Group 
Chief Executive and all of the Non-Executive Directors 
including myself, which allowed the Non-Executive Directors 
the opportunity to raise any issues that they may wish to 
directly with the Group Chief Executive and vice versa.
To monitor its ongoing performance during 2015, the Board 
set itself several objectives for the year which are detailed in 
the section on Board performance evaluation. Progress against 
each objective was tracked at each scheduled Board meeting 
during 2015. The key output from the 2015 Board evaluation 
has allowed us to set further objectives for 2016 that I will 
report on in next year’s Annual Report. 
In addition to the matters reserved to it, the Board delegates 
certain items to its principal Committees. I feel it is appropriate 
to ensure the Board has sufficient time to deal with strategic 
matters while retaining oversight on salient points by virtue  
of its Committees. The Board’s three principal committees  
are the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.  
Each Committee operates under clear terms of reference 
which were updated during the year to reflect emerging best 
practice. Copies of each Committee’s current terms of 
reference are available on our website. 
Each Committee is authorised to seek any information it 
requires from any employee of the Company in order to 
perform its duties and to obtain, at the Company’s expense, 
outside legal or other professional advice on any matter within 
its terms of reference. Each Committee, at least once a year, 
reviews its own performance, constitution and terms of 
reference to ensure it is operating at maximum effectiveness 
and recommends any changes it considers necessary to the 
Board for approval. 
The Remuneration and Audit Committees each agreed their 
objectives for 2015 to monitor their progress and performance. 
Progress on each objective is set out in this report under the 
relevant section for that Committee. Objectives for these two 
Committees have been set for 2016 and an evaluation of 
progress against these objectives will be reported in next  
year’s Annual Report.
Details of Directors’ attendance at Board and Committee 
meetings is shown in the table on page 51. I confirm that all 
Directors attended each scheduled Board meeting and the 
one called at short notice. When any Director is unable to 
attend they continue to receive the necessary papers and  
I seek to contact them in advance of the meeting to obtain 
their views and decisions on the proposals to be considered. 
The Board visited the Photographic Division’s operations in 
Italy in July 2015. The visit included a detailed update from the 
Photographic management team on market trends, product 
development, innovation and operations. The Board was given 
a demonstration of new products, including those still under 
development. The Board intends to hold a meeting at an 
overseas business each year in the foreseeable future to allow 
Directors to demonstrate the right tone from the top and to 
deepen their knowledge and understanding of operations. 
Each Director is also encouraged to visit our operations at  
their own convenience to further build on their understanding 
of the business and meet operational management.
As part of the wider governance framework it is important to 
explain the workings of the Operations Executive. The Group 
Chief Executive chairs the monthly meetings of the Operations 
Executive which discusses ongoing business performance and 
enables the Group Chief Executive to manage the business 
with his direct reports. I receive an update from the Group 
Chief Executive on any salient matters resulting from  
each meeting.
I was pleased to welcome members of the Operations 
Executive to a number of Board and Committee meetings 
during 2015, along with the Group Risk Assurance Manager, 
Group Financial Controller, Group Head of Tax and a number 
of product specialists from each Division, each of whom 
provided the Board with technical knowledge about different 
parts of the business. Their attendance allows the Board to 
directly question those senior managers responsible for the 
business and to gain a better understanding of their respective 
businesses. We will continue to welcome members of the 
Operations Executive and other senior management to  
Board and Committee meetings in the future.
Corporate Governance
Christopher Humphrey visiting the Broadcast Division’s Bury St Edmunds  
site in 2015 44 The Vitec Group plc
Effectiveness
A number of Board changes in 2015 have resulted in two new 
Committee Chairmen and to the Senior Independent Director  
role. Each change has required careful management to ensure 
seamless transitions and continuity in standards. We continue to 
spend time together outside of Board meetings to learn not only 
about the business but each other’s skills and personalities, which 
helps facilitate effective and constructive Board and Committee 
meetings. I believe the Board has the right skills, talent and 
diversity to effectively deliver the Company’s agreed strategy. 
Each of the Non-Executive Directors bring independent character 
and judgement to bear on strategic matters, the performance of 
the Group, the adequacy of resources and standards of conduct. 
The Board considers that Christopher Humphrey, Lorraine 
Rienecker, Mark Rollins and Caroline Thomson are independent  
in accordance with the recommendations of the Code. Each 
Director brings a complementary set of skills and diversity to the 
Board, having served in companies of varying size, complexity 
and market sector. When combined, these skills give your Board 
the comprehensive skill set required to deliver the strategic 
objectives of the Group and to ensure its continued success.
On appointment, we provide each Director with a tailored and 
extensive induction to the Group. Caroline Thomson is making 
good progress with this process following her appointment  
in November 2015, including meeting all of her fellow Board 
members individually, the Operations Executive, key external 
advisors, receiving briefings on each area of the business and 
visiting the Group’s principal operations in the UK and Italy.  
She will visit the US operations as part of the Board meeting  
in June 2016. Teach-ins were held on the products and services  
we offer and how each business operates in its chosen markets 
and segments, along with the internal governance processes and 
procedures that exist to support our operations. To gain a better 
understanding of the Group externally, she met with our Group 
auditor, KPMG, corporate advisors including Investec, Makinson 
Cowell (part of KPMG), Slaughter and May, and, importantly, 
Deloitte as the Group’s remuneration advisor, to support her  
role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Following  
the induction process, each Director is encouraged to continue 
visiting the Group’s operations as their schedule permits. 
All Directors, having notified me in the first instance, are able  
to take independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense in furtherance of their duties. During 2015 no Director  
felt the need to take such advice. They also have access to the 
advice and services of the Group Company Secretary, who  
is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman,  
on all governance matters.
Ongoing training for new and existing Directors is available at the 
request of the Director. Each Director receives details of relevant 
training and development courses from both the Group Company 
Secretary and from external bodies such as KPMG, Deloitte,  
and Slaughter and May, as the Company’s appointed advisors. 
The requirement for training is discussed at meetings of the Board 
and of its Committees and I ensure that each Director has the 
required skills and knowledge to enable them to operate efficiently 
on the Board. The Group Company Secretary maintains a register 
of training undertaken by Directors to facilitate this discussion. 
During the year the Board collectively received training sessions 
on such matters as product technology, investor relations,  
Bribery Act 2010, Modern Slavery Act 2015, Health & Safety 
Deregulation Act 2015, Viability Statements, Market Abuse 
Regulation, cyber security issues, and Broadcast and 
Photographic market updates. The Board regularly receives 
written updates on governance, regulatory and financial matters 
as they are published.
Working with the Group Chief Executive and Group  
Company Secretary, I ensure that the Board receives papers  
for consideration so that it gives all Board members adequate 
time to read, prepare and, where appropriate, ask questions prior 
to the meeting about the information supplied. The information 
includes detailed budgets, forecasts, strategy papers, reviews  
of the Group’s financial position and operating performance,  
and annual and half yearly reports. Each Board member receives 
a detailed monthly report from the Group Chief Executive, Group 
Finance Director, Group Company Secretary, Group Development 
and HR Director, and Group Legal Counsel, plus a Health and 
Safety Report covering the ongoing performance of the business. 
The Board receives further information from time to time as  
and when requested.
All meetings of the Board and its Committees are minuted by  
the Group Company Secretary or the Deputy Company Secretary. 
In the first instance, minutes are reviewed by the Chairman of that 
meeting before being circulated to all Directors in attendance and 
then tabled for approval at the next meeting. Any concerns raised 
by Directors are clearly recorded in the minutes of each meeting.
The Board has the power at any time and from time to time to 
appoint any person to be a Director, either to fill a casual vacancy 
or as an addition to the existing Board, subject to a maximum 
number of 15 Directors as prescribed by the Company’s Articles. 
Any Director so appointed shall hold office only until the next 
AGM and shall then put himself or herself forward to be 
reappointed by shareholders.
The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors are 
appointed for an initial period of three years which, with the 
approval of the Nominations Committee and the Board, would 
normally be extended for a further three years. If it is in the 
interests of the Group to do so, appointments of Non-Executive 
Directors may be extended beyond six years, with the approval  
of the Nominations Committee, the Board and the individual 
Director concerned. Under the Company’s Articles, each Director 
is required to stand for annual reappointment. The table on the 
following page sets out the Chairman’s and Non-Executive 
Directors appointment dates and scheduled renewal of terms.
Corporate Governance 45 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Corporate Governance
Chairman or Non-
Executive Director
Appointment date First renewal of term 
due
Second renewal of 
term due
Annual renewal of term post two three year terms
John McDonough 15 March 2012 15 March 2015 15 March 2018 Annually from 15 March 2019 onwards
Mark Rollins 2 October 2013 2 October 2016 2 October 2019 Annually from 2 October 2020 onwards
Christopher 
Humphrey
1 December 2013 1 December 2016 1 December 2019 Annually from 1 December 2020 onwards
Lorraine Rienecker 1 December 2013 1 December 2016 1 December 2019 Annually from 1 December 2020 onwards
Caroline Thomson 1 November 2015 1 November 2018 1 November 2021 Annually from 1 November 2022 onwards
On making appointments to the Board, among other criteria, 
the issue of diversity is considered. The Board agreed its policy 
on diversity during 2011 which was reviewed during 2015 and 
deemed to remain appropriate. Our statement is set out below, 
as well as being published on our website:
Vitec recognises the importance of a fully diverse workforce in 
the successful delivery of its strategy. The effective use of all  
the skills and talents of our employees is encouraged and this 
extends to potential new employees. It is essential that the  
best person for the job is selected regardless of race, gender, 
religion, age, sexual orientation, physical ability or nationality. 
Vitec is fully committed to equal opportunity where talent is 
recognised. The Board will keep under regular review the issue 
of diversity including at Board level, senior management level 
and throughout the entire workforce, taking into account 
among other things Lord Davies’ review Women on Boards. 
We will report upon this issue annually in our Annual Report.
The Employees section of the Corporate Responsibility  
Report contains further information on diversity, including the 
disclosure of gender diversity statistics at Board, Operations 
Executive and senior management level as well as throughout 
the organisation, in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006. 
Board performance evaluation 2015
Last year we undertook an externally facilitated Board 
evaluation, coordinated by Lintstock and on which we reported 
in the 2014 Annual Report. The output from this evaluation 
assisted in the Board’s 2015 objective setting, which is 
reported on later in this section. We conducted an internal 
Board evaluation in 2015 using the output from the work 
completed in 2014 to help shape the questions and analyse 
progress made during the year. 
Four areas were covered by the 2015 process: 
• Evaluation of the performance of the Board by  
each Director;
• Evaluation of the performance of the Committees of  
the Board by each member of the relevant committee;
• Evaluation of the Non-Executive Directors by the 
Chairman; and
• Evaluation of the Chairman led by the Senior 
Independent Director taking into account the  
views of the Board.
Completion of questionnaires by each Director
Analysis of responses and creation of output document
Individual meetings with each Director led by the Chairman
Collective Board discussion at the  
December 2015 Board meeting
The Board evaluation took the following process:
The annual renewals of terms for a Non-Executive Director will take into account ongoing performance, continuing independence 
and the needs and balance of the Board as a whole. 46 The Vitec Group plc
Corporate Governance
The 2015 evaluation took the form of questionnaires, individual 
meetings and discussion at the Board meeting held in December 
2015. The Group Company Secretary and I agreed the format  
of the questionnaire, which requested Directors to evaluate the 
performance of the Board, Board Committees, progress against 
strategy, monitoring performance, leadership, succession  
planning, customers, markets, technology, culture and corporate 
governance, taking into account the balance of skills, experience 
and knowledge of the Group by each Director. Content of the 
questionnaires was driven by the topics covered during the  
2014 external evaluation, to ensure continuity in questioning.
I subsequently followed up with each Director on the content of 
their completed evaluation forms, allowing for a discussion to take 
place around any areas for improvement. Mark Rollins, as Senior 
Independent Director, co-ordinated the process for my evaluation. 
There followed a collective Board discussion at our December 
meeting to consider the outputs that had been identified. 
I am pleased to report that all your Board members considered 
that the Board, its Committees and individual Directors have 
performed effectively during 2015, both individually and as a 
collective unit. Non-Executive Directors have demonstrated a 
willingness to devote sufficient time and effort to understand the 
Company and its businesses and have provided independent, 
rigorous and constructive challenge on strategy and operational 
performance. The processes, governance and controls around  
the Board and its Committees were also deemed to be effective 
and robust. Each Director was asked to report on the key items  
for the Board to focus on during 2016. As in previous years these  
key items have been incorporated into the Board’s agreed 
objectives for 2016 and will focus on the areas of: Group strategy; 
performance; succession planning for the Executive Directors and 
senior management; technology; operations; trading performance 
and governance. I will report to you on progress against each of 
these objectives in the 2016 Annual Report.
Each of the key Board Committees were reviewed with individual 
outputs and actions created. As with the Board, the key areas of 
focus have helped to form the 2016 objectives that will be reported 
on by each Committee in the 2016 Annual Report. For the Audit 
Committee, 2016’s focus will be on: induction process for the new 
Non-Executive Director; successful handover to the new KPMG 
audit partner; ensuring the Committee continues to regularly review 
the risk management framework, financial reporting and internal 
controls; receiving regular training on financial and governance 
changes; and review the process to support the drafting of the  
Viability Statement. The Remuneration Committee’s primary focus 
for 2016 will be on: ensuring that governance disclosures meet 
best practice and changing standards; updating the Remuneration 
Policy in advance of the 2017 AGM; ensuring successful induction 
of Remuneration Committee Chairman; and consideration of 
performance conditions for LTIPs to be awarded in 2016 to  
senior management. 
Finally, my review led by Mark Rollins highlighted that I have  
a good relationship with the Group Chief Executive, Board 
members and major shareholders, and my performance was rated 
highly by every Board member. 
Following the external Board evaluation in 2014, the Board set  
itself several objectives for 2015. These are summarised to the 
right with an evaluation of performance against each:
2015 Board Objectives Progress during 2015
Develop and monitor 
the Group’s strategy 
against KPIs, 
analyse areas of low 
growth and ensure 
key risks relating 
to acquisitions are 
evaluated
•  Received regular updates from each Division on 
progress against each of their strategic plans with 
Divisional Chief Executive Officers attending several 
Board meetings
•  Identified and reviewed key areas concerning 
strategy and agreed programme for ongoing review
•  Regular review of strategic objective KPIs
•  Completed acquisition of Paralinx
•  Reviewed corporate action opportunities
•  Post-acquisition reviews of SIS and Autocue
Closely monitor 
current financial 
performance and 
recommend actions 
as appropriate 
•  Received updates from the Group Chief Executive 
and Group Finance Director on trading and financial 
results at each meeting
•  Approved content of full and half year 
announcements and trading updates
•  Reviewed quarterly re-forecast of 2015 performance
•  Considered restructuring initiatives 
Develop talent 
management 
processes and 
succession plans 
to ensure diversity 
and support delivery 
of strategy. Ensure 
appropriate structure 
of Group’s HR 
organisation
•  Received regular updates on talent and succession 
planning for senior management roles across the 
Group
•  Visited operations in Italy and met with senior 
management from the Photographic team
•  Met with senior HR team, ensured co-ordination 
across HR plans within the Group, received 
information on short and long term HR priorities
•  Reviewed people aspect of restructuring initiatives
Ensure transition 
between Audit 
Committee 
Chairman and Senior 
Independent Director 
is seamless. Evaluate 
Board succession 
plans
•  Oversaw handover of roles for the Audit Committee 
Chairman and Senior Independent Director (see 
page 52 for further information on the induction of 
the Audit Committee Chairman)
•  Approved appointment of Caroline Thomson as 
a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
•  Comprehensive induction plan for Caroline 
Thomson including site visits, meeting with 
key employees and advisors and governance 
information 
•  Reviewed Executive Director succession plans
•  Completed internal Board evaluation in 2015
Increase 
understanding 
and knowledge 
of underlying 
and developing 
technologies
•  Received regular presentations from product 
specialists within the business on existing and 
developing technologies
•  Attended both the Management Conference in 
March 2015 and the Capital Markets Day in April 
2015 where updates on product development  
were given 
•  Considered capital expenditure requests for new 
products and acquisitions including Paralinx
Develop 
understanding of 
customers, key 
markets, emerging 
trends and emerging 
markets
•  Attended both the Management Conference  
in March 2015 and the Capital Markets Day in  
April 2015 where updates on customers and 
markets were given
•  Received presentations from both Divisions  
on customers and performance
•  Received presentations on specific competitors 
and changes in key markets
Continue to develop 
the Group’s risk 
management and 
oversee the Group’s 
principal risks and 
uncertainties in light 
of development of 
Group strategy
•  Reviewed detailed risk assessment and mitigation 
process and disclosed principal risks in 2014 
Annual Report and 2015 half year results
•  Reviewed results of site governance reviews as 
conducted by the Group Company Secretary
•  Risk Management Strategy considered by the Audit 
Committee, including the risk appetite statement  47 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Performance evaluations of each of the Executive Directors also 
took place against achievement of specific personal objectives, 
the detail of which can be found in the Remuneration Report  
in respect of the outcome of their 2015 annual bonus.
Overview of the Nominations Committee 
The Board has appointed the Nominations Committee to oversee 
the composition of the Board, senior executive recruitment and 
succession, and the process for appointments of Directors.  
The Nominations Committee, that I chair, has agreed terms  
of reference that are available on the Company’s website. 
During 2015 the Nominations Committee focused its attention 
on the roles of the current Non-Executive Directors to ensure that 
a handover plan was in place following the retirement of Nigel 
Moore at the 2015 AGM and his successors as Chairman of the 
Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director. As previously 
disclosed, taking into account the skills, experience and time 
commitment required for each of these roles, it was unanimously 
agreed by the Nominations Committee that Christopher Humphrey 
and Mark Rollins would assume the roles of Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and Senior Independent Director, respectively, given 
their experience, recent responsibilities and skills. The Nominations 
Committee also conducted a process to search for a replacement 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. This followed Carolyn Fairbairn’ s appointment as 
Director-General of the CBI. 
The Nominations Committee uses the support of external executive 
search consultants where necessary to facilitate searches for 
new Directors. During 2015 the Committee engaged with JCA 
Group in the selection and appointment of Caroline Thomson as a 
Non-Executive Director following the announcement that Carolyn 
Fairbairn would stand down from the Board. JCA Group does not 
have any other connection with the Group. JCA Group assisted in 
drafting a clear brief on the role, skills and personal attributes that 
the Board was looking for, taking into account Board diversity, and 
followed up with a search process to identify suitable candidates. 
Initial interviews were held with candidates with both myself and 
the Group Chief Executive, following which a shortlist was created 
taking into account the skills of each candidate and perceived 
fit with the Board and senior management. Following further 
meetings a preferred candidate was chosen and each member 
of the Board then met with or spoke to the preferred candidate 
individually to ensure that the correct person with the right skills 
and dynamic fit with the Board was appointed. This same process 
would occur whether the role was executive or non-executive in 
nature. The process for the appointment in 2015 was led by me 
as Chairman of the Committee. However, should a search for 
the role of Chairman be necessary, this would be conducted by 
the Senior Independent Director with the support of the Group 
Chief Executive. Subject to the outcome of each search, a formal 
recommendation on an appointment is made by the Nominations 
Committee to the full Board for approval. 
Following the appointment made during 2015 and the change of 
roles that became effective following the 2015 AGM, I am confident 
that we have a good mix and balance of skills, personalities and 
diversity on the Board to meet the challenges the Group faces, 
deliver on strategy, monitor ongoing performance and discharge 
good corporate governance. I will remain mindful of the need to have 
the right balance on the Board and future Board changes will take 
this into consideration. The Nominations Committee will continue to 
monitor Board structure and succession plans, including talent and 
succession plans of senior management below Board level.
 
Chairman Members
John McDonough 
Current Committee members  
are in bold
Stephen Bird
Christopher Humphrey
Lorraine Rienecker
Mark Rollins
Caroline Thomson  
(from 1 November 2015) 
Carolyn Fairbairn  
(until 31 October 2015)
Nigel Moore (until 12 May 2015)
Duties
• Reviews and evaluates the 
structure, size and composition 
(including the skills, knowledge, 
experience and diversity) of  
the Board
• Considers succession planning 
for Directors and other key 
senior executives
• Identifies and nominates to the 
Board candidates for Board 
vacancies
• Prepares descriptions of roles 
and capabilities required for 
Board appointments
•  Reviews the executive and 
non-executive leadership 
needs of the Company
•  Reviews time commitment of 
Non-Executive Directors
•  Ensures that Non-Executive 
Directors receive a formal 
letter of appointment and 
appropriate induction training
Corporate Governance
At each main meeting the Committee considers: 
• Directors’ duties and any new conflicts of interest
• Reviews minutes of previous meetings
• Reviews actions from previous meetings
The Committee had three scheduled meetings and one ad-hoc 
meeting in 2015 and covered the following matters:
Nominations Committee activities during 2015
February
• Recommended to the Board the appointment of Christopher 
Humphrey as Audit Committee Chairman and Mark Rollins as 
Senior Independent Director, to take effect following Nigel Moore’s 
retirement at the 2015 AGM
July
• Reviewed Board composition and succession planning particularly for 
the Remuneration Committee Chairman following the announcement 
of Carolyn Fairbairn’s role as Director-General of the CBI
•  Reviewed a draft specification for the role of Remuneration 
Committee Chairman
•  Reviewed a long list of candidates as provided by JCA Group
•  Received an update on senior management talent and succession plans
October (called at short notice)
•  Recommended to the Board the appointment of Caroline Thomson 
as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee
December
• Reviewed Board composition and succession planning for all Non-
Executive Directors with a view to their tenure under the Code 48 The Vitec Group plc
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Committee activities during 2015 Overview of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Caroline Thomson, 
who took over the role on 1 November 2015 from Carolyn 
Fairbairn. The Remuneration Committee comprises exclusively 
independent Non-Executive Directors. The Chairman, Group 
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Development 
and HR Director, and Group Company Secretary have all been 
invited to attend meetings throughout 2015. The Committee  
met three times in 2015.
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee  
the setting of a remuneration framework or broad policy for the 
Company’s Group Chief Executive, other Executive Directors 
and members of the Operations Executive. The Committee’s  
full terms of reference can be found on our website.
An overview of the work completed by the Remuneration 
Committee during the year is set out in the following table.  
The Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 
2015 on pages 56 to 73 provides an introduction from the 
Committee Chairman. It sets out a summary of the Group’s 
remuneration policy for Executive and Non-Executive Directors 
as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and gives full 
details of Executive and Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration 
during 2015.
During 2015 the Remuneration Committee had three meetings,  
all of which were scheduled. None were held at short notice. At each 
scheduled meeting the Committee considers the following matters: 
•  Directors’ duties and any new conflicts of interest
•  Reviews minutes of previous meetings
•  Reviews actions from previous meetings
•  Reviews progress against objectives
The following specific business was dealt with at each meeting held  
in 2015:
February
•  Approved a proposal to introduce clawback into the LTIP , DBP and 
Annual Bonus Plan with immediate effect
•  Approved the 2014 Remuneration Committee Report including the 
Policy Report to be included in 2014 Annual Report
•  Reviewed and agreed on outcome of personal objectives for Executive 
Directors for 2014
•  Reviewed outcome of 2014 Annual Bonus Plan
•  Reviewed satisfaction of performance conditions tied to LTIP and  
DBP awards made in 2012 
•  Reviewed and approved awards to be made under the LTIP and  
DBP in 2015
October
•  Received an update on indicative outcome for the 2015 Annual  
Bonus Plan
•  Received a market update on executive remuneration and 2015 AGM 
season from Deloitte
December
•  Considered and agreed the outcome of 2015 objectives and set  
2016 objectives for the Committee
•  Received an update on indicative outcome for the 2015 Annual  
Bonus Plan
•  Reviewed remuneration and proposed salary increases for 2016 for the 
Executive Directors and Operations Executive
•  Reviewed structure of the 2016 Annual Bonus Plan
•  Considered draft personal objectives for Executive Directors for 2016
•  Reviewed output from the internal evaluation of the Committee
Chairman Members
Caroline Thomson (from  
1 November 2015)
Carolyn Fairbairn (until 31 October 
2015)
Current Committee members  
are in bold
Christopher Humphrey
Lorraine Rienecker
Mark Rollins 
Nigel Moore (until 12 May 2015)
Duties
•   Determining and agreeing with 
the Board the broad framework 
and policies for Board and 
executive level remuneration
•  Ensuring executive management 
are provided with appropriate 
incentives to encourage 
enhanced performance
•  Reviewing performance-related 
pay schemes and ensuring their 
structure encourages long-term 
growth for the Company
•  Reviewing ongoing 
appropriateness of  
remuneration policy
•  Reviewing the design and 
targets for any performance 
related pay schemes
•  Reviewing the design of all  
share incentive plans
•  Ensuring that all payments to 
Directors are in line with the 
approved remuneration policy
•   Operating the rules of malus 
and clawback in the long-term 
incentive plans and annual 
bonus plan
•  Reviewing remuneration trends 
and major changes in employee 
benefits across the Group
•  Reviewing termination 
arrangements in accordance 
with contractual terms
•   Ensuring full disclosure is made 
regarding remuneration in the 
Company’s Annual Report in 
accordance with prevailing 
regulations, including putting 
a policy report to shareholders 
for approval at least every  
three years
•  Ensuring advice is obtained 
from appropriate sources 
•  Agreeing objectives and 
reviewing performance  
against each
•  Considering draft personal 
objectives for Executive 
Directors and reviewing  
the outcome 49 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
2015 Remuneration Committee Objectives Progress during 2015
Ensure Remuneration Policy remains 
fit for purpose and is aligned to 
delivery of Group strategy and 
shareholders’ long-term interests 
•  Executive Director salaries and benefits increased in line with Policy at the start of 2015 and 
consistent with wider employee workforce
•  Executive Director incentive awards and annual bonus made in line with Policy during 2015 
•  2014 bonus targets disclosed in Remuneration Report
•  Clawback provisions introduced for all long-term incentives and annual bonus plan
•  Five year holding periods introduced for LTIP awards for Executive Directors 
•  2014 Remuneration Report compliant with regulations and received over 98% support on the 
advisory resolution at the 2015 AGM
Introduce clawback in addition to 
malus for the operation of the Group’s 
long-term incentives and annual  
bonus plan
•  Clawback provisions drafted and operated on the same basis as malus provisions
•  Following approval, clawback provisions introduced for all long-term incentives and annual bonus  
plan for awards made from 2015 onwards
Introduce a five year holding period  
for the operation of the LTIP for 
Executive Directors
•  Five year holding period introduced for the LTIP awards made in 2015 to Executive Directors
•  Five year period includes the three year performance period and associated dividend shares must 
also be held
Ensure best practice Annual 
Remuneration Report, that approved 
by shareholders at the 2015 AGM 
and continued engagement with 
shareholders on remuneration matters
•  Agreed on the drafting of the revised Remuneration Report to be disclosed in the 2014 Annual 
Report; to include a Chairman’s Statement, a policy report and an implementation report 
•  Additional disclosures included five year holdings periods for LTIP awards, retrospective bonus target 
disclosures and clawback provisions
•  2014 Remuneration Report compliant with regulations and received over 98% support on the 
advisory resolution at the 2015 AGM
Introduce a detailed and transparent 
disclosure of retrospective bonus 
targets for 2014 in relation to 
Executive Directors 
•  Disclosed retrospective bonus targets in the 2014 Remuneration Report covering achievement 
against financial targets and personal objectives
•  2014 Remuneration Report compliant with regulations and received over 98% support on the 
advisory resolution at the 2015 AGM
Review policy around performance 
conditions for long-term incentives 
for participants below the Operations 
Executive
•  Policy reviewed and performance conditions on the same basis as awards made to Executive 
Directors deemed appropriate for awards made in 2015
Continue to monitor performance  
of Remuneration Committee advisor 
in supporting the Remuneration 
Committee
•  Advisor provided drafting guidance on the Remuneration Report in compliance with regulations
•  Advisor provided detailed benchmark data and analysis to support pay rises and the amendments  
to the LTIP and DBP for Executive Directors and senior executives
The Remuneration Committee set itself several objectives for 2015, the detail and progress against which is detailed below:
The Remuneration Committee has set itself objectives for 2016 and will report on progress against these in the 2016 Annual Report.
Accountability
Internal control and risk management 
The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit  
Committee for oversight of the Group’s system of internal 
controls to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the 
Company’s assets. As part of its responsibility, the Audit 
Committee formally reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal controls twice a year. There are systems and 
procedures in place for internal controls that are designed  
to provide reasonable control over the activities of the Group 
and to enable the Board and Audit Committee to fulfil their 
legal responsibility for the keeping of proper accounting 
records, safeguarding the assets of the Group and detecting 
fraud and other irregularities. The approach taken is designed 
to provide reasonable assurance against material misstatement 
or loss, although it is recognised that as with any successful 
company, business and commercial risks must be taken and 
enterprise, initiative and the motivation of employees must not 
be unduly stifled. It is not our intention to avoid all commercial 
risks and commercial judgements in the course of the 
management of the business.
The Board has adopted a risk-based approach to establishing 
the system of internal controls. The application and process 
followed by the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the 
system of internal controls during the year were as follows:
Corporate Governance 50 The Vitec Group plc
Corporate Governance
• Each business unit is charged with the ongoing responsibility 
for identifying the risks it faces and for putting in place 
procedures to monitor and manage those risks. 
• This system has been in place for the year under review and 
up to the date of approval of the Annual Report. 
• The responsibilities of senior management at each business 
unit to manage risks within their businesses are periodically 
reinforced by the Operations Executive. 
• Major strategic, operational, financial, regulatory, compliance 
and reputational risks are formally assessed during the annual 
long-term business planning process around mid-year. These 
plans and the attendant risks to the Group are reviewed and 
considered by the Board. 
• Large financial capital projects, property leases, product 
development projects and all acquisitions and disposals 
require advance Board approval. 
• The process by which the Board reviews the effectiveness  
of internal controls has been agreed by the Board and is 
documented. This involves regular reviews by the Board of the 
major business risks of the Group, together with the controls 
in place to manage those risks. In addition, every business unit 
conducts a self-assessment of its internal controls. Every year, 
the results of these assessments are reviewed by the Group 
Risk Assurance Manager who provides a report to the Group 
Finance Director and the Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
The Board is made aware of any significant matters arising 
from the self-assessments. The risk and control identification 
and certification process is monitored and periodically 
reviewed by Group financial management. 
• A centralised database of risks facing the Group, as well as 
each individual business, and an evaluation of the impact and 
likelihood of those risks is maintained and updated regularly  
by the Group Risk Assurance Manager. The Group’s principal 
risks and uncertainties and mitigation for them are set out  
on pages 18 and 19 of this Annual Report.
• The Board has established a control framework within which 
the Group operates. This contains the following key elements: 
 -  an organisational structure with clearly defined lines 
of responsibility, delegation of authority and reporting 
requirements; 
 - defined expenditure authorisation levels; 
 -  an operational review process covering all aspects of each 
business conducted by Group executive management on  
a regular basis throughout the year; 
 -  a strategic planning process identifying key actions and 
initiatives to deliver the Group’s long-term strategy; and
 -  a comprehensive system of financial reporting including 
weekly flash reports, monthly reporting, quarterly forecasting 
and an annual budget process. The Board approves the 
overall Group budget, forecasts and strategic plans. Monthly 
actual results are reported against prior year, budget and 
latest forecasts and are circulated to the Board. These 
forecasts are revised where necessary but formally at least 
once every quarter. Any significant changes and adverse 
variances are reviewed by the Group Chief Executive 
and Operations Executive and remedial action is taken 
where appropriate. Group tax and treasury functions are 
coordinated centrally. There is regular cash and treasury 
reporting to Group financial management and monthly 
reporting to the Board on the Group’s tax and  
treasury position. 
The Group’s internal audit function, led by the Group Risk 
Assurance Manager, conducted a number of internal audits  
and additional assurance reviews during 2015, the details  
of which were presented to the Audit Committee. The audits 
included reviews of the appropriateness and effectiveness  
of controls within the Group including, but not limited to: 
purchasing and payments, sales and cash collection, inventory 
management, accounting and reporting, and IT processes.  
An internal audit plan for 2016 has been prepared and agreed 
with the Audit Committee.
The Board considers that it has fully complied with the  
Code during the year and up to the date of approval of the  
2015 Annual Report and that it accords with the publication by 
the Financial Reporting Council on Internal Control: Guidance  
to Directors in respect of internal controls. The Board and  
Audit Committee have reviewed the new FRC Guidance on  
Risk Management, Internal Control and related Financial  
and Business Reporting, as issued in 2014 and which has 
replaced the previous guidance, and have reported against the 
recommendations in the new guidance in this Annual Report. 
Relations with shareholders
Maintaining regular contact with our shareholders remains  
an important part of our activities. During 2015, we continued 
our practice of the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance 
Director offering to hold a face to face meeting with each of our 
major shareholders tied into the publication of our full year and 
half year results. I have also met with several major shareholders 
in 2015 to discuss the Group’s strategy, governance and 
remuneration matters. In April 2015 we held a Capital Markets 
Day for our major shareholders showcasing our key brands 
and strategy including allocating resources to the fast growing 
Independent Content Creator market and content sharing 
opportunities; increasing resources, brand presence and sales 
in APAC; and continuing to make strategic acquisitions. We 
aim to ensure that our business, strategy, governance and 
remuneration policies are clearly understood and that any 
concerns are addressed through constructive engagement. 
Establishing and maintaining reliable lines of communication  
is fundamental to good corporate governance. 
I was pleased to meet some of our shareholders at the  
2015 AGM and look forward to meeting shareholders again  
at the 2016 AGM. This offers an opportunity for you to meet 
with our Directors and to hear more about the Group’s strategy. 
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and to ask 
questions about the business. I confirm that all Board members 
are scheduled to attend the forthcoming AGM, including each 
of the Committee Chairmen. Details of the AGM are included in 
the Notice of Meeting that accompanies this Annual Report and  51 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
which is available on our website. Should the Company hold 
a general meeting during the year, all shareholders would be 
provided with details in advance and all Directors would attend 
unless prevented by a time conflict.
For the 2016 AGM we will continue with the practice of conducting 
voting on resolutions by way of a poll. This reflects best practice 
in terms of meeting administration and ensures that all the views 
of shareholders who submit proxy forms are taken into account in 
terms of the actual voting at the general meeting. The necessary 
procedures for a poll will be complied with in accordance with the 
Company’s Articles. The outcome of the voting at the AGM will be 
announced by way of a Stock Exchange announcement and full 
details will be published on the Company’s website shortly after 
the AGM. At the 2015 AGM over 72% of our shares were voted by 
way of proxies submitted. Separate resolutions are proposed for 
each substantive issue upon which shareholders are asked to vote. 
Shareholders attending the AGM will still have the opportunity to ask 
questions at the meeting. In the event that a resolution is opposed 
by a significant proportion of shareholders, the Company will 
endeavour to explain, as soon as practically possible following the 
meeting, the actions it intends to take to understand the detail and 
how best to address the concern being raised. The Board considers 
that a vote in excess of 20% of shareholders to be significant.
We publish an Annual Report each year usually in March following 
the end of the financial year on 31 December. To allow shareholders 
to review the Annual Report in advance of the AGM and create an 
informed view of the Group, we comply with the requirement set out 
in the Code in respect of shareholder meetings to send the Notice 
of Meeting and related papers at least 20 working days before the 
meeting and we will continue to comply with this requirement.
The Board communicates with its shareholders via a combination 
of public announcements through the London Stock Exchange, 
analyst briefings, roadshows and press interviews at the time of 
the announcements of the half year and full year results and, when 
appropriate, at other times in the year. The Executive Directors, 
Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and I also meet with investors from time to time   
to discuss relevant matters. 
Regular updates from the Executive Directors at Board meetings 
keep the Board advised of the views of major shareholders.  
We also receive monthly reports on market and investor sentiment 
along with a full shareholder analysis.
Copies of public announcements and financial results are published 
on the Company’s website, along with a number of other investor 
relations tools, including information on how to invest in the 
Company’s shares, a dividend chart, share prices and presentation 
materials used for shareholder presentations. 
We will continue to evolve our investor relations arrangements  
to ensure that our shareholders and stakeholders remain  
informed on the Company’s strategy and ongoing financial   
and business performance.
John McDonough CBE
Chairman
22 February 2016
Board Audit Remuneration Nominations
Scheduled Short 
notice
Scheduled Short 
notice
Scheduled Short 
notice
Scheduled Short 
notice
Number of meetings 6 1 4 - 3 - 3 1 
Directors
John McDonough 6 1 - - - - 3 1
Carolyn Fairbairn (until 31 October 2015) 5/5 1 3/3 - 2/2 - 2/2 1
Christopher Humphrey 6 1 4 - 3 - 3 1
Nigel Moore (until 12 May 2015) 2/2 1 1/1 - 1/1 - 1/1 -
Lorraine Rienecker 6 1 4 - 3 - 3 1
Mark Rollins 6 1 4 - 3 - 3 1
Caroline Thomson (from 1 November 2015) 1/1 - 1/1 - 1/1 - 1/1 -
Stephen Bird 6 1 - - - - 3 1
Paul Hayes 6 1 - - - - - -
Directors’ Attendance table for 2015
Corporate Governance 52 The Vitec Group plc
The Audit Committee is responsible for 
ensuring the financial integrity of the 
Group is effective, through the regular 
review of its financial performance. It is 
also responsible for ensuring that the 
Group has appropriate risk management 
processes and internal controls, and  
that audit processes are robust. I will 
explain in more detail the Committee’s 
activities in my report. 
The Audit Committee at the date of this report comprises four 
Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are considered 
independent. During 2015 the members were:
The Audit Committee provides effective governance over external 
financial reporting, risk management and internal controls and 
reports its findings and recommendations to the Board. In my 
capacity as Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to 
report on the operations of the Committee during the past year,  
with emphasis on the specific matters we have considered, 
including compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(“the Code”) and associated Guidance on Audit Committees.  
I confirm that we have fully complied with the requirements of the 
Code as issued in September 2014 and which applies to financial 
years beginning on or after 1 October 2014. 
I was appointed Chairman of the Committee on 12 May 2015, 
succeeding Nigel Moore who stood down from the Board at the 
close of the 2015 AGM. I would like to thank Nigel for his work  
as Audit Committee Chairman since 2004 and also for his time  
in handing over this responsibility to me. The Board believes I have 
the necessary recent and relevant financial experience as required 
by the Code as I am a Chartered Management Accountant  
and a Fellow of CIMA, and have most recently held the role of  
Chief Executive Officer and previously Group Finance Director of 
Anite plc, a UK listed company. In my earlier career I held senior 
positions in finance at Conoco, Eurotherm International plc and 
Critchley Group plc. I have maintained an up to date understanding 
of financial and corporate governance best practice by attending 
many training sessions and updates presented by the major 
accounting firms. The Board also considers that the other members 
of the Committee have a broad range of appropriate skills and 
experiences covering financial, commercial and operational matters 
and their biographies are summarised on pages 38 and 39.
My induction process involved me shadowing Nigel for six months 
prior to his departure and I was closely involved with the full and  
half year reporting processes relating to 2014. I have since met  
with key internal employees and representatives of KMPG to learn 
more about the workings of the Group’s financial reporting and audit 
process. During the year I chaired three meetings of the Audit 
Committee. The Board’s evaluation of the Audit Committee and  
the handover between Nigel and myself confirmed that it had been 
a seamless transition. I have put in place a process whereby I meet 
individually with the Group Risk Assurance Manager twice a year, 
and on an ad-hoc basis as necessary, to discuss the findings of  
his work and to maintain an open line of communication.
The Committee has four scheduled meetings a year and I work 
closely with the Group Finance Director, Group Risk Assurance 
Manager and Deputy Company Secretary to ensure the Committee 
is provided with the necessary information it requires to discharge 
its duties. We operate with a rolling agenda programme, taking  
into account our terms of reference (which can be found on the 
Company’s website), the Group’s annual reporting requirements and 
any other matters which arise on an ad-hoc basis. The Committee 
sets aside appropriate time for the review of financial reporting and 
the risk assurance process to ensure they both receive robust 
consideration and challenge. Full details of the work we completed 
during 2015 is set out in the table on pages 54 and 55.
Chairman Members
Christopher 
Humphrey 
(from 12 May 2015)
Nigel Moore 
(until 12 May 2015)
Current Committee 
members are in bold
Lorraine Rienecker 
Mark Rollins
Caroline Thomson (from 1 November 2015)
Carolyn Fairbairn (until 31 October 2015)
Christopher Humphrey (until 12 May 2015)
Corporate Governance
Report from Christopher Humphrey, 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Corporate Governance online 
www.vitecgroup.com/corporate_governance 53 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
During the year we formally assessed the effectiveness of  
the external auditor, KPMG. We received a written report from 
the Group Risk Assurance Manager which summarised the 
results of interviews held with key finance employees who had  
interaction with KPMG during the 2014 and 2015 external audits. 
Questions covered areas such as: leadership and team structure; 
planning, approach and scope; execution and processes; risks; 
communication; independence and objectivity; adding value; and 
cost effectiveness. The results were shared with KPMG and have 
allowed the Audit Committee to conclude that the KPMG audit 
process is robust and effective, and in accordance with  
auditing standards. 
We also took into account publications made by the Financial 
Reporting Council, including the Audit Quality Practice Aid for 
Audit Committees as published in May 2015. These provided  
the Committee with comfort that an external and independent 
review of the quality of KPMG’s overall audit work had taken place. 
As a result, we recommend the reappointment of KPMG as 
auditor of the Company at the 2016 AGM for the forthcoming 
year. A separate resolution for the approval of the auditor’s 
remuneration will be put to shareholders at the 2016 AGM. 
As already explained by the Chairman, the Board takes 
responsibility for determining that the Annual Report, taken as  
a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
performance, business model and strategy. At the request of the 
Board, the Audit Committee has concentrated its review of the  
full year results on the financial statements only and the process 
which has underpinned the drafting of the Viability Statement. 
Following a review of the process around the annual audit as 
described above, the content of the financial statements and the 
process underpinning the Viability Statement, the Audit Committee 
recommended to the Board at its meeting on 16 February 2016 
the adoption of the financial statements as at 31 December 2015 
and that they provide a true and fair view of the financial 
performance of the Group.
Significant issues
The Committee considered several significant accounting  
issues, matters and judgements in relation to the Group’s financial 
statements and disclosures for the year ended 31 December 
2015. As part of the half year and full year reporting process, 
management present an accounting paper to the Committee,  
and the external auditor is asked to also comment on the  
key significant areas of accounting judgement and disclosure.  
The information presented is used by the Committee to critically 
review and assess the key policies and judgements that have 
been applied, the consistency of policy application from year to 
year and the appropriateness of key disclosures made, together 
with compliance with the applicable accounting standards.  
The significant issues arising and a description of how each  
was addressed is shown in the following table.
Significant issue How it was addressed
Working capital 
management
The Committee critically reviewed the carrying 
value of the Group’s working capital. This took 
into account management’s assessment of 
the appropriate level of provisioning including 
collectability of receivables and inventory 
obsolescence. Management presented to 
the Committee the experience of bad debts 
during the year, and the debtor concentration 
and days outstanding. With regard to 
inventory the gross levels held by inventory 
type, the provisions recorded against 
obsolescence, and inventory days analysis 
were also presented to the Committee. In 
addition, the external auditor presented their 
findings with regard to the key audit testing 
over working capital covering all the major 
locations. The Committee concurred with 
management’s assessment of the Group’s 
working capital position.
Provisions and 
other liabilities
The Committee considered the judgemental 
issues relating to the level of provisions and 
other liabilities. The more significant items 
include post-employment and taxation.  
For each area management presented to the 
Committee the key underlying assumptions 
and key judgements and, where relevant, 
the range of possible outcomes. The 
external auditor also presented on each of 
these areas and their assessment of these 
judgements. The Committee has used this 
information to review the position adopted in 
terms of the amounts charged and recorded 
as provisions, acknowledging the level of 
subjectivity that needs to be applied.
Restructuring 
costs and 
provisions
The Committee considered the presentation 
and accounting for the costs that arose in 
connection with the various restructuring 
activities that were announced during the 
year. Management presented an analysis 
of the types of costs incurred, the nature of 
the provisions held at the year end and the 
proposed presentation and disclosures. The 
external auditor reported on the findings from 
the audit work performed and commented 
on the accounting requirement with regard to 
recognising restructuring provisions at the year 
end. The Committee reviewed the analysis 
with consideration to how other similar 
companies present and disclose restructuring 
activities and concurred with the disclosures 
and presentations proposed.
Corporate Governance 54 The Vitec Group plc
Corporate Governance
2015 Audit Committee Objectives Progress during 2015
Ensure successful handover to 
new Audit Committee Chairman
•  Christopher Humphrey shadowed Nigel Moore for six months prior to his appointment, including 
attending relevant meetings
•  Met with key internal employees and representatives of KMPG to learn more about the workings of the 
Group’s financial reporting and audit process
• Christopher Humphrey chaired three Audit Committee meetings in 2015
Receive updated governance 
materials and discuss any impact 
on the Committee’s operations
• Received information on third parties’ compliance with the Group’s Code of Conduct 
•  Received updates during the year on: the Group’s tax strategy; FRC’s Guidance on Risk Management, 
Internal Control and related Financial and Business Reporting; and publications from KPMG’s Audit 
Committee Institute
•  Requirements of updated UK Corporate Governance Code applying for accounting periods beginning 
on or after 1 October 2014, including the publication of a Viability Statement
Ensure continued 
appropriateness of the Group’s 
Risk Management processes and 
that internal audit actions are 
aligned with critical business risks
•  Reviewed the approach taken to internal audit and risk assurance and provided support to  
the processes
• Reviewed and approved the Principal Risks to be disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report
• Reviewed regular Risk Assurance Reports from the Group Risk Assurance Manager
I invite the audit partner from the Company’ s external auditor, KPMG, 
to attend meetings of the Committee on a regular basis and during 
2015 they attended three of the four scheduled meetings, either in 
whole or for part of the meeting. The Chairman, Group Chief 
Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Risk Assurance Manager, 
Group Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary attend 
meetings by invitation and other members of the senior management 
team attend as required. At two of the meetings the Executive 
Directors and senior management were not present for part of the 
meeting so that members of the Committee could meet with the 
external auditor in private. The Committee will continue with the 
practice of meeting in private with the external auditor in the future.
KPMG has acted as the Company’ s external auditor since  
19 July 1995 and we comply with the requirement to rotate the audit 
partner every five years. We reviewed the external audit arrangements 
in 2010 and as a result Robert Brent of KPMG was appointed and 
has been the audit partner since the audit of the 2011 results. As his 
term of appointment is due to end following the approval of the 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015, we 
began a process during 2015 to identify a replacement audit partner. 
The Group Finance Director met with a number of candidates from 
KPMG and shortlisted two candidates with whom I also met. We 
then made a recommendation to the Audit Committee and Board on 
our preferred candidate. Adrian Wilcox will take over from Robert 
Brent as Audit Partner during 2016 and is expected to have a five 
year tenure. Adrian has shadowed Robert through the 2015 year end 
process and both will be in attendance at the 2016 AGM should 
shareholders wish to meet them. In accordance with the new Code, 
and acknowledging the Competition and Markets Authority’ s 
proposal that companies must put their statutory audit engagement 
out to tender at least every ten years, we expect to tender the audit 
process in 2020, to coincide with the rotation off the audit of Adrian 
Wilcox, or earlier if KPMG’ s performance falls short of the Audit 
Committee’ s expectations. In all events, we note that under recently 
published EU requirement on auditor rotation, we will be required to 
replace KPMG LLP as our external auditor by 2023 at the latest. 
We have a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit 
services that has been in place for a number of years and which is 
reviewed annually. The use of the external auditor is determined by 
their demonstrable competence, knowledge of the Group, and 
competitive pricing, and monetary thresholds for the approval of 
non-audit work by KPMG have been set by the Committee. The policy 
ensures that the non-audit work provided by KPMG does not impair 
their independence or objectivity and is divided into three parts:
•  Work where use of the external auditor is deemed appropriate: This 
type of work includes accounting advice in relation to acquisitions 
and divestments, corporate governance and risk management 
advice, defined audit related work and regulatory reporting. 
•  Work requiring Audit Committee clearance: This type of work 
includes services as reporting accountants, compliance services 
(including fraud and money laundering), transaction work (mergers, 
acquisitions and divestments), valuation and actuarial services, 
fairness opinions and contribution reports. 
•  Work from which the external auditor is excluded: This includes 
internal accounting or other internal financial services, design 
development or implementation of financial information or internal 
controls systems, internal audit services or their outsourcing, 
forensic accounting services, executive or management roles  
and functions, IT consultancy, litigation support services and other 
financial services such as broker, financial adviser or investment 
banking services.
I confirm that during 2015 the policy has been followed without 
exception and that no changes to the scope of the policy have been 
made. A report on the level of non-audit work provided by KPMG is 
given to the Committee half-yearly and the Committee is satisfied that 
the advice they received from KPMG (including Makinson Cowell) has 
been objective and independent. During 2015, £0.1 million was paid 
to KPMG in respect of non-audit work compared to an audit fee of 
£0.5 million. This non-audit work comprised primarily investor 
relations advice. 
Our performance as a Committee was assessed through the internal 
Board performance evaluation, information on which has been 
provided earlier in the Governance Report. The Audit Committee was 
deemed to be working effectively and a number of suggestions for 
areas to focus on have been incorporated in our 2016 objectives. 
To ensure that we continue to be an effective Committee, we set  
and measure our performance against specific objectives every year. 
These objectives vary annually and the details of our objectives for 
2015 and the progress made is summarised below. I am pleased  
to confirm that we successfully achieved all of these objectives. 
Progress on achievement against our 2016 objectives will be 
reported in next year’ s Annual Report. Annual Report & Accounts 2015 55
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
August
• Half year results for 30 June 2015, 
including reviews of:
 - Accounting issues report
 - Report from the external auditor 
 - Half year results for the half year  
ended 30 June 2015
 - Fees for non-audit services and 
professional fees
 - Principal risks and uncertainties
• Recommendations to the Board on: 
 - The half year results
 - Management’s representation letter  
to external auditor
December
• Considered the outcome of 2015 
objectives and agreed 2016 objectives
• Agreed the process by which the 
effectiveness of the external auditor would 
be assessed for the 2015 Annual Report 
• Received an update on the actions arising 
from the Risk Management Strategy 
discussion in July 2015
• Reviewed the process around the drafting 
and approval of the Viability Statement
• Received an update on the rotation of the 
KPMG Audit Partner
Christopher Humphrey
Chairman, Audit Committee
22 February 2016
Audit Committee activities during 2015
During 2015 the Audit Committee had four 
scheduled meetings. At each scheduled 
meeting the Committee considers the 
following matters:
•  Directors’ duties and any new conflicts  
of interest
• Reviews minutes of previous meetings
• Reviews actions from previous meetings
•  Reviews progress against current year 
objectives
•  Reviews Risk Assurance Report covering 
risk, assurance, internal audit and internal 
controls
•  Reviews progress against current year 
objectives
•  Reviews whistleblowing reports and action 
plans to resolve matters reported
The following specific business was dealt 
with at each meeting held in 2015:
February (continued)
• Recommendations to the Board on: 
 - The consolidated financial statements
 - The reappointment of and fees for  
the external auditor
 - Independence and objectivity of the 
external auditor
 - Management’s representation letter  
to external auditor
• Reviewed results of enhanced controls 
self-assessment process
• Reviewed 2015 internal audit plan
• Reviewed progress against 
recommendations made during site risk 
surveys that had been conducted at each 
of the Group’s main manufacturing sites
• Private meeting between the Committee 
and external auditor without executive 
management present
July
•  Reviewed third party agreements to  
the Code of Conduct
• Reviewed detailed paper on Risk 
Management Strategy to support the 
recommendations made by the FRC 
on risk, including risk management 
framework, risk appetite and the long term 
viability statement
• Reviewed external audit strategy paper  
for the year ended 31 December 2015
• Received a presentation on the Group’s 
tax strategy
• Discussed plans for the tender of the  
audit engagement
February
• Annual results for 31 December 2014, 
including reviews of:
 - Accounting issues report
 - Full year report from the external auditor 
including Auditor’s Report to be included 
in the 2014 Annual Report 
 - Consolidated financial statements for  
the year ended 31 December 2014
 - Principal risks and uncertainties
 - Report on internal controls
 - Separate report on the work of the  
Audit Committee
 - Performance, effectiveness and 
independence of the external auditor
 - Fees for non-audit services and 
professional fees
2015 Audit Committee Objectives 
(continued)
Progress during 2015
Ensure accounting policies and 
risk profile reflects changing 
nature and risk profile of  
business
•  Reviewed a Risk Management Strategy paper and received updates on agreed actions to ensure compliance 
with best practice as issued by the FRC’s Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related 
Financial and Business Reporting
•  Reviewed regular Risk Assurance Reports from the Group Risk Assurance Manager, including an updated  
Risk Assurance Map
•  Reviewed and approved updates to the Group’s inventory provisioning policy to ensure it appropriately 
addressed the higher technical content and anticipated life-cycles of the Group’s products
Ensure the Group’s tax strategy  
is fit for purpose
•  Received a presentation on the Group’s tax strategy including objectives, current position, risks and  
future projects
Plan the strategy around the 
tender of the external audit
• Noted that the Group’s mandatory audit rotation will need to be in place no later than 2023
•  Noted that KPMG’s next five year audit partner rotation would end with the 31 December 2020 year end
•  Agreed to start the tender process in advance of the end of the next five year audit partner rotation date, 
or earlier if deemed appropriate
Corporate Governance 56 The Vitec Group plc
Section 1: 
Annual Statement by Caroline 
Thomson, Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
Dear Shareholder
This is my first annual statement on remuneration since  
I was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee  
on 1 November 2015, succeeding Carolyn Fairbairn in that role.  
On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank Carolyn for her 
work as Remuneration Committee Chairman and I wish her well 
in her new role as Director-General of the CBI. Since joining the 
Board I have undertaken a thorough induction, meeting the 
Committee’s remuneration advisor, other external advisors and 
senior management. Along with the Chairman, I will be meeting 
the Company’s shareholders over the coming months and also 
look forward to the opportunity to meet with as many as 
possible at the forthcoming 2016 AGM.
The Remuneration Report is split into three sections.
•  Firstly, my annual statement summarising the work of the 
Remuneration Committee in 2015.
•  Secondly, a summary of the Remuneration Policy Report that 
was approved by over 96% of shareholders who voted at the 
8 May 2014 AGM and that sets out the Company’s policy on 
Directors’ remuneration. The approved policy governs the 
remit for Directors’ remuneration for the period from the  
2014 AGM up until the 2017 AGM. This summary is to aid 
shareholders and readers of the 2015 Annual Report in 
understanding the main principles of our Remuneration Policy. 
The Remuneration Policy Report is available in full on the 
Company’s website and in the 2013 Annual Report. The 
Remuneration Policy Report will be put to shareholders  
for approval again at the 2017 AGM.
•  Thirdly, the Annual Report on Remuneration sets out the 
remuneration paid to Directors in 2015 as well as details  
of how the Committee intends to implement our remuneration 
policy for 2016. Shareholders have the opportunity for an 
advisory vote on the Annual Report on Remuneration at  
the 2016 AGM.
2015 performance
Vitec’s full year results reflect the non-repeat of the 2014  
Sochi Winter Olympics and FIFA World Cup, and an anticipated 
negative impact from foreign exchange. There was growth in 
revenue and operating profit* over the prior period excluding 
these items. The results also reflect the benefit from acquisitions, 
new product launches and the disposal of the IMT business  
in 2014. Against the background of uncertain market conditions, 
the Group is making good progress in streamlining certain 
activities with lower growth prospects with some further  
actions being taken in 2016 to drive profitable growth.
Committee activities in 2015 and priorities for 2016
The Remuneration Committee in 2015 focused on the  
following matters:
•  The Committee approved Executive Directors’ salary  
increases with effect from 1 January 2016 of 2.5%, reflecting 
pay increases within the Group’s workforce and current market 
conditions. Fees paid to Non-Executive Directors have also 
been increased by the same level. The Chairman’s fee which 
has been in place since his appointment in 2012 was 
increased with effect from 1 July 2015 from £140,000 to 
£147,000 and with effect from 1 January 2016 to £150,000. 
This increase recognises the time commitment, complexity 
and market rates for such a role.
•  Bonus payments for 2015 were 20% respectively of the 
maximum potential award for the Group Chief Executive and 
Group Finance Director. The 2015 Annual Bonus Plan did not 
pay out against the profit or operating cash
#
 performance 
measures and this bonus payout is based solely on an 
assessment against personal objectives for 2015. Each 
Executive Director is required to defer half of their earned 
bonus into the Deferred Bonus Plan (“DBP”) for three years 
ensuring focus on long-term growth. 
•  Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) awards made in 2013  
to Executive Directors did not achieve their performance 
conditions based upon Total Shareholder Return and adjusted 
basic earnings per share* growth and therefore will lapse on 
Remuneration Report
Remuneration Report online 
www.vitecgroup.com/remuneration
*  Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses. Profit before tax and adjusted basic earnings per share are also before disposal of business.
#
 Cash generated from operating activities in the financial year after net capital expenditure, before restructuring costs paid. 57 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
their third anniversary in April 2016. The Committee made 
LTIP awards to Executive Directors and senior managers in 
March 2015 with performance conditions based on Total 
Shareholder Return and earnings per share growth. From 
2015, share awards made to Executive Directors under the 
LTIP have been subject to a further two year holding period 
following a three year performance period. 
•  The 2015 AGM approved the Company’s 2014 Annual 
Report on Remuneration with over 98% of shareholders 
voting in favour of the Report which was in accordance  
with the Remuneration Policy Report approved by 
shareholders in 2014. 
•  The Remuneration Committee approved the structure  
of the 2016 Annual Bonus Plan to ensure that it motivates 
Executive Directors to deliver against challenging targets for 
2016. Its structure is the same combination of both financial 
targets (Group profit before tax* and operating cash flow
#
 
generation) and personal objectives as was used in 2015. 
The Committee considers this split of performance measures 
will drive performance and behaviour in the right way and  
is aligned with the strategic objectives for the Company.
•  Malus and clawback provisions were introduced in 2015 for 
the Annual Bonus Plan and Long-Term share incentives.
During 2016, I will lead the Committee in the process of 
reviewing the existing Remuneration Policy with the objective 
to submit a new Policy to shareholders for approval at the 
2017 AGM. 
Annual General Meeting  
The Annual Remuneration Report will be put to the Company’s 
shareholders for an advisory vote at the AGM to be held on 
Wednesday, 18 May 2016 and I look forward to the 
opportunity to meet shareholders then.
Caroline Thomson
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
22 February 2016
Remuneration Report 58 The Vitec Group plc
Section 2: 
Summary of Remuneration Policy Report
Policy report 
The following is a summary of the Policy Report that covers remuneration for Directors of the Company for a three year period from 
the Company’s AGM on 8 May 2014 until the 2017 AGM. The full Policy Report, as approved by shareholders, is available on the 
Company’s website and is in the 2013 Annual Report. Should there be a need to change the Company’s remuneration policy ahead 
of the 2017 AGM, shareholders will be asked to approve a revised policy.
This Report contains further information required under the Listing Rules and the latest version of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code as published in September 2014.
Remuneration Report
Purpose and 
link to strategy
Operation Maximum opportunity Performance 
measures
Base salary Base salary is 
set at a level 
to secure 
the services 
of talented 
Executive 
Directors with 
the ability to 
develop and 
deliver a growth 
strategy.
Fixed contractual cash amount usually paid 
monthly in arrears.
Normally reviewed annually, with any increases 
taking effect from 1 January each year, although 
the Committee may award increases at other 
times of the year if it considers it appropriate.
This review is dependent on continued satisfactory 
performance in the role of an Executive Director.  
It also includes a number of other factors, 
including experience, development and delivery  
of Group strategy and Group profitability, as well 
as external market conditions and pay awards 
across the Company.
While the Committee has not set 
a maximum level of salary, the 
Committee will usually award salary 
increases in line with average 
increases awarded across the Group. 
Larger increases may, in certain 
circumstances, be awarded where the 
Committee considers that there is a 
genuine commercial reason to do so, 
for example:
•  where there is a significant increase 
in the Executive Director’s role and 
duties;
•  where an Executive Director 
falls significantly below market 
positioning; 
•  where there is significant change 
in the profitability of the Company 
or material change in market 
conditions; and
•  where an Executive Director was 
recruited on a lower than market 
salary and is being transitioned to  
a more market standard package  
as he or she gains experience.
Not 
applicable.
Benefits To provide 
Executive 
Directors with 
ancillary benefits 
to assist them 
in carrying out 
their duties 
effectively.
Executive Directors are entitled to a range of 
benefits including car allowance, private health 
insurance and life assurance. 
Other ancillary benefits may also be provided 
where relevant, such as expatriate travel or 
accommodation allowances.
Executive Directors are entitled to participate 
on the same terms as all UK employees in the 
Sharesave Plan or any other relevant all-employee 
share plan.
There is no maximum level of benefits 
set, given that the cost of certain 
benefits will depend on the individual’s 
particular circumstances. However, 
benefits are set at an amount which 
the Committee considers to be 
appropriate, based on individual 
circumstances and local market 
practice. 
Executive Directors’ participation in 
the UK all-employee Sharesave Plan 
is capped at the individual entitlement 
levels set by the UK Government from 
time to time or as prescribed by the 
rules of the relevant all-employee  
share plan.
Not 
applicable.
Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors  59 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Purpose and link to 
strategy
Operation Maximum 
opportunity
Performance measures
Annual 
bonus
To provide a 
material incentive 
to drive Executive 
Directors to deliver 
stretching strategic 
and financial 
performance and 
to grow long-
term sustainable 
shareholder value.
Half of the annual 
bonus is deferred 
into the DBP 
and focuses the 
Executive Director 
on long-term value 
delivery and growth.
Paid annually based on performance in the 
relevant financial year. The amount is determined 
based on published full year results after the  
year end.
Award levels and performance measures are 
reviewed annually. The Committee ensures that 
performance measures remain aligned to the 
Company’s business objectives and strategic 
priorities for the year.
Half of the annual bonus paid is deferred into 
core awards under the DBP for a period of three 
years on a mandatory basis unless the Committee 
determines an alternative deferral period is 
appropriate. Awards may be granted in the form 
of conditional awards, nil-cost options, forfeitable 
shares or similar rights and may be settled in 
cash. For DBP awards granted prior to the 2014 
AGM participants received a matching award over 
the same value of shares as are subject to the 
corresponding deferred bonus award, the vesting 
of which is subject to achievement of the same 
performance conditions as for the LTIP . Matching 
awards have not been made for awards granted 
after the 2014 AGM under the DBP .
The Committee retains full discretion to amend 
the bonus payout (upwards or downwards), if 
in its opinion any calculation of payout does not 
produce a fair result for either the individual or 
the Company, taking into account the overall 
business performance of the Company. Any such 
use of discretion will be clearly reported in the next 
published remuneration report.
Participants may also receive the value of any 
dividends which would have been paid on shares 
in respect of which the award vests, which may be 
calculated assuming reinvestment of the dividends 
in the Company’s shares on a cumulative basis.
In the event of any material misstatement of the 
Company’s financial results or serious reputational 
damage to the Company caused by a breach of 
the Company’s Code of Conduct or otherwise, 
the Committee may reduce or impose further 
conditions on awards. 
An absolute 
maximum 
of 125% of 
base salary 
to be paid in 
each year.
Measures and targets for the 
annual bonus are set annually by 
the Committee. 
Currently, around half of the 
annual bonus is based on the 
achievement of annual targets 
set against the Group’s profit 
before tax*, with the remainder 
based on the achievement of 
annual personal objectives  
and achievement of annual 
targets set against the  
Group’s operating cash flow
#
 
generated as a percentage  
of operating profit*.
The Committee reserves the 
right to annually vary these 
proportions and also the 
measures to ensure the annual 
bonus remains appropriate  
and challenging.
Targets are measured over a 
one year period. Payments 
range between 0% and 125% 
of base salary for threshold and 
maximum performance. 
Awards granted under the DBP 
after the 2014 AGM are not 
subject to any performance 
conditions. Details of the 
performance conditions 
applicable to matching awards 
granted prior to the 2014 AGM 
are described on page 66 of  
this report.
Remuneration Report 60 The Vitec Group plc
Purpose and link to 
strategy
Operation Maximum 
opportunity
Performance measures
Long Term 
Incentive 
Plan (“LTIP”)
To provide a long-
term performance 
and retention 
incentive for the 
Executive Directors 
involving the 
Company’s shares. 
To link long-term 
rewards to the 
creation of long-
term sustainable 
shareholder value by 
way of delivering on 
the Group’s agreed 
strategic objectives.
Under the LTIP , awards are made 
over a fixed number of shares, which 
will vest based on the achievement 
of performance conditions over a 
performance period of, unless the 
Committee determines otherwise,  
at least three years. The performance 
conditions are set by the Committee 
at the start of the performance 
period. Awards can take the form of a 
conditional award of shares, a nil-cost 
option or similar rights. 
Awards may be settled in cash. 
Participants may also receive the value 
of any dividends which would have been 
paid on shares in respect of which the 
award vests, which may be calculated 
assuming reinvestment of the dividends 
in the Company’s shares on  
a cumulative basis.
In the event of any material misstatement 
of the Company’s financial results or 
serious reputational damage to the 
Company caused by a breach of 
the Company’s Code of Conduct or 
otherwise the Committee may reduce  
or impose further conditions on awards. 
The maximum 
value of shares 
over which awards 
may be granted 
in respect of each 
year is 150% 
of base salary 
(although 200% 
is permitted 
in exceptional 
circumstances 
determined by the 
Committee). 
Awards to 
Executive Directors 
in 2016 will be at a 
level representing 
125% of base 
salary.
LTIP awards may be based on 
both financial and share price 
based performance conditions as 
determined from time to time by the 
Committee. It is currently the intention 
for awards granted to have 50% of 
the award subject to the Company’s 
Total Shareholder Return compared 
to a comparator group measured 
over a three year performance period 
and 50% of the award subject to 
targets set against growth (adjusted 
by the Committee as it considers 
appropriate) in the Company’s 
adjusted basic earnings per share* 
over the same performance period. 
However the Committee reserves  
the right to change the balance of the 
measures as it deems appropriate, 
such that no measure accounts for 
less than 25% of the total award. 
At threshold, 25% of the award will 
vest, increasing on a straight-line 
basis up to 100% for performance  
in line with maximum. The Committee 
also reserves the right to impose an 
underpin condition on awards such 
that any level of vesting in the opinion 
of the Committee is justified by the 
underlying performance of  
the Company.
Pension 
contribution
To provide a benefit 
comparable with 
market rates, helping 
with the recruitment 
and retention of 
talented Executive 
Directors able to 
deliver a long-term 
growth strategy.
Usually paid monthly in arrears.
Executive Directors may receive a 
contribution into the Company’s Defined 
Contribution Plan, a personal pension 
arrangement and/or a payment as a 
cash allowance.
20% of base 
salary.
Salary is the 
only pensionable 
element of 
Executive Director 
remuneration.
Not applicable.
Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors continued 
Notes to the summary of the remuneration policy table  
for Executive Directors
Under the Company’s share plans the Committee may: (1) in the event 
of any variation of the Company’s share capital, demerger, delisting, 
special dividend or other event which may affect the price of shares, 
adjust or amend awards in accordance with the terms of the plan; and 
(2) amend a performance condition if an event occurs which causes  
it to consider an amended condition would be more appropriate and  
not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Legacy plans
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments 
and payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in 
line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment 
were agreed: (1) before the policy came into effect; or (2) at a time 
when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, 
in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration 
for the individual becoming a Director of the Company. For these 
purposes payments include the Committee satisfying awards of variable 
remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the 
payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Performance measures
The annual bonus plan is based on both personal and financial 
measures. Typically, the majority of the bonus will be based on financial 
measures such as Group profit before tax*. The measures have been 
chosen to provide a balance between incentivising the delivery of the 
Group’s key financial priorities in any particular year and important 
individual strategic objectives. The Committee may vary the specific 
measures and targets year-on-year to ensure that they reflect the key 
financial and strategic priorities for the Company in any given year. 
The LTIP is currently based 50 per cent on Total Shareholder Return 
performance against a specific comparator group, and 50 per cent  
on absolute adjusted basic earnings per share* growth. The Committee 
considers these to be important measures of performance for the 
Company over the longer term. While Total Shareholder Return links  
a portion of the LTIP to the creation of value for shareholders, adjusted 
basic earnings per share* growth is a key performance indicator for  
the Group. Any changes to these measures will be aligned with the  
long-term strategy of the business.
Provisions for the withholding and recovery of sums from the  
Directors are as set out in the table above and on page 72.
Remuneration Report
Summary of Remuneration Policy Report continued 61 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Remuneration policy table for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
The table below sets out a description of the operation of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration for the period 
through to the 2017 AGM. Neither the Chairman nor the Non-Executive Directors participate in any annual bonus plan or the 
Company’s share plans:
Role Purpose Operation
Chairman To recruit and retain an independent 
Non-Executive Chairman reflecting the 
responsibilities and time commitment 
for the role. To lead an effective Board 
enabling the delivery on the Group’s 
growth strategy and creation of long-
term sustainable shareholder value.
While the Board has not set a maximum level of fee payable to the Chairman,  
the Board will review the level of fee paid usually on an annual basis and 
determine whether that is sufficient in terms of market conditions and also the 
time commitment for the role. 
The Chairman’s fee is an all inclusive consolidated amount. The Chairman’s fee is 
paid in cash usually on a monthly basis in arrears and not in shares.
Fees are benchmarked against other FTSE-listed companies of a similar size 
and complexity to Vitec. Any future increases will take into account the need to 
ensure that the fee remains competitive and reflects the time commitment for  
the role.
The Chairman’s remuneration also covers his chairmanship of the  
Nominations Committee. 
Non-
Executive 
Director
To recruit and retain independent 
Non-Executive Directors reflecting the 
responsibilities and time commitment 
for the role to contribute to an effective 
Board and to deliver on the Group’s 
growth strategy and creation of long-
term sustainable shareholder value.
Fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of the Company consist of the following:
• A base fee; 
• An additional fee for the role of the Senior Independent Director; and 
• An additional fee for chairing Board Committees.
Fees are usually reviewed annually and are benchmarked against other  
FTSE-listed companies of a similar size and complexity to Vitec and are typically 
increased in line with annual salary increases for the Executive Directors. All fees 
above are usually paid in cash and not in shares and are paid monthly in arrears.
Any future increases will take into account the need to ensure that the fee 
remains competitive and reflects the time commitment for the role. The Board 
has not imposed a maximum level of fee payable.
Benefits To reimburse Non-Executive Directors for 
reasonable expenses and bear any costs 
associated with tax, where relevant.
Expenses are reimbursed as and when incurred (including travel and hotel 
accommodation).
Remuneration Report 62 The Vitec Group plc
Policy on outside appointments
The Committee believes that it is beneficial both for the 
individual and the Company for an Executive Director to take  
up one external non-executive appointment. Remuneration 
received by an Executive Director in respect of such an external 
appointment would be retained by the Director. Stephen Bird is 
an independent Non-Executive Director of Dialight plc. In this 
role he receives a basic fee of £40,800 per annum and an 
additional £5,000 per annum in the role of Senior Independent 
Director. Under the terms of his service contract, Paul Hayes, 
with the agreement of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive, 
may take up one external non-executive appointment of a listed 
company. As of the date of this report he has not taken up any 
such external non-executive appointment.
Executive Directors’ service contracts 
The Executive Directors’ service contracts are as follows:
Details of the Committee’s approach and policy on payment  
for loss of office are given in full in the 2013 Remuneration  
Policy Report. 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have  
service contracts but serve under letters of appointment.  
The initial period of their appointments is three years but their 
appointments may, by mutual consent and with the approval  
of the Nominations Committee and the Board, be extended for  
a further three years. Appointments may be extended beyond  
six years by mutual consent and with the approval of the 
Nominations Committee and the Board, if it is in the interest  
of the Company to do so. Under the letters of appointment 
notice can be given by either party upon one month’s written 
notice. Apart from the disclosure under the Remuneration policy 
table for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors there are  
no further obligations which could give rise to a remuneration  
or loss of office payment under the letters of appointment.  
All the Non-Executive Directors and Chairman (as well as  
the Executive Directors) are subject to annual re-election  
by the shareholders at the AGM.
Copies of the Executive Directors’ service contracts, Chairman’s 
and each Non-Executive Director’s letters of appointment are 
available from the Group Company Secretary at the Company’s 
registered office during normal business hours at Bridge House, 
Heron Square, Richmond, TW9 1EN and are also available  
on the Company’s website www.vitecgroup.com.
Consideration of shareholder views
The Committee has continued to take into account the views  
of its shareholders concerning the policy on remuneration  
of Directors.
The Company received over 96% support for the 2013 
Remuneration Policy Report and over 98% support for the  
2014 Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2015 AGM 
indicating a strong level of support for the structure of  
Directors’ remuneration.
The Committee has further continued to engage with its  
major shareholders in 2015 on Directors’ remuneration.  
The Committee will be reviewing the Remuneration Policy 
Report in mid-2016 with the objective to submit it to 
shareholders for approval at the 2017 AGM. As part of this 
process, the Committee will take into account the views of  
its shareholders to ensure that the policy is aligned with their 
expectations, supports the delivery of strategic objectives  
and is aligned with best practice.
Remuneration Report
Summary of Remuneration Policy Report continued
Date of 
Contract
Notice period 
from the 
Company to 
the Executive
Notice period from 
the Executive to 
the Company
Stephen Bird, 
Group Chief 
Executive – 
appointed on 14 
April 2009 
28 January 
2009
12 months 6 months
Paul Hayes, Group 
Finance Director 
– appointed on 13 
June 2011
3 June 2011 12 months 6 months 63 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
       
  
 Base salary / fees 
 
Benefits  Pension  Annual bonus Long-term incentives Total 
                       
 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 
 £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £
Executive Directors                    
Stephen Bird 419,503 409,271 28,095 27,885 83,900 81,854 104,876 226,378 - - 636,374 745,388
Paul Hayes  288,391 281,357 23,099 22,630 57,678 56,271 72,098 160,022 - - 441,266 520,280
Non-Executive Directors                    
John McDonough 143,500 140,000 - - - - - - - - 143,500 140,000
Nigel Moore 
(left 12 May 2015) 21,184 57,000 - - - - - - - - 21,184 57,000
Carolyn Fairbairn 
(left 31 October 2015) 42,521 50,000 - - - - - - - - 42,521 50,000
Christopher Humphrey 48,374 41,000 - - - - - - - - 48,374 41,000
Lorraine Rienecker 42,025 41,000 - - - - - - - - 42,025 41,000
Mark Rollins 45,835 41,000 - - - - - - - - 45,835 41,000
Caroline Thomson  
(appointed 1 November 2015) 8,504 - - - - - - - - - 8,504 -
Total 1,059,837  1,060,628 51,194 50,515  141,578  138,125  176,974  386,400   - -  1,429,583 1,635,668
Section 3: 
Annual Report on Remuneration 
This Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory vote at the AGM to be held on Wednesday, 18 May 2016.
Directors’ single figure of total remuneration (audited) 
The following table sets out the single figure of total remuneration for Directors for the financial years ended 31 December 2015 
and 2014: 
Notes: 
1. Taxable benefits includes car allowance, healthcare cover and income protection.
2.  Each Executive Director receives a pension contribution of 20% of base salary into a pension arrangement of their choice 
(including the Company’s defined contribution scheme) or a cash allowance of 20% of base salary. Both Executive Directors 
currently take this contribution in the form of a cash payment.
3.  For the Annual Bonus 2015, both Stephen Bird and Paul Hayes’ bonus potential was 125% of base salary. Further details  
are set out in the “Further notes” section on the following page.
4.  Long Term Incentives comprise LTIP and matching awards under the DBP awards. Awards made in 2013 and 2012 did not 
achieve performance conditions based on Total Shareholder Return and growth in adjusted basic earnings per share* and 
therefore will lapse or have lapsed on the third anniversary of their awards respectively. 
5.  Each Director has confirmed in writing to the Company that the information in the single figure remuneration table is correct 
and that they have not received from the Company any other items of remuneration other than disclosed.
Remuneration Report 64 The Vitec Group plc
Remuneration Report
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
Further notes to the Directors’ single figure of total 
remuneration table
(1) Base salary
The table below shows base salaries for 2015: 
(2) Benefits
The single figure of total remuneration table sets out the total 
value of benefits received by each Executive Director in 2015. 
The table below sets out details of these. 
(3) Pension allowance
The table below sets out the value of the cash payment in lieu of 
pension for each Executive Director in 2015:
(4) Annual bonus
In 2015, each Executive Director was entitled to receive subject 
to performance a maximum bonus of up to 125% of base salary, 
half of which is deferred into the Deferred Bonus Plan.
The financial elements of the annual bonus plan for each 
Executive Director were based upon actual financial results 
achieved for Group profit before tax* and Group conversion of 
operating profit* into operating cash flow
#
 (over a quarterly and 
full year average target) measured against financial targets set 
by the Board. The Group profit before tax* financial element 
represents 50% of the maximum bonus that could be earned 
and the Group conversion of operating profit* into operating 
cash flow
#
 represents 25% of the maximum bonus that could  
be earned.
Under the rules of the annual bonus plan there is a link between 
the two financial performance conditions so that the conversion 
of operating profit* into operating cash flow
#
 element will only 
pay out if the Group profit before tax* element has at least 
achieved threshold performance.
The Remuneration Committee considered that these two 
financial performance conditions are key financial measures for 
the Group driving the right behaviour in terms of achieving profit* 
and operating cash flow
#
 generation and had the most direct 
impact upon shareholder value for the year ended  
31 December 2015.
The personal objective element of the 2015 annual bonus 
plan for each Executive Director, representing 25% of the 
maximum bonus that could be earned, is based upon individual 
performance measured against stretching personal objectives 
set by the Board and Remuneration Committee, as set  
out below:
Executive Director Car 
allowance
Healthcare 
cover
Income 
Protection
Stephen Bird £20,969 £2,326 £4,800
Paul Hayes £15,973 £2,326 £4,800
Executive Director 2015 Salary
Stephen Bird £419,503
Paul Hayes £288,391
Executive Director Pension allowance
Stephen Bird £83,900
Paul Hayes £57,678
Stephen Bird - 2015 Personal Objectives
•  Continue to build a world class organisation – ensuring 
the right senior management team is in place to deliver on 
the strategic plan; improve succession planning and talent 
development Group-wide including continuing progress 
on diversity; embed personal development plans for senior 
management in the organisation; and ensure a fit for 
purpose HR organisation to support delivery on strategic 
objectives.
•  Execution on growth strategy – deliver on growth strategy 
including communication with key stakeholders; develop 
KPIs to track progress; develop growth in the APAC market; 
ensure fit for purpose product development process; 
continue to develop cross Group capability in support of 
growth strategy; develop the Board’s understanding of 
the Group’s key technologies and businesses; and assess 
market dynamics particularly in traditional markets and 
opportunities for growth in those or new emerging markets.
•  Drive strategic growth opportunities with preparation of  
a budget for growth for 2016.
•  Develop and implement restructuring plans in light of 
challenging market conditions.
•   Identify and deliver on M&A opportunities allied to the 
strategic plan.
Paul Hayes - 2015 Personal Objectives
•  Support the Group Chief Executive in reviewing the Group’s 
strategy and communication to stakeholders.
•  Drive strategic growth opportunities with preparation of  
a budget for growth for 2016.
•  Develop and implement restructuring plans in light of 
challenging market conditions.
•  Support the identification and delivery on M&A opportunities 
allied to the strategic plan including financing arrangements, 
financial due diligence and integration plans.
•  Continue to develop a world-class Group-wide finance 
function maintaining strong financial controls and good 
reporting with focus on profit and cash.
•  Lead an effective tax strategy with clearly defined objectives 
agreed by the Board.
•  Personal development plan supported by the Chairman and 
Group Chief Executive. 65 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
2015 Annual Bonus Outcome 
The table below sets out the annual bonus awards made to Executive Directors in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 
including the financial trigger points used in determining whether a bonus was payable. 
A straight line sliding scale operates between each of the above trigger points for both financial targets. The Remuneration 
Committee considered that these trigger points were appropriate and sufficiently stretching for 2015 given the uncertain 
macroeconomic environment and challenging markets that the Company faced. 
Under the rules of the annual bonus plan the Remuneration Committee retains a full and absolute discretion as to whether  
a bonus is payable or not, and that discretion may only be used in exceptional circumstances, taking into account the overall 
financial performance of the Company. Any use of this discretion in connection with an Executive Director will be clearly explained 
in the Remuneration Report.
Half of the 2015 annual bonus will be deferred into the Deferred Bonus Plan. The 2015 deferred bonus will be used to purchase 
core award shares to be held in trust for a three year period. In accordance with the approved Remuneration Policy Report,  
no matching award shares can be earned under the Deferred Bonus Plan. After three years, the core award shares are released 
from the Trust to the Executive Directors. 
Name Bonus 
potential
Elements of bonus 
potential
Threshold Target Maximum Actual Group Performance/
Assessment of personal 
objective performance
Pay-out and % of 
maximum 
Stephen Bird
Group Chief Executive
125% of 
annual salary
50% Group PBT* £35.3m £36.0m £39.6m £31.5m £0 (0%)
25% Group conversion 
of operating profit* into 
operating cash flow
#
69% 77% 85% 52% £0 (0%)
25% Personal objectives 80% £104,876
TOTAL £104,876 
(20%)
Paul Hayes
Group Finance Director
125% of 
annual salary
50% Group PBT* £35.3m £36.0m £39.6m £31.5m £0 (0%)
25% Group conversion 
of operating profit* into 
operating cash flow
#
69% 77% 85% 52% £0 (0%)
25% Personal objectives 80% £72,098
TOTAL £72,098 
(20%)
Remuneration Report 66 The Vitec Group plc
Remuneration Report
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
(5) Long-Term Incentives – Long Term Incentive Plan 
(“LTIP”) and Deferred Bonus Plan (“DBP”)
The long-term incentive awards value shown in the single figure 
of total remuneration table relate to the following awards: 
Awards made in 2013 and vesting in respect of 
performance to 31 December 2015
These relate to awards made in 2013 under the LTIP and 
matching awards under the DBP . Awards are measured based 
50% upon the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) 
measured against a comparator group and 50% subject to 
growth in the Company’s adjusted basic earnings per share* 
(“EPS”). Each performance condition is entirely independent 
from the other performance condition and there is no re-testing 
of either performance condition. The detail of each performance 
condition for each award is set out below.
For that part of an award made in 2013 under the LTIP 
measured against TSR, if the Company’s TSR performance is  
at the median of the comparator group at the end of the three 
year performance period, 25% of that element of an award may 
vest. The full element of an award may vest if the Company’s 
TSR performance is in the top 25% of the comparator group. 
There is a pro-rata straight line vesting between these two 
points. The comparator group comprises the constituents of  
the FTSE 250 index (excluding financial services companies  
and investment trusts) over a three year performance period. 
The Remuneration Committee considered that this index has  
a greater level of complexity and internationality and was most 
comparable to Vitec’s business operations where approximately 
90% of revenues are generated outside of the UK.
For that part of an award made in 2013 under the LTIP 
measured against EPS growth, if the percentage growth in  
the EPS of the Company exceeds 6% per annum (Compound 
Average Annual Growth Rate), 25% of that element of an award 
may vest. Full vesting of an award occurs if the growth in  
EPS over the performance period exceeds growth by 12% 
(Compound Average Annual Growth Rate) or greater. There  
is a pro-rata straight line vesting between these two points.
The same performance conditions applied to matching awards 
made in 2013 under the DBP as for the LTIP except that at 
median performance for TSR or 6% EPS growth one matching 
share vests for every three core award shares and at the upper 
quartile point for TSR and 12% EPS growth one matching share 
vests for every one core award share.
An award lapses if the lower point under both performance 
conditions is not achieved during the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee also considered the  
underlying financial performance of the Company before  
it confirmed vesting. 
 
Performance out-turn 
The table below summarises the value of awards vesting for the 
2013 award. 
TSR is calculated on the basis of growth in the Company’s share 
price over a three year performance period plus dividends paid 
during that period and is expressed as a percentage of average 
compound annual growth. Share price performance is averaged 
over three months at the start and end of a performance period 
to eliminate volatility that may result in anomalous outcomes. 
The TSR performance is independently verified by Deloitte on 
behalf of the Committee and is ranked against the comparator 
group companies’ TSR performance to determine the outcome.
EPS is determined in accordance with note 2.5 of the Financial 
Statements on page 94.
Awards made in 2012 and vesting in respect of 
performance to 31 December 2014
These relate to awards made in 2012 under the LTIP and DBP . 
The performance conditions for these awards are the same as 
those made in 2013. The EPS growth targets were 6% growth 
per annum (Compound Average Annual Growth Rate) for 25% 
of that element of an award to vest and 12% or more growth 
per annum for full vesting respectively. The Remuneration 
Committee also considered the underlying financial performance 
of the Company before it confirmed vesting.
Both performance conditions were measured to 31 December 
2014 and the final outcome resulted in 0% of the TSR and EPS 
elements vesting. As a consequence the 2012 LTIP awards 
lapsed on 16 April 2015 and the DBP matching award shares 
lapsed on 12 April 2015.
2013 Awards Actual performance Vesting as a % of award
TSR Below median 0%
EPS Less than 6% per annum 0%
Total vesting 0% 67 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Director Type of 
award
Number of 
core shares 
awarded
Face value*
(£)
End of holding period
Stephen Bird 
Core award 
shares using 
deferred 
annual cash 
bonus
9,240 £59,990
16 April 2018
Paul Hayes 6,531 £42,405
* Face value has been calculated using the Company’s share price at the date of the award of 647 pence. 
Deferred Bonus Plan 2015 awards
The following table provides details of the awards made under the DBP on 16 April 2015. There are no performance conditions 
or matching shares associated with these awards. The core shares are held in an Employee Trust on behalf of the Directors for 
three years and will be released to the individuals on 16 April 2018.
* Face value has been calculated using the Company’s share price at the date of the award of 649.22 pence. 
Director Type of award Number 
of shares 
awarded
Face value*
(£)
Face value
(% of salary)
Threshold vesting
(% of face value)
Maximum 
vesting
(% of face value)
End of performance 
period
Stephen Bird
Performance 
shares
64,838 £419,503 100%
25% 100% 31 December 2017
Paul Hayes 44,573 £288,391 100%
Long Term Incentive Plan 2015 awards 
Other outstanding awards
Awards made in 2014 and vesting in respect of 
performance to 31 December 2016
For awards made in 2014, 50% of an award is subject to 
TSR with the Company’s TSR performance ranked against 
the constituents of the FTSE 250 index (excluding financial 
services companies and investment trusts) over a three year 
performance period. Threshold performance for the TSR 
performance condition will be at the median point of the 
comparator group and will result in 25% of an award vesting. 
Full vesting for the TSR element will be at the upper quartile 
point of the comparator group. A straight line sliding scale will 
operate between each of the above points. Below threshold 
performance none of the award will vest.
50% of the award will be subject to EPS growth over a three 
year performance period. For awards made in 2014 the EPS 
absolute growth figures were set at 6% per annum for 25% 
vesting and 12% plus per annum for full vesting. A straight  
line sliding scale will operate between each of the above points 
and below 6% EPS absolute growth none of the award will 
vest. Subject to satisfaction of performance conditions to  
31 December 2016, these awards will vest in April 2017.
Awards made in 2015 and vesting in respect of 
performance to 31 December 2017
The table below provides details of the awards made under 
the LTIP on 8 April 2015. Performance for these awards  
is measured over the three financial years from 1 January  
2015 to 31 December 2017. They are subject to the  
same performance conditions as for the 2014 award.  
The performance required for threshold vesting (25% of this 
part of the award) is Adjusted EPS growth of 6% per annum.  
Full vesting of this part of the award required Adjusted EPS 
growth of 12% plus per annum, with a straight line sliding 
scale between these two points. None of this part of the  
award will vest for Adjusted EPS absolute growth lower  
than 6% per annum.
Dividends that would have been paid on shares vesting under 
the LTIP during the performance period are re-invested in 
additional shares for each of the above awards.
There is no re-testing of any performance condition under  
any of the above awards and the Remuneration Committee  
will also consider the underlying financial performance  
of the Company before it confirms vesting of any of the  
above awards.
TSR is calculated on the basis of growth in the Company’s 
share price over a three year performance period plus 
dividends paid during that period and is expressed as a 
percentage of average compound annual growth. Share 
price performance is averaged over three months at the start 
and end of a performance period to eliminate volatility that 
may result in anomalous outcomes. The TSR performance is 
independently verified by Deloitte on behalf of the Committee 
and is ranked against the comparator group companies’ TSR 
performance to determine the outcome.
Remuneration Report 68 The Vitec Group plc
Director 1 January 2015 
(or date of 
appointment  
if later)
31 December 2015
John McDonough, Chairman 50,000 50,000
Caroline Thomson - -
Mark Rollins 4,900 4,900
Christopher Humphrey 5,000 5,000
Lorraine Rienecker - -
Remuneration Report
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
Payments to Past Directors
There were no payments in 2015 to past directors of the 
Company. 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors were paid the 
following fees in 2015:
Fees for the Chairman, Non-Executive Directors, Committee 
Chairmen and Senior Independent Director roles are reviewed 
annually by the Board with the support of Deloitte providing 
market data to ensure that fees remain appropriate given time 
commitment and the need to attract the right experience for  
the role. There is no commitment to increase fees annually.  
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not receive  
any other benefits from the Company. 
Directors’ Shareholding Requirements and Share Interests
The Board has determined that Executive Directors of the 
Company are required to build up, over a reasonable period of 
time, a substantial holding of shares in the Company of at least 
one times base salary. A reasonable period is considered to be 
the life of a performance period tied to an award vesting under 
the Company’s LTIP or DBP . Both Executive Directors satisfied 
this requirement throughout the whole of 2015 and up to the 
date of this report. Other members of the Operations Executive 
are encouraged to do the same up to a level of 50% of base 
salary. Each member of the Operations Executive had achieved 
this level of shareholding by 31 December 2015.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors of the Company 
have no such requirement and have discretion as to whether 
to hold shares in the Company or not. The following table sets 
out the interests in the Ordinary Shares of the Company held by 
each Director (or connected persons) of the Company during 
the year ended 31 December 2015:
Executive Director’s shareholdings as at  
31 December 2015
Chairman’s and Non-Executive Directors’ shareholdings 
as at 31 December 2015
1.  The closing mid-market share price on 31 December 2015 was £6.025 and 
the calculation of the percentage shareholding requirement achieved for the 
Executive Directors is based on this closing mid-market share price.
2.  The shares shown in the beneficial holdings table above were acquired by the 
Directors using their own funds and not through any share incentive scheme (or 
similar) with the exception of the following disclosures in notes 3 and 4 below.
3.  Stephen Bird’s share interests include 53,522 shares (at 31 December 2015) 
purchased in the market using deferred annual cash bonus and held by the 
Employee Benefit Trust, the trust used to hold shares in respect of awards 
made under the Vitec Group Deferred Bonus Plan. These shares will vest out 
of the Deferred Bonus Plan in 2016, 2017 and 2018 respectively. Neither these 
shares nor any of the other shares held by Stephen Bird have any performance 
conditions attached to them. During the year ended 31 December 2015 
Stephen Bird acquired 25,296 shares through the exercise of awards under 
the Deferred Bonus Plan arising from awards made in 2012. Stephen Bird 
also acquired in the year ended 31 December 2015 1,657 shares through 
the exercise of a share option under the Sharesave Scheme granted in 
2012. During the year, Stephen Bird also acquired 1,635 shares through the 
reinvestment of dividends into the Dividend Reinvestment Plan operated by  
the Company.
4.  Paul Hayes’ share interests include 37,724 shares (at 31 December 2015) 
purchased in the market using deferred annual cash bonus and held by the 
Employee Benefit Trust, the trust used to hold shares in respect of awards 
made under the Vitec Group Deferred Bonus Plan. These shares will vest out 
of the Deferred Bonus Plan in 2016, 2017 and 2018 respectively. Neither these 
shares nor any of the other shares held by Paul Hayes have any performance 
conditions attached to them. During the year ended 31 December 2015 Paul 
Hayes acquired 9,748 shares through the exercise of awards under the Deferred 
Bonus Plan arising from awards made in 2012. Paul Hayes also acquired in the 
year ended 31 December 2015 1,657 shares through the exercise of a share 
option under the Sharesave Scheme granted in 2012.
5.  There has been no change to the Directors’ shareholdings described in the 
table above in the period from 31 December 2015 to 22 February 2016.
Role 2015 Annual Fee Comment
Chairman £140,000 from 
1 January to 30 
June 2015 and 
£147,000 from 
1 July to 31 
December 2015
The fee of £140,000 per annum 
was agreed upon the Chairman’s 
appointment to the Board on 
15 March 2012. The fee was 
increased on 1 July 2015 to reflect 
time commitment for the role.
Non-Executive 
Director
£42,025 Base fee paid to Non-Executive 
Directors. Fee effective from 1 
January 2015.
Chairman of Audit 
Committee
£10,000 Fee was last increased on 1 
January 2014. 
Chairman of 
Remuneration 
Committee
£9,000 Fee was last increased on 1 
January 2014. 
Senior 
Independent 
Director 
£6,000 Fee was last increased on 1 
January 2014. 
Executive 
Director
Share 
ownership 
requirement 
(% of 
salary)
Number 
of shares 
owned 
outright 
(including 
connected 
persons)
Number 
of shares 
beneficially 
owned 
(DBP core 
award 
shares)
Number 
of shares 
unvested  
and 
subject to 
performance 
(DBP 
matching 
and LTIP 
shares) 
Ownership 
requirements 
met (based 
on shares 
owned 
outright and 
core award 
shares)
Stephen 
Bird
100% 202,092 53,522 236,911 367%
Paul 
Hayes
100% 40,405 37,724 163,616 163% 69 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Sharesave
The Group operates an all-employee savings-related share option scheme in the UK (Sharesave) and a similar international plan 
in respect of overseas employees in certain countries (US, Italy, Costa Rica, Japan, France and Germany). The scheme and plan 
are open to all the Group’s employees in those countries, including the Executive Directors. Both Stephen Bird and Paul Hayes 
participate in the UK scheme and the details are shown below. 
 
(1)
  The market price for the grant of shares under option was calculated on the basis of a three day average of the closing mid-market share price from 29 August 2012 to 
31 August 2012 inclusive. A 20% discount was applied to this price under this HMRC approved Sharesave plan. 
(2)
  The market price for the grant of shares under option was calculated on the basis of a three day average of the closing mid-market share price from 27 August 2014 to 
29 August 2014 inclusive. A 20% discount was applied to this price under this HMRC approved Sharesave plan.
(3)
  The market price for the grant of shares under option was calculated on the basis of a three day average of the closing mid-market share price from 27 August 2015 to 
1 September 2015 inclusive. A 20% discount was applied to this price under this HMRC approved Sharesave plan.
(4)
  There is no performance condition attached to the exercise of the Sharesave plan which is an all-employee plan.
Long Term Incentive Plan
Each year the Executive Directors are made a conditional award of shares in the Company. Up until 2015 this has been at a level 
representing 100% of annual base salary, based on the three day average closing mid-market share price of the Company in the 
period just prior to the award. From 2015, awards to Executive Directors have been increased to a level representing 125% of 
annual base salary to partly compensate for the removal of the matching share award element under the Deferred Bonus Plan  
(as disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report). Both Executive Directors agreed to waive this increase in 2015 and so awards in 2015 
were at a level representing 100% of annual base salary. The award is subject to satisfaction of performance conditions over a 
three year performance period. The following table sets out the outstanding awards under the LTIP as at 31 December 2015  
for each of the Executive Directors:
(1)
  The LTIP award made on 21 March 2013 did not achieve either of its performance conditions based on EPS growth and TSR performance compared to a 
comparator group. As a consequence the award will lapse on its third anniversary of 21 March 2016.
Director Date of 
award
Awards at 
1 January 
2015
Award 
exercised 
during the 
year
Associated 
dividend 
shares 
with the 
exercised 
award
Awards 
lapsed 
during 
the year
Awards 
made 
during 
the year
At 31 
December 
2015
Market 
price on 
which 
award 
made 
(pence)
Market 
price at 
exercise 
date 
(pence)
Face value 
of award
Percentage 
of interest 
that vests 
if threshold 
performance 
achieved
End of 
performance 
period
Stephen 
Bird
16 April 
2012 
58,124 - - 58,124 - - 674 - 100% of 
annual 
salary
25% 31 
December 
2014
21 
March 
2013
(1)
61,833 - - - - 61,833 645 - 100% of 
annual 
salary
25% 31 
December 
2015
2 April 
2014
65,958 - - - - 65,958 620.5 - 100% of 
annual 
salary
25% 31 
December 
2016
8 April 
2015
- - - - 64,838 64,838 647 - 100% of 
annual 
salary
25% 31 
December 
2017
Total 185,915 - - 58,124 64,838 192,629
Paul 
Hayes
16 April 
2012 
39,958 - - 39,958 - - 674 - 100% of 
annual 
salary
25% 31 
December 
2014
21 
March 
2013
(1)
42,507 - - - - 42,507 645 - 100% of 
annual 
salary
25% 31 
December 
2015
2 April 
2014
45,343 - - - 45,343 620.5 - 100% of 
annual 
salary
25% 31 
December 
2016
8 April 
2015
- - - - 44,573 44,573 647 - 100% of 
annual 
salary
25% 31 
December 
2017
Total 127,808 - - 39,958 44,573 132,423
Remuneration Report
Director Date of  
grant
At  
1 January 
2015 
(shares)
Options 
exercised 
during the 
year
Options 
lapsed 
during the 
year
Options 
granted 
during the 
year
At 31 
December 
2015 
(shares)
Exercise 
price 
(pence)
Market  
price at  
date of grant 
(pence)
Date from which 
exercisable 
(4)
Expiry date
Stephen 
Bird
26 September 2012 1,657 1,657 - - - 543 678.5
(1)
1 November 2015 30 April 2016
25 September 2015 - - - 2,560 2,560 492 614
(3)
1 November 2018 30 April 2019
Paul 
Hayes
26 September 2012 1,657 1,657 - - - 543 678.5
(1)
1 November 2015 30 April 2016
25 September 2014 743 - - - 743 484 604.75
(2)
1 November 2017 30 April 2018
25 September 2015 - - - 1,829 1,829 492 614
(3)
1 November 2018 30 April 2019 70 The Vitec Group plc
Remuneration Report
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
Deferred Bonus Plan
Each year, Executive Directors are required to defer a proportion of their annual bonus into the DBP . Bonuses deferred up until the 
2014 AGM and used to purchase core award shares could attract matching award shares subject to satisfaction of performance 
conditions over a three year performance period. Following consultation with shareholders and in line with best practice, the 
matching award element has been removed from the DBP for awards from the 2014 AGM onwards.
Note: The DBP award made on 8 April 2013 did not achieve either of its performance conditions based on EPS growth and TSR performance compared to a comparator 
group. As a consequence the matching award will lapse on its third anniversary of 8 April 2016.
Director Date of 
award
Awards 
at 1 
January 
2015 
(shares) 
Awards 
exercised 
during the 
year
Associated 
dividend 
shares with 
the exercised 
awards
Awards 
lapsed 
during 
the year
Awards 
made 
during 
the year
At 31 
December 
2015
Market 
price on 
which 
award 
made 
(pence)
Market 
price at 
exercise 
date 
(pence)
Face value 
of award
Percentage 
of interest 
that vests 
if threshold 
performance 
achieved
End of 
performance 
period
Stephen 
Bird
12 April 
2012 (core 
award)
22,946 22,946 2,350 - - - 677 - 100% of 
annual 
bonus
Not 
applicable
31 December 
2014
12 April 
2012 
(matching 
award)
22,946 - - 22,946 - - 677 - 100% of 
annual 
bonus
33.30% 31 December 
2014
8 April 
2013 (core 
award)
(1)
15,969 - - - - 15,969 641 - 50% of 
annual 
bonus
Not 
applicable
31 December 
2015
8 April 
2013 
(matching 
award)
(1)
15,969 - - - - 15,969 641 - 50% of 
annual 
bonus
33.30% 31 December 
2015
31 March 
2014 (core 
award)
28,313 - - - - 28,313 628 - 50% of 
annual 
bonus
Not 
applicable
31 December 
2016
31 March 
2014 
(matching 
award)
28,313 - - - - 28,313 628 - 50% of 
annual 
bonus
33.30% 31 December 
2016
16 April 
2015 (core 
award)
- - - - 9,240 9,240 649 - 50% of 
annual 
bonus
Not 
applicable
Shares held 
in Employee 
Trust to 3rd 
anniversary of 
award date
Total 134,456 22,946 2,350 22,946 9,240 97,804
Paul 
Hayes
12 April 
2012 (core 
award)
8,843 8,843 905 - - - 677 - 100% of 
annual 
bonus
Not 
applicable
31 December 
2014
12 April 
2012 
(matching 
award)
8,843 - - 8,843 - - 677 - 100% of 
annual 
bonus
33.30% 31 December 
2014
8 April 
2013 (core 
award)
(1)
11,046 - - - - 11,046 641 - 50% of 
annual 
bonus
Not 
applicable
31 December 
2015
8 April 
2013 
(matching 
award)
(1)
11,046 - - - - 11,046 641 - 50% of 
annual 
bonus
33.30% 31 December 
2015
31 March 
2014 (core 
award)
20,147 - - - 20,147 628 - 50% of 
annual 
bonus
Not 
applicable
31 December 
2016
31 March 
2014 
(matching 
award)
20,147 - - - 20,147 628 - 50% of 
annual 
bonus
33.30% 31 December 
2016
16 April 
2015
- - - - 6,531 6,531 649 - 50% of 
annual 
bonus
Not 
applicable
Shares held 
in Employee 
Trust to 3rd 
anniversary of 
award date
Total 80,072 8,843 905 8,843 6,531 68,917 71 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Performance graph of the Company’s ordinary  
shares compared to comparator group 
From 2013, the Company is required to include a line graph 
showing the Company’s ordinary share performance compared  
to an appropriate index initially over a five year period, but 
building up to a ten year performance period over subsequent 
years. The graph below illustrates the Company’s annual Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) (share price growth plus dividends  
that have been declared, paid and re-invested in the Company’s 
shares) relative to the FTSE 250 for the preceding seven year 
period, assuming an initial investment of £100. This index has 
been chosen since it is the comparator group (excluding financial 
services companies and investment trusts) for one of the 
performance conditions tied to awards under the LTIP . The 
Committee notes that the FTSE 250 index is a recognised broad 
market equity index, relatively complex and international in nature 
and is comparable to the Company’s business operations where 
approximately 90% of revenues are generated outside the UK.
Each point is a 30 trading day average of the indices. TSR data  
is taken from Datastream.
TSR comprises share price growth plus dividends paid over a 
three year period and is expressed as a percentage of average 
compound annual growth.
Percentage change in remuneration of the  
Group Chief Executive 
The table below sets out a comparison of the following 
elements of remuneration paid to the Group Chief Executive, 
Stephen Bird, in the year ended 31 December 2015 compared 
to the year ended 31 December 2014 and compared to that 
of UK based employees: Annual Salary; Taxable Benefits; and 
Annual Bonus. The Remuneration Committee has selected this 
comparator group on the basis that the Group Chief Executive 
is UK based and this provides a local market reference, is a 
sizeable population and a fair representation of the Group’s 
employee base.
Relative importance of spend on pay 
The following table sets out for the year ended 31 December 
2015 compared to the year ended 31 December 2014 the 
actual expenditure of the Company in terms of remuneration 
paid to or receivable by all employees of the Vitec Group  
and distributions to shareholders by way of dividends. There 
have been no share buybacks or other significant distributions 
and payments required to be disclosed that would assist  
in understanding the relative importance of spend on pay. 
Annual Salary 
(% change 
in 2015 
compared to 
2014)
Taxable 
benefits (% 
change in 2015 
compared to 
2014)
Annual Bonus 
(% change 
in 2015 
compared to 
2014)
Stephen Bird,  
Group Chief 
Executive
2.5% 2.5% -53%
UK based 
employees
2.5% 2.5% -34%
200
150
100
250
300
350
400  
450  
£
31 Dec
2008
31 Dec 
2009
31 Dec 
2010
31 Dec 
2011
31 Dec 
2012
31 Dec
2013 
31 Dec
2014 
31 Dec
2015
The Vitec Group plc           
FTSE 250
Year ended 
31 December 
2015
Year ended 
31 December 
2014
% change
Total remuneration 
paid to all Vitec 
Group employees
£92.6m £90.7m 2%
Total dividends paid  
to shareholders
£10.7m £10.3m 4%
Performance table setting out the total remuneration  
of the Group Chief Executive 
The following table sets out the single figure of total 
remuneration paid and the amount vesting under short-term 
and long-term incentives (as a percentage of the maximum 
that could have been achieved) to the Group Chief Executive 
for each of the seven years ended 31 December 2015. 
Year 
(ended 31 
December)
Group Chief 
Executive
CEO single 
figure of  
total 
remuneration
Annual Bonus 
payout against 
maximum 
opportunity % 
(including actual 
amount paid)
Long-term 
incentive 
vesting rates 
against 
maximum 
opportunity %
2015 Stephen 
Bird
£636,374 20%  
(£104,876)
-
2014 Stephen 
Bird
£745,388 44.25% 
(£226,378)
-
2013 Stephen 
Bird
£1,057,407 71% 
(£355,616)
28.55% 
(£195,634)
2012 Stephen 
Bird
£1,697,841 79.4% 
(£386,434)
92.4% 
(£817,428)
2011 Stephen 
Bird
£2,053,828 87.3% 
(£323,816)
100% 
(£1,259,398)
2010 Stephen 
Bird
£812,946 98.75% 
(£355,994)
-
2009 Stephen 
Bird (from 14 
April 2009)
£487,087 68.7% 
(£172,069)
-
2009 Alastair 
Hewgill (from 
1 January 2009 
to 14 April 
2009)
£151,634 42% 
(£51,911)
-
Remuneration Report 72 The Vitec Group plc
Remuneration Report
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
Statement of Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 
the Year Ending 31 December 2016 
This section provides an overview of how the Committee is 
proposing to implement the Remuneration Policy in 2016.
(1) Base salary
The table below sets out the 2016 base salary for each Executive 
Director, together with the percentage increase from 2015:
In determining the increases for 2016, the Committee took into 
account a number of factors, including Company and individual 
performance, the executive’s responsibilities and experience, 
pay increases for the Company’s employees, market rates for 
Executive Director remuneration, the need for retention of a 
talented executive team and prevailing economic conditions.
(2) Benefits
The car allowance taxable benefit has been increased in line 
with base salary increases for 2016. The other taxable benefits 
of private healthcare and income protection are respectively 
premium based and contractually based. 
(3) Pension allowance
The pension allowances remain unchanged from 2015 
representing 20% of base salary. Both Executive Directors 
currently take this contribution in the form of a cash payment. 
The table below shows the value of the cash allowance in 2016:
(4) Annual Bonus
The maximum opportunity remains unchanged since 2015 at 
125% of base salary. Half of any annual bonus earned for the 
year ended 31 December 2016 will be deferred into the DBP 
for a period of three years and held in the form of shares in the 
Company. There will be no matching award that can be earned 
on this deferred bonus. The table below provides information  
on the performance measures against which performance for 
the 2016 annual bonus plan will be measured: 
The performance measures selected reflect the strategic and 
operational objectives of the Group. The Committee considers 
that the specific targets and personal objectives for 2016 are 
commercially sensitive and therefore has not disclosed them. 
The Committee will disclose these targets and objectives  
once a bonus has been paid and subject to the Committee 
considering that they are no longer commercially sensitive.
(5) Long Term Incentive Plan
Executive Directors will receive an award of shares under the 
LTIP equivalent to 125% of base salary in 2016. These awards 
will be made in the 42 day period following the announcement 
of the full year results for the year ended 31 December 2015 
that will be announced on 23 February 2016. There will be 
no changes to the performance conditions from the awards 
granted in 2015, namely: 50% of the award will be subject to 
TSR with the Company’s TSR performance ranked against the 
constituents of the FTSE 250 index (excluding financial services 
companies and investment trusts) over a three year performance 
period; and 50% of the award will be subject to adjusted basic 
earnings per share* growth over a three year performance 
period. The Remuneration Committee has determined that 
the EPS targets for minimum and maximum vesting levels for 
2016 will be 5% and 12% absolute growth per annum reflecting 
general market conditions. Both Executive Directors have further 
agreed that any awards vesting under the LTIP 2016, after 
deduction of taxes, will be subject to a further two year holding 
period, thereby more closely aligning their interests with the long-
term interests of shareholders. 
Malus and clawback 
Under the rules of the Annual Bonus Plan, Long Term Incentive 
Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan, awards up until 2015 have been 
subject to a malus rule whereby the Remuneration Committee 
has the power to reduce, cancel or impose further conditions 
upon a bonus or award in circumstances that the Committee 
determines such action is appropriate including circumstances 
where a material misstatement of the Company’s audited 
financial results has occurred or serious reputational damage  
to the Company has occurred as a result of a participant having 
breached the Company’s Code of Conduct. Under the UK 
Corporate Governance Code that was published in 2014, which 
applies to financial periods commencing on or after 1 October 
2014 companies are expected to include both clawback and 
malus provisions for all incentive awards from that date.  
The Remuneration Committee took the decision to amend the 
rules of the LTIP , DBP and Annual Bonus Plan with effect from 
February 2015, to include a clawback provision where in the 
same circumstances as for malus, any future award that  
is paid out can be clawed back from a participant for a period 
of up to three years from it vesting or being paid out. All awards 
from February 2015 are on the basis that malus and clawback 
applies to them. 
(6) Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration
The fee structure for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 
for 2016 is set out in the table on the next page:
Executive Director Pension allowance
Stephen Bird £85,998 
Paul Hayes £59,120 
Core measures for 2016 annual  
bonus plan
Weighting 
(% of overall opportunity)
Group profit before tax* 50%
Group percentage of operating profit* 
converted to operating cash flow
#
25%
Role specific personal objectives 
set by the Board and Remuneration 
Committee for the Executive Director
25%
Executive Director 2016 Salary Increase
Stephen Bird £429,990 2.5%
Paul Hayes £295,601 2.5% 73 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
*  The Non-Executive Director’s base fee was increased by 2.5% with effect from 
1 January 2016.
**  The Chairman of the Audit Committee, Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and Senior Independent Director fees are reviewed annually to 
ensure that they remain appropriate taking into account the nature of each 
role, the time commitment, performance of the respective individuals, market 
conditions for the complexity of the roles and the calibre of individuals. The last 
increases for each of these roles were with effect from 1 January 2014.
The Board has agreed that the basic Non-Executive Director fee 
will typically be increased in line with the level of salary increases 
given to Executive Directors on an annual basis in future years 
and that the fees paid to the Chairman, Senior Independent 
Director and Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committee 
will be reviewed annually to ensure that they remain appropriate.
Voting at Annual General Meeting
At the Company’s last AGM held on 12 May 2015, the Directors’ 
Annual Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 
2014 was put to an advisory vote by way of an ordinary resolution 
that set out the detail of remuneration paid to Directors during 
2014. The resolution was voted and approved by shareholders 
on a poll. The table below sets out the proxy votes voted for, 
against and withheld against the resolution. 
 
As at the date of the Company’s AGM on 12 May 2015  
the Company had 44,336,516 Ordinary Shares in issue.  
The Remuneration Committee considers that an against or 
withheld vote of 20% or more of the votes cast is deemed  
to be significant in connection with a resolution on Directors’ 
remuneration. Based on the level of support to both resolutions 
on remuneration at the 2015 AGM, the Committee did not 
consider that there were any significant issues of concern.  
In the event that a significant level of concern is raised at future 
AGMs, both the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of  
the Remuneration Committee will contact the Company’s major 
shareholders following an AGM to understand the precise detail 
of the concern being raised. Subject to that, the Committee and 
the Board as a whole will consider how best to address the 
concern being raised. This may involve a revision to the 
Company’s Policy on Directors’ Remuneration at a subsequent 
AGM or some other change which can be implemented without 
further shareholder consultation. The Committee and the Board 
are committed to an open and transparent dialogue with 
shareholders on material matters of concern.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to 
Directors’ remuneration
The Remuneration Committee comprised the following members 
during 2015:
Carolyn Fairbairn – Member and Chairman until 31 October 
2015, Nigel Moore – until 18 May 2015, Mark Rollins, Lorraine 
Rienecker, Christopher Humphrey and Caroline Thomson – 
Member and Chairman from 1 November 2015.
All of the Committee members are independent  
Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, determines the policy 
base salaries, annual cash bonus arrangements, participation  
in incentive schemes, pension arrangements and all other 
benefits received by the Executive Directors.
The Committee also oversees the framework of remuneration, 
for the Operations Executive, including terms of service, 
pay structure, annual cash bonus, pensions, share incentive 
arrangements and all other benefits.
The Committee invites individuals to attend meetings, as it deems 
necessary, to assist with consideration of remuneration matters. 
The Chairman, John McDonough, the Group Chief Executive, 
Stephen Bird, the Group Finance Director, Paul Hayes, the Group 
Company Secretary, Jon Bolton and the Group Development  
and HR Director, Martin Green, attended meetings by invitation  
in the year ended 31 December 2015. The Executive Directors  
or members of the Operations Executive are not present when 
their own remuneration is being considered.
The remuneration of the Chairman and the Non-Executive 
Directors is determined by the Board as a whole, with the 
Chairman or the relevant Non-Executive Director abstaining when 
his or her remuneration is considered.
For further information regarding governance for the Remuneration 
Committee see pages 48 and 49 of this Annual Report.
External advisors
The Committee received independent advice from Deloitte LLP 
as the Committee’ s appointed remuneration advisor during the 
year ended 31 December 2015. Deloitte have a wide range 
of experience and knowledge on executive remuneration for 
multinational companies such as the Company and are able to 
provide detailed background and context to enable the Committee 
to come to an informed decision on executive remuneration. This 
advice related to disclosures in the 2014 Directors’ Remuneration 
Report, measurement of performance conditions associated 
with long-term incentive arrangements and general remuneration 
advice. Deloitte’ s total fees for 2015 work and advice relating to 
executive remuneration was £15,500 (2014: £26,350). Deloitte 
also provided other services to the Company during the year, 
including work and advice relating to expatriate tax, international 
relocations and corporate finance. Deloitte is a member of the 
Remuneration Consultants Group and operates under that group’ s 
voluntary code of practice for remuneration consultants in the UK. 
The Committee is satisfied that the advice they have received from 
Deloitte during 2015 has been objective and independent. The 
Committee also received advice and administrative support during 
2015 from the Group Company Secretary, Jon Bolton, and the 
Group Development and HR Director, Martin Green.
This Annual Remuneration Report has been approved by  
the Remuneration Committee and signed on its behalf by: 
Caroline Thomson
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
22 February 2016
Resolution For proxy 
votes and 
% of votes 
cast
Against proxy 
votes and % 
of votes cast 
Withheld 
proxy votes
Advisory vote on the 
Remuneration Report 
for the year ended 31 
December 2014
33,585,546 
(98.2%)
624,907 (1.8%) 12,230
Role 2016 fee 2015 fee
Chairman £150,000 £140,000 for the 
period 1 January 
2015 to 30 June 
2015 and £147,000 
for the period from 
1 July 2015 to 31 
December 2015
Non-Executive Director’s Base fee £43,075* £42,025
Chairman of Audit Committee £10,000** £10,000
Chairman of Remuneration 
Committee
£9,000** £9,000
Senior Independent Director £6,000** £6,000
Remuneration Report 74 The Vitec Group plc
Directors’ Report
Strategic Report
The statements and reviews on pages 1 to 39 comprise the 
Strategic Report which contains certain information, outlined below, 
that is incorporated into this Directors’ Report by reference:
• an indication of the Group’s likely future business developments;
• an indication of the Group’s research and development activities;
•  information on the Group’s policies for the employment of disabled 
persons and employee involvement; and
• the Group’s disclosures regarding greenhouse gas emissions.
Directors
The Directors who held office at 31 December 2015 and up to the 
date of this report are set out on pages 38 and 39 along with their 
photographs and biographies.
Changes to the Board during the year and up to the date of this 
report were as follows:
All current Directors will be standing for reappointment at the 
forthcoming AGM to be held on Wednesday, 18 May 2016. 
The remuneration of the Directors including their respective 
shareholdings in the Company is set out in the Remuneration 
Report on pages 56 to 73.
Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance and indemnification 
of Directors
The Company maintains Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance 
which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against 
its Directors. The Company has also granted indemnities to each 
of its Directors to the extent permitted by law. Qualifying third party 
indemnity provisions (as defined in Section 324 of the Companies 
Act 2006) have been adopted for each Director and indemnify in 
relation to certain losses and liabilities which the Directors may incur 
to third parties in the course of acting as Directors of the Company.
Share capital
The Company has only ordinary shares of 20 pence nominal value  
in issue. Note 4.3 to the consolidated financial statements on page 
114 summarises the rights of the ordinary shares as well as the 
number issued during 2015. An analysis of shareholdings is shown 
on page 132. The closing middle market price of a share of the 
Company on 31 December 2015, together with the range during the 
year, is also shown on page 132. For details of own shares held by the 
Company see note 4.3 to the consolidated financial statements. 
Substantial shareholdings
As at 22 February 2016, the Company had been advised under the 
Disclosure and Transparency Regime, or had ascertained from its 
own analysis, that the following held interests of 3% or more of the 
voting rights of its issued share capital:
Committees of the Board
The Board has established Audit, Nominations and Remuneration 
Committees. Details of these Committees, including membership 
and their activities during 2015 are contained in the Corporate 
Governance section of this Annual Report and in the 
Remuneration Report.
Corporate responsibility  
The Group’s report on corporate responsibility is set out on pages 
28 to 37. The Group has a Code of Conduct which has been 
communicated to all employees and is available on the Company’s 
website and intranet. The Group has also adopted specific policies 
which cover the following key areas: health and safety; risk and 
fraud; employment; whistleblowing; the environment; human rights; 
community impact and involvement; and relationships with 
suppliers, customers and other stakeholders. It regularly reviews 
these policies and revises them as and when necessary.
Corporate governance 
The Group’s report on Corporate Governance is on pages 40 to 55 
and forms part of this Directors’ Report.
Companies Act 2006 disclosures
In accordance with Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 the 
Directors disclose the following information:
•  The Company’s capital structure and voting rights are summarised 
on page 114, and there are no restrictions on voting rights nor any 
agreement between holders of securities that result in restrictions 
on the transfer of securities or on voting rights;
•  There exist no securities carrying special rights with regard to the 
control of the Company;
•  Details of the substantial shareholders and their shareholdings  
in the Company are listed above;
•  Shares awarded under the core award of the Company’s  
Deferred Bonus Plan are held in a nominee capacity by the 
Employee Benefit Trust (EBT). The Trustees of the EBT do  
not seek to exercise voting rights on shares held in the EBT.  
No voting rights are exercised in relation to shares unallocated  
to individual beneficiaries; 
•  The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of 
Directors, amendment to the Articles of Association and powers 
to issue or buy back the Company’s shares are contained in the 
Articles of Association of the Company and the Companies  
Act 2006;
Shareholder Number of 
voting rights
% of voting 
rights
Aberforth Partners 4,836,307 10.87
Manfrotto 4,788,102 10.76
Fidelity Investments 4,558,551 10.24
Delta Lloyd NV 4,050,211 9.10
JO Hambro Capital Management 3,813,805 8.57
M&G Investment Management 3,349,420 7.53
Nmás1 2,591,503 5.82
Heronbridge Investment Management 2,306,645 5.18
Royal London Asset Management 2,219,186 4.99
Schroder Investment Management 2,125,886 4.78
Name Date Position
Nigel Moore Resigned on  
12 May 2015
Independent Non-Executive 
Director; Senior Independent 
Director and Chairman of the 
Audit Committee
Christopher 
Humphrey
Appointed on 12 
May 2015
Chairman of the Audit 
Committee
Mark Rollins Appointed on 12 
May 2015
Senior Independent Director
Carolyn Fairbairn Resigned on  
31 October 2015
Independent Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
Caroline Thomson Appointed on 1 
November 2015
Independent Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee 75 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
•  There exist no agreements to which the Company is party that 
may affect its control following a takeover bid; and
•  There exist no agreements between the Company and its 
Directors providing for compensation for loss of office that may 
occur because of a takeover bid.
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association set out the rights of 
shareholders including voting rights, distribution rights, attendance 
at general meetings, powers of directors, proceedings of directors 
as well as borrowing limits and other governance controls. A copy 
of the Articles of Association can be requested from the Group 
Company Secretary.
Conflicts of interest 
During the year no Director held any beneficial interest in any 
contract significant to the Company’s business, other than a 
contract of employment. The Company has procedures set out 
in the Articles of Association for managing conflicts of interest. 
Should a Director become aware that they, or their connected 
parties, have an interest in an existing or proposed transaction 
with the Group, they are required to notify the Board as soon as 
reasonably practicable. 
Political donations 
Further to shareholder approval at the 2013 AGM empowering 
the Directors to make political donations, it is confirmed that no 
such donations were made in the year ended 31 December 2015. 
The Company’s policy is not to make political donations and a 
resolution to renew this authority on its expiry will be put to the 
2017 AGM.
Financial instruments 
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the 
Group and the exposure of the Group to foreign currency risk, 
interest rate risk, and liquidity risk is outlined in note 4.2 to the 
consolidated financial statements in page 112.
Going concern 
The Directors have made appropriate enquiries and consider that 
the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future, which comprises the period 
of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial 
statements. There are no material uncertainties that would 
prevent the Directors from being unable to make this statement. 
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual Report and the financial statements 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements 
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable 
law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and 
of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group 
and parent company financial statements, the Directors  
are required to:
•  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
•  Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
•  For the Group financial statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU;
•  For the parent company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained  
in the parent company financial statements; and
•  Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy,  
at any time, the financial position of the parent company and 
enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with  
the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and  
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance 
statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity  
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In addition, each of the Directors considers that the Annual Report, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and that it 
provides all the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s position and performance, business model and strategy. 
Disclosure of information to the auditor  
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there 
is no relevant audit information (as defined in Section 418(2) of the 
Companies Act 2006) of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; 
and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have 
taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of 
that information.
Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
The 2016 AGM will be held at 10.00am on Wednesday, 18 May 
2016 at The Academy of Medical Sciences, 41 Portland Place, 
London W1B 1QH.
The Chairmen of the Board and of each of its Committees will be 
in attendance at the AGM to answer questions from shareholders. 
All Directors will be standing for reappointment at the AGM.
The Company will be making use of the electronic voting facility 
provided by its registrars, Capita Asset Services. The facility 
includes CREST voting for members holding their shares in 
uncertificated form. For further information, please refer to the 
section on online services and electronic voting set out in the 
notes to the Notice of Meeting.
The notice of the AGM and an explanation of the resolutions 
to be put to the meeting are set out in the Notice of Meeting 
accompanying this Annual Report. The Board fully supports all the 
resolutions and encourages shareholders to vote in favour of each 
of them as they intend to in respect of their own shareholdings.
Auditor
KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office  
as auditor and separate resolutions will be proposed at the 
forthcoming AGM concerning their reappointment and to  
authorise the Board to agree their remuneration. 
By order of the Board
Jon Bolton
Group Company Secretary
22 February 2016
Remuneration Report 76 The Vitec Group plc
Independent Auditor’s Report to the 
members of The Vitec Group plc only
The risk Our response included the following audit procedures 
Carrying value of  
inventory (£58.9 million)  
Refer to note 3.3 of the 
financial statements
•  The inventory held at the year end covers a wide 
range of products and the demand for these 
and the ability of the Group to sell this inventory 
in the future may be adversely affected by many 
factors including changes in customer and 
consumer preferences, competitor activity 
including pricing and the introduction of new 
products and technology.
•  Each operating company is required to apply a 
methodology to calculate an inventory provision 
that is appropriate to the specific business and 
nature of products held in inventory.
•  The level of judgement involved in determining 
whether a provision should be recognised and 
how it should be measured, coupled with the 
fact that provision movements impact earnings, 
results in inventory provisions being one of the 
key judgemental areas that our audit is 
concentrated on.
•  Inspecting the ageing of inventory, the accuracy 
of which was tested, to identify any slow moving 
inventory lines, and critically assessing whether 
appropriate provisions had been established for 
slow moving and obsolete items.
•  Comparing most recent prices achieved on sales 
across the range of product lines to test whether 
these exceeded the book value of inventory at  
year end.
•  Comparing the methodology and assumptions 
used by the Group in calculating the inventory 
provisions to those used in the prior years and,    
as part of this, considering whether we would 
expect a change to the methodology and 
assumptions based on any changes to the current 
markets that the Group serves, noting the demand 
factors highlighted opposite.
•  Assessing the historical accuracy of provisions 
recorded by examining the utilisation or release  
of previously recorded provisions.
•  Considering the adequacy of the Group’s 
disclosures (see note 3.3) in relation to inventory.
Recoverability of trade 
receivables (£38.3 million) 
  
Refer to note 3.3 of the 
financial statements
•  The calculation of the bad debt provision 
requires a significant level of judgment as Vitec 
sells products to a wide customer base located 
across numerous countries each with different 
macroeconomic environments. This spread 
of customers worldwide requires significant 
judgement to assess the financial health of each.
•  The recoverability of trade receivables is 
dependent on the credit worthiness of customers 
and their ability to settle the amounts due.
•  Testing the adequacy of the provisions for bad 
debt recorded against trade receivable balances 
by taking into account the ageing of receivables at 
year end and cash received after year end, as well 
as the controls over its calculation.
•  Assessing the historical accuracy of provisions  
for bad debt recorded by examining the utilisation 
or release of previously recorded provisions. 
•  Considering the adequacy of the Group’s 
disclosures (see note 3.3) in relation to  
provisions for risks concerning recoverability  
of trade receivables.
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1. Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified
We have audited the financial statements of The Vitec Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 79 to 131. 
In our opinion: 
•  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at  
31 December 2015 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
•  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards  
as adopted by the European Union; 
•  the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards,  
including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework; and 
•  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and,  
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on 
our audit are shown in the table below. 
For further reference to these risks, refer to pages 52 and 55 (Report from Christopher Humphrey, Chairman of the Audit Committee) 
and page 86 (Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates). 77 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
3. Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at £1.5 million, determined with reference to a benchmark 
of Group profit before tax
(1)
, (of which it represents 5%). 
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding £75,000, in addition to other 
identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group has 49 reporting components. The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages  
of the Group’s results as shown in the chart below:
The risk Our response included the following audit procedures 
Restructuring provision 
(£3.2 million)
  
Refer to note 3.6 of the 
financial statements
•  The Group has implemented various 
restructuring activities for which significant 
costs have been recorded during the year. 
This includes costs that are committed at the 
year end and for which provisions have been 
recorded. The determination of the amount  
of these provisions requires estimations 
concerning final redundancy settlements  
and other associated restructuring costs,  
and as such are inherently subjective. 
•  The estimations require judgement to determine 
if the programmes and commitments are 
sufficiently advanced to trigger the requirement 
for a provision and there is a risk that the 
amounts recorded may be materially incorrect.
•  Critically assessing whether the restructuring 
programmes and commitments were sufficiently 
advanced to meet the requirements for a provision in 
accordance with relevant accounting standards.
•  Considering the commitments made via public 
announcements and other communications with 
those to be affected.
•  Testing the appropriateness of provisions through 
agreeing individual provisions to supporting 
information.
•  Considering the adequacy of the Group’s disclosure  
in respect of the restructuring activities and provision 
(see note 3.6).
Current tax liability  
(£6.6 million)
 
Refer to note 2.4 of the 
financial statements
•  This is one of the key judgemental areas that 
our audit is concentrated on due to the Group 
operating in a number of tax jurisdictions, 
the complexities of transfer pricing and other 
international tax legislation and the time taken for 
tax matters to be agreed with the tax authorities. 
The complexity is increased as a result of 
acquisitions and restructuring activities in the 
current year.
•  The Group has a number of open enquiries 
and where tax positions are not settled with 
tax authorities, the Directors take into account 
precedent and the advice of experts.
•  Challenging the appropriateness of the assumptions 
applied and estimates made in relation to current tax 
liabilities by considering the range of possible outcomes 
that may be assessed under the applicable tax laws.
•  Assessing the impact of recent acquisitions and 
restructuring of certain activities on the level of 
provisions and the judgements as to the likely 
outcomes of decisions made by the relevant  
tax authorities.
•  Involving our own tax specialists to assist in critically 
assessing the assumptions used by reference to 
international and local tax legislation in different 
jurisdictions.
•  Assessing whether the Group’s tax disclosures set 
out in note 2.4 are appropriate and in accordance 
with relevant accounting standards.
Independent Auditor’s Report
(1) 
Excluding restructuring costs, charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business
Audits for group reporting 
purposes of component 
financial information
22 in the UK,  
Italy and 
France
Specified risk-focused  
audit procedures
5 in the US
37%
35%
61%
17%
58%
23%
Group revenue Group profit before tax Group total assets 78 The Vitec Group plc
Independent Auditor’s Report to the 
members of The Vitec Group plc only 
Components for which specified risk focused audit  
procedures were performed were not individually financially 
significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting 
purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed  
to be addressed. The remaining 28% of total Group revenue, 
22% of Group profit before tax and 19% of total Group assets  
is represented by 22 reporting components, none of which 
individually represented more than 15% of any of total Group 
revenue, Group profit before tax or total Group assets. For the 
remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated 
Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no 
significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the 
significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks and 
the information to be reported back. The audits undertaken for 
Group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of 
the Group were all performed to a materiality level of £0.8 million 
set by the Group audit team, having regard to the mix of size 
and risk profile of the Group across the components. The  
Group audit team visited reporting components in the following 
locations: UK, US and Italy. Telephone conference meetings 
were also held with these component auditors and others that 
were not physically visited. At these visits and meetings, the 
findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in 
more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit 
team was then performed by the component auditor. The work 
on 7 of the 27 components was performed by component 
auditors and the rest by the Group audit team.
4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion: 
•  the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and 
•  the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
5. We have nothing to report on the disclosures of 
principal risks
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
•  the Directors’ Viability Statement on page 23, concerning the 
principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the 
Directors’ assessment and expectations of the Group 
continuing in operation over the 3 years to 2018; or 
•  the disclosures in Section 1 of the financial statements 
concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting. 
6. We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on 
which we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, 
based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
identified other information in the Annual Report that contains  
a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the 
financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that  
is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
•  we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ 
statement that they consider that the Annual Report and 
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy; or
•  the Corporate Governance section does not appropriately 
address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to  
you if, in our opinion: 
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or 
•  the parent company financial statements and the part of  
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not  
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
•  certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by  
law are not made; or 
•  we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit; or
•  a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared  
by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
•  the Directors’ statements, set out on pages 23 and 75,  
in relation to going concern and longer-term viability; and
•  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages  
40 to 55 relating to the Company’s compliance with the eleven 
provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above 
responsibilities.
Scope of the report and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 75, the Directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view. A description of the scope of an 
audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting 
Council’ s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This 
report is made solely to the Company’s members as a body and 
is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our 
responsibilities, published on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/
auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as 
if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of 
the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the 
basis of our opinions.
Robert Brent (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP , Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL
22 February 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 79
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Table of Contents
Primary Statements
 Consolidated Income Statement ............................. 80
 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income .. 81
 Consolidated Balance Sheet ................................... 82
 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity ........ 83
 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows .................. 84
Section 1 - Basis of Preparation ...................................... 85
Section 2 - Results for the Year ....................................... 87
 2.1  Profit before tax  
(including segmental information) ...................... 87
 2.2  Restructuring costs and charges associated  
with acquired businesses .................................. 90
 2.3 Net finance expense ......................................... 90
 2.4 Tax ................................................................... 91
 2.5 Earnings per share ............................................ 94
Section 3 - Operating Assets and Liabilities ................... 95
 3.1 Intangible assets ............................................... 95
 3.2 Property, plant and equipment .......................... 98
 3.3 Working capital ............................................... 100
 3.4 Acquisitions .................................................... 102
 3.5 Disposals ........................................................ 106
 3.6 Provisions ....................................................... 106
Section 4 - Capital Structure .......................................... 108
 4.1 Net debt ......................................................... 108
 4.2 Financial instruments ...................................... 109
 4.3 Share capital and reserves .............................. 114
Section 5 - Other Supporting Notes .............................. 115
 5.1 Employees ...................................................... 115
 5.2 Pensions ........................................................ 116
 5.3 Share-based payments .................................. 120
 5.4 Leases ............................................................ 122
 5.5 Related party transactions .............................. 122
 5.6 Group investments ......................................... 123
 5.7 Subsequent events ......................................... 123
The Vitec Group plc Company Financial Statements
 Company Balance Sheet ...................................... 124
 Company Statement of Changes in Equity ............ 125
 Notes to the Company financial statements .......... 126
Five Year Financial Summary ............................................. 131
Shareholder Information and Financial Calendar ........... 132
Each section sets out the accounting policies applied in  
producing these notes together with any key judgements  
and estimates used. Text boxes provide an introduction  
to each section.
The notes are grouped under the following sections: 80 The Vitec Group plc
         2015 2014 
        Notes £m £m
Revenue        2.1 317.8 309.6 
Cost of sales        2.2 (188.9) (181.7)
Gross profit         128.9 127.9
Operating expenses        2.1 / 2.2 (106.5) (100.3)
Operating profit        2.1 22.4 27.6
 Comprising   
  - Operating profit before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses    35.4 38.8
  - Restructuring costs        2.2 (4.9) (2.7)
  - Charges associated with acquired businesses       2.2 (8.1) (8.5)
           22.4 27.6
Net finance expense        2.3 (3.9) (3.5)
Loss on disposal of business         - (4.0)
Profit before tax         18.5 20.1
 Comprising   
  - Profit before tax, excluding restructuring costs, charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business  31.5 35.3
  - Restructuring costs         (4.9) (2.7)
  - Charges associated with acquired businesses        (8.1) (8.5)
  - Loss on disposal of business         - (4.0)
           18.5 20.1
Taxation        2.4 (5.5) (7.1)
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent       13.0 13.0
Earnings per share        2.5  
Basic earnings per share         29.3p 29.4p 
Diluted earnings per share         29.2p 29.3p 
Average exchange rates   
Euro         1.38 1.24
US$         1.53 1.65
Consolidated Income Statement  
 For the year ended 31 December 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 81
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income  
 For the year ended 31 December 2015
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Profit for the year         13.0 13.0
Other comprehensive income:  
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:  
Remeasurements of defined benefit obligation        1.5 1.1
Related tax         (0.5) (0.2)
Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss:  
Foreign exchange gain recycled to the Income Statement on disposal of business      - (5.2)
Currency translation differences on foreign currency subsidiaries       4.2 4.5
Net investment hedges - net loss         (1.5) (2.0)
Cash flow hedges - reclassified to the Income Statement, net of tax       0.6 (2.2)
Cash flow hedges - effective portion of changes in fair value       (1.5) (2.0)
Related tax         0.5 1.3
Other comprehensive income/(expense), net of tax        3.3 (4.7)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to owners of the parent      16.3 8.3 82 The Vitec Group plc
         2015 2014 
        Notes £m £m
Assets   
Non-current assets   
Intangible assets        3.1 90.7 87.1
Property, plant and equipment        3.2 53.8 54.8
Trade and other receivables        3.3 0.6 0.5
Derivative financial instruments        4.2 0.1 -
Deferred tax assets        2.4 15.2 14.2
           160.4 156.6
Current assets   
Assets held for sale        3.2 1.0 -
Inventories        3.3 58.9 55.0
Trade and other receivables        3.3 50.7 51.1
Derivative financial instruments        4.2 0.5 1.5
Current tax assets        2.4 0.9 1.0
Cash and cash equivalents        4.1 13.6 9.2
           125.6 117.8
Total assets         286.0 274.4
Liabilities   
Current liabilities   
Bank overdrafts        4.1 1.1 1.3
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings        4.1 0.2 0.1
Trade and other payables        3.3 43.5 46.3
Derivative financial instruments        4.2 1.7 2.5
Current tax liabilities        2.4 6.6 6.1
Provisions        3.6 8.1 9.2
           61.2 65.5
Non-current liabilities   
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings        4.1 88.6 78.7
Derivative financial instruments        4.2 0.5 -
Post-employment obligations        5.2 6.1 7.7
Provisions        3.6 1.2 2.1
Deferred tax liabilities        2.4 2.1 1.8
           98.5 90.3
Total liabilities         159.7 155.8
Net assets         126.3 118.6
Equity   
Share capital         8.9 8.9
Share premium         14.3 13.4
Translation reserve         (4.3) (7.0)
Capital redemption reserve         1.6 1.6
Cash flow hedging reserve         (1.0) (0.6)
Retained earnings         106.8 102.3
Total equity        4.3 126.3 118.6
Balance Sheet exchange rates   
Euro         1.36 1.29
US$         1.48 1.56
Approved by the Board on 22 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
Paul Hayes
Group Finance Director
Consolidated Balance Sheet
 As at 31 December 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 83
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
       Capital Cash flow   
    Share Share Translation redemption hedging Retained Total 
    capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings equity 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2015    8.9 13.4 (7.0) 1.6 (0.6) 102.3 118.6
Total comprehensive income for the year        
Profit for the year    - - - - - 13.0 13.0
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year   - - 2.7 - (0.4) 1.0 3.3
Contributions by and distributions to owners        
Dividends paid    - - - - - (10.7) (10.7)
Share-based payment charge    - - - - - 1.1 1.1
Related tax    - - - - - 0.1 0.1
New shares issued    - 0.9 - - - - 0.9
Balance at 31 December 2015    8.9 14.3 (4.3) 1.6 (1.0) 106.8 126.3 
Balance at 1 January 2014    8.8 12.1 (4.3) 1.6 2.3 99.7 120.2
Total comprehensive income for the year        
Profit for the year    - - - - - 13.0 13.0
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year   - - (2.7) - (2.9) 0.9 (4.7)
Contributions by and distributions to owners        
Dividends paid    - - - - - (10.3) (10.3)
Own shares purchased    - - - - - (1.5) (1.5)
Share-based payment charge, net of tax    - - - - - 0.5 0.5
New shares issued
 (1)
    0.1 1.3 - - - - 1.4
Balance at 31 December 2014    8.9 13.4 (7.0) 1.6 (0.6) 102.3 118.6 
(1)
  In 2014, the contingent consideration of Teradek was satisfied by the issue of new Vitec Group ordinary shares worth £0.5 million. 84 The Vitec Group plc
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 For the year ended 31 December 2015
         2015 2014 
        Notes £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities   
Profit for the year         13.0 13.0
Adjustments for:    
  Taxation         5.5 7.1
  Depreciation         13.8 14.2
  Amortisation of intangible assets         7.8 5.3
  Impairment losses on intangible assets         0.2 -
  Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment and software      (1.2) (2.1)
  Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments        0.1 0.2
  Share-based payment charge         1.1 0.5
  Fair value adjustment to contingent consideration since date of acquisition      2.6 4.2
  Disposal of business         - 4.0
  Net finance expense         3.9 3.5
Operating profit before changes in working capital and provisions       46.8 49.9
(Increase)/decrease in inventories         (3.0) (2.1)
(Increase)/decrease in receivables         0.8 (2.7)
(Decrease)/increase in payables         (3.0) (2.1)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions         0.1 (1.0)
Cash generated from operating activities         41.7 42.0
Interest paid         (4.0) (3.3)
Tax paid         (5.6) (3.5)
Net cash from operating activities         32.1 35.2
Cash flows from investing activities    
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and software       4.7 5.2
Purchase of property, plant and equipment         (16.4) (17.5)
Capitalisation of software and development costs        (4.2) (4.7)
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired       3.4 (9.0) (13.3)
Disposal of business         (0.7) (1.3)
Net cash used in investing activities         (25.6) (31.6)
Cash flows from financing activities    
Proceeds from the issue of shares         0.9 0.9
Own shares purchased         - (1.5)
Proceeds from interest-bearing loans and borrowings        8.5 2.4
Dividends paid         (10.7) (10.3)
Net cash used in financing activities         (1.3) (8.5)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents       4.1 5.2 (4.9)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January         7.9 12.9
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held        (0.6) (0.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December        12.5 7.9  Annual Report & Accounts 2015 85
Section 1 – Basis of Preparation
This section lays out the Group’s accounting policies that 
relate to the financial statements as a whole. Where an 
accounting policy is specific to one note, the policy is 
described in the note to which it relates. 
The Vitec Group plc (the “Company”) is a company domiciled in 
the United Kingdom. The consolidated financial statements of 
the Company as at and for the year ended 31 December 2015 
comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred  
to as the “Group”).
As required by EU law (IAS Regulation EC 1606/2002) the Group 
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the  
EU (“IFRS”), and have been approved by the Directors.
The financial statements are principally prepared on the basis of 
historical cost. Areas where other bases are applied are identified 
in the accounting policy outlined in the relevant note.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial 
statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 
Reduced Disclosure Framework (“FRS 101”).
Going Concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position are set 
out in the Strategic Report. The financial position of the Group, 
its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described in the Financial Review. In addition, note 4.2 “Financial 
Instruments” includes the Group’s financial risk management 
objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging 
activities, and its exposure to foreign currency risks, interest  
rate risks and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources, including 
undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the year of £55.5 million 
(see note 4.2 “Financial Instruments”). The Directors believe that 
the Group is well placed to manage its business risks. 
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the next twelve months. Accordingly, 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
consolidated financial statements. 
Basis of consolidation 
Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled 
by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the rights to 
variable returns from its involvement with an entity and has the 
ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.  
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired during the year  
are included in the accounts up to, or from, the date that  
control exists.
Foreign Currencies
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling 
with the reporting currency of the Group’s subsidiaries generally 
being that of the local country.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange 
rate on that day.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated 
at the year end exchange rate. Where there is a movement in 
the exchange rate between the date of the transaction and the 
year end, a currency translation gain or loss may arise. Any such 
differences are recognised in the Income Statement. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost 
are translated at the exchange rate on the day of the transaction, 
unless they are stated at fair value in which case they are 
translated at the exchange rate of the day the fair value  
was determined.
The assets and liabilities of overseas companies, including 
goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation,  
are translated at the year end exchange rate.
The revenues and expenses of these companies are translated 
at the weighted average exchange rate for the year. Where 
differences arise between these rates, they are recognised in the 
translation reserve within equity and other comprehensive income. 
The cash flows of these companies are translated at the weighted 
average exchange rate for the year. 
In the consolidated financial statements, currency translation gains 
and losses on external loans and borrowings and on long-term 
inter-company loans that form part of the net investment in the 
subsidiaries are recognised directly in the translation reserve  
within equity and other comprehensive income.
In respect of all overseas companies, only those translation 
differences arising since 1 January 2004, the date of transition 
to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity. On 
disposal of such a company, the related translation reserve is 
released to the Income Statement as part of the gain or loss  
on disposal. 86 The Vitec Group plc
Section 1 – Basis of Preparation
 
Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates
The following provides information on those policies that the 
Directors consider critical because of the level of judgement and 
estimation required which often involves assumptions regarding 
future events which can vary from what is anticipated. The 
Directors review the judgements and estimates on an ongoing 
basis with revisions to accounting estimates recognised in the 
period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods 
affected. The Directors believe that the consolidated financial 
statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates and 
provide a true and fair view of the Group’s performance and 
financial position.
Working capital
Provisions over trade receivables are maintained to reflect 
expected credit losses based on collection history and specific 
risks identified on a customer-by-customer basis. Provisions 
against slow-moving, excess and obsolete inventory are estimated 
to reflect its net realisable value. See note 3.3 “Working Capital”.
Restructuring
A restructuring provision is recorded when a present obligation 
arises in respect of committed restructuring activities, and when 
a reliable estimate of the probable value of the obligation can 
be made. Management is required to make judgements and 
estimates in determining the value of this provision such as asset 
residual values, and employee termination costs. Details of the 
restructuring provision are set out in note 3.6 “Provisions”.
Pension benefits
The actuarial valuations associated with the pension schemes 
involve making assumptions about discount rates, future salary 
increases, future pension increases and mortality rates. All 
assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. Further details 
about the assumptions used are set out in Note 5.2 “Pensions”.
Impairment testing
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. Tests for impairment 
are based on discounted cash flows and assumptions (including 
discount rates, timing and growth prospects) which are inherently 
subjective. Details about the assumptions used are set out in note 
3.1 “Intangible assets”.
Acquisitions
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method, 
based on the fair value of the consideration paid. Assets, liabilities 
and assumed contingent considerations are measured at fair value 
and the purchase price is allocated to assets and liabilities based 
on these fair values. IFRS 3 requires the identification of acquired 
intangible assets as part of a business combination. The methods 
used to value such intangible assets require the use of estimates 
including forecast performance. Accordingly, determining 
the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired and assumed 
contingent considerations involves the use of significant estimates 
and assumptions (including discount rates, asset lives and 
recoverability and forecast performance). Details concerning the 
acquisition made in the year are set out in note 3.4 “Acquisitions”.
Tax
The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of jurisdictions. 
Management is required to make judgements and estimates in 
determining the provisions for income taxes, deferred tax assets 
and liabilities recognised in the consolidated financial statements. 
Tax benefits are recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
sufficient taxable income will be available in the future against 
which temporary differences and unused tax losses can be 
utilised.  Details on the tax charge and assets and liabilities 
recorded are set out in note 2.4 “Tax”.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
There are no new standards, amendments to standards or 
interpretations which are expected to have a significant impact  
on the financial statements of the Group for the year ended  
31 December 2015 or in the foreseeable future. Annual Report & Accounts 2015 87
This section focuses on the profitability of the Group. On the following pages you will find disclosures relating to  
the following:
2.1 Profit before tax (including segmental information)
2.2 Restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses
2.3 Net finance expense
2.4 Tax
2.5 Earnings per share
2.1 Profit before tax (including segmental information)
This shows the analysis of the Group’s Profit before tax by reference to its two Divisions. Further segmental  
information and an analysis of key operating expenses are also shown here.
Accounting policies
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is stated exclusive of sales tax and consists of sales to third parties after an allowance for returns, trade discounts  
and volume rebates.
Goods and services sold
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when both the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred  
to the customer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably. This is normally when title passes to the customer.
Revenue from rental of assets is recognised over the duration of the rental contract, on a straight line basis, at the amount  
billed to the customer.
Section 2 – Results for the Year  88 The Vitec Group plc
Section 2 – Results for the Year
 2.1 Profit before tax (including segmental information)
Segment reporting
The Group has two reportable segments which are reported in a manner that is consistent with the internal reporting provided to the  
Chief Operating Decision Maker (considered to be the Board). Further details on the nature of these segments and the products and 
services they provide are contained in the Strategic Report.
       Corporate and   
     Broadcast
 
Photographic unallocated Consolidated
     2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue from external customers:        
  Sales     160.3 146.1 128.8 130.9 - - 289.1 277.0
  Services     28.7 32.6 - - - - 28.7 32.6
Total revenue from external customers     189.0 178.7 128.8 130.9 - - 317.8 309.6
Inter-segment revenue
 (1)
     0.9 1.7 0.2 0.3 (1.1) (2.0) - -
Total revenue     189.9 180.4 129.0 131.2 (1.1) (2.0) 317.8 309.6
Segment result     20.3 19.9 15.1 18.9 - - 35.4 38.8
Restructuring costs     (4.1) (1.4) (0.8) (1.3) - - (4.9) (2.7)
Fair value adjustment to contingent consideration since date of acquisition   (2.6) (4.2) - - - - (2.6) (4.2)
Transaction costs relating to acquisitions     (0.1) (0.9) - - - - (0.1) (0.9)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets     (4.8) (3.0) (0.6) (0.4) - - (5.4) (3.4)
Operating profit     8.7 10.4 13.7 17.2 - - 22.4 27.6
Net finance expense           (3.9) (3.5)
Loss on disposal of IMT business           - (4.0)
Taxation           (5.5) (7.1)
Profit for the year           13.0 13.0
Segment assets     172.2 162.0 82.7 84.9 1.4 3.1 256.3 250.0
Unallocated assets        
  Cash and cash equivalents         13.6 9.2 13.6 9.2
  Current tax assets         0.9 1.0 0.9 1.0
  Deferred tax assets         15.2 14.2 15.2 14.2
Total assets           286.0 274.4
Segment liabilities     28.1 32.1 26.0 25.2 7.0 10.5 61.1 67.8
Unallocated liabilities        
  Bank overdrafts         1.1 1.3 1.1 1.3
  Interest-bearing loans and borrowings     - - 0.4 0.9 88.4 77.9 88.8 78.8
  Current tax liabilities         6.6 6.1 6.6 6.1
  Deferred tax liabilities         2.1 1.8 2.1 1.8
Total liabilities           159.7 155.8
Cash flows from operating activities     19.4 18.2 15.2 14.6 (2.5) 2.4 32.1 35.2
Cash flows from investing activities     (21.7) (27.0) (3.9) (4.4) - (0.2) (25.6) (31.6)
Cash flows from financing activities     - - 0.4 0.9 (1.7) (9.4) (1.3) (8.5)
Capital expenditure        
  Property, plant and equipment     14.1 15.0 2.3 2.5 - - 16.4 17.5
  Software and development costs     2.6 2.7 1.6 2.0 - - 4.2 4.7 
(1)
  Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis.
No individual customer accounted for more than 10% of external revenue in either 2015 or 2014. Annual Report & Accounts 2015 89
Geographical segments
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Analysis of revenue from external customers, by location of customer  
United Kingdom         31.5 27.6
The rest of Europe         64.0 69.7
North America         150.2 143.3
Asia Pacific         55.9 53.3
The rest of the World         16.2 15.7
Total revenue from external customers         317.8 309.6 
The Group’s operations are located in several geographical locations, and sell products and services on to external customers in all  
parts of the world.
Operating expenses
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Analysis of operating expenses   
  - Restructuring costs
 (1)
         4.0 1.8
  - Charges associated with acquired businesses        8.1 8.5
  - Other administrative expenses         40.5 39.8
Administrative expenses         52.6 50.1
Marketing, selling and distribution costs         42.5 41.5
Research, development and engineering costs        11.4 8.7
Operating expenses         106.5 100.3 
(1)
  Of the total £4.9 million (2014: £2.7 million) restructuring costs, £4.0 million (2014: £1.8 million) is included in operating expenses and £0.9 million  
(2014: £0.9 million) in cost of sales.
Operating profit
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
The following items are included in operating profit  
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual financial statements    0.1 0.1 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services  
  - The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation       0.4 0.4 
  - Transaction and other services         0.1 0.2  90 The Vitec Group plc
Section 2 – Results for the Year
2.2 Restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses
Restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses are excluded from key performance measures in order 
to more accurately show the underlying current business performance of the Group in a consistent manner. This also reflects 
how the business is managed and measured on a day-to-day basis. Restructuring costs include employment termination and 
other rationalisation costs. Charges associated with acquired businesses include non-cash charges such as amortisation  
of acquired intangible assets, and cash charges such as transaction costs and fair value adjustments to contingent 
consideration since date of acquisition.
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Restructuring costs
 (1)
         (4.9) (2.7) 
Fair value adjustment to contingent consideration since date of acquisition
 (2)
      (2.6) (4.2)
Transaction costs relating to acquisitions
 (3)        
 (0.1) (0.9)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets         (5.4) (3.4)
Charges associated with acquired businesses        (8.1) (8.5)
(1)
  One-off restructuring costs of £4.9 million primarily relate to the Group streamlining certain operations by downsizing selected activities mainly in the UK, US and 
Europe. This includes employment termination costs of £3.6 million and other rationalisation costs of £1.3 million. These actions have better positioned the  
Group for the future.
(2)
  A charge of £2.6 million (US$4.0 million) has been recorded in relation to the fair value adjustment to contingent consideration payable to Teradek, acquired in 
2013. This was as a result of Teradek’s performance for the year ending 31 December 2015 exceeding management’s assessment at acquisition date. See note 
3.4 “Acquisitions” and note 3.6 “Provisions”.
(3)
  Transaction costs of £0.1 million were incurred in relation to the acquisitions of Paralinx and Panlight in the year. See note 3.4 “Acquisitions”.
2.3 Net finance expense
This note details the finance income and expense generated from the Group’s financial assets and liabilities. 
Accounting policies
Net finance expense comprises:
 - interest payable on borrowings and interest receivable on funds invested;
 - the amortisation of loan costs;
 - other interest receivable;
 - foreign exchange gains and losses on cash and inter-company loans that are not net investment hedges; and 
 - net interest expense on net defined benefit scheme liabilities.
Net finance expense
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Finance income   
Other interest receivable         - 0.3
Net currency translation gains         0.3 0.1
           0.3 0.4
Finance expense   
Interest payable on interest-bearing loans and borrowings       (4.0) (3.6)
Net interest expense on net defined benefit pension scheme liabilities
 (1)
      (0.2) (0.3)
           (4.2) (3.9)
Net finance expense         (3.9) (3.5)
(1)
 See note 5.2 “Pensions” . Annual Report & Accounts 2015 91
2.4 Tax
This note lays out the tax accounting policies, the total tax charge or credit in the Income Statement, and tax assets and 
tax liabilities in the Balance Sheet. This includes amounts relating to deferred tax.
Accounting policies
Income tax
The tax expense in the Income Statement represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of  
previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the Balance Sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts  
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The amount of deferred tax 
provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates 
substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and carried forward unused tax credits and unused  
tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences,  
and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and increased or reduced to the extent  
of the probable level of taxable profit that would be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised for the following temporary differences:
 -  Goodwill not deductible for tax purposes on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor the taxable profit or loss; and
 -  Differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that the timing of the reversal is controlled by the  
Company and they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax - Income Statement
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
The total taxation charge/(credit) in the Income Statement is analysed as follows:      
Before restructuring costs, charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business     
Current tax         7.5 7.0
Deferred tax         2.1 3.6
           9.6 10.6
Restructuring costs, charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business     
Current tax
 (1)
         (1.2) (0.7)
Deferred tax
 (2)
         (2.9) (2.8)
           (4.1) (3.5)
Summarised in the Income Statement as follows      
Current tax         6.3 6.3
Deferred tax         (0.8) 0.8
           5.5 7.1
(1)
  Current tax credits of £1.2 million (2014: £0.7 million) were recognised in the period of which £0.2 million (2014: £0.4 million) related to restructuring costs  
and £1.0 million (2014: £0.3 million) related to amortisation of intangible assets.
(2)
  Deferred tax credits of £2.9 million (2014: £2.8 million) were recognised in the period of which £1.1 million (2014: £0.3 million) related to restructuring costs,  
£1.0 million (2014: £1.6 million) to acquisitions (including the Teradek earnout) and £0.8 million (2014: £0.9 million) to amortisation of intangible assets. 92 The Vitec Group plc
Section 2 – Results for the Year
 2.4 Tax
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Current tax expense        
Charge for the year         6.0 7.3
Adjustments in respect of prior years         0.3 (1.0) 
Total current tax expense         6.3 6.3 
The UK current tax charge represents £0.1 million (2014: £0.1 million) of the total Group current tax charge of £6.3 million  
(2014: £6.3 million), with the remaining £6.2 million (2014: £6.2 million) charge relating to overseas tax.
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Deferred tax expense        
Origination and reversal of temporary differences        (0.8) 0.8 
The UK deferred tax credit represents £0.8 million (2014: £0.1 million charge) of the total Group deferred tax credit of £0.8 million  
(2014: £0.8 million charge), with £nil (2014: £0.7 million charge) relating to overseas tax. Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 
23% to 21% (effective from 1 April 2014) and 20% (effective from 1 April 2015) were substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. Further 
reductions to 19% (effective from 1 April 2017) and to 18% (effective 1 April 2020) were substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.  
This will reduce the company’s future current tax charge accordingly. The UK deferred tax asset at 31 December 2015 has been 
calculated based on these rates.
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Tax charge/(credit) recognised in the Statement of Changes in Equity (SOCIE)      
Current tax recognised in SOCIE
 (1)
         - (0.2) 
Deferred tax recognised in SOCIE
 (2)
         0.4 (0.9) 
           0.4 (1.1) 
(1) 
 No current tax deductions have been reflected in the SOCIE. The 2014 current tax deductions of £0.2 million related to share-based payments on exercised options. 
(2)  
A deferred tax charge relating to the UK and German defined benefit pension schemes of £0.5 million, partially offset by a £0.1 million credit due to the impact of 
share-based payments on outstanding options, has been reflected in the SOCIE.        
   
         2015 2014 
Reconciliation of Group tax charge         £m £m
Profit before tax         18.5 20.1 
Income tax using the domestic corporation tax rate at 20.25% (2014: 21.50%)      3.7 4.3
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions         0.7 (0.3)
Non-deductible expenses         0.3 0.7
Impact of tax credits in respect of prior years        0.4 (1.0)
Impact of tax losses not recognised         1.2 3.6
Other         (0.8) (0.2)
Total income tax expense in Income Statement        5.5 7.1 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 93
Tax - Balance Sheet 
Current tax 
The current tax liability of £6.6 million (2014: £6.1 million) represents the amount of income taxes payable in respect of current and prior 
periods. The current tax assets of £0.9 million (2014: £1.0 million) mainly relate to income tax receivable in the UK, the US, Italy and France. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities
      Recognised Recognised Recognised   
      in on in Exchange  
     2015 income acquisitions reserves movements 2014 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets         
Inventories     2.7 0.3 - - (0.1) 2.5
Intangible assets     (3.0) 2.2 - - (0.1) (5.1)
Tax value of loss carry-forwards recognised     4.8 (1.8) - - 0.3 6.3
Property, plant, equipment & other     10.7 0.3 - (0.4) 0.3 10.5
       15.2 1.0 - (0.4) 0.4 14.2
Liabilities      
Intangible assets     (2.1) (0.2) - - (0.1) (1.8)
       (2.1) (0.2) - - (0.1) (1.8)
Net     13.1 0.8 - (0.4) 0.3 12.4
      Recognised Recognised Recognised   
      in on in Exchange  
     2014 income acquisitions reserves movements 2013 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets         
Inventories     2.5 (0.4) - - - 2.9
Intangible assets     (5.1) (2.2) (0.7) - (0.1) (2.1)
Tax value of loss carry-forwards recognised     6.3 1.9 - - 0.3 4.1
Property, plant, equipment & other     10.5 0.3 - 0.9 0.2 9.1
       14.2 (0.4) (0.7) 0.9 0.4 14.0
Liabilities      
Intangible assets     (1.8) (0.4) - - (0.1) (1.3)
       (1.8) (0.4) - - (0.1) (1.3)
Net     12.4 (0.8) (0.7) 0.9 0.3 12.7
Deferred tax assets have been offset against liabilities where assets and liabilities arise in the same jurisdiction and there is a legal right  
of offset.
Deferred tax assets totalling £9.8 million (2014: £9.5 million) have been recognised in the US on the basis that future profits are expected 
to be made in the US businesses such that it is probable that these assets will be utilised in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of losses of £16.1 million (2014: £14.5 million) because it is not sufficiently 
probable that these assets will reverse in the foreseeable future.
No taxes have been provided for liabilities which may arise on the distribution of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries on the basis of 
control, except where distributions of such profits are planned. Cumulative unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associates 
totalled approximately £23.3 million at 31 December 2015 (2014: £15.9 million). It is not practical to calculate the tax which would arise 
on remittance of these amounts and, as dividends remitted from overseas subsidiaries to the UK should be exempt from additional UK 
tax, no significant tax charges would be expected. 94 The Vitec Group plc
Section 2 – Results for the Year
2.5 Earnings per share
Earnings per share (“EPS”) is the amount of post-tax profit attributable to each share.
Basic EPS is calculated on the profit for the year divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 
during the year.
Diluted EPS is calculated on the profit for the year divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 
during the year, but adjusted for the effects of dilutive share options. The key features of share option contracts are 
described in note 5.3 “Share-based payments”.
The Adjusted EPS measure is used by management to assess the underlying performance of the ongoing business and 
therefore excludes restructuring costs, charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business,  
all net of tax.
The calculation of basic, diluted and adjusted EPS is set out below:
         2015 2014 
Profit         £m £m
Profit for the financial year         13.0 13.0 
Add back:      
Restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses, net of tax      8.9 7.7 
Loss on disposal of IMT business, net of tax        - 4.0 
Earnings before restructuring costs, charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business    21.9 24.7 
     Weighted average number Adjusted earnings 
     of shares ’000 per share Earnings per share
     2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 
     Number Number pence pence pence pence
Basic     44,364 44,190 49.4 55.9 29.3 29.4
Dilutive potential ordinary shares     133 68 (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1)
Diluted     44,497 44,258 49.3 55.8 29.2 29.3 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 95
Section 3 – Operating Assets and Liabilities
This section shows the assets and liabilities used to  
generate the Group’s trading performance. Liabilities  
relating to the Group’s financing activities are addressed in 
Section 4. Current tax and deferred tax assets and liabilities 
are shown in Section 2.4 “Tax”.
On the following pages, there are disclosures covering  
the following:
3.1 Intangible assets
3.2 Property, plant and equipment
3.3 Working capital
3.4 Acquisitions
3.5 Disposals
3.6 Provisions
3.1 Intangible assets
This shows the non-physical assets used by the Group  
to generate revenues and profits. These assets include  
the following:
 - Goodwill
 - Acquired intangible assets
 - Software
 - Capitalised development costs
Accounting policies
Goodwill 
The goodwill recognised by the Group has all arisen as a result of 
acquisitions and is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment 
losses. Goodwill is allocated on acquisition to cash-generating 
units that are anticipated to benefit from the combination, and is 
not subject to amortisation but is tested annually for impairment. 
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of 
the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates. This estimate 
of recoverable amount is determined at each Balance Sheet date.
The estimate of recoverable amount requires significant 
assumptions to be made and is based on a number of factors 
such as the near-term business outlook for the cash-generating 
unit, including both its operating profit and operating cash flow 
performance. Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating 
unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is 
recognised. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
All acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2010 are 
accounted for by applying the acquisition method. Goodwill on 
these acquisitions represents the excess of the fair value of the 
acquisition over the fair value to the Group of the identifiable net 
assets acquired, all measured at the acquisition date. Subsequent 
adjustments to the fair values of net assets acquired can be 
made within twelve months of the acquisition date where original 
fair values were determined provisionally. These adjustments are 
accounted for from the date of acquisition. Transaction costs that 
the Group incurs in connection with an acquisition, such as legal 
fees, due diligence fees and other professional and consulting fees, 
are expensed as incurred.
Other intangible assets
The other intangible assets are either acquired or internally 
generated (such as capitalised development costs).
Acquired intangible assets
Other intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination 
are shown at fair value at the date of acquisition less accumulated 
amortisation at the rates indicated below:
Order backlog up to 2 years
Brand 3 to 15 years
Customer relationships 3 to 10 years
Technology 3 to 10 years
Software 
The cost of acquiring software (including associated 
implementation and development costs where applicable) is 
classified as an intangible asset. Costs that are directly associated 
with the production of identifiable and unique software products 
controlled by the Group, and that are assessed as likely to 
generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year,  
are also capitalised and recognised as intangible assets. Costs 
associated with maintaining computer software programmes are 
recognised as an expense as incurred. Software expenditure is 
amortised over its estimated useful life of between 3 to 5 years, 
and is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
impairment losses.
Capitalised development costs
Research and development costs are charged to the Income 
Statement in the year in which they are incurred unless 
development expenditure meets the criteria for capitalisation. 
Once detailed and strict criteria have been met that confirm that  
the product or process is both technically and commercially 
feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete  
the product, any further expenditure incurred on the project is 
capitalised. The capitalised expenditure includes the cost of 
materials, direct labour and an appropriate portion of overheads. 
Capitalised expenditure is amortised over the life of the product, 
and is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
impairment losses. 96 The Vitec Group plc
Section 3 – Operating Assets and Liabilities
 3.1 Intangible assets
Impairment tests for cash-generating units (CGUs) 
containing goodwill
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36, Impairment of 
Assets, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s CGUs which are 
identified by the way goodwill is monitored for impairment.  
The most significant elements of the Group’s total consolidated 
goodwill of £66.7 million at 31 December 2015 are allocated to: 
Vitec Videocom: £27.7 million (2014: £27.0 million); Photographic: 
£13.3 million (2014: £12.9 million); and Haigh-Farr: £13.9 million 
(2014: £13.3 million). The Vitec Videocom and Haigh-Farr CGUs 
sit within the Broadcast segment and the Photographic CGU sits 
within the Photographic segment. The remaining goodwill relates 
to CGUs which are not individually significant. Each CGU is assessed 
for impairment annually and whenever there is a specific indication 
of impairment. The carrying value of the remaining CGUs exceed 
their recoverable amounts.
As part of the annual impairment test review, the carrying value of 
goodwill has been assessed with reference to value in use over  
a projected period of five years together with a terminal value.  
This reflects the projected cash flows of each CGU based on  
the actual operating results, the most recent Board approved 
budget, strategic plans and management projections.
The key assumptions on which the value in use calculations are 
based relate to business performance over the next five years, 
long-term growth rates beyond 2020 and the discount rates 
applied. The key judgements are the level of revenue and 
operating margins anticipated and the proportion of operating 
profit converted into cash flow in each year. Forecasts are based  
on past experience and take into account current and future 
market conditions and opportunities.
Growth rates for the period beyond 2020 are assumed to be 2% 
(2014: 2%), which is considered to be at or below long-term 
market trends for significant CGUs.
The cash flow projections have been discounted to present value 
using the Group’s post-tax weighted average cost of capital 
adjusted for economic and CGU-specific risk factors including 
markets and size of business. Pre-tax rates of 9% to 11% (2014: 
9% to 11%) reflecting different geographies have been used for 
impairment testing (9% (2014: 9%) applied to the Haigh-Farr CGU 
and 11% (2014: 11%) applied to the Vitec Videocom and 
Photographic CGUs).
The following specific individual sensitivities of reasonable possible 
change have been considered for each CGU in relation to the 
value in use calculations, resulting in the carrying amount not 
exceeding the recoverable amount:
 -  if the long-term growth rate assumption was reduced to 1%; 
and
 - a 1% point increase in the discount rate applied. Annual Report & Accounts 2015 97
Intangible assets
        Acquired  Capitalised 
        intangible  development 
      Total Goodwill assets Software costs 
      £m £m £m £m £m
Cost         
At 1 January 2014      137.9 68.9 50.7 13.6 4.7
Currency translation adjustments      4.5 2.8 2.0 (0.4) 0.1
Additions      4.7 - - 1.3 3.4
Disposals      (0.1) - - (0.1) -
Disposals - on divestment of business      (28.5) (8.7) (17.9) - (1.9)
Acquisitions      8.9 3.1 5.8 - -
At 31 December 2014      127.4 66.1 40.6 14.4 6.3
At 1 January 2015      127.4 66.1 40.6 14.4 6.3
Currency translation adjustments      3.8 2.4 1.5 (0.2) 0.1
Additions      4.2 - - 1.3 2.9
Disposals      (0.4) - - (0.4) -
Acquisitions
 (1)
      4.6 3.2 1.4 - -
At 31 December 2015      139.6 71.7 43.5 15.1 9.3
Amortisation     
At 1 January 2014      61.6 12.9 35.6 11.1 2.0
Currency translation adjustment      1.7 0.6 1.4 (0.3) -
Amortisation in the year      5.3 - 3.4 1.1 0.8
Disposals      (0.1) - - (0.1) -
Disposals - on divestment of business      (28.2) (8.7) (17.9) - (1.6)
At 31 December 2014      40.3 4.8 22.5 11.8 1.2
At 1 January 2015      40.3 4.8 22.5 11.8 1.2
Currency translation adjustment      1.0 0.2 0.9 (0.2) 0.1
Amortisation in the year      7.8 - 5.4 1.0 1.4
Impairment charge      0.2 - - - 0.2
Disposals      (0.4) - - (0.4) -
At 31 December 2015      48.9 5.0 28.8 12.2 2.9
Carrying amounts     
At 1 January 2014      76.3 56.0 15.1 2.5 2.7
At 31 December 2014 and 1 January 2015      87.1 61.3 18.1 2.6 5.1
At 31 December 2015      90.7 66.7 14.7 2.9 6.4 
(1)
  See note 3.4 “Acquisitions”. 98 The Vitec Group plc
Section 3 – Operating Assets and Liabilities
3.2 Property, plant and equipment
This shows the physical assets used by the Group to generate revenues and profits. These assets include the following: 
 - Land and buildings
 - Plant, machinery and vehicles
 - Equipment, fixtures and fittings
Accounting policies
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Certain land and buildings  
that had been revalued to fair value prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, 
being the revalued amount at the date of transition.
Rental assets are recorded as plant and machinery.
Non-current assets held for sale 
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if it is highly probable that they will be recovered primarily through sale rather than through 
continuing use. They are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Depreciation 
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less estimated residual value, on a straight line basis over 
their estimated useful lives. The annual depreciation charge is sensitive to the estimated useful life of each asset and expected residual 
value at the end of its life. The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated as follows:
Freehold land     not depreciated
Freehold and long leasehold buildings     up to 50 years
Leasehold improvements     shorter of estimated useful life or remaining period of the lease
Plant and machinery     4 to 10 years
Motor vehicles     3 to 4 years
Equipment, fixtures and fittings     3 to 10 years
Rental assets     3 to 6 years 
Impairment of assets
Property, plant and equipment that is subject to depreciation is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Indicators of impairment may include changes in technology and market conditions. Annual Report & Accounts 2015 99
Property, plant and equipment
         Plant, Equipment, 
        Land machinery fixtures 
        and and and 
       Total buildings vehicles fittings 
       £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2014       142.6 31.1 95.8 15.7
Currency translation adjustments       (0.3) (0.7) 0.6 (0.2)
Additions       17.5 0.3 16.3 0.9
Disposals       (16.8) - (16.0) (0.8)
Disposals - on divestment of business       (2.4) - (0.6) (1.8)
Acquisitions       1.5 - 1.5 -
At 31 December 2014       142.1 30.7 97.6 13.8
At 1 January 2015       142.1 30.7 97.6 13.8
Currency translation adjustments       0.5 (0.4) 1.0 (0.1)
Re-classified as current assets
 (1)
       (2.6) (2.6) - -
Transfers between asset categories       - - (0.2) 0.2
Additions       16.4 0.4 15.0 1.0
Disposals       (17.2) (0.4) (13.4) (3.4)
Fair value adjustments on previous acquisitions      (0.2) - (0.2) -
At 31 December 2015       139.0 27.7 99.8 11.5
Depreciation    
At 1 January 2014       89.1 14.4 63.2 11.5
Currency translation adjustment       (1.1) (0.5) (0.4) (0.2)
Depreciation charge in the year       14.2 1.4 11.8 1.0
Disposals       (13.7) - (12.9) (0.8)
Disposals - on divestment of business       (1.2) - (0.6) (0.6)
At 31 December 2014       87.3 15.3 61.1 10.9
At 1 January 2015       87.3 15.3 61.1 10.9
Currency translation adjustment       (0.6) (0.3) (0.1) (0.2)
Re-classified as current assets
 (1)
       (1.6) (1.6) - -
Depreciation charge in the year       13.8 1.1 11.8 0.9
Disposals       (13.7) (0.2) (10.4) (3.1)
At 31 December 2015       85.2 14.3 62.4 8.5
Carrying amounts    
At 1 January 2014       53.5 16.7 32.6 4.2
At 31 December 2014 and 1 January 2015       54.8 15.4 36.5 2.9
At 31 December 2015       53.8 13.4 37.4 3.0
Plant, machinery and vehicles includes equipment rental assets with an original cost of £51.5 million (2014: £47.2 million) and 
accumulated depreciation of £26.0 million (2014: £24.1 million).
Capital commitments at 31 December 2015 for which no provision has been made in the accounts amount to £1.1 million  
(2014: £0.2 million).
(1)  
During the year freehold land and buildings of a net book value of £1.0 million were re-classified as non-current assets held for sale. These were disposed in 2016. 100 The Vitec Group plc
Section 3 – Operating Assets and Liabilities
3.3 Working capital
Working capital represents the assets and liabilities the Group generates through its trading activities. The Group therefore 
defines working capital as inventory, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables.
Careful management of working capital is vital as it ensures that the Group can meet its trading and financing obligations 
within its ordinary operating cycle.
Accounting policies
Inventories 
Inventories and work in progress are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Inventory acquired as part of business combinations 
is valued at fair value. Cost represents direct costs incurred and, where appropriate, production or conversion costs and other costs to bring 
the inventory to its existing location and condition. In the case of manufacturing inventory and work in progress cost includes an appropriate 
share of production overheads based on normal operating capacity. Inventory is accounted for on an average cost or first-in, first-out method 
as appropriate. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion  
and selling expenses. Provisions for inventories are recognised when the book value exceeds its net realisable value.
In the ordinary course of business, the Group makes provision for slow-moving, excess and obsolete inventory as appropriate.
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are recognised at the invoice value less provision for impairment. The carrying value of trade receivables is 
considered to approximate fair value.
A provision for impairment is established when there is objective evidence that amounts due will not be collected according to the original 
terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that 
the trade receivable is impaired.
Amounts recoverable on contracts are included in trade receivables and represent revenue recognised in excess of payments on account.
Trade and other payables 
Trade payables are recognised at the value of the invoice received from a supplier.
Inventories
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Raw materials and components         15.9 15.0 
Work in progress         6.7 8.6 
Finished goods         36.3 31.4 
Inventories, net of impairment provisions         58.9 55.0 
During the year £2.4 million (2014: £3.3 million) was recognised as an expense resulting from the write-down of inventory. Annual Report & Accounts 2015 101
Trade and other receivables
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Short-term receivables   
Trade receivables, net of impairment provisions        38.3 37.2
Other receivables         7.0 8.5
Prepayments and accrued income         5.4 5.4
           50.7 51.1
Long-term receivables   
Other receivables         0.6 0.5
Total receivables         51.3 51.6
   
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Gross trade receivables - days overdue
 (1)
 
Current         33.6 31.2
1-30 days         4.1 5.7
31-60 days         1.3 1.4
61-90 days         0.3 0.3
Over 90 days         1.0 1.4
Gross trade receivables         40.3 40.0
(1)
 Days overdue are measured from the date an invoice was due to be paid.
          Sales 
         Overdue returns and 
        Total debts discounts 
        £m £m £m
Impairment provisions against trade receivables   
Balance at 1 January 2015        2.8 1.8 1.0
Net increase/(decrease) during the year        2.3 (0.3) 2.6
Utilised during the year        (3.1) (0.3) (2.8) 
Balance at 31 December 2015        2.0 1.2 0.8 
Trade and other payables
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Current trade and other payables  
Trade payables         24.9 26.5
Other tax and social security costs         2.9 2.7
Other non-trade payables, accruals and deferred income        15.7 17.1
           43.5 46.3  102 The Vitec Group plc
Section 3 – Operating Assets and Liabilities
3.4 Acquisitions
This note outlines how the Group has accounted for businesses that it has acquired.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting. As part of the acquisition accounting the  
Group has adopted a process to identify the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired, including contingent 
considerations assumed. This includes the separate identification of intangible assets and the allocation of the consideration 
paid. This process continues as information is finalised, and accordingly the fair value adjustments presented in the tables 
below are provisional. In accordance with IFRS 3 until the assessment is complete the allocation period will remain open  
up to a maximum of 12 months from the acquisition date so long as information remains outstanding. Acquisition-related 
costs are recognised in the Income Statement as incurred in accordance with IFRS 3.
Acquisitions provide opportunities for further development of the Group’s activities and create enhanced returns.  
Such opportunities and the workforces inherent in each of the acquired businesses represent much of the assessed  
value of goodwill.
Acquisition of Paralinx 
On 27 February 2015, the Broadcast Division of the Group acquired the assets of Paralinx, LLC (“Paralinx”), based in the US, through  
a business combination for a net cash consideration of US$6.2 million (£4.0 million) after taking account of US$0.3 million (£0.2 million) 
of cash in the business at acquisition date. The fair value of the assets acquired excluding cash in the business at acquisition date  
was £1.9 million resulting in goodwill of £2.1 million. Paralinx is a leading provider of high quality wireless video transmission systems. 
The acquisition complements the Group’s existing video activities, including Teradek and SmallHD, which serve a similar customer  
base and its products will be marketed through the Group’s global distribution network.
A summary of the effect of the acquisition of Paralinx is detailed below: 
        Book Provisional Fair value of 
        value at fair value net assets 
        acquisition adjustments acquired 
        £m £m £m
Net assets acquired   
Intangible assets        - 1.4 1.4
Inventories        0.6 (0.2) 0.4
Trade and other receivables        0.3 (0.1) 0.2
Provisions        - (0.1) (0.1)
Cash        0.2 - 0.2
          1.1 1.0 2.1
Goodwill          2.1
Consideration satisfied from existing cash resources         4.2
The trade receivables acquired had a gross contractual value of £0.2 million and a fair value of £0.1 million. No net deferred tax asset or 
liability has arisen on the net assets acquired.
Acquisition of Panlight
On 2 November 2015, the Group acquired the whole of the issued share capital of Panlight Limited (“Panlight”), a private company 
based in the UK, for a consideration of £0.1 million. The fair value of the net assets acquired was £nil resulting in goodwill of £0.1 million. 
No net deferred tax asset or liability has arisen on the net assets acquired.
Panlight has developed a remote controlled light weight pan and tilt device which gives full directional control of speedlight flashes,  
LED lighting and Wi-Fi controlled mirrorless cameras. The acquisition complements the Group’s existing range of photographic products. 
Panlight operates within the Photographic Division. Annual Report & Accounts 2015 103
The results of the acquisitions made during the period comprise the following:
         Paralinx Panlight 
         £m £m
Revenue         3.4 -
Operating profit
 (1)
         1.2 -
Had the acquisitions been made at the beginning of the year (i.e. 1 January 2015), they would have contributed £4.0 million (Paralinx: 
£4.0 million, Panlight: £nil million) to revenue and £1.3 million (Paralinx: £1.3 million, Panlight: £nil million) to the operating profit
 (1)
 of  
the Group.
(1) 
Operating profit is stated before amortisation of intangible assets and after allocation of Head Office costs.  
An analysis of the cash flows relating to acquisitions is provided below: 
          2015 
          £m
Net outflow of cash in respect of acquisitions   
Cash consideration          4.3
Cash acquired          (0.2)
Transaction costs          0.1
Net cash outflow in respect of 2015 acquisitions         4.2
Cash paid in relation to Teradek, acquired in August 2013        5.2
Cash received in relation to SmallHD, acquired in December 2014        (0.3)
Cash paid in 2015 in respect of prior year acquisitions        4.9
Net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions
 (1)
         9.1
(1)  
Of the £9.1 million net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions, transaction costs of £0.1 million are included in cash flows from operating activities and the net 
cash consideration paid of £9.0 million is included in cash flows from investing activities.
SIS and SmallHD, acquired in 2014
In the period, the process to identify the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired was completed in respect of 2014 acquisitions. 
An increase in goodwill of £1.0 million (SIS: £0.1 million, SmallHD: £0.9 million) was recognised in the period as a result of fair value 
adjustments mainly to plant and machinery, inventory and onerous contracts.
Teradek, acquired in August 2013
Under the terms of the acquisition, there was a total potential contingent consideration of US$15.5 million that was dependent on the 
performance against demanding EBIT targets over the three year period to 31 December 2015. In 2014 the Group paid £2.0 million 
(US$3.2 million) in relation to Teradek’s performance in 2013, of which £1.5 million was paid in cash and the remaining £0.5 million was 
satisfied by the issue of 72,933 new Vitec Group ordinary shares. In 2015 an amount of £5.2 million (US$8.0 million) was paid in cash 
in relation to Teradek’s performance in 2014. A further £2.6 million (US$4.0 million) has been charged to the Income Statement relating 
to Teradek’s performance in 2015 and is subject to final agreement. This is payable in 2016. See note 2.2 “Charges associated with 
acquired businesses” and note 3.6 “Provisions”. 104 The Vitec Group plc
Section 3 – Operating Assets and Liabilities
 3.4 Acquisitions
Acquisitions in 2014 
Acquisition of SIS 
On 24 March 2014, the Broadcast Division of the Group acquired the assets of the Speciality Cameras division of SIS Outside Broadcasts 
Limited (SIS) through a business combination for a cash consideration of £1.8 million. The fair value of the net assets acquired was £1.6 
million (Intangible assets: £0.4 million, Property, plant and equipment: £1.2 million) resulting in goodwill of £0.2 million. No net deferred 
tax asset or liability has arisen on the net assets acquired.
Under the terms of the acquisition, there is a potential contingent consideration of up to £1.4 million that is dependent on the 
performance against demanding revenue targets for certain future events by the year 2017. £nil was paid in the year ending  
31 December 2015.
Acquisition of Autocue
On 6 October 2014, the Group acquired the whole of the issued and to be issued share capital of Autocue Group Limited (Autocue),  
a private company based in the UK, for a net cash consideration of £6.1 million after taking account of £2.4 million of cash in the 
business at acquisition date.
A summary of the effect of the acquisition of Autocue is detailed below:
        Book Provisional Fair value of 
        value at fair value net assets 
        acquisition adjustments acquired 
        £m £m £m
Net assets acquired   
Intangible assets        - 3.6 3.6
Inventories        0.3 - 0.3
Trade and other receivables        0.5 - 0.5
Trade and other payables        (0.5) - (0.5)
Corporation tax receivable        0.1 - 0.1
Cash        2.4 - 2.4
Deferred tax        - (0.7) (0.7)
          2.8 2.9 5.7
Goodwill          2.8
Consideration satisfied from existing cash resources         8.5
The trade receivables acquired had a fair value and a gross contractual value of £0.4 million. Annual Report & Accounts 2015 105
Acquisition of SmallHD
On 10 December 2014, the Group acquired the net assets of SmallHD, based in the US, through a business combination for an initial cash 
consideration of US$4.6 million (£2.9 million).
Under the terms of the acquisition, there is a potential contingent consideration of up to US$25.4 million (£16.3 million) that is dependent on the 
performance against demanding EBITDA targets over the two and a half year period to 30 June 2017. No amount has been paid or charged to 
the Income Statement in the year ending 31 December 2015.
A summary of the effect of the acquisition of SmallHD is detailed below: 
        Book Provisional Fair value of 
        value at fair value net assets 
        acquisition adjustments acquired 
        £m £m £m
Net assets acquired   
Intangible assets        - 1.8 1.8
Property, plant and equipment        0.3 - 0.3
Inventories        1.3 - 1.3
Trade and other receivables        0.2 - 0.2
Trade and other payables        (0.8) - (0.8)
          1.0 1.8 2.8
Goodwill          0.1
Consideration satisfied from existing cash resources         2.9
The trade receivables acquired had a fair value and a gross contractual value of £0.1 million. No net deferred tax asset or liability has arisen 
on the net assets acquired.
The 2014 results of the acquisitions made were included in the Broadcast Division and comprise the following:
        SIS Autocue SmallHD 
        £m £m £m 
Revenue        0.5 0.7 0.2 
Operating profit
 (1)
        - - - 
Had the acquisitions been made at the beginning of the year (i.e. 1 January 2014), they would have contributed £10.7 million (SIS: £0.6 
million, Autocue: £3.9 million, SmallHD: £6.2 million) to revenue and £0.7 million (SIS: £0.1 million, Autocue: £0.6 million, SmallHD: £nil) 
to the operating profit
 (1)
 of the Group.
(1)
  Operating profit is stated before amortisation of intangible assets and after allocation of Head Office costs.
An analysis of the cash flows relating to acquisitions is provided below:
          2014 
          £m
Net outflow of cash in respect of acquisition   
Cash consideration          13.2
Cash acquired          (2.4)
Transaction costs          0.9
Net cash outflow in respect of 2014 acquisitions         11.7
Cash paid in relation to Haigh-Farr, acquired in December 2011        0.7
Cash paid in relation to Teradek, acquired in August 2013
 (1)
        1.8
Cash paid in 2014 in respect of contingent consideration for prior year acquisitions      2.5
Net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions
 (2)
         14.2
(1)
  In 2014, US$2.9 million (£1.8 million) was paid in cash and a further US$0.8 million (£0.5 million) was satisfied by the issue of 72,933 new Vitec Group ordinary shares.
(2)
  Of the £14.2 million net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions, transaction costs of £0.9 million are included in cash flows from operating activities and the net cash 
consideration paid of £13.3 million is included in cash flows from investing activities. 106 The Vitec Group plc
Section 3 – Operating Assets and Liabilities
3.5 Disposals
On 3 November 2014 the Group sold its IMT business, which was based in the US and was included in the Broadcast Division. The 
disposal has enabled Management to place greater focus on opportunities in its core activities in the Broadcast and Photographic Divisions.
A loss of £4.0 million arose on disposal after taking into account impairment and exit costs together with the net assets disposed (£9.5 
million including £4.6 million of inventories) offset by cash consideration (£0.3 million) and the previously recorded foreign exchange gain that 
has been recycled to the Income Statement (£5.2 million). The net cash outflow in the period was £0.7 million (2014: £1.3 million). A further 
amount of £1.9 million, of which £1.4 million ($2.1 million) relates to the onerous lease provision, is expected to be paid by 2017.
3.6 Provisions
A provision is recognised by the Group where an obligation exists, relating to events in the past, and it is probable that an 
outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle it.
Accounting policies
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, 
and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle it. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by 
discounting the expected future cash flows at an appropriate discount rate.
Provisions for warranties, based on historical warranty data, are recognised when the underlying products or services are sold.
Obligations arising from restructuring plans are recognised when detailed formal plans have been established and the restructuring has 
either commenced or has been announced.
Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised when the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the 
economic benefits expected to be received under it.
         Onerous Deferred and 
         lease contingent 
      Total Warranty Restructuring and other consideration 
      £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2015      11.3 1.0 2.2 3.0 5.1
Charged to the Income Statement      7.7 0.5 4.9 (0.3) 2.6
Provisions utilised during the year      (10.6) (0.5) (3.9) (1.0) (5.2)
Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking      0.6 - - 0.6 -
Currency translation adjustments      0.3 - - 0.1 0.2
At 31 December 2015      9.3 1.0 3.2 2.4 2.7
Current      8.1 0.7 3.2 1.5 2.7
Non-current      1.2 0.3 - 0.9 -
        9.3 1.0 3.2 2.4 2.7 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 107
Warranty provisions
Warranties over the Group’s products typically cover periods of between one and five years. The provision represents management’s 
best estimate of the Group’s liability based on past experience.
Restructuring
The restructuring provision is in relation to the Group streamlining certain operations by downsizing selected activities mainly in the 
UK, US and Europe. These planned actions are intended to better position the Group for the future. The restructuring provision which 
principally relates to committed redundancy costs is expected to be utilised by the end of 2016.
Onerous lease contracts and other
The onerous lease contracts provision of £1.4 million is in relation to non-cancellable leases on vacant property that the Group entered 
into in previous years. Utilisation of the provision will be over the anticipated lives of the leases of up to two years.
The other provision of £1.0 million is in relation to potential exit costs on the termination of leases on occupied property that the Group 
entered into in previous years.
Deferred and contingent consideration
The Group paid £5.2 million (US$8.0 million) of deferred and contingent consideration provided for at 31 December 2014 in relation to 
Teradek, acquired in 2013.
The deferred and contingent consideration provision at 31 December 2015 of £2.7 million ($4.0 million) after currency translation 
adjustments is in respect of Teradek. See note 2.2 “Charges associated with acquired businesses” and note 3.4 “Acquisitions”. 108 The Vitec Group plc
Section 4 – Capital Structure
This section outlines the Group’s capital structure. The Group defines its capital structure as its equity and non-current interest- 
bearing loans and borrowings, and aims to manage this to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can 
continue to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders. The Group manages the capital structure 
and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets. 
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, it may return capital to shareholders through dividends and share buy 
backs, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. The Group considers its dividend policy at least twice a year ahead 
of announcing results in the context of its ability to continue as a going concern and deliver its business plan. The Group 
focuses on leverage, credit ratings and interest cost, particularly when considering investment.
On the following pages there are disclosures concerning the following:
 4.1 Net debt
 4.2 Financial instruments
 4.3 Share capital and reserves
4.1 Net debt
 The Group’s net debt comprises the following:
 - Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 - Cash and cash equivalents (cash on hand and demand deposits at banks)
 - Bank overdrafts that are payable on demand
Accounting policies
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet represent cash on hand and demand deposits at banks. Demand deposits are  
short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash without penalty and that are subject to  
an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Cash and cash equivalents in the Statement of Cash Flows includes bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an  
integral part of the Group’s cash management.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to  
initial recognition, these transaction costs are recognised in the Income Statement over the term of the related borrowings.
Analysis of net debt
The table below analyses the Group’s components of net debt and their movements in the year:
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents        5.2 (4.9)
Proceeds from interest-bearing loans and borrowings        (8.5) (2.4)
Increase in net debt resulting from cash flows        (3.3) (7.3)
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held        (0.6) (0.1)
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on debt held        (1.5) (2.0)
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on net debt        (2.1) (2.1)
Movements in net debt in the year         (5.4) (9.4)
Net debt at 1 January         (70.9) (61.5)
Net debt at 31 December         (76.3) (70.9)
Cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet        13.6 9.2
Bank overdrafts         (1.1) (1.3)
Cash and cash equivalents in the Statement of Cash Flows       12.5 7.9
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings         (88.8) (78.8)
Net debt at 31 December         (76.3) (70.9) Annual Report & Accounts 2015 109
4.2 Financial instruments
This provides details on:
 - Financial risk management 
 - Derivative financial instruments 
 - Fair value hierarchy 
 - Interest rate profile 
 - Maturity profile of financial liabilities
Financial risk management
The Group’s multinational operations and debt financing 
expose it to a variety of financial risks. In the course of its 
business, the Group is exposed to foreign currency risk, 
interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Financial risk management is an integral part of the way 
the Group is managed. Financial risk management policies 
are set by the Board of Directors. These policies are 
implemented by a central treasury department that has 
formal procedures to manage foreign currency risk, interest 
rate risk and liquidity risk, including, where appropriate,  
the use of derivative financial instruments. The Group  
has clearly defined authority and approval limits built  
into these procedures.
Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk arises both where sale or purchase 
transactions are undertaken in currencies other than the respective 
functional currencies of Group companies (transactional exposures) 
and where the results of overseas companies are consolidated into 
the Group’s reporting currency of Sterling (translational exposures).
The Group has businesses that operate around the world and 
accordingly record their results in a number of different functional 
currencies. Some of these operations also have some customers 
or suppliers that transact in a foreign currency. The Group’s results 
which are reported in Sterling are therefore exposed to changes 
in foreign currency exchange rates across a number of different 
currencies with the most significant exposures relating to the US 
Dollar (USD), Euro (EUR) and Japanese Yen (JPY). The Group 
proactively manages a proportion of its short-term transactional 
foreign currency exposures using derivative financial instruments, 
but remains exposed to the underlying translational movements 
which remain outside the control of the Group.
The Group manages its transactional exposures to foreign currency 
risks through the use of forward exchange contracts including the 
US Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen. Forward exchange contracts 
are typically used to hedge approximately 75% of the Group’s 
forecasted foreign currency exposure in respect of forecast cash 
transactions for the following 12 months. Forward exchange 
contracts may also be used to hedge a proportion of the forecast 
cash transactions for the following 13 to 24 months. The forward 
exchange contracts currently have maturities of less than two years 
at the Balance Sheet date.
The Group’s translational exposures to foreign currency risks 
relate to both the Income Statement and net assets of overseas 
subsidiaries which are converted into Sterling on consolidation. 
The Group does not seek to hedge the translational exposure that 
arises primarily from changes in the exchange rates of the US Dollar, 
Euro and Japanese Yen against Sterling. However the Group does 
finance overseas investments partly through the use of foreign 
currency borrowings in order to provide a net investment hedge 
over the foreign currency risk that arises on translation of its foreign 
currency subsidiaries.
The Group ensures that its net exposure to foreign denominated 
cash balances is kept to an acceptable level by buying or selling 
foreign currencies at spot rates when necessary to address short-
term imbalances. In addition the Group manages the denomination 
of surplus cash balances across the overseas subsidiaries to allow 
natural hedging where effective in any particular country.
It is estimated that the Group’s operating profit before restructuring 
costs and charges associated with acquired businesses for the 
year ended 31 December 2015 would have increased/decreased 
by approximately £2.3 million from a ten cent stronger/weaker US 
Dollar against Sterling, by approximately £0.5 million from a ten 
cent stronger/weaker Euro against Sterling and by approximately 
£0.3 million from a ten Yen stronger/weaker Japanese Yen 
against Sterling. This reflects the impact of the sensitivities to the 
translational exposures and to the proportion of the transactional 
exposures that is not hedged. The Group, in accordance with its 
policy, does not use derivatives to manage the translational risks. 
During 2015 the Group’s operating profit included a net loss of  
£2.2 million (2014: £1.8 million gain) upon the crystallisation of 
forward exchange contracts as described later in this note.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk comprises both the interest rate price risk that 
results from borrowing at fixed rates of interest and also the 
interest cash flow risk that results from borrowing at variable rates.
For the year ended 31 December 2015, it is estimated that a 
general increase/decrease of one percentage point in interest 
rates, would decrease/increase the Group’s profit before tax by 
approximately £1.0 million.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its 
financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group has a five year £100 million Multicurrency Revolving 
Credit Facility Agreement with a syndicate comprising five banks: 
three UK banks, one American bank, and one European bank, 
that expires in July 2017. The Group was utilising 54% of the £100 
million Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility at 31 December 
2015. In 2011 the Group drew down US$50 million from a Private 
Placement shelf facility with repayment due in May 2017. 110 The Vitec Group plc
Section 4 – Capital Structure
 4.2 Financial instruments
Credit risk
Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to meet its 
obligations. The Group is exposed to credit risk on financial  
assets such as trade receivables, cash balances and derivative 
financial instruments. The Group’s maximum exposure to  
credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each  
financial asset, including derivative financial instruments,  
in the Group Balance Sheet.
a) Trade receivables 
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade 
receivables. Trade receivables are subject to credit limits, and 
control and approval procedures in the operating companies.  
Due to its large geographic base and number of customers,  
the Group is not exposed to material concentrations of credit  
risk on its trade receivables.
b) Cash balances and derivative financial instruments 
Credit risk associated with cash balances is managed by 
transacting with a number of major financial institutions worldwide 
and periodically reviewing their credit worthiness. Transactions 
involving derivative financial instruments are managed centrally. 
These are only with banks that are part of the Group’s £100 million 
Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement. Accordingly, 
the Group’s associated credit risk is limited. The Group has no 
significant concentration of credit risk.
Derivative financial instruments
This is a summary of the derivative financial instruments  
that the Group holds and uses to manage risk. The value 
of these derivatives changes over time in response to 
underlying variables such as exchange rates. They are 
carried in the Balance Sheet at fair value.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is determined 
by estimating the market value of that contract at the 
reporting date. Derivatives with a positive fair value are 
recorded as assets and negative fair values as liabilities, 
and presented as current or non-current based on their 
contracted maturity dates.
Accounting policies 
Derivative financial instruments
In accordance with Board approved policies, the Group uses 
derivative financial instruments such as forward foreign exchange 
contracts to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange 
rates arising from operational activities. These are designated 
as cash flow hedges. It does not hold or use derivative financial 
instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Cash flow hedge accounting 
Cash flow hedges are used to hedge the variability in cash flows 
of highly probable forecast transactions or a recognised asset or 
liability, caused by changes in exchange rates.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated in a cash  
flow hedge relationship with a highly probable forecast transaction, 
the effective part of any change in fair value arising is deferred in 
the Cash flow hedging reserve within Equity, via the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective 
part is recognised in the Income Statement within net finance 
expense. Amounts deferred in the cash flow hedging reserve  
are reflected in the Income Statement in the periods when the 
hedged item is recognised in the Income Statement.
If a hedging instrument expires or is sold but the hedged forecast 
transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss 
at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance 
with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged 
transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative 
unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised 
immediately in the Income Statement.
Where a derivative is used to hedge economically the foreign 
exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability,  
no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument is recognised in the Income Statement.
If a derivative financial instrument is not formally designated 
in a cash flow hedge relationship, any change in fair value is 
recognised in the Income Statement. Annual Report & Accounts 2015 111
Forward exchange contracts
The following table shows the forward exchange contracts in place at the Balance Sheet date. These contracts mature in the next 24 
months, therefore the cash flows and resulting effect on profit and loss are expected to occur within the next 24 months.
       As at 31 Average As at 31 Average 
       December exchange December exchange 
       2015 rate of 2014 rate of 
      Currency millions contracts millions contracts
Cash flow hedging contracts     
USD / GBP forward exchange contracts      USD 21.0 1.52 14.8 1.62
USD / EUR forward exchange contracts      USD 47.2 1.15 36.0 1.33
EUR / GBP forward exchange contracts      EUR 28.4 1.33 17.4 1.21
JPY / GBP forward exchange contracts      JPY 1,009.0 179.1 459.0 163.6
JPY / EUR forward exchange contracts      JPY 1,059.0 134.6 629.0 136.7
A net loss of £2.2 million (2014: £1.8 million gain) relating to forward exchange contracts that crystallised during the year was charged  
to the Income Statement.
Fair value hierarchy
The following summarises financial instruments carried at fair values and the major methods and assumptions used  
in estimating these fair values.
The different levels of fair value hierarchy have been defined as follows:
Level 1 
Fair value measured using quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 
Fair values measured using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability,  
either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
Level 3
Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
The table below shows the carrying values and fair values of financial assets and liabilities:
       Carrying  Carrying  
       value Fair value value Fair value 
       2015 2015 2014 2014 
       £m £m £m £m
Forward exchange contracts - Assets       0.6 0.6 1.5 1.5
Forward exchange contracts - Liabilities       (2.2) (2.2) (2.5) (2.5)
Cash at bank and in hand       13.6 13.6 9.2 9.2
Net trade receivables       38.3 38.3 37.2 37.2
Trade payables       (24.9) (24.9) (26.5) (26.5)
Fixed rate borrowings       (34.9) (35.6) (33.0) (34.1)
Floating rate borrowings       (55.0) (55.0) (47.1) (47.1)
         (64.5) (65.2) (61.2) (62.3)
The fair value of floating rate borrowings approximates to the carrying value because interest rates are at floating rates where payments 
are reset to market rates at intervals of less than one year.
The fair value of fixed rate borrowings is estimated by discounting the future contracted cash flow, using appropriate yield curves,  
to the net present values.
All financial instruments are deemed Level 2. 112 The Vitec Group plc
Section 4 – Capital Structure
 4.2 Financial instruments
Interest rate profile 
The table below analyses the Group’s interest rate exposure arising from bank loans by currency.
Accounting policies 
Net investment hedge accounting
The Group uses US Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen denominated borrowings as a hedge against the translation exposure on the Group’s 
net investment in overseas companies.
Where the hedge is fully effective at hedging the variability in the net assets of such companies caused by changes in exchange rates, 
the changes in value of the borrowings are recognised in the translation reserve within Equity, via the Statement of Comprehensive 
Income. The ineffective part of any change in value caused by changes in exchange rates is recognised in the Income Statement.
The effective portion will be recycled into the Income Statement on the sale of the foreign operation.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
The table below analyses the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings, by currency:
         Fixed rate Floating rate 
        Total borrowings borrowings 
Currency        £m £m £m
US Dollar        63.5 33.7 29.8
Euro        17.7 1.2 16.5
Sterling        7.0 - 7.0
Japanese Yen        1.7 - 1.7
At 31 December 2015        89.9 34.9 55.0
US Dollar        47.5 32.1 15.4
Euro        25.7 0.9 24.8
Sterling        5.3 - 5.3
Japanese Yen        1.6 - 1.6
At 31 December 2014        80.1 33.0 47.1
The floating rate borrowings comprise borrowings bearing interest at rates based on LIBOR. The fixed rate borrowings in US Dollar  
are due for repayment on 11 May 2017. Annual Report & Accounts 2015 113
Maturity profile of financial liabilities
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities and derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings 
based on the period remaining until the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows (including interest), so will not always reconcile with the carrying amounts disclosed on the 
Balance Sheet.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including undiscounted future interest payments:
       Total  From one From five 
      Carrying contractual Within to five to ten 
      amount cash flows one year years years 
2015      £m £m £m £m £m
Unsecured interest-bearing loans and borrowings     (89.9) (94.2) (3.9) (90.0) (0.3)
Trade payables      (24.9) (24.9) (24.9) - -
Forward exchange contracts      (2.2) (2.2) (1.7) (0.5) -
        (117.0) (121.3) (30.5) (90.5) (0.3)
       Total  From one From five 
      Carrying contractual Within to five to ten 
      amount cash flows one year years years 
2014      £m £m £m £m £m
Unsecured interest-bearing loans and borrowings     (80.1) (86.4) (3.6) (82.8) -
Trade payables      (26.5) (26.5) (26.5) - -
Forward exchange contracts      (2.5) (2.5) (2.5) - -
        (109.1) (115.4) (32.6) (82.8) - 
The Group had the following undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the year:
         2015 2014 
Expiring in:         £m £m
Less than one year     
  - Uncommitted facilities         9.3 9.3 
More than one year but not more than five years     
  - Committed facilities         46.2 54.2 
Total         55.5 63.5  114 The Vitec Group plc
4.3 Share capital and reserves
This note explains the movements in share capital, and the nature and purpose of other reserves forming part of equity. 
The movements in reserves are set out in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.   
The Group utilises share award schemes as part of its employee remuneration packages. Options that have been granted  
and remain outstanding at 31 December 2015 are set out below. The various share-based payment schemes are explained  
in note 5.3 “Share-based payments”.
Share capital
         Number of Nominal 
         shares value 
         (thousands) £m
Issued and fully paid    
At 1 January 2015         44,322 8.9
Exercise of share options         172 -
At 31 December 2015         44,494 8.9
Each ordinary share carries one vote, participates equally with the other ordinary shares in distribution of dividends and capital (including 
on a winding up) and is not redeemable.   
At 31 December 2015 the following options had been granted and remained outstanding under the Company’s share option schemes:
        Number of  Dates 
        shares Exercise normally 
        (thousands) prices exercisable
UK Sharesave Schemes        344 131p-543p 2016-2020 
International Sharesave Schemes        640 484p-543p 2016-2020 
          984  
Other Reserves
The nature and purpose of other reserves forming part of equity are as follows:
Translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements  
of foreign subsidiaries, including gains or losses arising on net investment hedges.
Cash flow hedging reserve
This reserve records the cumulative net change in the fair value of forward exchange contracts where they are designated as effective 
cash flow hedge relationships.
Own shares held 
Own shares held by the Company’s Employee Benefit Trust are recognised as a deduction from retained earnings. As at 31 December 
2015 the Company Employee Benefit Trust held 48,891 ordinary shares.
Dividends
After the Balance Sheet date the following final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 was recommended by the Directors and 
subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 18 May 2016 will be paid on 20 May 2016. The dividend has not been provided for 
at the year end and there are no tax consequences.
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
15.1p per ordinary share (2014: 14.7p per ordinary share)       6.7 6.5
Final dividends paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as liabilities in that year were £6.5 million (2014: £6.2 million) and interim 
dividends paid in respect of the current year were £4.2 million (2014: £4.1 million).
Section 4 – Capital Structure Annual Report & Accounts 2015 115
Section 5 – Other Supporting Notes
This section explains items that are not explained elsewhere in the financial statements.
5.1 Employees
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Employee costs, including Directors’ remuneration, comprise:   
Wages and salaries         76.7 74.3
Employers’ social security costs         9.5 10.5
Employers’ pension costs - defined benefit schemes        1.1 1.0
Employers’ pension costs - defined contribution schemes       1.4 1.4
Other employment benefits         2.8 3.0
Share-based payment charge         1.1 0.5
           92.6 90.7
Details of Directors’ remuneration and share incentives are disclosed in the Remuneration Report. Employee costs exclude employment 
termination costs.
         2015 2014 
         Total Total
Average number of employees during the year   
Broadcast         1,072 1,110
Photographic         739 744
Head Office         22 22
           1,833 1,876 116 The Vitec Group plc
Section 5 – Other Supporting Notes
5.2 Pensions
This note explains the accounting policies governing the Group’s treatment of the pension schemes, followed by an 
analysis of these schemes.
Accounting policies
Defined contribution schemes
The assets are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds. The costs of providing pensions for 
employees under defined contribution schemes are expensed as incurred.
Defined benefit schemes 
The Group operates pension schemes providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. The assets of the schemes are held separately 
from those of the Group. The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by 
estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. That benefit is 
discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. The discount rate is determined by reference to 
market yields at the Balance Sheet date on high quality corporate bonds.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in 
the period in which they arise in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Group recognises the ongoing service cost, past-service costs and any cost or income relating to the curtailment or settlement of 
a pension scheme in operating expenses in the Income Statement. The unwinding of the discount (above) is recognised as part of net 
financial expense.
Pension schemes
The Group has defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, Italy, Germany, Japan and France. The UK defined benefit scheme was 
closed to future benefit accrual with effect from 31 July 2010. All UK employees of the Group are now offered membership of the defined 
contribution pension scheme. Other overseas subsidiaries have their own defined contribution schemes.
Defined contribution schemes
The total Income Statement charge of the defined contribution schemes for the year ended 31 December 2015 was £1.4 million (2014: 
£1.4 million). There were no outstanding or prepaid contributions to these plans as at 31 December 2015 (or at 31 December 2014).
Defined benefit schemes
The Group’s defined benefit schemes are disclosed below:
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Amounts recognised in the Group Balance Sheet 
Plan assets        
  - Equities         19.4 18.7
  - Bonds         26.1 27.7
  - Other         9.3 10.1
Total fair value of plan assets         54.8 56.5
Present value of defined benefit obligation         (60.9) (64.2)
Net deficit recognised in the Group Balance Sheet        (6.1) (7.7) Annual Report & Accounts 2015 117
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Analysis of net recognised deficit 
Total funded plan (UK Pension scheme)         (2.5) (3.8)
Total unfunded plans (non-UK Pension schemes)        (3.6) (3.9)
Liability recognised in the Group Balance Sheet        (6.1) (7.7)
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement
  - Administration costs incurred during the period        1.2 1.1
  - Past service gain         (0.1) (0.1)
Included in operating expenses         1.1 1.0
Net interest expense on net defined benefit pension scheme liabilities       0.2 0.3
Total amounts charged to the Income Statement        1.3 1.3 
UK pension scheme
The UK pension scheme, being significant, is disclosed below.
The nature of the UK scheme is a funded final salary scheme closed to future benefit accrual with effect from 31 July 2010. As a result, 
since that date, no contributions are payable in respect of future accrual of benefits. As the 5 April 2013 funding valuation of the scheme 
disclosed a funding surplus, no recovery plan is required under the Pensions Act 2004. As such, member and employer contributions 
to the scheme over the year to 31 December 2016 are expected to be £nil. The scheme is subject to all legislation and regulations that 
apply to UK occupational pension schemes.
The main risk to which the Group is exposed to by the scheme is that the cost of the benefits provided by the scheme is greater than 
expected, for example due to lower than expected investments returns or members of the scheme living longer than expected, which 
may result in additional contributions being required from the Group.
           
         2015 2014
Impact on defined benefit obligation (DBO) of changes in the three key individual assumptions
Discount rate increased by 0.1% points         -2% -2%
Inflation increased by 0.1% points         +1% +1%
Life expectancy reduced by one year         -3% -3%
Although the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected under the plan, it does provide an approximation 
of the sensitivity of the assumptions shown.
         2015 2014 
         % pa % pa 
Assumptions used by the actuary to value the liability of the defined benefit plan, on 31 December were:    
Price inflation (RPI)         3.0 3.0
Price inflation (CPI)         2.0 2.0
Life expectancy of male / female aged 65 in 2015        22.8 / 25.0 22.7 / 25.0 
Life expectancy of male / female aged 65 in 2030        23.8 / 26.2 23.7 / 26.1 
Pension increase rate (% pa)      
  - Discretionary (pre - 6 April 1997 accrual in excess of GMP)       2.9 2.9
  - Guaranteed LPI 5% (6 April 1997 - 30 June 2008)        2.9 2.9
  - Guaranteed LPI 5%, with 3% floor         3.2 3.2
  - Guaranteed LPI 2.5% (accrual from 1 July 2008)        2.0 2.0
Discount rate         3.8 3.6 118 The Vitec Group plc
Section 5 – Other Supporting Notes
 5.2 Pensions
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Change in DBO for the year to 31 December        
Present value of DBO at start of year         60.3 55.3
Interest cost         2.1 2.4
Actuarial gain on experience         (0.5) (2.1)
Actuarial (gain)/loss on financial assumptions        (2.1) 7.0
Actual benefit payments         (2.4) (2.2)
Past service gains         (0.1) (0.1)
Present value of DBO at end of year         57.3 60.3
At 31 December 2015, the weighted-average duration of the scheme’s DBO was 18 years (2014: 18 years). The proportion of DBO  
in respect of pensions in payment is 50% and that in respect of deferred pensioners is 50%.
       Fair   Fair 
       value Quoted Unquoted value 
       2015 split split 2014 
       £m % % £m
Scheme assets and proportion which have quoted market price, at 31 December
Bonds       26.1 100 - 27.7
Equities       19.4 74 26 18.7
Diversified growth (bonds and equities)       8.6 100 - 8.7
Cash/non-cash assets       0.3 - 100 1.0
Insurance policies       0.4 - 100 0.4
Total value of assets       54.8   56.5
Note: The asset values shown are, where relevant, estimated bid values of market securities.
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Change in fair value of assets for the year to 31 December        
Fair value of assets at start of year         56.5 50.2
Interest income on scheme assets         2.0 2.2
Return on scheme assets (less)/greater than discount rate       (1.0) 6.5
Actual benefit payments         (2.4) (2.2)
Administration expenses paid         (0.3) (0.2)
Fair value of assets at end of year         54.8 56.5 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 119
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Development of net balance sheet position at 31 December        
Present value of defined benefit obligation         (57.3) (60.3) 
Assets at fair value         54.8 56.5 
Net defined benefit scheme liability         (2.5) (3.8)
        
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Reconciliation of net balance sheet position        
Net defined benefit scheme liability at start of year        (3.8) (5.1)
Total amounts charged to the Income Statement        (0.3) (0.3)
Remeasurement effects recognised in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)      1.6 1.6
Defined benefit scheme liability at end of year        (2.5) (3.8)
        
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Amounts recognised in the Group Income Statement        
  - Administration costs incurred during the period        0.3 0.2
  - Past service gains         (0.1) (0.1)
Included in operating expenses         0.2 0.1
Net interest expense on net defined benefit pension scheme liability       0.1 0.2
Total amounts charged to the Income Statement        0.3 0.3
        
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Amounts recognised in OCI      
Actuarial gain due to liability experience         (0.5) (2.1)
Actuarial (gain)/loss due to liability assumption changes        (2.1) 7.0
Actuarial (gain)/loss arising during the period        (2.6) 4.9
Return on scheme assets greater/(less) than discount rate       1.0 (6.5)
Remeasurement effects recognised in OCI        (1.6) (1.6)
        
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Defined benefit pension scheme cost        
Administration costs incurred during the period        0.3 0.2
Past service gains         (0.1) (0.1)
Net interest expense on net defined benefit pension scheme liability       0.1 0.2
Remeasurement effects recognised in OCI         (1.6) (1.6)
Total defined benefit pension scheme cost        (1.3) (1.3) 120 The Vitec Group plc
Section 5 – Other Supporting Notes
5.3 Share-based payments
Group employees participate in a number of employee incentive schemes including a Sharesave Scheme, a Long Term 
Incentive Plan and a Deferred Bonus Plan.
This note explains the accounting policy governing share-based payments and the impact of various share schemes 
operated by the Group.
Accounting policies
Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of share-based incentive schemes. The fair value of the equity-settled employee share option grants is 
calculated at grant date and charged to the Income Statement over the vesting period of the schemes, with a corresponding adjustment 
to equity. The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options that will vest, except where forfeiture arises 
from share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
The fair values of options are calculated using Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo simulation models. Vesting conditions are limited to  
non-market based conditions such as service conditions and performance conditions (adjusted earnings per share targets).
Any potential employer’s Social Security liability on options granted is calculated based on the intrinsic value of the options and charged 
to the Income Statement over the vesting period of the schemes.
Exercises of share options granted to employees can be satisfied by market purchase or issue of new shares. Shares purchased in  
the market are held in the Company’s Employee Benefit Trust.
A description of each type of share-based payment arrangement that existed at any time during the period, including the general  
terms and conditions of each arrangement, such as vesting requirements, the maximum term of options granted, and the method  
of settlement (for example whether in cash or equity) is set out in the Remuneration Report.
Share-based payments expense
The amount recognised in the Income Statement for share-based payment transactions with employees for the year ended 31 December 
2015 was £1.1 million (2014: £0.4 million), of which £nil (2014: £0.1 million credit) related to employers’ tax liability.
The outstanding employers’ tax liability recognised in the Balance Sheet for UK awards was £nil (2014: £nil).
Share options outstanding at the end of the period
Options outstanding under the 2002 UK Sharesave Scheme, 2002 International Sharesave Plan, 2011 UK Sharesave Scheme and  
2011 International Sharesave Plan as at 31 December 2015, together with their exercise prices and vesting periods, are as follows:
          Weighted 
         Weighted average 
        Number average remaining 
        outstanding exercise contractual 
        (thousands) price (£) life (years) 
Range of Exercise Prices 
£1.30 - £1.40        5 1.31 1
£4.51 - £5.00        579 4.89 3
£5.01 - £5.50        400 5.16 1
Total        984 4.98 2 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 121
Movements in these share option plans were as follows:
          Weighted 
          average 
         Sharesave Exercise 
         (thousands) Price (£)
Awards at 31 December 2013         759 4.14
Exercised during 2014         (372) 3.59
Lapsed during 2014         (83) 5.29
Granted during 2014         433 4.98
Awards at 31 December 2014         737 5.05
Exercised during 2015         (172) 5.30
Lapsed during 2015         (82) 5.09
Granted during 2015         501 5.00
Awards at 31 December 2015         984 4.98
Awards exercisable at 31 December 2015        12 5.43
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was £6.22 (2014: £5.91).
 2011 2011 UK and 2011 UK and 2014 2014 2014 
 International International International Long Term Long Term Deferred 
 Sharesave Sharesave Sharesave Incentive Incentive Bonus 
Arrangement Plan 2 Year Scheme 3 Year Scheme 5 Year Plan Plan Plan
Nature of Arrangement “Save as you “Save as you “Save as you Share award Share award Share award 
   earn scheme” earn scheme” earn scheme” plan plan plan 
      
Date of Grant 25 Sep 2015 25 Sep 2015 25 Sep 2015 8 Apr 2015 23 Nov 2015 16 Apr 2015
Number of Instruments  
granted (thousands) 139 353 9 538 28 26
Exercise Price £5.22 £4.92 £4.92 n/a n/a n/a 
Share price at date of grant £5.95 £5.95 £5.95 £6.43 £6.07 £6.64
Contractual Life (yrs) 2.3 3.6 5.6 n/a n/a n/a 
Expected Option Life (yrs) 2.1 3.3 5.3 n/a n/a n/a 
      Relative TSR 
      performance   
      against Service 
   2 year 3 year 5 year comparator period 
   service period service period service period group and between 3 year 
   and savings and savings and savings adjusted 31 Jan 2016 service 
Vesting Conditions requirement requirement requirement EPS growth to 31 Jan 2019 period 
Settlement Shares Shares Shares Shares Shares Shares 
Expected Volatility
 (1)
 23.0% 23.0% 23.0% 22.7% - -
Risk free interest rate 0.65% 0.89% 1.21% n/a n/a n/a
Expected Dividend Yield 4.00% 4.00% 4.00% n/a n/a n/a
Expected departures  
(per annum from grant date) 5% 5% 5% 10% n/a n/a
Expected outcome of  
non-market based related  
performance condition n/a n/a n/a 25% n/a n/a
Fair value per granted  
instrument determined  
at the grant date £0.88 £1.06 £1.10 £6.43/£3.05
 (2)
 £6.07 £6.64
Valuation Model Black Scholes Black Scholes Black Scholes Monte Carlo
 (3)
 n/a n/a
(1)
  The expected volatility of 2014 Long Term Incentive Plan is based on historical volatility determined by the analysis of daily share prices over a period 
commensurate with the expected lifetime of the award and ending on the date of grant of the award. Due to significant fluctuations in Vitec’s share price during 
the year a uniform rate has been used for all the Sharesave options as a reasonable estimate of volatility going-forward.
(2) 
The first figure represents fair value of awards subject to adjusted EPS growth criteria and the second figure represents fair value of awards subject to TSR criteria.
(3)  
For the 2015 LTIP , a Monte-Carlo simulation has been used. Under this valuation method, the share price for Vitec is projected at the end of the performance 
period as the TSR for Vitec and the companies in the comparator group. Based on these projections, the number of awards that will vest is determined. 
Thousands of simulations are run and the fair value of the award is calculated as the product of the vesting probability and the share price at the date of grant. 122 The Vitec Group plc
Section 5 – Other Supporting Notes
5.5 Related party transactions
A related party relationship is based on the ability of one party to control or significantly influence the other.
The Group has identified the Directors, the Vitec Group Pension Scheme and members of the Operations Executive  
as related parties to the Company under IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures.
Transactions with key management personnel
Details of Directors’ remuneration along with their pension, share incentive, bonus arrangements and holdings of the Company’s shares 
are shown in detail in the Remuneration Report.
The compensation of the six (2014: seven) members of the Operations Executive during the year, including the Executive Directors is 
shown in the table below:
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Salaries         1.5 1.7
Performance-related bonuses         0.4 0.8
Share-based payment charge
 (1)
         0.4 0.1
Other short-term employee benefits         0.1 0.2
Post employment benefits         0.2 0.2
(1)
 IFRS 2 charge recognised in the Income Statement for share-based payment transactions with members of the Operations Executive.
5.4 Leases
Operating leases primarily relate to the Group’s properties, which principally comprise offices, warehouses and factory 
facilities. None of the leases include contingent rentals.
Accounting policies
Leases
Operating leases are those which do not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, the rentals of which 
are charged to the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
     Land and  Total Land and  Total 
     buildings Other 2015 buildings Other 2014 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases 
Expiring within one year     0.7 0.1 0.8 1.1 0.1 1.2
Expiring two to five years     9.1 0.7 9.8 8.2 1.1 9.3
Expiring after five years     2.1 - 2.1 2.6 - 2.6
       11.9 0.8 12.7 11.9 1.2 13.1
During the year £5.5 million (2014: £4.9 million) was recognised in the Income Statement in respect of operating lease payments. Annual Report & Accounts 2015 123
Company County of incorporation Issued securities 
ALC Broadcast Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Anton/Bauer Europe B.V. Netherlands Ordinary shares of e1 each 
Autocue Group Limited England & Wales  Ordinary shares of £0.01 each 
Autocue Limited  
(formerly Manfrotto Limited) England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Autocue LLC  
(formerly Vitec Teleprompt LLC) United States  Member interests of NPV 
Autoscript Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Bexel Global Broadcast  
Solutions Limited (formerly  
Vinten Properties Limited) England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Bogen Imaging UK Limited England & Wales Ordinary share of £1 each 
Broadcast Developments Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Camera Corps Ltd England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Camera Dynamics sarl France Ordinary shares of NPV 
Chalfont Investments Inc United States Ordinary shares of US$0.01 each 
Colorama Photodisplay  
Holdings Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Colorama Photodisplay Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Gitzo Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Gitzo S.A. France Ordinary shares of NPV 
Haigh-Farr, Inc. United States Ordinary shares of US$1 each 
Henry (Holdings) Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Kata UK Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Kata Vitec P Limited Israel Ordinary shares of ILS1 each 
Lastolite Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
LCB Beteiligungs GmbH Germany Ordinary shares of e25,000 each 
Lino Manfrotto & Co Spa Italy Ordinary shares of e5.556 each 
Litepanels Ltd England & Wales Ordinary shares of US$1 each 
Manfrotto Bags Ltd Israel Ordinary shares of ILS1 each 
Manfrotto Distribution GmbH Germany Shares of e25,000 each 
Manfrotto Distribution HK Limited Hong Kong Shares of HKD1 each 
Manfrotto Distribution Inc United Sates Ordinary shares of NPV 
Manfrotto Distribution KK Japan Shares of JP¥1 each 
Manfrotto Distribution Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Manfrotto Distribution SAS France Shares of e16 each 
Manfrotto Distribution  
Shanghai Limited China Ordinary shares of US$1 each 
Manfrotto UK Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Mount Olive 2016, LLC United States Member interests of NPV 
Palmer Dollar Finance England & Wales Ordinary shares of $1 each 
Palmer Dollar Finance  
Netherlands B.V. Netherlands Ordinary shares of e1 each 
5.6 Group investments
The Group’s subsidiaries as at 31 December 2015 are listed below. All subsidiaries are 100% owned within the Group.
5.7 Subsequent events
On 13 January 2016 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Manfrotto Distribution Benelux B.V . (formerly Provak Foto  
Film Video B.V .), based in the Netherlands, through a business combination for a net cash consideration of e1.1 million (£0.9 million).  
The acquisition complements the Group’s owned distribution channels. The acquisition accounting for the business combination is 
incomplete as information is finalised.
Company County of incorporation Issued securities 
Palmer Euro Finance  
Netherlands B.V. Netherlands Ordinary shares of e1 each 
Palmer Finance England & Wales Ordinary shares of e1 each 
Palmer Finance Netherlands  
Cooperatief W.A. Netherlands Membership shares of e1 each 
Palmer Yen Finance England & Wales Ordinary shares of JP¥100 each 
Panlight Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Petrol Bags Limited Israel Ordinary shares of ILS1 each 
Petrol Bags Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Radamec Broadcast  
Systems Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
RECO Srl Italy Shares of NPV 
Sachtler Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
SmallHD LLC United States Member interests of NPV 
Teradek Ukraine LLC Ukraine Member interests of NPV 
Teradek, LLC United States Member interests of NPV 
The Camera Store Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Vinten Broadcast Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Vinten Instruments Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Vitec Brasil Commercio  
Importacao e Intermediacao  
de Tecnologias, Ltda Brazil Shares of BRL1 each 
Vitec Broadcast Services Inc United States Ordinary shares of US$0.01 each 
Vitec Group Holdings Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Vitec Group Pensions Trust  
Company (UK) Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Vitec Group US Holdings, Inc. United States Ordinary shares of US$0.01 each 
Vitec Holdings Limited Guernsey Ordinary shares of £0.10 each 
Vitec Investments Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Vitec UK Finance Limited England & Wales  Ordinary shares of US$1 each 
and deferred shares of $50 each
Vitec UK Investments Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Vitec Videocom GmbH Germany Ordinary shares of DEM1 each 
Vitec Videocom KK Japan Ordinary shares of JP¥1,000 each 
Vitec Videocom Limitada Costa Rica Shares of CRC50 each 
Vitec Videocom Limited England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Vitec Videocom Pte Limited Singapore Ordinary shares of SGD1 each 
Vitec Videocom, Inc United States Ordinary shares of US$0.01 each 
Vitecgroup Italia spa Italy Ordinary shares of e1,000 each 
Wheatfield Kingston Finance (UK) England & Wales Ordinary shares of £1 each 
Wheatfield Kingston Investments England & Wales Ordinary shares of £0.01 each 124 The Vitec Group plc
         2015 2014 
        Notes £m £m
Fixed assets    
Property, plant and equipment (includes £1.0 million held for sale)      f) 1.1 1.3 
Investments in subsidiary undertakings        g) 443.8 419.3 
           444.9 420.6 
Current assets   
Debtors        h) 2.4 4.7
Cash at bank and in hand         9.5 1.1
           11.9 5.8
Liabilities falling due within one year   
Creditors        i) (8.6) (8.4)
Provisions         - (0.1)
           (8.6) (8.5)
Net current assets/(liabilities)         3.3 (2.7)
Total assets less current liabilities         448.2 417.9
Liabilities falling due after one year   
Creditors        i) (138.9) (112.9)
Net assets         309.3 305.0
Capital and reserves   
Called up share capital        j) 8.9 8.9
Share premium account         14.3 13.4
Revaluation reserve         0.9 0.9
Other reserves        k) 55.3 55.3
Profit and loss account         229.9 226.5
Equity shareholders’ funds         309.3 305.0
Approved by the Board on 22 February 2016 and signed on its behalf:
Paul Hayes 
Group Finance Director
The Vitec Group plc 
Registered in England and Wales no. 227691
Company Balance Sheet  
 As at 31 December 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 125
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
         Profit  
     Share Share Revaluation Other and loss Total 
     capital premium reserve reserves account equity 
    Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2015     8.9 13.4 0.9 55.3 226.5 305.0 
Total comprehensive income for the year       
Profit for the year     - - - - 12.9 12.9 
Contributions by and distributions to owners       
Dividends paid     - - - - (10.7) (10.7)
Share-based payment charge, net of tax     - - - - 1.2 1.2 
New shares issued     - 0.9 - - - 0.9 
Balance at 31 December 2015     8.9 14.3 0.9 55.3 229.9 309.3 
Balance at 1 January 2014     8.8 12.1 0.9 55.3 226.6 303.7 
FRS 101 adjustments on transition date    m) - - - - 0.7 0.7 
Balance at 1 January 2014 (restated)     8.8 12.1 0.9 55.3 227.3 304.4 
Total comprehensive income for the year       
Profit for the year     - - - - 11.2 11.2 
FRS 101 adjustment    m) - - - - (0.7) (0.7)
Profit for the year (restated)     - - - - 10.5 10.5 
Contributions by and distributions to owners       
Dividends paid     - - - - (10.3) (10.3)
Own shares purchased     - - - - (1.5) (1.5)
Share-based payment charge, net of tax     - - - - 0.5 0.5 
New shares issued     0.1 1.3 - - - 1.4 
Balance at 31 December 2014     8.9 13.4 0.9 55.3 226.5 305.0 126 The Vitec Group plc
a) Basis of preparation
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework 
(“FRS 101”). The amendments to FRS 101 (2013/2014 Cycle) issued in July 2014 and effective immediately have been applied.
In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (“Adopted IFRSs”), but makes amendments where necessary in order to comply 
with the Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where advantage of the FRS 101 disclosure exemptions have been taken.
These are the Company’s first financial statements under FRS 101. The transition from UK GAAP to FRS 101 has resulted in certain  
re-classifications and re-measurements to represent the reported financial position and financial performance of the Company.  
These changes are explained in note m.
Under Section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own Profit and Loss Account.
b) Exemptions taken by the Company on adoption of IFRS
IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions from the full requirements of Adopted IFRSs in the transition period. The following exemptions have 
been taken in these financial statements:
•  Share-based payments - IFRS 2 is being applied to equity instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 and that had not 
vested by 1 January 2014.
•  Revaluation as deemed cost - Land and buildings that had been previously revalued are measured on the basis of deemed cost at  
1 January 2014.
The Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures:
•  Cash Flow Statement and related notes;
•  Comparative period reconciliations for share capital, tangible fixed assets and intangible assets;
•  Disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly-owned subsidiaries;
•  Disclosures in respect of capital management;
•  The effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs;
•  An additional Balance Sheet for the beginning of the earliest comparative period following the reclassification of items in the financial 
statements (see note m); and
•  Disclosures in respect of the compensation of Key Management Personnel.
As the consolidated financial statements of The Vitec Group plc include the equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken the 
exemptions under FRS 101 available in respect of the following disclosures:
•  IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments in respect of Group settled share-based payments;
•  Certain disclosures required by IFRS 3 Business Combinations in respect of business combinations undertaken by the Company  
in the current and prior periods; and
•  Certain disclosures required by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and the disclosures required by IFRS 7 Financial Instrument Disclosures.
c) Accounting policies
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements and in preparing 
an opening FRS 101 Balance Sheet at 1 January 2014 for the purposes of transition to FRS 101.
Property, plant and equipment 
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis over 
their estimated useful lives. No depreciation is provided on freehold land. Other fixed assets are depreciated as follows:
Freehold buildings     up to 50 years
Leasehold improvements     over the remaining period of the lease
Equipment, fixtures & fittings     3 to 10 years
Certain land and buildings that had been revalued to fair value prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are measured on 
the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount at the date of transition.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements Annual Report & Accounts 2015 127
Assets held for sale
Assets are classified as held for sale if it is highly probable that they will be recovered primarily through sale rather than through 
continuing use. They are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Intangible assets
The cost of acquiring software (including associated implementation and development costs where applicable) is classified as an 
intangible asset. Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.  
Software expenditure is amortised over its estimated useful life of between 3 and 5 years, and is stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment losses.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at historical cost less provisions for impairment.
Pensions
The Company participates in the Group’s defined benefit scheme operated in the UK, which was closed to future benefit accrual  
with effect from 31 July 2010. All UK employees of the Company are now offered membership of the defined contribution scheme.  
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Company. The Company has a very small proportion of the scheme’s 
total members. As such, the Group has adopted a policy to recognise the full net pension cost, and hence pension deficit, in its subsidiary 
Vitec Videocom Limited’s financial statements prepared in accordance with FRS 101. Upon transition to FRS 101, the Company has been 
allocated a £nil share of the assets and liabilities of the Group’s UK defined benefit scheme as per the stated policy.
Details in respect of the UK defined benefit pension scheme are disclosed in note 5.2 “Pensions” of the Group’s consolidated  
financial statements.
Dividends payable
Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier of their approval by the Company’s shareholders or their payment. 
Dividends receivable
Dividends received and receivable are credited to the Company’s Profit and Loss Account.
Other significant accounting policies are consistent with the Group’s consolidated financial statements and below are 
references where they are disclosed:
Foreign currencies    Section 1 - Basis of preparation
Intangible assets    3.1 “Intangible assets”
Debtors and Creditors    3.3 “Working capital”
Cash and cash equivalents    4.1 “Net debt”
Provisions    3.6 “Provisions”
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities  4.2 “Financial instruments”
Bank loans    4.1 “Net debt”
Leases    5.4 “Leases”
Share-based payments    5.3 “Share-based payments”
Share capital and reserves    4.3 “Share capital and reserves”
d) Employees
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Employee costs comprise: 
Wages and salaries         3.4 3.2 
Employers’ social security costs         0.4 0.4 
Employers’ pension costs - defined contribution schemes       0.1 0.1 
Share-based payment charge
 
        0.4 0.2 
           4.3 3.9 
         2015 2014
Average number of employees during the year        22 22 
Further details of Directors’ remuneration and share incentives are disclosed in the Remuneration Report. 128 The Vitec Group plc
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
e) Audit fees
The details regarding the remuneration of the Company’s auditor are included in Note 2.1 “Profit before tax” of the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements under “Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual financial statements”.
f) Property, plant and equipment
         Freehold 
         land and Leasehold 
        Total buildings buildings 
        £m £m £m
Cost    
At 31 December 2014 (restated) and 1 January 2015
 (1)
       3.1 2.6 0.5
Accumulated depreciation    
At 31 December 2014 (restated) and 1 January 2015
 (1)
       1.8 1.5 0.3
Charge for the year        0.2 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 2015        2.0 1.6 0.4
Net book value    
At 31 December 2014 (restated) and 1 January 2015
 (1) 
      1.3 1.1 0.2
At 31 December 2015        1.1 1.0 0.1
(1) 
See note m
During the year freehold land and buildings of a net book value of £1.0 million were re-classified as assets held for sale. These were 
disposed in 2016.
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Land and buildings    
Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases    
Expiring within one year         - 0.2
Expiring after five years         1.1 1.2
           1.1 1.4
During the year £0.2 million was recognised in the profit and loss account in respect of operating lease payments (2014: £0.3 million).
g) Investments in subsidiary undertakings
         Shares Loans 
         in Group to Group 
        Total undertakings undertakings 
        £m £m £m
Cost 
At 1 January 2015        419.9 345.0 74.9
Additions        24.5 17.8 6.7
At 31 December 2015        444.4 362.8 81.6
Provisions    
At 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2015       0.6 0.6 - 
Net book value    
At 1 January 2015        419.3 344.4 74.9
At 31 December 2015        443.8 362.2 81.6 
The additions in investments during the year reflect the Company’s restructuring of certain subsidiary holding and financing companies.
The Company’ s investments in subsidiaries as at 31 December 2015 are included in Note 5.6 “Group investments” of the Group’ s consolidated 
financial statements.  Annual Report & Accounts 2015 129
h) Debtors
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year  
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings         - 1.8
Corporation tax         - 0.5
Other debtors         0.7 0.8
Derivative financial instruments - forward exchange contracts       1.6 1.0
Deferred tax assets         0.1 0.3
Prepayments and accrued income         - 0.3
           2.4 4.7
i) Creditors
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year  
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings         5.1 5.1
Derivative financial instruments - forward exchange contracts       1.6 1.0
Corporation tax         0.1 -
Other creditors         0.4 0.2
Accruals and deferred income         1.4 2.1
           8.6 8.4
Amounts falling due after more than one year    
Bank loans (unsecured)         87.5 77.9
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings         51.4 35.0
           138.9 112.9 
Contingent liabilities
There are no contingent liabilities at 31 December 2015 (2014: £nil).
j) Called up share capital
Disclosure in respect of the Company’ s share capital is provided in note 4.3 “Share capital” of the Group’ s consolidated financial statements.
Options over shares of the Company have been granted to employees of the Company under various plans. Details of the terms and conditions 
of each share-based payment plan are given in the annual remuneration report on pages 56 to 73 and note 5.3 “Share-based payments” of 
the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
k) Other Reserves
Other reserves of £55.3 million represent a merger reserve of £9.7 million, the capitalisation of the share premium account, £22.7 million 
in 1989 and £37.3 million in 1995 less £16.0 million of share repurchases in 1995, and a capital redemption reserve of £1.6 million 
created on the repurchase and subsequent cancellation of 885 thousand ordinary shares by the Company in 1999.
l) Related party transactions
The Company has identified a related party relationship with its Board, the Vitec Group Pension Scheme and members of the Operations 
Executive as disclosed in the Remuneration Report and note 5.5 “Related party transactions” of the Group’ s consolidated financial statements. 
There are no other related party transactions to disclose.
m) Explanation of transition to FRS 101 from old UK GAAP
As stated in Note a, these are the Company’s first financial statements prepared in accordance with FRS 101.
The accounting policies set out in Note c have been applied in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015, 
the comparative information presented in these financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 and the opening FRS 101 
balance sheet as at 1 January 2014 (the Company’s date of transition). 130 The Vitec Group plc
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
In preparing its opening FRS 101 balance sheet, the Company has adjusted amounts reported previously in financial statements 
prepared in accordance with its old basis of accounting (UK GAAP). An explanation of how the transition from UK GAAP to FRS 101  
has affected the Company’s financial position on 1 January 2014 (date of transition to FRS 101) and 31 December 2014, and its  
financial performance is set out in the following table and the notes that accompany the table.
Balance Sheets
   1 January 2014 31 December 2014
    FRS 101 re-     
    classifications    FRS 101  
    and re-    re-classifications and  
   UK GAAP measurements FRS 101  UK GAAP re-measurements FRS 101
  Note £m £m £m  £m £m £m £m
Fixed Assets
Intangible fixed assets  (i) - - -  - - - - 
Property, plant and equipment  (i) (ii) 1.4 - 1.4  1.3 - - 1.3
Investments in subsidiary undertakings   398.3 - 398.3  419.3 - - 419.3 
     399.7 - 399.7  420.6 - - 420.6 
Current Assets
Debtors   6.9 - 6.9  4.7 - - 4.7 
Cash at bank and in hand   13.9 - 13.9  1.1 - - 1.1 
     20.8 - 20.8  5.8 - - 5.8 
Liabilities falling due within one year
Creditors   (11.4) - (11.4)  (8.4) - - (8.4)
Provisions   (0.2) - (0.2)  (0.1) - - (0.1)
     (11.6) - (11.6)  (8.5) - - (8.5)
Net current assets/(liabilities)   9.2 - 9.2  (2.7) - - (2.7)
Total assets less current liabilities   408.9 - 408.9  417.9 - - 417.9
Liabilities falling due after one year   
Creditors  (iii) (105.1) 0.7 (104.4)  (112.9) 0.7 (0.7) (112.9)
Provisions   (0.1) - (0.1)  - - - - 
     (105.2) 0.7 (104.5)  (112.9) 0.7 (0.7) (112.9)
Net assets   303.7 0.7 304.4  305.0 0.7 (0.7) 305.0 
Capital and reserves          
Called up share capital   8.8 - 8.8  8.9 - - 8.9 
Share premium account   12.1 - 12.1  13.4 - - 13.4 
Revaluation reserve   0.9 - 0.9  0.9 - - 0.9 
Merger and other reserves   55.3 - 55.3  55.3 - - 55.3 
Profit and loss account  (iii) 226.6 0.7 227.3  226.5 0.7 (0.7) 226.5 
Equity Shareholders’ funds   303.7 0.7 304.4  305.0 0.7 (0.7) 305.0 
Notes to the FRS 101 adjustments to the Balance Sheet on transition (1 January 2014) and at 31 December 2014
A summary of the principal differences between old UK GAAP and FRS 101 are as follows:
(i) Intangible fixed assets FRS 101 requires computer software that is not an integral part of the hardware to be treated as an 
intangible asset. Under old UK GAAP , all capitalised software was categorised as property, plant and equipment.
This has resulted in a re-classification of software costs of a net book value of £nil (cost: £0.1 million, amortisation: £0.1 million)  
from property, plant and equipment to intangible fixed assets at 1 January 2014, the date of transition, and at 31 December 2014.  
There was £nil effect on the profit and loss account for the year ending 31 December 2014.
(ii) Property, plant and equipment The company has elected to use a previous revaluation of land and buildings under old UK GAAP 
as deemed cost on 1 January 2014, the date of transition.
The deemed cost at 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014 is measured at the previously revalued amount of £2.6 million.
(iii) Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings Under FRS 101, amounts owed by the Company to subsidiary undertakings are 
measured at fair value using the amortised cost method at the effective interest rate. From 1 January 2015, a market rate of interest is 
applied to these loans, making the carrying value of these loans the same as their fair value.
At 1 January 2014, the fair valuation results in a reduction of £0.7 million in amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings with an increase 
in reserves of the same amount. In the year ending 31 December 2014, an amount of £0.7 million was charged to the profit and loss 
account as the fair valuation was unwound. Annual Report & Accounts 2015 131
      2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 
      £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue      317.8 309.6 315.4 345.3 351.0
Operating profit
 (1)
      35.4 38.8 39.5 39.3 34.5
Net interest on interest-bearing loans and borrowings     (4.0) (3.6) (3.6) (3.2) (1.9)
Other financial income/(expense)      0.1 0.1 (0.3) 0.1 0.4
Profit before tax
(2)
      31.5 35.3 35.6 36.2 33.0
Cash generated from operating activities      41.7 42.0 52.4 38.4 39.1
Interest paid      (4.0) (3.3) (3.6) (3.1) (1.8)
Tax paid      (5.6) (3.5) (8.5) (10.8) (11.1)
Net cash from operating activities      32.1 35.2 40.3 24.5 26.2
Net capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment, software and development costs  (15.9) (17.0) (18.9) (13.7) (9.7)
Free cash flow      16.2 18.2 21.4 10.8 16.5
Capital employed     
Intangible assets      90.7 87.1 76.3 68.2 75.0
Property, plant and equipment      53.8 54.8 53.5 48.6 50.1
Other net assets      45.0 35.2 39.2 48.3 39.5
        189.5 177.1 169.0 165.1 164.6
Financed by     
Shareholders’ funds - equity      126.3 118.6 120.2 114.6 129.3
Net debt      76.3 70.9 61.5 63.7 50.4
Deferred tax      (13.1) (12.4) (12.7) (13.2) (15.1)
        189.5 177.1 169.0 165.1 164.6
Statistics     
Operating profit (%)
 (1)
      11.1 12.5 12.5 11.4 9.8
Effective tax rate (%)
 (2)
      30.4 30.0 30.9 32.9 32.7
Adjusted basic earnings per share (p)
(3)
      49.4 55.9 56.1 55.8 51.4
Basic earnings per share (p)      29.3 29.4 31.9 13.6 34.7
Dividends per share (p)      24.6 24.0 23.0 22.0 20.5
Year end mid-market share price (p)      602.5 594.0 639.0 635.3 555.7
(1)
  Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses.
(2) 
Before restructuring costs, charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business.
(3)  
Differences between adjusted basic and basic earnings per share arise from restructuring costs, charges associated with acquired businesses, disposal of 
business and related tax in the years in question.
Five Year Financial Summary 
 Years ended 31 December 132 The Vitec Group plc
Shareholder Information and Financial Calendar
Shareholder information
The Investors section of the Company’s website, 
www.vitecgroup.com, contains detailed information on news, 
key financial information, annual reports, financial calendar, share 
price information, dividends and key contact details. The following 
is a summary and readers are encouraged to view the website for 
more detailed information.
Shareholder enquiries
For all enquiries about your shareholding please contact the 
Company’s registrar:
*  Calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone company’s access charge.  
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international 
rate. We are open between 09:00 - 17:30, Monday to Friday excluding public 
holidays in England and Wales.
Dividend reinvestment plan
The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan that enables 
shareholders to reinvest cash dividends into additional shares in 
the Company. Application forms can be obtained from Capita. You 
must arrange for your Dividend Reinvestment Plan application form 
to be received by Capita no later than 25 April 2016 to join the plan 
for the final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015.
International dividend payment service
Overseas shareholders can receive their dividends in a local 
currency instead of in Sterling and can find out more about this  
by calling 0871 664 0385 (Calls cost 12p per minute plus your 
phone company’s access charge. Calls outside the United 
Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate.  
Capita can be reached between 9.00am and 5.30pm,  
Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales) 
or by visiting http://international.capitaregistrars.com. Any election 
to receive dividends in local currency in respect of the final 
dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 payable on Friday, 
20 May 2016 must be received by Capita no later than the record 
date for the final dividend, Friday, 22 April 2016.
Share price information
The closing middle market price of a share of The Vitec Group plc 
on 31 December 2015 was £6.025. During the year, the share 
price fluctuated between £5.90 and £6.70. The Company’s share 
price is available from the Group’s website, www.vitecgroup.com, 
with a 15-minute delay, and from the Financial Times website, 
www.ft.com, with a similar delay.
Share scams
Shareholders should be aware that fraudsters may try and 
use high pressure tactics to lure investors into share scams. 
Information on share scams can be found on the Financial 
Conduct Authority’s website, www.fca.org.uk/scams, or via  
their consumer helpline: 0800 111 6768.
Financial calendar
Analysis of shareholdings as at 31 December 2015
Capita Asset Services (“Capita”)
Website www.capitashareportal.com
Email shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk
Address The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, 
Kent BR3 4TU
Phone from UK 0871 664 0300* 
 Number % Number % 
Shares held of holders of holders of shares of shares
Up to 1,000 486 51.8 180,419 0.4
1,001 to 5,000 267 28.3 633,852 1.4
5,001 to 10,000 50 5.3 377,346 0.8
10,001 to 50,000 75 8.0 1,854,990 4.2
50,001 to 100,000 19 2.0 1,480,726 3.3
100,001 and over 43 4.6 39,967,027 89.9
 940 100 44,494,360 100
Institutions 
and companies 312 33.2 42,431,547 95.4
Individuals including  
Directors and their 
families 628 66.8 2,062,813 4.6
 940 100 44,494,360 100
Ex-dividend date for 2015 final dividend Thursday, 21 April 2016
Record date for 2015 final dividend Friday, 22 April 2016
Annual General Meeting Wednesday, 18 May 2016 (10.00 am)
2015 final dividend payment date Friday, 20 May 2016
Announcement of 2016 half year results Thursday, 4 August 2016
Proposed 2016 interim dividend payment date October 2016
Find out more 
www.vitecgroup.com/Investors/Shareholderservices Designed and produced by Design Motive Ltd
Printed and bound in the UK by CPI Colour Ltd
Inside this report
Corporate 
Governance
38 Board of Directors 
40  Chairman’s Report
52  Audit Committee Report
Remuneration  
Report
56  Remuneration Committee Chairman    
 Statement
58  Summary of Remuneration Policy Report
63  Annual Report on Remuneration 
Independent  
Auditor’s Report
76 Independent Auditor’s Report 
Directors’ Report
74 Directors’ Report 
Corporate 
Responsibility
28  Commitment to Sustainable Business
29 Business Ethics 
30  Environment 
32 Employees 
36 Community & Charitable Donations 
Financial Statements
79  Table of Contents
80  Primary Statements 
85  Section 1 - Basis of Preparation 
87 Section 2 - Results for the Year 
95 Section 3 - Operating Assets and Liabilities 
108  Section 4 - Capital Structure
115  Section 5 - Other Supporting Notes 
124 Company Financial Statements 
131 Five Year Financial Summary 
132  Shareholder Information and  
 Financial Calendar 
Strategic Report
01  Highlights 
02  Chairman’s Statement 
04  Vitec Group Overview
06  What We Do
08  Group Chief Executive’s Review 
10  Our Business Model 
12  Progress On Our Strategic Priorities
13  Key Performance Indicators 
14 Market Update: Broadcast 
16 Market Update: Photographic 
18 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
20  Financial Review
24  Broadcast Division 
26  Photographic Division 
Where 
the story 
comes to 
life
The Vitec Group plc
Cautionary statement: Statements made in the Strategic Report through to the end of 
the Directors’ Report (pages 1 to 75) contain forward-looking statements that are subject to 
risk factors associated with, among other things, the economic and business circumstances 
occurring from time to time in the countries and sectors in which the Group operates. It is 
believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may 
be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially 
from those currently anticipated. Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be 
construed as a profit forecast.
The Vitec Group plc website
www.vitecgroup.com
Annual Report & Accounts online
www.vitecgroup.com/annual_report_2015 The Vitec Group plc  
Annual Report 
& Accounts  
2015
The Vitec Group plc
Bridge House
Heron Square
Richmond  
TW9 1EN
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 8332 4600
F +44 (0)20 8948 8277
info@vitecgroup.com
www.vitecgroup.com
Registered in England and Wales no. 227691
The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
