 The Weir Group PLC 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 The Weir Group PLC is one of the world’s leading engineering businesses. Since our foundation in 1871, we have been committed  
to creating innovative engineering solutions for our global customers and delivering long-term value to our shareholders.
Our mission is to be wherever and 
whenever our global customers 
need us delivering innovative 
products and services 
Our strategy and business model 
provides a robust platform for 
sustainable growth across  
the economic cycle. 
We have developed global leadership 
positions in structurally strong markets 
and used our scale to successfully 
expand our range of products  
and services. 
Our competitive advantage is sustained by 
investing in the best people, products  
and services to continue to make our 
customers more efficient and ensure  
we capture future growth opportunities.
We are committed to being a trusted 
partner of choice to our customers, 
suppliers and the communities in  
which we operate around the world.
Read more about Our Strategy and Business Model from page 8.
Read more in our Operational Review from page 32.
Read more in our Chief Executive’s Strategic Review from page 10.
Read more in our Sustainability Review from page 52. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
1 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Strong constant currency growth.
14% increase in aftermarket orders and revenues.
Innovation: New products driving growth. Comminution 
and premium fluid end input of £105m; R&D up 15%. 
Collaboration: Second global customer agreement 
secured with major mining house.
Value Chain Excellence: £46m in procurement savings 
achieved in 2014.
Global Capability: Trio acquisition strengthening 
presence in Chinese mining markets and US aggregates.
Total exceptional costs of £212m: Primarily in relation to 
£49m of efficiency review costs and the non-cash £160m 
oil price driven impairment of Pressure Control goodwill.
1. Continuing operations adjusted to exclude exceptional items  
and intangibles amortisation.
2. 2013 restated at 2014 average exchange rates.
Revenue
£2,438m
0%
Operating profit
1
£450m
-4%
Dividend per share
44.0p
+5%
Net debt
£861m
-£114m
Profit before tax
1
£409m
-2%
Order input
2
£2,473m
+9%
Earnings per share
1
141.3p
-3%
Cash from operations
£421m
-11%
2014 Highlights
Strategic Report 
1–68
2014 Highlights 1
Weir at a Glance 2
Understanding Our Markets 4
Chairman’s Statement  6
Our Strategy and Business Model 8
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review 10
Strategy in Action 14
Key Performance Indicators 22
How We Manage Risk 24
Operational Review 32
Financial Review 46
Sustainability Review 52
Corporate Governance 
69–112
Group Executive 69
Board of Directors 70
Corporate Governance Report 72
Nomination Committee Report 83
Report of the Audit Committee 85
Remuneration Report 91
Directors’ Report 109
Financial Statements 
113–182
Independent Auditor’s Report 113
Consolidated Income Statement  118
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income  119
Consolidated Balance Sheet 120
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement  121
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 122
Notes to the Group Financial Statements 123
Company Balance Sheet  170
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 171
Principal Companies of the Group  183
Shareholder Information 185
Glossary 187
Financial Calendar 188 2 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
The Weir Group consists of three complementary divisions which 
operate in markets and share strong prospects for long-term  
growth. Our products and services help meet the demands of  
the world’s growing population for energy and natural resources.  
You can learn more in ‘Understanding Our Markets’ on pages 4 and 5. 
Weir at a Glance
Global capability,  
local delivery  
Designing, manufacturing and 
supporting products used in 
mining and minerals processing. 
Weir Minerals is the global 
market leader in slurry  
handling equipment. 
 
Designing, manufacturing  
and supporting products used  
in the upstream pressure 
pumping, upstream pressure 
control and downstream refining 
operations. Weir Oil & Gas is 
the global market leader in 
pressure pumping equipment. 
Designing, manufacturing  
and supporting valves, pumps 
and turbines which are used  
in conventional and renewable 
power and industrial operations 
and in oil and gas production, 
mid-stream and refining markets. 
2014 Revenue
*
£1,128m 
-4%
2014 Operating profit
*
£226m 
-7%
2014 Revenue
*
£992m 
+32%
2014 Operating profit
*
£225m 
+32%
2014 Revenue
*
£318m 
+1%
2014 Operating profit
*
£19m 
-37%
Key brands: 
Warman, GEHO, Linatex, Vulco,  
Cavex, Enduron and Trio.
Main markets: 
Mining and minerals processing, 
including comminution, slurry 
transportation and mine dewatering; 
sand and aggregates; and oil sands.
Major operational locations: 
US, Chile, Brazil, Peru, UK, Netherlands, 
South Africa, Malaysia, China  
and Australia. 
Key brands: 
SPM, Seaboard, Mathena,  
Novatech, Gabbioneta and  
Weir Oil & Gas Services.
Main markets: 
Oil and gas drilling, completion, 
production and refining. 
Major operational locations: 
US, Canada, UK, Middle East,  
China and Australia.
Key brands: 
Hopkinsons, Atwood & Morrill, 
Blakeborough, Sarasin-RBSD, Sebim, 
Tricentric, BDK, Roto-Jet, Weir American 
Hydro and Batley Valve.
Main markets: 
Nuclear, conventional and renewable 
power generation; water and waste 
water; mid and downstream oil and gas; 
and general industrial processes. 
Major operational locations: 
US, Canada, UK, France, South Korea, 
South Africa, India and China. 
Major customers: 
Major and junior mining houses; 
Engineering, Procurement and 
Construction Management companies 
(EPCMs); national and international  
oil companies.
Main competitors: 
Metso, FLSmidth, KSB and Outotec.
Employees: 
8,900
Addressable market: 
£6.3bn
Major customers: 
Oilfield service companies; national and 
international oil companies; and EPCMs.
Main competitors: 
FMC Technologies, Gardner Denver, 
Cameron, Sulzer and Flowserve.
Employees: 
4,200 
Addressable market: 
£8.1bn
Major customers: 
Utility companies; general industrial 
companies; EPCMs. 
Main competitors: 
Flowserve, Pentair, Velan, GE, IMI, 
Hayward Gordon, Voith and Andritz. 
Employees: 
3,200 
Addressable market: 
£8.1bn
Minerals Read more on page 32
Oil & Gas Read more on page 36
Power & Industrial Read more on page 42
* In constant currency terms. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
3 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Minerals 35%
Oil and gas 47%
Industrial and other 9%
Power 9%
North America 46%
South America 11%
Europe 12%
Australasia 8%
Middle East and Africa 13%
Asia-Paciﬁc 10%
North America 
Our Oil & Gas premium  
fluid end product, designed 
at our advanced research 
centre, is gaining market 
share by helping reduce our 
customers’ breakeven costs.
Read more on page 59
Europe
In Europe, nuclear 
opportunities are emerging 
as a result of the UK’s 
development of new  
power stations.
Read more on page 43
Asia-Pacific
In Asia-Pacific, the 
acquisition of Trio Engineered 
Products expanded our 
exposure to domestic 
Chinese mining markets. 
Read more on page 21
Middle East  
and Africa
In the Middle East and 
Africa, the Group opened a 
new regional headquarters  
and manufacturing facility  
in Dubai.
Read more on page 80
South America 
Weir Minerals has a service 
centre within 200km of 
every major mine.
Read more on page 33
Australasia
In Australia, the Minerals 
division is using its 
extensive network to 
support the growing 
internationalisation of  
the Oil & Gas division. 
Read more on page 38
2014 Group input by market 2014 Group input by geography
85 facilities
5,000 people
North America
34 facilities
3,200 people
Asia-Pacific
37 facilities
2,000 people
Middle East and Africa
22 facilities
1,200 people
Australasia
50 facilities
3,000 people
Europe
25 facilities
1,900 people
South America
Weir’s commitment to being wherever and whenever  
our global customers need us, means we have developed a 
regional manufacturing strategy and a market-leading global 
network of service centres. This delivers real competitive 
advantage in the need-it-now industries we serve. 
Total facilities
253
Total people
16,300 4 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Copper 31%
Gold 16%
Coal 8%
Iron 17%
Nickel 4%
Phosphate 3%
Other minerals 18%
Alumina 3%
10
8
6
4
2
2015
WorldDeveloping
Countries
2050 2015 2050
RuralUrban
20
5
10
15
2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024
Gold Metallurgical coal
Copper Others
Iron
Together, minerals, oil and gas and power contribute more than 90% of Group revenue.
Understanding Our Markets
Weir operates in three  
main markets with  
strong prospects  
for long-term growth 
The United Nations
1
 (UN) estimates  
the world’s population will increase  
from approximately 7 billion people  
currently to more than 8 billion in 2025  
and almost 10 billion by 2050. The UN  
also predicts that in that period an additional 
2.5 billion people will have moved from  
the countryside to live in cities, a process 
known as urbanisation. Both these trends, 
along with economic development and 
rising incomes, will underpin growing 
demand for natural resources and energy, 
supporting long-term growth in the key  
end markets served by the Group. 
As resources deplete, continuing 
investment is necessary in these markets 
simply to maintain current consumption 
levels, with additional investment needed  
to meet growing demand. In addition, 
accessing these resources is becoming 
more challenging and requires increasingly 
complex engineering solutions – a 
development which further supports Weir’s 
aftermarket-focused business model. Our 
main markets are cyclical but each share 
strong prospects for long-term growth.
Mining
As economies develop, populations rise and 
increasingly urbanise, they require greater 
quantities of mined commodities such  
as copper and iron ore to meet increased 
demand from construction, industry and 
consumer goods. Weir is a global market 
leader in the provision of equipment and 
services for the mining mill circuit, the 
process by which rock is broken down into 
these commodities. The Group’s largest 
exposures include those commodities 
which need the greatest amount of 
processing and have the strongest 
long-term prospects for growth.
The Group’s mining original equipment 
orders are driven by capital expenditure 
from its global natural resource customers. 
This can come in the form of greenfield 
expenditure on new mines or brownfield 
spending, where existing assets are 
developed to increase production or 
efficiencies. The abrasive process of  
turning rock into a valuable end-commodity 
means our equipment is exposed to 
significant wear and tear, which in turn 
generates aftermarket revenues for  
spares and servicing. This process is 
supported by another trend: global ore 
grades are in decline which means  
more ore is needed to produce the  
same amount of metal over time.
Key links to business model  
and strategy:
 – Structural growth markets.
 – Highly engineered products used  
in critical processes.
 – High levels of aftermarket support 
provide resilience.
 – Strong service presence builds  
customer intimacy.
 – Leadership in core mill circuit  
technologies.
 – Broad product portfolio across  
mill circuit process flow.
 – Global industry: diversity of  
revenue and technological  
and operational leverage.
Figure 1: Global population and 
urbanisation growth (billion)
Figure 2: Ore production in billion tonnes
Figure 3: Mining exposure 2014
1. The United Nations’ World Population Prospects: 2012 revision. 
Source: SNL, 2015.
Source: United Nations
1
. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
5 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
500
400
300
200
100
2010 2025 2040
GasOil
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
2015 2025 2035
GasOil
Natural gas
Oil
300
200
100
Oil Nuclear
GasHydro
Coal Wind and other renewables
2010 2025 2040
Oil and gas
Income growth in emerging economies  
has been the largest driver of recent  
energy demand. According to the World 
Bank, crude oil consumption in developing 
countries increased 40% in the period 2004 
to 2014. The year also saw developing 
countries consume more oil than developed 
countries for the first time in history. 
However, on a per capita basis, people in 
developed economies consume five times 
more oil than those in emerging economies. 
As these economies develop and incomes 
rise, so will long-term demand for energy. 
All three divisions have some exposure  
to this end market with Weir Oil &  
Gas operating in the conventional and 
unconventional upstream oil and gas 
markets, with a niche position supplying 
engineered to order pumps to downstream 
markets. Weir Minerals’ technology is 
deployed in applications including oil  
sands projects in Canada, and Weir  
Power & Industrial increasingly provides 
safety valve products to the Liquefied 
Natural Gas (LNG) industry and other mid 
and downstream process applications. 
The Group’s largest exposure is to the 
North American onshore unconventional 
market with international unconventional 
opportunities beginning to emerge. 
Unconventional drilling involves the 
extraction of tight oil and shale gas using 
hydraulic fracturing (fracking) where 
high-pressure water, sand and chemicals 
are used to release gas and oil from rock  
far below the surface. The International 
Energy Agency estimates the United  
States will remain “the top source of  
[oil] growth up to 2020”
2
 with most of  
the expansion from tight oil production. 
Unconventional oil and gas has become 
increasingly cost-competitive – with costs 
reducing between 20-30% in the last two 
years. Natural gas is estimated to grow 
strongly in the medium to long term as  
it is increasingly used as a feedstock for 
power generation in developed economies.
Weir Oil & Gas serves these markets  
in three main ways: pressure control 
equipment and services to Exploration  
and Production (E&P) companies, to  
ensure drilling, completion and production 
processes can be carried out efficiently and 
safely; pressure pumping equipment and 
services, which provide original equipment 
to oil and gas service companies for use  
in hydraulic fracturing; and Weir Oil & Gas 
Services, where dedicated engineering 
support and spares are provided to both 
conventional and unconventional markets  
in Europe and the Middle East. We also 
serve mid and downstream oil and gas 
markets with products for use in Floating 
Production Storage and Offloading (FPSO) 
and refining operations. 
Weir operates in three  
main markets with  
strong prospects  
for long-term growth 
Figure 4: Global oil and gas demand  
quadrillion British Thermal Units (BTUs)
Figure 6: Power Generation  
in quadrillion BTUs
Figure 5: North America oil and gas 
production forecast
2. IEA medium term oil outlook, February 2015.
3. IEA World Energy outlook, 2014.
To meet greater long-term demand for  
oil and gas, operators are increasing  
the intensity and the complexity of their  
drilling and completion applications. 
Key links to business model  
and strategy:
 – Structural growth markets.
 – Highly engineered products used  
in critical processes.
 – High pressure abrasive applications 
increase aftermarket requirements.
 – Leading service presence in all  
North American shale plays;  
strong customer partnership.
 – Pump to wellhead capability; broad 
portfolio provides opportunities in 
conventional and unconventional markets.
 – Global manufacturing and service 
footprint to capture international 
opportunities.
Power 
The International Energy Agency
3 
(IEA) 
estimates the world needs to build 7,200 
gigawatts of additional capacity by 2040 to 
satisfy increasing global electricity demand 
and replace power stations due to be 
decommissioned
3
. The greatest increases in 
demand come from emerging economies. 
The IEA estimates renewable energy, such 
as hydropower, will make an increasingly 
important contribution to meeting electricity 
demand. It also predicts low-carbon 
alternatives, such as nuclear power will 
grow strongly particularly in China, India  
and Korea. Increased natural gas supplies 
are also supporting increasing adoption  
of combined cycle gas turbine stations, 
which are seen as lower-emission than 
other conventional power sources.
Weir Power & Industrial operates in the 
conventional, nuclear and renewables 
power generation markets. It serves  
these markets through the design  
and manufacture of valves, pumps  
and turbines and the provision of  
specialist support services.
Key links to business model  
and strategy:
 – Highly engineered products used  
in critical processes.
 – High temperature, high pressure 
applications.
 – Global manufacturing and service 
footprint to capture international 
opportunities.
 – Broad valves portfolio provides  
cross-selling opportunities.
Source: Exxon Mobil Energy Outlook 2015.
Source: Exxon Mobil Energy Outlook 2015.
Source: BP energy outlook 2035, February 2015.  
  6 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Chairman’s Statement 
Responding to fast- 
changing markets
Results
Reported revenues were stable at  
£2.4bn, with pre-tax profits from continuing 
operations, before exceptional items  
and intangibles amortisation, of £409m:  
a slight decrease of 2% on 2013. Revenues 
and operating profits were affected by 
movements in foreign currency exchange 
rates, an issue which impacted the majority 
of UK listed corporations with substantial 
operations overseas. In 2014, 95% of the 
Group’s revenues were generated outside 
the United Kingdom. On a constant currency 
basis, revenues were 9% higher year on 
year with pre-tax profits increasing 7%.
The Group’s robust underlying performance, 
in a very challenging end market environment, 
is a tribute to Weir’s 16,000 people and their 
continuing commitment to delivering the best 
engineering solutions in the oil, gas, minerals 
and power industries we serve.
Dividend 
We are proposing a final dividend payment  
of 29p per share, making 44p for the full 
year, an increase of 5% and marking the  
31st consecutive year of dividend growth  
for the Group. The Board rebalanced the 
phasing of dividend payments across  
the year with the interim dividend now 
representing around one-third of the  
total payment.
Our markets in 2014 
Commodity prices declined as the year 
progressed as a result of increased supplies 
and weaker than expected global economic 
growth, particularly in China. Upstream oil 
and gas markets in North America grew 
strongly over the year, with technology  
and operational enhancements enabling 
operators to reduce their breakeven costs 
substantially. However, at the end of 2014 
we saw the first sign of the impacts on 
industry activity of a very significant fall  
in oil prices, which has continued into 2015. 
In mining markets, major commodities  
also suffered significant price reductions  
in 2014, most notably iron ore, although  
ore production levels continued to increase 
and supported aftermarket demand. Power 
markets were generally weak, reflecting 
global economic sentiment.
These market conditions posed challenges 
for the Group but one of the great advantages 
of Weir’s long history is our experience  
in responding rapidly to changing market 
conditions. We have developed a strong 
business platform but have maintained the 
agility to act quickly where it is necessary  
to support performance and promote the 
long-term interests of shareholders.
In 2014, this was demonstrated with  
the Oil & Gas division’s response to the 
speedy recovery in unconventional upstream 
North American markets. 
It showed the necessary flexibility to seize 
opportunities as they emerged, increasing 
market share. 
Following the change in market sentiment, 
the division took early action at the end of 
2014 to reduce costs and position itself to 
respond to much tougher market conditions. 
Similarly, the Minerals division responded  
to continued reductions in spending by 
mining companies by consolidating its 
manufacturing footprint to increase 
efficiency and competitiveness. In Power  
& Industrial, the division restructured  
its operations to align them more  
closely with future growth prospects.
You can read more about the performance 
of all three divisions in the operational 
review section starting on page 32. 
Strategy 
This was my first full year as Chairman  
and it has been a great pleasure to 
reacquaint myself with a company which 
has played such a large part in my family’s 
life. My father worked for Weir up until  
his retirement and I was fortunate to  
serve as an apprentice with the Company 
before beginning my engineering studies at 
university. The Group has been transformed 
in the intervening years but I am glad to 
report its commitment to innovation and 
serving its global customers remains as 
strong as ever.
2014 saw the Group return to good 
constant currency growth as it 
benefited from its market leadership 
positions and strong aftermarket focus.
Charles Berry
Chairman Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
7 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
This is demonstrated in the Group’s  
strategy of building a strong installed base 
of highly engineered original equipment and 
supporting it with a market-leading service 
centre network, ensuring we can be highly 
responsive to our customers’ aftermarket 
demands for replacement parts and 
services. Chief Executive Keith Cochrane 
details the Group’s strategy in action from 
page 10.
The Group has continued to accelerate  
its strategy through carefully targeted 
acquisitions. This was the case with  
the purchase of Chinese-American 
equipment provider Trio Engineered 
Products. It complements Weir Minerals’ 
organic entry into the comminution 
segment of the mining mill circuit for 
crushing, grinding and screening. Earlier  
in the year, the Board made a merger 
approach to Finnish mining equipment 
maker Metso Corporation. However,  
Metso rejected our proposal and as a 
consequence, the offer was withdrawn.  
The Board’s approach to mergers  
and acquisition activity is to focus on 
opportunities that fit our strategy but  
also meet our strict financial criteria.  
Indeed, the financial strength of the Group 
was emphasised by the award of strong 
investment grade credit ratings during 2014.
Safety 
As a Board, we are proud of the many 
achievements in 2014 but the continued 
improvement in the Group’s safety 
performance is particularly important  
with the Total Incident Rate falling 20%. 
Keeping our people safe is the first agenda 
item on every Board meeting and we are 
determined to achieve our ambition of 
making Weir a zero-accident workplace. 
A proud partner in our communities 
The Group has reinvigorated the culture  
and values which have defined the business 
throughout its long history: focusing on  
our customers’ needs now and in the 
future; innovating and consistently 
delivering high quality products and 
services; supporting each other as  
we work towards a common purpose;  
and acting with integrity, supported by  
a refreshed code of conduct. You can  
learn more on page 67.
As a company operating in more than 70 
countries, our people call many communities 
home. Weir spent £1.2bn in 2014 on our 
supply chain, helping to create and support 
employment around the world. The Group 
also devoted approximately £600,000 to 
local charitable causes, with a special  
focus on health and education.
During 2014, we continued to strengthen 
many of our sustainability programmes.  
I was pleased to see a significant increase  
in our score under the ‘CDP Climate Change’ 
programme for the quality, transparency  
and completeness of information; in 2014 
we achieved 90%, compared to 77% in 
2013. It is rewarding to receive this external 
recognition of our progress, particularly for 
the many people who have contributed to 
our energy and carbon reduction initiatives.  
I recognise the efforts that all of our 
colleagues have made in this area and would 
like to thank them for their continuing work. 
We have also reviewed how we identify  
and assess sustainability business risks  
at a Group level and are in the process of 
completing a formal materiality assessment 
to confirm those sustainability issues most 
important for our business. We recognise 
the importance of the wider value chain to 
our business success and have therefore 
considered, not only our own operations  
in the assessment, but also those of our 
customers and suppliers.
The Group was happy to support our home 
city of Glasgow as it hosted the successful 
2014 Commonwealth Games. In a historic 
year for Scotland, the Group was pleased  
to make a constructive contribution to  
the constitutional debate which included 
publishing a report about the potential 
implications of independence for the 
business community.
The Board
As part of the Board’s annual programme, 
we visited the Group’s new regional 
headquarters in Dubai in the United Arab 
Emirates. The facility builds on the long-
standing success we have had in the region 
since first setting up a business in Dubai  
in 1976 and reflects the opportunities for 
future growth in this strategically important 
part of the world. 
We also expressed our appreciation to Lord 
Robertson of Port Ellen, who retired from the 
Board on 31 January 2015. Lord Robertson 
was an invaluable source of wise counsel  
to his fellow Board members over the  
past decade and I would like to take this 
opportunity to publicly thank him again  
for his commitment to the Group and his 
contribution to the success of the business 
in that period.
Rick Menell, who has been a Non-Executive 
Director since 2009, succeeded Lord 
Robertson as Senior Independent Director.  
I was also delighted to welcome Professor 
Sir Jim McDonald, Principal and Vice 
Chancellor of the University of Strathclyde, 
as a Non-Executive Director. Sir Jim is  
one of the UK’s leading engineers and 
academics and he brings to the Board  
a wealth of experience in industry and 
developing world class research and 
development programmes. 
As we look forward to the rest of 2015,  
our end markets will undoubtedly be 
challenging, but Weir has substantial 
experience of managing changes across  
the economic cycle. The fundamental 
drivers of our long-term growth remain 
intact, our strategy is clear and we have  
a team with a strong record of delivery.  
This combination gives me great confidence 
in our ability to safely navigate the 
headwinds we face and continue to  
provide value for all shareholders. 
Charles Berry
Chairman
25 February 2015 8 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Oil and 
Gas
Power
Mining
Innovation
We have a culture which supports 
innovation and is focused on making  
our customers and our operations  
more efficient and effective. 
Value Chain  
Excellence
We invest in the best people, technology 
and safety performance while continuing 
to develop our lean operating platform 
across the value chain.
Why our customers 
choose Weir
Our strategic pillars
Read more on page 15
Read more on page 18
Our Strategy and Business Model
A robust platform for 
sustainable growth
Our mission  
and strategy
Our chosen 
markets
The Group has chosen to operate  
in markets which support structural 
changes in the global economy:  
so called megatrends.
Our markets
Emerging
market 
growth
Water
security
Environmental 
changes
Urbanisation
Energy
demand
Resource
scarcity
Global megatrends
Mission
Our mission is to be wherever  
and whenever our global energy  
and resources customers need  
us, delivering innovative products  
and services and becoming their 
trusted partner of choice. 
Strategy
We achieve our mission through our 
core strategy, which is to strengthen 
and extend our position in the structural 
growth markets of minerals, oil and gas, 
and power, and achieve sustainable 
growth ahead of these markets.
We execute our strategy by focusing  
on the four strategic pillars which define 
our distinctive approach and support 
our competitive advantage: Innovation; 
Collaboration; Value Chain Excellence; 
and Global Capability.
Our business model is robust and 
provides long-term earnings resilience 
across the economic cycle. We first 
establish a strong installed base  
of our highly engineered equipment 
with customers operating in abrasive 
environments. This leads to aftermarket 
opportunities which are captured by  
our leading service centre network. Our 
close relationship with our customers 
then gives the opportunity to cross-sell 
complementary products or services.
Through this strategy and business 
model we seek to sustainably grow 
revenues faster than our markets, 
deliver top quartile margins and 
increase returns on capital while at the 
same time retaining a strong financial 
base from which to pursue organic  
and acquisition-led opportunities.
Our strategy is derived with reference to 
our appetite for risk. Further details on 
our Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
can be found from page 24. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
9 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Collaboration
We work closely with customers, 
colleagues, suppliers and communities  
to better understand and respond to the 
demands of our markets and promote 
mutually-beneficial relationships with  
all our key stakeholders. 
Global  
Capability
Wherever and whenever our global 
customers need us, we provide a 
consistent quality of highly engineered 
products and services, ensuring we  
are their trusted partner of choice. 
We sustain 
growth by:
  
Continuing to provide 
highly engineered 
equipment for  
critical processes;
 
 I n v e s tin g in innovative 
engineering technology;
  
Further strengthening 
our close relationships 
with customers;
 
 E n h an c i n g o ur market-
leading service  
centre network;
  S u c c e s s fu ll y 
integrating acquisitions;
  Im pr o v i n g e f f i c i e nc y, 
on-time delivery and 
safety;
 
 De v e l o p i ng t a l e n t to 
its full potential.
Our strategic pillars
Read more on page 17
Read more on page 20
How we serve 
these markets
Highly engineered products
Designing and manufacturing 
engineering solutions which help  
make our customers more efficient  
and grow our installed base of  
original equipment.
Market-leading service  
centre network
We give our global customers the 
aftermarket support for servicing  
and repairs which is critical to their 
operations: a crucial differentiator in 
the need-it-now energy and natural 
resource industries.
Partnership
Our close proximity to our customers 
allows us to better understand their 
needs and gives us the opportunity  
to cross-sell complementary products 
from the rest of our extensive portfolio; 
further strengthening our relationships 
and informing the products and 
services we develop in the future. 10 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
A strategy to deliver  
long-term growth 
Weir has chosen to operate in the minerals, 
oil and gas and power markets because  
they each have excellent long-term growth 
prospects: as the world’s population 
continues to increase and urbanise,  
it will need access to more energy and 
natural resources. While our end markets 
are subject to business cycles, they 
fundamentally offer excellent structural 
growth prospects and a solid platform from 
which to deliver sustainable returns for 
shareholders across the economic cycle. 
This is achieved by the successful execution 
of the Group’s clear strategy which relies on 
the hard work and dedication of our 16,000 
employees. I would like to thank them for all 
their hard work and commitment in 2014. 
A challenging year for commodity prices
A weaker than expected global economy 
coupled with increases in supply contributed 
to a very challenging year for most 
commodity prices in 2014. In mining, iron  
ore prices fell by almost 50%, and copper fell 
by 14%. Gold prices were broadly flat over 
the period and remained below the levels 
required to drive higher capital investment. 
However, growing ore production levels, 
combined with declining ore grades, 
supported increased aftermarket demand. 
The trend among major mining companies 
to reduce capital spending continued with 
an estimated 17% reduction in industry 
capital expenditure. There was a limited 
number of new, or greenfield, projects 
started and a cautious attitude towards  
plant optimisation or brownfield expenditure. 
These factors led to a further reduction  
in demand for original equipment. 
More positively, a number of greenfield 
projects in South America, which were 
approved in earlier years, moved from  
their construction phase to production 
during the year. Global ore production 
increased by around 3% in 2014 with  
strong iron ore production growth in 
particular. African mining markets were 
impacted by the Ebola outbreak in West 
Africa and by significant industrial action  
in South Africa, particularly the platinum 
miners’ strike through the first half of the 
year. Overall, markets in Australia, Brazil and 
China gained momentum. North America 
remained subdued while weak demand  
and geopolitical concerns in the east of  
the continent reduced activity in Europe. 
In oil and gas markets, a multi-year period  
of stability lasted until the fourth quarter  
of 2014 when oil prices experienced their 
largest fall since 2009. This reflected 
concerns that the global market would be 
over-supplied in 2015, as a result of strong 
production growth, particularly in North 
America, combined with relatively weak 
demand growth. International benchmarks, 
Brent and WTI, both fell more than 40%  
in the final three months of the year and 
continued to fall steeply in early 2015. 
Throughout 2014 North American natural 
gas prices remained below incentive levels 
despite a brief spike caused by the harsh 
winter at the start of the year. The average 
US onshore rig count increased 6% while 
the average number of wells drilled rose  
5% as a result of greater efficiencies. 
Pressure pumping markets benefited as  
US customers worked through their excess 
stocks, with frack fleet utilisation increasing 
to an estimated 87% from 82%, stimulating 
demand for original equipment, in contrast 
to recent overcapacity. Aftermarket activity 
was also supported by the trend towards 
more intense shale well completions as 
operators increased the number of frack 
stages per well, ran 24/7 operations and 
pumped higher volumes of water and sand 
per stage, leading to greater wear and tear 
on components.
The growing well count also ensured 
growth in pressure control markets which 
benefited from more complex drilling and 
completion solutions in higher pressure 
shale basins, with pad drilling techniques 
now used on the majority of well sites.
Across pressure pumping and pressure 
control markets there was a slowdown  
in activity towards year end as customers 
started to revise their spending plans  
to reflect the reduction in oil prices. 
Internationally, there were good activity 
levels in Saudi Arabia and increased 
production in southern Iraq. Mid and 
downstream markets continued to grow  
as a result of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) 
2014 showed the strength of our 
strategy and business model which 
continues to deliver sustainable  
long-term value for our shareholders.
Keith Cochrane
Chief Executive Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
11 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
and refinery developments, particularly in 
emerging markets, although project delays 
were a common feature in the second half 
of the year.
North American hydro power markets saw  
a recovery after difficult conditions in 2013. 
Nuclear new build progress also increased 
including the announcement of the first 
development of a new nuclear power 
station in the UK for almost 20 years.
Our financial performance in 2014 
Overall, in a challenging year, order input  
in constant currency was up 9% on 2013, 
with each quarter ahead of the prior year 
comparator. Aftermarket input was up  
14%, driven by strong growth in Oil & Gas, 
positive trends in Minerals and good growth 
from Power & Industrial’s valve operations. 
This was offset by flat original equipment 
input across the Group reflecting sharp 
declines in greenfield mining orders and 
power project delays, offset by a 47% 
increase in Oil & Gas as demand for 
Pressure Pumping equipment recovered 
from the depressed levels seen in 2012  
and 2013. Aftermarket input accounted for 
67% of total orders, up from 64% in 2013. 
Group revenues were up 9% on a constant 
currency basis while the proportion of 
revenues from aftermarket sales increased 
to 66% from 63% last year. In Minerals, 
revenues were down 4% as aftermarket 
growth was more than offset by lower 
demand for original equipment. Both original 
equipment and aftermarket revenues in  
Oil & Gas increased by 32%, reflecting 
higher average rig count, increasing frack 
intensity and market share gains. Power & 
Industrial revenues were broadly flat, on a 
reported basis, following a £185m foreign 
exchange headwind. 
Group margins declined by 70bps on a 
constant currency basis. This reflected  
the impact of industrial actions in South 
Africa on Minerals’ margins and operational 
challenges in Power & Industrial. Combined 
with flat reported revenues, this translated 
into a 4% fall in underlying operating profits 
to £450m. On a constant currency basis 
operating profit increased by 5% and 
pre-tax profits by 7%, reflecting a record 
second half profit performance for the 
Group. After a £35m foreign exchange 
impact, chiefly as a result of the strength  
of Sterling compared to the US Dollar and 
emerging market currencies, reported 
pre-tax profits of £409m were 2% down  
on 2013. This foreign exchange exposure 
was largely translational and had limited 
impact on our competitive positioning.
Free cash flow decreased to £79m, 
reflecting investment in the first half in 
working capital to support record second 
half activity levels and £101m capital 
investment. Return on capital employed, 
excluding 2014 acquisitions, increased  
by 60bps to 18.1%.
Delivering our growth strategy
As the financial performance demonstrates, 
the Group’s strategy delivered good 
underlying constant currency revenue  
and profit growth in 2014. 
Our distinctive strategy and business  
model is supported by our four strategic 
pillars. Innovation, which has been part  
of the Group’s DNA since it was founded  
by two engineers almost 150 years ago. 
Collaboration, which brings colleagues, 
customers and suppliers together to help 
achieve better engineering solutions.  
Value Chain Excellence (VCE), which drives 
greater efficiency in our own operations and 
helps make our customers more effective. 
And finally, Global Capability, ensuring we 
are there wherever and whenever our 
worldwide customers need us.
These strategic pillars have helped underpin 
the Group’s past success and remain central 
to our future growth. In 2014, I am pleased 
to report we made significant strategic 
progress in all four areas.
Innovation is critical to the future success 
of a global engineering company. In recent 
years we have significantly increased 
research and development efforts to ensure 
we maintain our market leadership positions. 
In 2014, this has involved: the design, 
manufacture and installation of the world’s 
largest slurry pump in a mine in Chile; gaining 
market share through our new premium fluid 
end technology in oil and gas markets which 
also supports the reduction in breakeven 
costs in the unconventional industry; the 
launch of a new vertical slurry pump, which 
allows upgrades to take place at reduced 
cost to customers; and the commercialisation 
of a new turbine by-pass valve which was 
developed by Power & Industrial.
You can read more about our approach to 
innovation in the products and technology 
section on page 59. 
The Group’s commitment to Collaboration 
is aimed at ensuring the best ideas are 
shared among colleagues, customers  
and suppliers. It also means working with 
other companies, particularly where we  
can benefit mutual customers. That was the 
motivation for entering into a development 
agreement with Rolls-Royce Holdings PLC 
subsidiary MTU America. The agreement 
will see our engineers jointly develop 
purpose-built power systems for hydraulic 
fracturing that will be entirely integrated so 
that the engine, transmission and pump are 
specifically designed to work together in a 
complete packaged power system. This will 
meet customer demands for technology 
which increases flow and pressure rates  
and provides longer run times. 
Our collaboration with Anglo American,  
one of the world’s largest diversified  
mining and natural resources groups,  
was recognised with the award of the 
prestigious External Collaboration Award  
at the 2014 Procurement Leaders Awards. 
Our Global Framework Agreement (GFA)  
is designed to provide improvements  
in reliability and power savings by retro-
fitting Weir-developed technology to 
existing pumps. In doing so, the life of key 
components has doubled, and in some 
cases trebled, while power consumption 
has been reduced significantly. The division 
added a further GFA in 2014 with Kinross 
Gold Corporation, one of the world’s leading 
gold mining companies, which will see Weir 
Minerals become Kinross’ preferred supplier 
of a range of mining equipment. 
Value Chain Excellence (VCE) was 
introduced as a strategic pillar to recognise 
the importance of aligning our operations 
more closely to the specific needs of our 
customers – ultimately helping us achieve 
our ambition of becoming their trusted 
partner of choice. 
Revenue
£2,438m
0%
Operating profit
£450m
-4% 12 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
Delivering our growth strategy 
(continued)
In 2014, our continued focus on streamlining 
our operations and leveraging the Group’s 
global scale, helped improve customer 
responsiveness while at the same time 
supporting the Group’s overall performance 
through cost savings of £46m. A new VCE 
management system was developed to 
further integrate this approach across all  
of the Group’s businesses to support our 
culture of continuous improvement. 
Key to our success is the competitive 
advantage we derive from our Global 
Capability, ensuring Weir is wherever and 
whenever our customers need us. In 2014, 
this included extending our comminution 
strategy which has seen the Minerals 
division further expand its product offering 
into the crushing, screening and grinding 
segment of the mining mill circuit, which 
helps separate rock from ore. In addition to 
our own strong organic growth the Group 
acquired Chinese-American equipment 
provider Trio Engineered Products in 
October 2014. Trio’s crushing technology 
will extend Weir’s comminution product 
portfolio and give real scale in the domestic 
Chinese mining markets, while also 
providing opportunities for growth in  
the expanding US aggregates market. 
The Oil & Gas division extended its  
pressure control presence in Canada with 
the acquisition of Metra Equipment Inc,  
a small Saskatchewan-based wellhead 
manufacturer. Carefully selected and 
successfully integrated acquisitions are  
an important part of the Group’s growth 
plan and these acquisitions, along with  
the Board’s approach to Metso Corporation, 
demonstrate the range of large and small 
opportunities we continue to pursue to  
help accelerate our organic development.
The Group’s capacity in the growing  
Middle East market was extended with  
the opening of a new regional headquarters 
for the Oil & Gas division in Dubai. This will 
allow products to be manufactured locally 
for the first time, capturing opportunities  
as shale energy production internationalises, 
while also serving the region’s conventional 
wellhead market. 
Good progress was made in the planning  
for a best-cost campus in Malaysia which 
will include construction of a new foundry, 
machine shop and continuous rubber 
processing plant. Work is also under  
way to upgrade the Group’s Information 
Technology capacity including the roll- 
out of a common Enterprise Resource 
Planning (ERP) across the Minerals division.
The Group undertook an efficiency review 
to identify areas to further align resources  
to capture future growth prospects. This 
resulted in a programme which will see  
the consolidation of a number of smaller 
manufacturing and service operations  
into larger facilities, improving efficiency 
and customer responsiveness while also 
maintaining appropriate capacity. It is 
estimated these changes will produce 
annualised savings of £35m; £20m of  
this benefit will be realised in 2015,  
with one-off exceptional costs of  
£49m recognised in 2014. The Group  
also recognised a non-cash £160m oil 
price driven impairment of Pressure  
Control goodwill.
In addition, the Oil & Gas division 
announced additional plans to reduce 
around 550 posts as a direct response to 
the sharp fall in oil prices and in anticipation 
of the consequent reduction in activity. 
When added to the efficiency review  
and other measures taken earlier in 2014,  
the Group will have reduced approximately 
1,200 posts across the workforce with  
the majority of these actions completed by 
the end of the first quarter of 2015. These 
have been difficult decisions but they are 
necessary to closely align the Group to 
current customer demand and position it to 
take advantage of future growth prospects. 
In 2015, additional exceptional costs of circa 
£20m, based on current cost reduction 
plans, are expected in relation to completion 
of the Group-wide efficiency review and 
additional measures taken subsequent to 
the financial year end in response to oil  
and gas market conditions. 
Globally, Weir has also continued to 
promote a working environment which 
allows all of our employees to achieve their 
potential. In 2014, we continued to offer 
comprehensive professional development 
opportunities and rolled out our refreshed 
values to our global workforce.
I would also like to record my appreciation  
to Steve Noon following his retirement as 
Divisional Managing Director of the Oil &  
Gas division. Steve was instrumental in  
the development of the division and its 
contribution to Weir’s growth story. He  
has been succeeded by Paul Coppinger, 
previously president of Weir Pressure 
Pumping, the division’s biggest business unit. 
In September, I was pleased to welcome  
the UK Prime Minister, David Cameron,  
to our facility in Yateley, Hampshire to  
see the hard work of our employees in 
serving the European minerals market.
Delivering on 2014 key priorities
In last year’s Annual Report, I set out  
a series of key priorities for the year:
Increasing technical differentiation 
through the pursuit of innovative  
new products.
The Group continued to invest in 
fundamental research and development, 
extending our product portfolio. This has 
included the development of new products 
which meet the demands of our customers 
including producing the world’s largest 
slurry pump. 
We have also increased academic 
partnerships with some of the world’s 
leading universities, including Imperial 
College, London to develop research 
programmes into new technologies.
Improving working capital performance 
by further extending Value Chain 
Excellence initiatives.
The Group continued to leverage its global 
scale to deliver significant procurement 
direct savings of £46m. Pressure Pumping 
reduced its older inventory by more than 
50% and there were significant reductions 
in working capital in Weir Minerals North 
America, but there remains more to do 
across the Group.
Further embedding safety at the  
heart of our culture.
The first stages of the Weir Behavioural 
Safety Programme have been adopted 
throughout the Group’s global businesses. 
Total Injury Rate fell by 20% in 2014. While  
I am pleased with this progress we must 
continue to focus on doing even better until 
we become a zero-accident workplace.
Fully capturing growing aftermarket 
opportunities in Minerals and 
accelerating progress in our 
comminution strategy.
The Minerals division completed the 
acquisition of Trio Engineered Products, 
helping accelerate organic growth in its 
comminution strategy. It also benefited 
from the first aftermarket orders for its 
recently introduced range of High Pressure 
Grinding Rolls (HPGRs). Comminution 
orders increased 63% year on year and 
aftermarket orders were up 86%.
Driving growth in frack rentals, flowback 
and broadening international oil and  
gas opportunities.
Pressure Control frack rentals and zipper 
manifolds gained market share. There was 
strong growth in the Middle East, including 
opening a new regional headquarters and 
manufacturing facility. Pressure Pumping 
opened two new service centres in China.  
A large order was won in Australia for our 
combined Pressure Pumping and Pressure 
Control offering in the country.
Accelerate Valves growth, building on  
a strengthened operational platform.
Aftermarket order input growth of 26% 
followed increased targeting of the Power & 
Industrial division’s installed base of original 
equipment. There was good growth in some 
markets but others were impacted by project 
delays. Overall, orders were broadly flat.  
A restructuring programme to save £10m 
across the division and increase efficiency  
in the supply chain and Valves operating 
structure is being implemented. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
13 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
2014 demonstrated the strength of  
Weir’s strategy and aftermarket-focused 
business model as we captured good 
growth opportunities in fast changing 
markets. Significant progress was made  
in developing new products, working in 
partnership with customers, expanding  
into new markets through the acquisition  
of Trio, and streamlining our operations to 
maintain cost competitiveness.
Outlook
Weir’s global market leadership positions 
and the significant strategic progress the 
Group has made in recent years mean it is 
well placed to benefit from the structural 
growth trends in our key end markets. 
Long-term growth in demand for energy 
and commodities will be driven by 
increasing world population and accelerated 
by greater urbanisation. In addition, the 
Group will benefit from the need for more 
complex engineering solutions to replace 
depleting natural resources.
In 2015, global GDP is expected to  
continue to increase. However, uncertainty 
over the pace of that growth, combined 
with growing supply, is expected to  
lead to continued price volatility in many 
commodities including copper and oil,  
the Group’s two largest exposures.  
We will continue to make progress in 
delivering our strategy while remaining  
agile in responding to market conditions  
as they evolve. The Group has already  
acted following steep price declines  
in key commodities, particularly oil,  
by taking additional measures to  
reduce operating costs.
While visibility in oil and gas remains 
limited, it is clear these initiatives will only 
partly offset the impact of a substantial 
reduction in demand and the associated 
pricing pressure. As a result we are  
planning for a significant reduction in 
constant currency Group revenues and 
lower operating margins in 2015. However, 
we will continue to invest in extending  
the Group’s global leadership positions  
and increasing market share, supported  
by a strong balance sheet and the cash 
generative nature of the Group. 
 
2015 priorities
1. Deliver benefits from the Minerals 
facility restructuring programme, the 
integration of Trio and the investment in 
a common Enterprise Resource Planning 
(ERP) platform. 
2. Ensure agile response to oil and gas end 
market conditions and maximise 
opportunities from new product launches.
3. Drive improved performance in Power  
& Industrial, including benefits from 
divisional reorganisation.
4. Accelerate pace of new technology 
developments.
5. Drive reductions in lead times and 
working capital through application  
of the Value Chain Excellence roadmap.
Keith Cochrane
Chief Executive
25 February 2015
UK Prime Minister David Cameron 
visits Weir Minerals Yateley site  
in Hampshire, UK. 14 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
15 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Strategy in Action
Innovation
Developing new products  
and services which deliver  
a competitive advantage.
How we do it:
 – Invest in engineering skills,  
research and partnerships  
with leading universities.
 – Invest in operational capability.
 – Develop innovation as part of  
our culture.
 – Adopt a disciplined, four-stage 
innovation process. 
 
What we did in 2014:
 – Continued to invest in the Weir 
Advanced Research Centre.
 – Continued the development of  
our cone crusher range.
 – Developed a new Gabbioneta  
pump for sale in North America.
 – Commenced roll-out of next 
generation slurry pump range.
 – Commissioned external innovation 
management expertise to critique 
our approach and provide guidance 
for further enhancements. 
 
Benefits to Weir:
 – Technological advantage.
 – Faster concept-to-market time.
 – Higher proportion of revenue 
generated by new products  
(‘vitality index’).
 – Maintain market leadership.
 – Access to adjacent markets.
 – Increased sales and returns. 
 
Benefits to our customers:
 – Greater operating efficiencies.
 – Higher process reliability.
 – Predictable maintenance cycles.
 – Lower total cost of ownership.
 – Lower environmental impact.
 – Sustainable competitive advantage.
Case study: 
Meeting the 
changing demands 
of our global 
customers
As mine sites mature, the quality of the ore they 
produce diminishes leading to the need to process 
more volume. Over recent years this has led to 
the demand for larger-scale equipment which  
can operate for longer periods without downtime.
To address these customer needs, Weir Minerals 
has introduced two of the world’s largest mill 
circuit pumps. These pumps are the latest in a 
series dating back to 1999. Back then, with an  
inlet diameter of around 65cm, the original 550 
model was seen as a big pump. Now, one of the 
new pumps has an inlet diameter of around 90cm  
and Weir has had to expand its manufacturing 
capabilities in order to produce it. 
This feat of engineering involved international 
collaboration, with the pumps designed in the US 
and Chile and with components coming from Weir 
facilities around the world. In order to manufacture 
the large rubber linings these pumps require, Weir’s 
Chile plant had to rethink its manufacturing process 
and, by innovating, design and manufacture the 
largest rubber press in the world. The pumps are 
designed specifically for hard rock copper mining, 
meeting strict customer requirements to operate 
continuously for over 100 days in harsh 
environments; reinforcing Weir’s position as the 
market leader in mill circuit pumps worldwide.
By the end of 2014, the pumps were already 
supporting BHP Billiton’s operations at the 
Escondida mine in Chile and a third pump is  
on order to support Glencore’s operation at 
Antappacay in the Peruvian Andes.  16 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
17 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Strategy in Action
Collaboration
Working with customers, suppliers, 
communities and colleagues ensures  
a better understanding of the markets  
we serve, and their evolving technology  
and support requirements.
How we do it:
 – Work together to secure contracts, 
develop products and expand globally.
 – Develop deep relationships with 
customers to provide engineering 
and aftermarket solutions across  
the product life cycle.
 – Create industry alliances to support 
growth into new markets. 
 
What we did in 2014:
 – Signed an agreement with MTU  
to develop new, innovative  
fracking equipment.
 – Continued the development  
of the Minerals’ Gladiator pump  
for the oil and gas end market.
 – Signed a Global Framework 
Agreement (GFA) with Kinross  
Gold Corporation.
 – Won a Procurement Leaders Award 
for the cost savings made through 
our GFA with Anglo American. 
 
Benefits to Weir:
 – Customer intimacy.
 – Providing Group capability across  
all markets.
 – Strong, sustainable relationships 
with local communities.
 – Maximising returns on assets  
and intellectual capital. 
 
Benefits to our customers:
 – Greater efficiency and reduced 
downtime.
 – Technology and solutions partnerships.
 – Anticipation of future needs.
 – Reduction of operating complexity.
 – Multi-end market knowledge.
Case study: 
Working together 
to benefit our 
shared customers
In May, Weir’s Oil & Gas division signed an 
agreement with Rolls-Royce Power Systems 
company MTU to jointly develop power systems 
specifically engineered for hydraulic fracturing.  
The two companies are working together  
to address the need for more reliable and  
continuous duty equipment.
The companies will focus on developing a system 
which integrates the three critical components  
of a frack pump – the engine, transmission and 
fracturing pump. The complete system will  
use smart controls which provide continuous 
performance monitoring, optimising performance 
for the operator and reducing down-time during 
fracking operations.
The two companies have a long history of 
producing and supporting highly reliable and safe 
products specifically for use in harsh fracturing 
environments. Combining Weir’s expertise as a 
leading manufacturer of frack pumps with MTU’s 
market-leading knowledge of heavy-duty diesel 
engines, the equipment will be used for hydraulic 
fracking operations during the well completion 
stage of shale oil and gas projects.
The agreement also provides for full service  
and preventative maintenance of the entire power 
system, which will be achieved by using Weir’s 
market-leading service network combined with 
MTU’s service capability, ensuring close proximity 
to customers. The new system is expected to be 
available to customers in mid-2015. 18 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Strategy in Action
V alue Chain 
Excellence
Developing an efficient operating 
platform across the customer fulfilment 
process, from order to delivery.
How we do it:
 – Embedding customer needs  
in technology development.
 – Working with suppliers to  
improve process effectiveness.
 – Working with each other to  
pool expertise across our  
three end markets. 
 
What we did in 2014:
 – Expanded global manufacturing 
facilities in best-cost locations.
 – Rolled out a VCE Management 
System.
 – Achieved £46m of direct cost 
procurement savings. 
 
Benefits to Weir:
 – Culture of continuous improvement.
 – Reduces waste.
 – Supply chain savings.
 – Increased profitability, cash and 
returns on capital.
 – Improved on-time delivery.
 – Reduced working capital. 
 
Benefits to our customers:
 – Enhanced product and service quality.
 – Greater understanding of customer 
operations.
 – Competitively priced solutions.
 – Reduced lead times and improved 
on-time delivery.
Case study: 
Improving efficiency 
throughout the 
value chain
Value Chain Excellence (VCE) is a strategic pillar 
which underpins the future success of the Weir 
Group. VCE is designed to improve performance 
across the Group by aligning business processes  
to the needs of Weir’s customers.
The Group has rolled out a VCE management system 
throughout the organisation which sets out the five 
primary components of Value Chain Excellence: 
customer focus; engineering; planning; procurement; 
and lean enterprise. The management system helps 
Weir to segment customers’ needs and organise its 
internal processes and resources in a way which 
optimises performance.
Using its global network, Weir looks for the best 
quality goods at the best possible price around the 
world. Best cost sourcing is the preferred term over  
a more traditional low-cost country sourcing strategy. 
In one recent instance, sourcing goods from Western 
Europe proved to be much more cost effective than 
locally sourcing the same materials in the US due to 
the technical capability of the supplier.
A combination of these efforts has resulted in over 
£80 million of savings in two years. However, Value 
Chain Excellence goes far beyond the supply chain. 
The establishment of a VCE Management System 
helps Weir’s global businesses to consistently 
understand and respond to customer needs. By 
identifying and addressing areas for improvement, 
Weir can concentrate resources on areas which focus 
on the needs of its customers. This helps the Group 
sustain its competitive advantage while increasing 
revenue, customer loyalty and reinforcing its position 
as a trusted partner of choice. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
19 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 20 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Strategy in Action
Global Capability
Providing uniform excellence in service 
and solutions, wherever our customers 
are, whenever they are needed.
How we do it:
 – Establish global manufacturing 
facilities.
 – Grow global service centre capacity.
 – Create strategic alliances to 
strengthen the supply chain. 
 
What we did in 2014:
 – Opened new Dubai manufacturing 
hub.
 – Acquired Trio, a Chinese-American 
manufacturer of crushing and 
separation equipment.
 – Acquired Metra Equipment Inc,  
a niche provider of wellhead 
equipment and services. 
 
Benefits to Weir:
 – Worldwide routes to market.
 – Diverse revenues and growth 
opportunities.
 – Leveraging single solutions 
worldwide.
 – Developing cross-Group  
best practice. 
 
Benefits to our customers:
 – Partnerships with solutions experts.
 – Rapid response and support.
 – Global consistency of products  
and service.
 – Trusted operational performance.
Case study: 
A strong presence 
in the domestic 
Chinese mining 
market
The acquisition of the Shanghai and California-
based Trio Engineered Products gives the Weir 
Minerals division a strong presence in domestic 
Chinese mining markets and growth opportunities 
in the US aggregates sector. Trio manufactures 
crushing and separation equipment for the mining 
and aggregates markets.
The £138m acquisition extends Weir Minerals 
product portfolio for mining customers, building  
on its current comminution offering including 
crushing, grinding and screening services,  
and providing increased scale and presence  
in aggregates markets. 
The addition of Trio’s range of comminution 
products allows Weir to provide a more complete 
product and service offering to existing mining 
customers, as well as leveraging Trio’s cost-
effective manufacturing platform.
Weir’s unrivalled global platform and existing 
relationships across mining markets will also  
boost Trio’s original equipment revenue growth, 
and capture a greater proportion of the aftermarket 
opportunity from the installed base of Trio equipment. 
Weir Minerals will cross-sell its product range  
in the sand and aggregates markets through  
Trio’s well-established sales channels in North 
America and China. Sand and aggregate markets  
accounted for 56% of Trio’s revenues in 2013. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
21 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 22 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Key Performance Indicators
Monitoring 
and evaluating 
our performance
Priorities
Innovation
Collaboration 
Value Chain Excellence 
Global Capability
Strategic goals
 
 
Input
1
  
(£m)
 
Operating 
margin
2
 (%)
Free  
cash 
flow 
(£m)
Return  
on capital 
employed
3
 
(%)
 
 
Inventory 
turns
4
 
Total Incident 
Rate (TIR)
5
Strengthen and extend 
addressable markets in 
minerals, oil and gas  
and power sectors
Attain status of partner  
of choice for engineered 
products and services in  
our chosen markets
Key Performance Indicators
The Board uses a range of financial and non- 
financial metrics, reported on a periodic basis,  
to monitor the Group’s performance over time. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
23 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
1,000
2,000
3,000
2012 2013 2014
2,204
2,274
2,473
10
15
25
2012 2013 2014
22.3
17.5
18.1
5
10
15
20
2012 2013 2014
19.1
19.2
18.4
2.0
1.5
1.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
2012 2013 2014
3.1
3.0
2.8
100
200
2012 2013 2014
62
168
79
1.0
1.5
2.0
2012 2013 2014
1.6
1.0
0.8
Input increased by 9% in a challenging 
year, with each quarter ahead of the 
prior year comparator.
 – Strong input growth in Oil & Gas  
more than offset declines in  
Minerals and Power & Industrial.
 – Aftermarket orders were up more  
than 14% and represented 67% of 
overall input.
 – Each division continued to broaden its 
portfolio through the development and 
launch of new innovative products.
Continuing to invest to support  
growth over the long term.
 – Free cash flow impacted by investment 
in working capital, driven by the strong 
growth in Oil & Gas.
 – Cash outflows also impacted by 
re-phasing of interim dividend and  
higher cash tax.
 – Capital expenditure of £101m was 
committed to support the long  
term growth plans of each division, 
substantially ahead of depreciation.
Group margins decreased  
by 80 basis points.
 – Minerals’ margins declined slightly 
reflecting lower-margin product,  
with Oil & Gas stable after the  
strong flow through from Pressure 
Pumping was offset by lower  
margins in Pressure Control.
 – Margins in Power & Industrial  
declined as a result of operational  
issues and product mix.
 – Continuing focus on lean principles  
and taking rapid action to align the cost 
base to reflect the changing end market 
conditions helped support margins.
Input
1
 (£m)
£2,473m
+9%
Operating margin
2
 (%)
18.4%
-80bps
Free cash flow
2
 (£m)
£79m
-53%
Return on capital employed (ROCE)
3
 (%)
18.1%
+60bps
Inventory turns fell as stock levels 
increased faster than revenues.
 – Inventory increase driven by strong 
growth seen in Oil & Gas year on year.
 – Good progress in reducing underlying 
slow moving inventory.
 – Improvements expected in 2015 from 
continued roll-out of Value Chain 
Excellence initiatives.
Generating strong returns on capital 
through the business cycle.
 – Return on capital employed increased 
slightly year on year.
 – Oil & Gas’ returns improved reflecting 
strong Pressure Pumping performance.
 – Minerals’ and Power & Industrial’s returns 
fell reflecting lower activity levels and a 
disappointing performance respectively.
Incident rate reduced by 20% over  
the course of 2014.
 – Weir EHS roadmap continues to be 
implemented and is being updated  
to ensure it continues to drive  
further improvements. 
 – Progress made in the roll-out of  
our ‘Weir Zero Harm’ Behavioural  
Safety programme.
 – Completed our target of having 
all operational employees trained  
in strand one.
Inventory turns
4
2.8 times
-0.2 times
Total Incident Rate (TIR)
5
0.8 
-20%
1. Calculated at 2014 average exchange rates.
2. Adjusted to exclude exceptional items and intangibles amortisation.
3.  Continuing operations EBIT (excluding Trio EBIT and exceptional items) divided by average net assets excluding net debt, 
pension deficit (net of deferred tax asset) and Trio net assets. 2012: As 2013/14 but also excluding Mathena and Wales.
4. As reported.
5. 2014 average v 2013 average measuring medical treatment of any kind required by employees divided by 200,000 hours worked. 24 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Identify
the risks
Quantify the
gross risk
Monitor
and report
controls are required
Identify if further
mitigating controls
Identify the existing
mitigating controls
Identify the existing
the net risk
Quantify
mitigating controls
Identify the existing
the net risk
Quantify
control actions 
are required
Identify if further 
Monitor
and report
Identify
the risks
Quantify the
gross risk
Managing risk  
effectively
We operate in a complex global environment, where risks  
offer opportunities as well as challenges. Our objective is to 
allow our people to be decisive, so we can take advantage of 
attractive opportunities whilst ensuring we are not exposing  
the organisation to excessive risk. 
The risk agenda
During the year, the Board reviewed the Risk 
Appetite Statement which was approved  
in 2013. The Board determined that the 
Group’s risk appetite remains consistent  
and therefore the Risk Appetite Statement 
was approved without amendment and is  
set out below. The aim of the Risk Appetite 
Statement remains to highlight the risks that 
we should be willing to take, as well as those 
which are unacceptable. The statement 
includes a series of risk assertions which  
are aligned to our strategy, together with  
the risk parameters within which we expect 
our people to work. The risk appetite is all of 
the risk assertions and the parameters taken 
together. The parameters can apply to more 
than one risk assertion, and therefore the 
individual risk assertions should not be  
read in isolation. Compliance with the Risk 
Appetite Statement is monitored through the 
Group’s standard monitoring and reporting 
mechanisms. The Board will continue to 
review and update the Risk Appetite 
Statement on an annual basis. Details of  
the review of the internal control and risk 
management systems undertaken during the 
year are contained in the Audit Committee 
Report on page 89.
Risk management 
The management of risks is at the core of 
the internal control framework. We have a 
risk management policy which defines how 
we expect risks to be identified, assessed 
and managed throughout the organisation. 
Risks are assessed, and quantified, in terms 
of impact and likelihood of occurrence, both 
before and after control mitigation. Assessing 
the gross risk before control mitigation also 
allows the business to review the relative 
impact of the existing controls by comparing 
the gross and net risk assessment. 
This also allows the business to avoid 
wasting resources on mitigating controls 
and actions which have a negligible impact 
on the risk assessment. 
The impact of risks is quantified across  
a range of factors including: financial; 
reputation; people and property; ability to 
perform services; regulation, environment 
and health & safety; and investors and 
funding. The risk management policy 
includes defined criteria for each risk  
impact factor, supporting a consistent 
measurement approach. Risk management 
takes place at the grassroots level, for 
example in individual projects, all the way 
up to Group level assessments, thereby 
providing an integrated bottom-up and 
top-down approach to risk management.
Figure 1: Risk Management Cycle
How We Manage Risk Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
25 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Not all risks are controllable or foreseeable, a key example being natural disasters. Our response to such risks is having controls which 
lessen the impact to our business should they occur. For example, in the case of natural disasters, we have controls in place to reduce 
the risk of harm to our people, as well as response planning protocols, with clear accountability, to minimise disruption to operations  
and our customers. 
Risk appetite statement
The Group is strategically positioned in markets with long term high growth potential. We will pursue ambitious growth targets, and we 
are willing to accept a higher level of risk to increase the likelihood of achieving or exceeding our strategic objectives, subject to the 
parameters below.
Risk assertions Risk parameters
1.  Organic growth: We will aggressively pursue divisional organic 
growth strategies to meet our market growth objectives. 
Investment of resources will be consistent with divisional 
strategies, and divisional compound annual growth rates  
over five-year plans.
2.  Mergers and acquisitions: We will actively pursue M&A 
opportunities that enhance our strategic platform, subject  
to meeting investment criteria.
 Post-tax returns should exceed our cost of capital within three 
years of the acquisition.
3.  Returns and profitability: We will not pursue growth at  
all costs, and expect high margins, strong returns on capital,  
and working capital discipline.
Short term margin dilution is acceptable in gaining market entry  
but over the cycle we aim for top quartile operating margins and 
returns on capital.
4.  Capital allocation: We will encourage capital expenditure 
(capex) in pursuit of our growth ambitions, subject to Internal 
Rate of Return (IRR) and achievement of Group free cash  
flow targets.
Planned IRR on capital expenditure projects should not be less 
than 20%.
5.  Capital structure: We are prepared to use leverage in pursuit  
of our growth agenda and will actively seek low cost debt to 
fund the Group but will maintain significant headroom against 
our financial covenants.
We will seek to maintain the ratio of net debt/EBITDA below  
2 times at any time (current financial covenants below 3.5 times).
Financing facility headroom of at least £150m.
6.  Reputation and brand image: We will manage/avoid situations 
or actions that could have a negative impact on our reputation 
and brands.
No tolerance for breaches of:
 - Legislative/statutory requirements.
 - Weir Code of Conduct.
 - International sanctions.
 - Delegated authority levels.
 - Group and divisional policies. 
7.  Environment, health and safety: We will not undertake  
or pursue activities that pose unacceptable hazard or risk  
to our people, the communities in which we operate,  
or the broader environment.
 - Total Incident Rate ≤1 and EHS Audit Score >40%.
 - Active community and environmental engagement is expected.
 - No tolerance for breaches of Weir EHS system.
8.  New entry to countries: We are prepared to enter new 
countries which offer opportunities for growth consistent with 
our overall strategy. We will not enter countries which present  
a high risk of harm to our people, damage to our reputation,  
or breach of international sanctions.
 No tolerance for breaches of:
 - Legislative/statutory requirements.
 - Weir Code of Conduct.
 - International sanctions.
 - Delegated authority levels.
 - Group and divisional policies. 
Strategic  
risk
Industry and 
market downturns.
Technological 
advances.
Pricing pressures.
Acquisitions  
and mergers.
Planning and 
resource allocation.
Hazard  
risk
Political and  
social instability. 
Natural disasters  
and other major 
incidents.
External fraud 
and corruption.
Operational 
risk
People.
Delivery and  
supply chain.
Quality.
Commercial.
Communication.
IT.
Compliance 
risk
Laws and 
regulations.
Code of Conduct.
Environment,  
health & safety.
Governance.
Intellectual 
property.
Financial  
risk 
Financial 
management.
Credit.
Debt and  
interest rates.
Foreign exchange.
Accounting  
and reporting. 
Taxation.
Internal fraud.
The specific risks identified across the business generally fall under one of the categories within the ‘Risk Universe’ as shown below.
Figure 2: Risk Universe 26 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Board and  
sub-committees
Group Executive
Risk Committee
Operating company management
Divisional management
Reporting
Policies and decisions
Risk responsibilities  
and reporting
Ultimately, the Board is responsible for the Group’s risk and 
internal control framework. It has set out the decisions, and 
hence the level of risk, which can be delegated to the Group 
Executive, divisional and operational company management 
without requiring escalation. This is articulated in a series of 
Group policies and delegated authority matrices, as well as  
the parameters within the approved Risk Appetite Statement. 
The Board and committee structure can be viewed on page 77. 
The bottom-up risk reporting approach 
requires key risks identified, and reported, 
at project level to be escalated to the 
operating company management, which  
in turn may be escalated to divisional 
management, and ultimately to the Risk 
Committee and the Board. This is achieved 
through risk dashboard reports, which are 
maintained at operating company, divisional 
and Group level. The dashboards provide  
a summary of the major net risks at each 
respective level, as well as a summary  
of the key mitigating controls and actions, 
and further control actions required. 
The Risk Committee monitors quarterly  
risk dashboard reports from the operating 
companies and divisions. In addition,  
the Risk Committee has oversight of  
the Group Risk Dashboard, providing an 
update to the Board at each Board meeting. 
The Board obtains assurance over risks  
and risk management through the internal 
control framework. More information on  
the internal control framework can be found 
within the Corporate Governance Report on 
page 81 and within the Audit Committee 
Report on page 89.
Figure 3: Risk responsibilities and reporting
How We Manage Risk continued Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
27 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
The key roles and responsibilities for risk management are set out below:
Risk management responsibilities 
Board
Overall responsibility for the Group’s  
risk management and internal control 
frameworks, and strategic decisions 
within the Group.
 - Annual review and ongoing monitoring of the effectiveness of the risk management and 
internal control frameworks.
 - Review of risks which have the potential to impact the delivery of the Group’s  
strategic objectives.
 - Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Audit Committee 
Delegated responsibility from the Board  
to review the effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk and internal control frameworks.
 - Annual assessment of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal  
control frameworks.
 - Review of reports from the internal and external auditors. 
 - Review of the results from the six-monthly self-assessment compliance scorecards.
Risk Committee
Management committee responsible  
for governance of the Group’s Risk 
Management Policy and Framework. 
 - Review of the design and operation of the Group Risk Management Policy and Framework.
 - Identification and assessment of the key risks facing the Group, identification of the key 
controls mitigating those risks, and identification of further actions where necessary.
 - Review of the Divisional Risk Dashboards, considering the appropriateness of 
management’s responses to identified risks, and assessing whether there are any gaps.
 - Reporting key Group and divisional risks to the Board.
Group Executive
Executive committee with overall 
responsibility for managing the  
Group to ensure it achieves  
its strategic objectives.
 - Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery of the Group’s  
strategic objectives.
 - Monitoring business performance, in particular key performance indicators relating  
to strategic objectives.
 - Taking strategic decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
 - Escalating issues to the Board as required.
Excellence Committees
Engineering 
Environment, Health & Safety 
Finance 
HR 
IT 
Value Chain
Management committees with 
representatives from across the  
Group in their respective areas  
of focus. The committees govern  
activities and performance in  
the individual functional areas.
 - Monitoring the management of key risks across the Group associated with the 
respective remits of the Excellence Committees.
 - Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, policies and standards 
related to the respective remits of the Excellence Committees.
 - Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
 - Escalating issues to the Group Executive as required.
 - Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities.
Divisional Management
Responsible for managing the businesses 
within the divisions to ensure divisional 
strategic objectives are achieved and 
there is compliance with Group policies 
and standards throughout their division.
 - Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery of the divisions’  
strategic objectives.
 - Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, policies and standards 
within the divisions with regard to the outputs from the Excellence Committees.
 - Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
 - Escalating issues to the Group Executive as required.
 - Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities.
Operating Company Management 
Responsible for ensuring company 
objectives are achieved and business 
activities are conducted in accordance 
with Group policies and standards.
 - Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery of their company’s 
strategic objectives.
 - Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, policies and standards 
within their company.
 - Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices. 
 - Escalating issues to divisional management and Excellence Committees as required.
 - Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities. 28 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Principal risks 
and uncertainties
As in any business, there are risks and uncertainties which could 
impact the Group’s ability to achieve its objectives in the future. 
However, we believe the Group’s risk management and assurance 
framework makes this less likely. The principal risks set out below 
are those which we believe to have the greatest potential to 
impact our ability to achieve the Group’s strategic objectives.
Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk
Global economic conditions
Changes in key 
markets, including 
commodity prices 
affecting mining 
and oil and gas, 
have an adverse 
impact on 
customers’ 
expenditure plans. 
This may include 
delaying existing 
expenditure 
commitments. 
We need to remain sufficiently flexible to allow us  
to anticipate downturns, to allow us to adjust our 
operations accordingly, and equally to meet growth 
in demand when our customers’ markets are buoyant 
and therefore capital investment is high. Otherwise, 
we are at risk of incurring unnecessary costs during 
downturns, and not maximising our potential for 
growth in buoyant markets. 
In challenging market conditions, our working capital 
risks are increased. These are described in more 
detail on page 29. 
 - We maintain regular engagement with our 
customers to understand their needs and challenges, 
and ensure our business is appropriately aligned.
 - Our strategic planning utilises extensive market 
intelligence to assist in forecasting opportunities  
and dips in markets. 
 - We maintain contingency plans for downturns. 
Changes during 2014
Market conditions have become more challenging during 2014, with commodity prices in oil and gas joining those in minerals markets at 
recent historical lows. Necessary adjustments have been made to our operations to accommodate our customers’ responses to these 
market conditions. 
Technology and innovation
We fail to drive 
innovation or to 
react to emerging 
technology 
developments,  
and therefore fail  
to ensure that  
the business 
continues to deliver 
sustainable and 
attractive solutions 
for our customers.
The strength of our business is built upon a history 
of delivering innovative and sustainable solutions  
for our customers. If we fail to keep abreast of 
market needs or to innovate solutions, we are  
at risk of losing market share to our competitors  
and lowering margins as demand will reduce. 
 - Continual investment in research and development, 
including the Weir Advanced Research Centre (WARC) 
in conjunction with the University of Strathclyde. 
 - We have a dedicated governance team (Engineering 
Excellence Committee) focused on the delivery of 
our strategic objectives for technological advances 
and innovation to meet the needs of our customers.
Changes during 2014
The pace of technological innovation continues to increase as we and our competitors seek to provide customers with solutions that improve 
the efficiency of their operations. To ensure we continue to retain competitive advantage in this area, our existing research and development 
initiatives within the business, at WARC, and at certain universities around the world, have been enhanced through our partnership with 
Imperial College, London. This partnership will help the Group develop game-changing solutions to our customers’ challenges. We are also 
devoting additional resources to reviewing and responding to developing technologies, including appointment into the new role of Head of 
Engineering & Technology Development. Further information on progress made in this area is set out in the Products and Technology section 
of the Sustainability Review on pages 59 and 60. 
Risk trend –  
post mitigation
 Increasing
 Unchanged
 Decreasing
How We Manage Risk continued Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
29 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk
Political and social risk 
Adverse political 
action, or political 
and social 
instability, in 
territories in which 
we operate may 
result in strategic, 
financial or 
personnel loss  
to the Group.
We operate across the globe and therefore have  
to work within a wide range of political and social 
conditions. Adverse events may occur in the 
territories in which we operate that may require us  
to act swiftly to protect our people, our property and 
to maintain our competitiveness, and we need to be 
flexible and able to anticipate such issues. Expansions 
into new territories are only undertaken after rigorous 
assessment of the risks, including the social and 
political situation within the territory. 
 - Regular review of market attractiveness. 
 - Monitoring travel by Weir employees to higher  
risk locations.
 - External expert risk assessments and regular 
monitoring in higher risk locations. 
 - Contingency plans and exit strategy planning.
 - Our strategic planning assists in forecasting potential 
political and social instability in regions. 
Changes during 2014 
In response to increased security risks, arising from changes in the political environment in certain countries where the Group has 
operations, enhancements have been made to the Group’s access to expert risk assessments and plans to respond to adverse events  
in higher risk locations. During the course of 2014, it became evident that the environment in which a number of the Group’s businesses 
operate is becoming increasingly challenging and uncertain, especially from a security perspective. As the safety of our staff is of 
paramount importance, a new position of Group Head of Security has been created to improve the ways in which these concerns are 
addressed and mitigated. This position will report directly to the Group General Counsel. A Group Head of Security has now been 
recruited and is due to start work in April 2015.
Supply chain and working capital
Failure to achieve 
supply chain 
management 
improvements and 
the associated 
reduction in costs, 
working capital and 
enhanced flexibility. 
If we fail to improve our supply chain management, 
we risk:
 - losing the opportunity to invest capital which  
is currently committed to working capital into 
alternative value creating opportunities;
 - damaging our reputation and as a consequence 
losing customers and market share;
 - incurring penalties as a result of late delivery 
contractual clauses; 
 - reducing margins by incurring unnecessary 
additional costs associated with late remedial 
actions taken to avoid missing delivery targets; and
 - holding excess inventory in the event of a market 
downturn. 
 - Regular KPI monitoring of the supply chain 
throughout the organisation. 
 - The Group’s operations are currently implementing 
Value Chain Excellence initiatives which are 
intended to enhance operations’ working capital 
management and shorten lead times, amongst 
other business improvement objectives. 
 - Established Centres of Excellence drive cost 
savings, efficiencies and enhance delivery 
standards whilst maintaining quality. 
 - The Group’s forward purchase commitments are 
being closely monitored to manage inventories  
at levels appropriate to market conditions.
 - Our credit risk management procedures are under 
continuous appraisal and their application is subject 
to specific internal audit review. 
Changes during 2014
Supply chain remains an area of strategic focus for the Group. Supply chain improvements continue to be recognised year on year as  
the Group realises benefits from its focused approach to these matters. A programme of Value Chain Excellence initiatives has been 
launched throughout the Group to drive supply chain improvements.
Environment, health and safety (EHS)
 
Failure to 
adequately protect 
our people and 
other stakeholders 
from harm 
associated with  
a breach in EHS 
standards.
We operate in hazardous environments, and 
therefore have a fundamental duty to protect our 
people and other stakeholders from harm whilst 
conducting our business. As well as the personal 
impact on our people resulting from a failure to  
meet this obligation, we would also be at risk of:
 - reputational damage leading to a loss  
of customers;
 - legal action from regulators, including fines  
and penalties; and 
 - exclusion from markets important for our  
future growth.
 - The Weir Behavioural Safety system is in place  
to reduce the risk of safety incidents. In addition, 
there are initiatives to prevent the most common 
accident types. The Weir global EHS standards  
are continually reviewed. 
 - The EHS Excellence Committee is responsible for 
monitoring performance and compliance with Group 
objectives, policies and standards relating to EHS. 
 - There is a formal EHS assurance programme  
with issues escalated as required through the 
reporting structures. 
Changes during 2014 
The Group is never complacent in relation to EHS matters. Committed to achieving the highest of standards, the Group continues to set 
higher benchmarks for EHS compliance and roll out cohesive programmes to address EHS risks and drive safe and sustainable working 
practices. Improvements have been made through the year to our EHS board reporting and assurance activities and our key performance 
indicators in place to measure our success in mitigating EHS risks have shown an improvement on 2013. 30 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk
Contract risk
We fail adequately 
to manage contract 
risk and as a  
result commit to 
obligations which 
the Group is unable 
to meet without 
incurring significant 
unplanned costs.
In addition, failure  
to follow Group 
policies and 
procedures may lead 
to commitments 
without the desired 
level of contractual 
protections.
We operate in an increasingly complex and 
competitive environment where customers are  
not only highly focused on price and service but  
are also more challenging in contract negotiations.
As we offer a broader range of products and 
services to our customers, including those that are 
more technologically advanced, we risk exposing the 
Group to reputational and financial loss should our 
contract acceptance, negotiation and approval 
processes fail to protect the Group accordingly.
 - The Group has policies and procedures for contract 
acceptance and approval.
 - These are under continuous review and improvement 
to ensure they are adequate for current and future 
circumstances.
 - The tools and training available to employees 
responsible for contract management are similarly 
under continuous review.
Changes during 2014 
Contract management has become an area of increased focus for the Group, given the competitive environment and the breadth and 
depth of our product offerings, and therefore during 2014 was identified as a principal risk. Amongst other initiatives, certain of the 
Group’s policies and procedures have been reviewed and refreshed to provide employees with improved tools to assist them in their 
contract management activities.
IT security and continuity 
Failure to maintain 
business systems 
or technical 
infrastructure  
that serves the 
business needs. 
Failure to 
successfully 
execute changes  
to these business 
systems or 
technical 
infrastructure; 
together with 
failure to minimise 
disruption and 
maintain business 
as usual activity 
during technical 
infrastructure or 
business system 
changes. 
Failure to 
adequately protect 
the business 
operations from 
cybercrime.
Up-to-date data allows us to make informed 
decisions about our business. Therefore, we require 
reliable and efficient IT systems and infrastructure  
to provide our data requirements. Breaches of our  
IT security could have serious consequences for  
our business, including:
 - interruption to business operations; and
 - loss of intellectual property and other  
sensitive data.
The Group is investing in a significant IT 
transformation programme. If this is not managed 
effectively, the consequences could include 
interruption to business operations if data is 
unavailable due to unsuccessful execution 
of change, impacting our ability to compete  
and our reputation in the market.
At present, the Group’s principal exposures to 
cybercrime relate to the misappropriation of cash 
and data. Our revenue streams are largely protected 
as our products are not currently electronic in nature 
and we do not, as a rule, transact over the internet. 
 - We continually review the effectiveness of our key IT 
security controls in consultation with external experts.
 - There is regular reporting of unplanned outages and 
potential security breaches, with lessons learned 
across the Group.
 - We have an IT Governance Framework with a focus 
on structured change management techniques, 
including setting project governance levels in line  
with risk.
 - External assurance being obtained on the Tier 1  
IT transformation projects reporting through  
Internal Audit.
 - The security arrangements around all of the Group’s 
information assets will be revised following the 
transition to the Weir Cloud infrastructure.
 - Policies, procedures and baseline standards in  
relation to cyber risk and IT security more generally 
are continuously updated and rolled out to operations.  
A programme of user training in relation to cyber risk 
is being rolled out. 
Changes during 2014 
IT security and continuity continues to be a matter of strategic priority for the Group. Progress to strengthen the Group’s defences in this 
respect is being made according to plan as Tier 1 IT projects, such as Weir Cloud, and divisional IT improvements and other projects are 
put in place.
How We Manage Risk continued Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
31 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk
Cost competitiveness 
Failure to deliver 
cost competitive 
products and 
services, or  
failure to deliver 
sufficiently 
differentiated 
products and 
services which 
justify a price 
premium through 
lowest total cost  
of ownership  
value propositions.
Customers are increasingly focused on the price 
competitiveness of products and services as they 
seek to lower operating costs. If the Group fails to 
demonstrate the value of our products and services, 
it risks losing market position. 
 - There is continual focus on maximising the 
efficiency of our products to ensure the solutions 
provided to customers deliver the best overall 
value, allowing our customers to meet their cost 
reduction strategies through lower energy costs 
and improved productivity.
 - The key component Centres of Excellence are 
driving cost efficiencies, whilst maintaining quality.
 - Expansion of production in best-cost locations, 
including foundry expansions in Malaysia and  
South Africa.
 - We regularly monitor market activity to ensure  
we remain competitive. 
Changes during 2014
Cost competitiveness remains a strategic priority for the Group. Initiatives to expand production in best-cost locations are developing  
in South Africa and Malaysia and the procurement function continues to drive cost and quality improvements through the Group’s  
supply chain.
Ethics and governance
Interactions  
with our people, 
customers, 
suppliers and other 
stakeholders are 
not conducted  
with the highest 
standards of 
integrity which 
devalues our 
reputation.
We are unwilling to accept dishonest or corrupt 
behaviour from our people, or external parties acting 
on our behalf, whilst conducting our business.  
If we fail to act with integrity, we are at risk of:
 - reputational damage leading to a loss  
of customers;
 - increased scrutiny from regulators; 
 - legal action from regulators including fines, 
penalties and imprisonment; and
 - exclusion from markets important for our  
future growth.
 - The Code of Conduct, supplemented with Group 
policies on related topics, provides a clear benchmark 
for how we expect our business will be conducted. 
 - Regular training is provided using a range of 
mechanisms including Town Hall style sessions, 
online and induction training.
 - The financial control framework is continually 
monitored for effectiveness. 
 - Internal Audit’s remit includes regular review  
of the anti-bribery and corruption and financial 
controls across the Group. The Group Legal  
team is responsible for monitoring compliance  
with the Code of Conduct. 
Changes during 2014 
The governance and legislative environment in which the Group operates continues to evolve and become more complex. The Group 
has further developed and grown its operations in geographies where ethical standards may not be as well established as in other 
countries. The Group has reinforced its commitment to high standards of ethics and governance, having reviewed, updated and reissued 
the Code of Conduct during 2014 and completed a programme of training for key individuals. In addition, the Group has developed and 
issued a Group Competition Law Manual, which again is being accompanied by related training for those in relevant roles.
Acquisitions and expansion into new territories
Inadequate 
planning and 
management  
of the integration 
and expansion 
processes impacts 
the ability to 
generate growth 
opportunities, 
synergies and  
cost savings  
within expected 
timescales.
Acquisitions and expansions into new territories  
are only undertaken after rigorous review and 
identification of expected synergies, cost savings  
and growth opportunities. However, there is a risk 
that these benefits may not be achieved, or may  
not be achieved within the anticipated timescales, 
thereby tying up the Group’s funds in investments 
with insufficient returns. There is also a risk that  
we could be left liable for past acts or omissions  
of the acquired businesses without adequate  
right of redress. 
 - The strategic planning process includes market  
and competitive position assessments to drive  
the acquisition agenda. 
 - Comprehensive due diligence is performed on  
all potential acquisitions. 
 - We have a formal 100 day integration plan with 
dedicated integration directors and managers 
appointed to oversee and manage the full  
integration programme. 
 - The Group’s pre- and post-acquisition processes are 
subject to continuous review and improvement based 
on our experience of past acquisitions.
 - We seek to secure appropriate legal protection 
against potential liabilities and to secure rights of 
redress against sellers where such liability arises. 
Changes during 2014 
With the acquisition of Trio in October 2014, the Group has continued to pursue its strategy of broadening its product offering through 
the mining production cycle. This acquisition, together with those made in prior periods, continues to be successfully integrated in 
accordance with the Group’s established processes. 32 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Operational Review
Weir Minerals 
Delivering in challenging 
market conditions Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
33 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Our focus on enhanced service capability and forging 
ever-stronger relationships with customers helped  
to deliver a resilient performance in what continue  
to be challenging end markets.
Dean Jenkins
Divisional Managing Director
Invest in comminution process 
knowledge and materials  
wear technology:
 
 – Global Product Managers in place to lead crushing, grinding and screening initiatives.
 – Development of cone crusher range continues, assisted by the acquisition of Trio.
 – Several projects initiated focused on High Pressure Grinding Rolls (HPGRs) upgrades.
 – Trials under way for new family of castings with positive early results.
Identify new platforms for potential 
growth aligned to our core strategy 
and competences:
  
 – Acquisition of Trio further extends the product portfolio into the adjacent comminution 
segment of the mill circuit, providing scale and presence in the growing aggregates  
end market.
 – Strong performance from recent acquisitions of R Wales (rubber and wear-resistant 
linings for mining, minerals processing and oil sands industries) and Aspir (centrifuges).
 – As part of the Group efficiency review, consolidation of manufacturing sites expected 
to save £15m.
Reduce lead times and working 
capital through global supply  
chain initiatives:
 
 – Achieved significant improvements in lead times and best-cost country sourcing.
 – Global capacity plan and inventory management system implemented.
 – Good progress was made in reducing working capital in North America.
Continue development of Minerals 
and Oil & Gas product portfolios 
through collaboration and innovation:
 
 – Progress made in development of Gladiator pump for the oil and gas end market, and 
in extending the range of swellable packers, using the division’s rubber technologies.
 – Collaboration initiatives between Floway, Gabbioneta and Weir Specialty Pumps 
proceeding well. A new Gabbioneta pump is available for Minerals to sell in  
North America.
Help make our customers’ existing 
operations more efficient by 
continuous improvement of our core 
products, wherever they need us:
   
 – Commenced roll-out of next generation slurry pump range.
 – Cost savings and efficiency gains achieved by Anglo American as a result  
of strategic alliance recognised with Procurement Leaders award. 
 – Signed a Global Framework Agreement with Kinross Gold Corporation.
 – New service centres opened or planned for Philippines, Mongolia and Russia. 
Key priorities and progress in 2014
Strategic Goals
 Innovation
 Collaboration
  Value Chain Excellence
 Global Capability
Market drivers
Price declines were experienced across  
a number of key commodities in 2014,  
as increased global supplies of iron ore, coal 
and copper combined with slowing demand 
growth, principally as a result of economic 
conditions in China and other emerging 
markets. Iron ore prices fell by almost 50% 
in the year, resulting in a notable impact on 
brownfield project activity. While copper 
prices fell by 14%, brownfield investment 
remained resilient. Gold prices were broadly 
flat over the period and remained below  
the levels required to drive higher capital 
investment. Ore production from existing 
mines continued to increase, supported by 
the move from construction to full operation 
of several new mines, particularly in South 
America, and miners seeking to maximise 
production from existing sites to partially 
offset commodity price declines.  
Both these trends supported aftermarket 
demand with global ore production growing 
3% in 2014.
Mining sector capital expenditure fell by  
an estimated 17% in 2014. As a result  
there were very few greenfield project 
opportunities and customers displayed 
caution in proceeding with brownfield 
investment. Industrial action in South Africa 
significantly impacted local production 
levels, and the outbreak of the Ebola virus 
also caused disruption in West Africa.  
In Europe, weak economic conditions  
and geopolitical unrest in Eastern Europe 
impacted activity. Non-mining end markets 
also declined with lower project activity 
across power, oil and gas, although oil 
sands aftermarket demand remained stable.  34 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
2014 £226m
2013 £243m
2012 £228m
2014 £1,128m
2013 £1,178m
2012 £1,178m
Operational Review continued
Strategic progress
The division’s comminution (crushing, 
grinding and screening) strategy advanced 
significantly with over 60% growth in order 
input and the award of original equipment 
contracts for High Pressure Grinding Rolls 
(HPGRs) in North America and Europe. In 
addition, the acquisition of Trio Engineered 
Products expands the division’s product 
offering and end market presence  
into aggregates.
Investment in new product development 
has continued with a focus on helping our 
customers achieve their aim of increasing 
efficiency. A new vertical slurry pump was 
launched with retrofit capability for existing 
customers, enabling upgrades to take place 
at reduced cost. In addition, the division 
designed, built and installed the world’s 
largest mill circuit slurry pump at a mine  
in Chile. Our Global Framework Agreement 
with Anglo American has seen one of the 
division’s key customers achieve immediate 
gains in component life and power-saving, 
by applying our technology to existing 
pumps. A second Global Framework 
Agreement was signed in 2014 with  
Kinross Gold Corporation. 
New service centre facilities were 
established in Asia-Pacific and Europe, 
further enhancing our global capability  
and extending the division’s market- 
leading service centre network. Planning  
is continuing for a new best-cost campus  
in Malaysia which will include a new 
foundry, machine shop and continuous 
rubber processing plant. In oil sands 
markets, there was an increase in demand 
for our barge products and aftermarket 
performance was supported by growth 
from the R Wales group of companies 
which was acquired in early 2013. 
The division’s Value Chain Excellence 
initiatives included progress in the roll- 
out of a best-in-class Enterprise Resource 
Planning (ERP) platform to increase 
efficiency, decrease working capital and 
deliver lead time reductions to customers. 
As part of the Group-wide efficiency  
review the division announced in November 
2014 the consolidation of four smaller 
manufacturing units into larger facilities 
across Europe, North America and  
Australia, which combined with other 
actions including workforce reductions  
in Africa, Europe and South America,  
is expected to contribute annualised 
benefits of £15m by the end of 2015. 
Order Input decreased by 4% to £1,127m 
(2013: £1,180m), with strong aftermarket 
growth more than offset by a material  
fall in original equipment orders. Original 
equipment orders were 22% lower year  
on year, driven by a reduction in the  
number of brownfield projects reaching the 
procurement stage and lower orders from 
non-mining markets, although a good level 
of quotation was maintained. Although 
down year on year, original equipment order 
trends improved slightly through the year 
with second half input up 3% compared  
to the first half, despite the non-recurrence 
of a large HPGR order received in H1.
Aftermarket orders grew by 6%, at the 
upper end of original expectations and 
represented 69% of total input (2013: 62%). 
This was supported by the benefits of a 
large and growing active installed base, 
underlying ore production trends and  
the commissioning of greenfield sites. 
Aftermarket growth of more than 4% was 
achieved in three out of four quarters with 
Q4 impacted by the cancellation of a large 
£11m HPGR order, previously booked in Q3.
The division continued to make good 
progress in comminution with input of £49m 
(2013: £30m). Slurry pump orders were 
materially lower year on year, reflecting 
market conditions. Good progress was 
made in growing the valves product line. In 
oil sands markets, there was an increase in 
demand for barge products and aftermarket 
performance was supported by growth from 
the R Wales group of companies.
Emerging markets accounted for 47% of  
input (2013: 45%) with higher activity levels in 
South America and the Middle East offsetting 
the impact of industrial action in South Africa. 
Orders from mining end markets were flat 
year on year and accounted for 77% of input 
(2013: 74%). Input from non-mining markets 
declined by 16% compared to 2013, which 
included large orders from coal bed methane 
and wastewater projects which were not 
repeated in 2014.
Revenue was 4% lower at £1,128m on a 
constant currency basis (2013: £1,178m)  
but with second half revenues showing  
6% sequential growth. Original equipment 
sales were 17% lower and accounted for 
33% (2013: 38%) of divisional revenue. 
Production-driven aftermarket revenues 
increased by 4% with sequential growth 
each quarter. 
Double-digit growth in Asia-Pacific, 
supported by the acquisition of Trio in  
late October 2014, was offset by a £42m 
reduction in African revenues, primarily  
as a result of strikes in South Africa. 
Revenues from European and South 
American markets also fell, reflecting 
subdued end market conditions although 
output in Australasia increased slightly, 
supported by strong aftermarket demand. 
Reported revenues declined by 14%, 
reflecting a 10% foreign exchange 
headwind (2013 reported: £1,304m).
Operating profit decreased 7% on a 
constant currency basis to £226m (2013: 
£243m), as a result of lower revenues and  
a fall in contribution from African operations 
of £18m and investment in the comminution 
Operating profit
*
£226m
-7%
Revenue
*
£1,128m
-4%
platform. One-off integration and acquisition 
costs of £1m were incurred in relation to Trio, 
largely offsetting its operating contribution in 
the period. Reported operating profit fell by 
16% after a 10% foreign exchange headwind 
(2013 reported: £269m).
Operating margin declined by 50bps to 
20.1% (2013: 20.6%), reflecting a higher 
mix of lower margin products, increased 
investment in the comminution platform 
and a circa 30bps impact on a constant 
currency basis from materially lower 
revenues in Africa and the effects on  
the division’s supply chain and operations, 
of direct strike action in the second half. 
These adverse factors were somewhat 
offset by the benefit of cost reduction  
and procurement initiatives and a higher 
proportion of aftermarket revenues.
Investment
Capital expenditure of £45m (2013: £53m) 
included investment in the initial development 
of a new best-cost campus in Malaysia. The 
division is also investing in a common ERP 
platform over the next three years to support 
global capacity planning. Research and 
development spending of £11m (2013: £13m) 
was focused on developing the division’s 
materials technology, mechatronics capability 
and expanding its product portfolio.
Outlook
Total mining capital expenditure is  
expected to reduce for the third year in 
succession in 2015, albeit at a lower rate 
than 2014. Maintenance capital expenditure 
is anticipated to remain broadly in line with 
recent years; however, further reductions 
are forecast in brownfield and greenfield 
investment. The growth rate for global  
ore production is expected to be in the  
* 2012 and 2013 restated at 2014 average exchange rates. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
35 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Minerals 77%
Oil and gas 9%
Power 3%
Other 2%
Industrial 9%
Market input breakdown
South America 23%
North America 23%
Middle East/Africa 14%
Asia-Paciﬁc 10%
Australasia 18%
Europe 12%
Geographic input breakdown
Partners in production worldwide
Working with  
our customers to 
improve efficiency
Weir recently signed a Global Framework 
Agreement with Kinross Gold Corporation 
which will reduce operating costs and  
increase productivity at Kinross’ mine  
sites and operations. 
The agreement covers all of Kinross’ 
global locations including North America, 
South America, West Africa and Russia.
Kinross is a Canadian gold mining 
company which maintains listings on  
both the Toronto Stock Exchange and  
the New York Stock Exchange. Founded 
in 1993, Kinross has become one of the 
world’s leading gold mining groups with 
total annual gold equivalent production of  
2.6 million to 2.7 million ounces forecast 
in 2014.
The agreement will see the two 
companies work together to identify 
opportunities to reduce Kinross’s 
operating costs, ensure security 
of supply and identify solutions which 
create value for both companies.  
Weir Minerals will become Kinross’ 
preferred supplier of mining equipment, 
including centrifugal slurry and positive 
displacement pumps, hydrocyclones, 
slurry valves, crushers, screens, rubber 
and mill liners.
Weir’s reputation for delivering 
innovative, highly engineered and 
efficient mining equipment, supported  
by its market-leading global service 
centre network, complements Kinross’ 
operating model and will help to deliver 
total cost of ownership reductions.  
This builds on the agreement Weir  
signed with Anglo American in 2013.
Key priorities in 2015
Execute comminution strategy 
through effective integration of Trio.
  
Increase investment in research  
and development to position the 
division for future growth.
Strengthen interface with our 
customers through enhanced  
service capability and greater  
on-site presence.
  
Progress implementation of  
new divisional ERP system.
 
Increase efficiency and deliver  
the benefits of the global 
rationalisation programme.
  
low single digits, supported by growing 
global demand. 
Oil sands capital expenditure is anticipated 
to decline materially, reflecting recent oil 
price reductions, although production  
levels are expected to be resilient. The 
impact on mining original equipment 
revenues is expected to be largely offset  
by a strengthening comminution presence, 
particularly in the growing aggregates end 
market and including a full year contribution 
from Trio. Aftermarket revenues are 
anticipated to benefit from increasing ore 
production volumes and a growing active 
installed base as customers commission 
and continue to ramp up activity levels at 
new mines, particularly in South America.  
In addition, profits will be supported by the 
first benefits from the previously announced 
efficiency review and a more normalised 
operating environment in South Africa. 
Operating margins are expected to be 
slightly lower year on year, as a result  
of reduced profitability and volumes in  
oil and gas markets. 36 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Operational Review continued
Weir Oil & Gas 
Staying flexible  
in dynamic markets Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
37 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
2014 saw every business in the division grow by 
swiftly reacting to increasing demands of customers 
and leveraging its market-leading service centre 
network to deliver a strong increase in constant 
currency revenues and profits.
Paul Coppinger
Divisional Managing Director
Capitalise on growing international 
opportunities across each business:
 – China accounted for 29% of Asia-Pacific revenue. 
 – Expanded production and geographic presence in the Middle East and introduced 
Seaboard and Mathena products. 
 – Opened new Oil & Gas Services manufacturing facility in Dubai, UAE which will enable 
the manufacturing of Pressure Control equipment in the region.
Accelerate customer uptake of recent 
product and service launches:
 
 – More than 40% of all fluid end sales from new premium technologies.
 – 260% growth in Seaboard zipper manifold sales.
 – The SPM
®
 8 Station Manifold Skid with Safety Iron
®
 connections launched provides  
a compact footprint for easy transport and use. 
 – Seaboard NWH-C Overshot Connector launched and securing first orders in 2014.
Continue to grow share in the 
pressure pumping market:
  
 – Fluid end market share increased to 27% in 2014. 
 – Power systems strategic partnership formed with Rolls-Royce Holdings PLC  
subsidiary – MTU America.
Expand maintenance services 
capacity in Iraq, in support of  
the LUKOIL contract awarded  
in January 2014:
 
 – API and ISO certified facility in Basra having API 6A, 16A, 5CT, 7-1 & ISO 9001,  
14001 and 18001 certifications. 
 – Successful mobilisation and expansion of capabilities and capacity in Iraq in support  
of US$100m two-year contract with LUKOIL.
 – Acquired additional OCTG threading/machine shop facility Iraq, increasing capability  
to serve Southern Iraq’s oil and gas industry.
Deliver benefits from upstream and 
downstream oil and gas forums:
 
 – £8m of revenues from the organically developed Swellable Packers range. 
 – Contract wins for bundled offering of centrifugal pump offering from across the Group.
Increase supply chain flexibility  
and improve working capital ratios 
through working Value Chain 
Excellence Initiatives:
 – Introduced maturity model and developed business unit improvement plans using 
Value Chain Excellence methodologies.
 – Excess pressure pumping inventories reduced by £53m.
 – API certification awarded to Mathena.
Key priorities and progress in 2014
Strategic Goals
 Innovation
 Collaboration
  Value Chain Excellence
 Global Capability
Market drivers
Global oil and gas markets continued to 
grow strongly for the majority of the year 
with average US rig count, an indicator  
of activity in our Pressure Pumping and 
Pressure Control operations, increasing  
by 6% in 2014. A prolonged period of 
stability in global oil prices ended in the 
fourth quarter, as oil prices began to fall 
dramatically with a subsequent pull back  
in activity levels beginning at the very end 
of 2014. 
For the majority of the year, increased 
investment supported strong growth in 
North American oil production with a 5% 
rise in the number of wells drilled in the US. 
Production was supported by increased 
intensity in operations which resulted in the 
number of horizontal wells rising 11% and 
the number of frack stages rising by 22%. 
Alongside increasing intensity of completion 
techniques, this contributed to strong 
growth in aftermarket demand. 38 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
2014 £225m
2013 £171m
2012 £202m
2014 £992m
2013 £754m
2012 £810m
Operational Review continued
Market drivers (continued)
North American activity continued to  
be dominated by oil and liquids which 
accounted for 82% of North American 
drilling and completion. Gas activity was 
subdued as natural gas prices remained 
below incentive levels, despite briefly 
increasing early in the year as a result  
of a harsh winter in the US. 
In pressure pumping markets, demand for 
original equipment increased from 2013 
levels as frack fleet utilisation reached 87% 
in North America, reflecting greater demand 
and increased intensity of operations. 
Internationally, Chinese frack fleet growth 
was subdued but Australia grew strongly, 
albeit from a low base. 
Average rig count in the Middle East 
continued to grow, increasing by 9% with 
continued positive trends in Iraq and Saudi 
Arabia in particular. Mid and downstream 
markets were impacted by project delays  
in the second half of the year.
Strategic progress 
The division’s market-leadership position in 
pressure pumping and developing a Tier 1 
offering in pressure control ensured it was 
able to gain market share as upstream 
North American markets grew strongly. This 
was supported by the division’s extensive 
service centre network which captured 
increased aftermarket demand for spare 
parts, services and the cross selling of the 
expanded product range. All business units 
delivered strong organic order growth with 
international expansion positioning the 
Group to benefit from development in 
markets such as China, Argentina, Brazil, 
Australia and Indonesia. 
Pressure Pumping further enhanced its lean 
manufacturing and supply chain platform, 
giving it the operational flexibility to increase 
production rapidly as its markets expanded. 
In flow control and fluid ends for instance, 
this helped the business increase market 
share by 4% and 5% respectively over  
the last two years. There was strong organic 
growth over the course of the year, with  
fluid end sales nearly doubling and over  
40% of orders coming from the business’ 
new premium range. Development of a  
next generation frack pump, incorporating 
patented design features, is progressing  
well with field trials scheduled for the  
first quarter of 2015. The division is also 
partnering with MTU America – part of 
Rolls-Royce Holdings PLC – to design the 
industry’s first purpose built integrated 
power system for hydraulic fracturing. 
Pressure Control increased its market share 
by launching new products such as its range 
of zipper manifolds, a new hydraulic choke 
and a well-overshot solution for subsea 
applications. The business cross-sold its  
full portfolio to existing customers and 
leveraged the division’s market-leading 
service network to attract new customers 
to its core product range.
Internationally, a new Middle East 
headquarters was completed in Dubai 
alongside increasing service centre capability in 
Azerbaijan and Iraq. The new Dubai facility will 
meet regional demand for locally manufactured 
wellhead and valve manufacturing, supporting 
the internationalisation of Pressure Control, 
while also expanding service centre capacity  
to capture fast-growing regional opportunities. 
This included a ramp-up of activity to support 
the LUKOIL maintenance contract in southern 
Iraq, which is utilising the division’s Basra 
service capability – the first in the region to 
secure API and ISO licenses.
As part of the Group-wide efficiency review, 
the division announced the consolidation  
of a Pressure Control manufacturing unit  
in California into a larger Houston facility, 
with a consequent reduction in workforce of 
approximately 100. This and other measures 
are expected to deliver annualised savings  
of £10m. In addition, and in response to the 
steep reduction in oil prices which began  
in the fourth quarter of 2014, the Group  
has taken further actions to reduce costs. 
This includes an additional planned reduction 
in the division’s workforce of approximately 
550 by March 2015, the insourcing of 
sub-contracted manufacturing and further 
reducing operational costs. 
Order input at £1,032m (2013: £768m) 
was 34% higher with good growth from 
each business in the division. Aftermarket 
input was up 30% year on year, driven by 
strong growth in Pressure Pumping and 
accounted for 70% (2013: 73%) of divisional 
orders. Original equipment input was 47% 
higher, primarily driven by demand for new 
Pressure Pumping equipment.
Pressure Pumping input increased by 50%, 
with strong trading until almost the year end, 
when there was a reduction in demand in 
North America as customers started to 
revise spending plans in response to the 
steep fall in oil prices. This growth was 
driven by a strong aftermarket performance 
as the division’s comprehensive product and 
service offering allowed it to gain market 
share. Fluid end input was up nearly 90%  
on 2013, supported by differentiated new 
products. Flow control orders exceeded 
their previous record in 2011 and accounted 
for nearly 30% of Pressure Pumping input. 
Original equipment orders more than 
doubled from a low base in 2013, with  
some initial signs in the second quarter  
of a frack pump replacement cycle starting, 
but this did not materialise in the second 
half, as the oil price declined. Pressure 
Control also benefitted from strong North 
American demand and increased its share  
of rigs, supported by the expansion of  
its product and service offering including 
launching a range of zipper manifolds, a new 
hydraulic choke and a well-overshot system 
Operating profit
*
£225m
+32%
Revenue
*
£992m
+32%
for subsea applications. Input increased  
by 20% over the year, although order rates 
softened at the end of 2014, reflecting 
changing market conditions.
Services enjoyed strong double-digit input 
growth, supported by higher operations  
and maintenance (O&M) activity as a result 
of the LUKOIL contract in Iraq, which was 
secured at the start of 2014. Downstream 
orders also increased as Gabbioneta 
secured a number of large LNG and refinery 
contracts across the Middle East and Asia.
Revenue increased by 32% to £992m on  
a constant currency basis (2013: £754m), 
reflecting the strong order input trends 
across the business. Original equipment 
and aftermarket revenues both increased by 
32% with aftermarket accounting for 72% 
of output (2013: 72%). Revenues increased 
sequentially each quarter with record 
second half divisional sales. 
Pressure Pumping delivered strong  
revenue growth broadly mirroring input 
trends and only slightly down on the 
previous 2011 peak. Pressure Control 
revenues also increased in line with  
order trends, supported by positive North 
American activity levels for the majority  
of the year. Both operations saw a slightly 
softer than expected finish to the year as 
the result of oil price declines. Services 
grew strongly although Gabbioneta was 
down year on year as a result of a lower 
opening order book and customers  
delaying project delivery dates. Reported 
divisional revenues increased by 25%  
after a 5% foreign exchange headwind  
(2013: £796m).
* 2012 and 2013 restated at 2014 average exchange rates. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
39 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Oil and gas 99%
Industrial 1%
Market input breakdown
North America 75%
Middle East/Africa 13%
Asia-Paciﬁc 5%
South America 1%
Europe 5%
Australasia 1%
Geographic input breakdown
Key priorities in 2015
Respond with agility to changing 
market dynamics and improve  
overall business performance 
through delivery of Value Chain 
Excellence improvement plans. 
   
Continue to globalise leadership 
position in Pressure Pumping and 
progress towards a Tier 1 offering  
in Pressure Control.
Enhance product offerings in 
Pressure Control and Pressure 
Pumping.
  
Expand capabilities of Weir Oil  
& Gas Services in the UAE, Iraq  
and Saudi Arabia, including the 
benefits of its new regional 
manufacturing hub in Dubai.
 
Leverage Weir’s total centrifugal 
pump capabilities to increase  
share in the global oil and gas 
processing markets.
 
Operating profit including joint ventures 
was 32% higher on a constant currency 
basis at £225m (2013: £171m), primarily 
driven by strong Pressure Pumping profit 
growth. Reported operating profit increased 
by 25% after a 5% foreign exchange 
headwind (2013: £181m).
Operating margin was unchanged at 
22.7% (2013: 22.7%) reflecting positive 
operating leverage in Pressure Pumping 
offset by increased bonus costs and lower 
margins in Pressure Control. Margins were 
slightly below prior expectations as a result 
of softer than anticipated trading at the  
end of the year in higher margin Pressure 
Pumping and Pressure Control operations.
Investment
Capital expenditure of £50m (2013: £38m) 
included additional facilities for Services  
in Iraq and Dubai, additional Pressure 
Control rental assets, a new R&D facility  
in Fort Worth, US and the commencement 
of construction of a new facility in Milan, 
Italy for Gabbioneta. Total research and 
development expenditure of £8m was 
focused on developing new frack pump 
design and related sensor and control 
technologies (2013: £5m).
Outlook
Oil prices are expected to remain 
substantially below their average of the  
last three years as a result of oversupply.  
As such, the market is expected to take 
longer to reach a balance than during the 
demand driven downturns in 2008-9 and 
2012-13. However, global demand continues 
to grow and unconventional oil is well 
positioned to react quickly when market 
conditions improve. 
Many Exploration and Production (E&P) and 
service companies have already announced 
plans to significantly reduce their capital 
spending in response to lower oil prices –  
a trend reflected in the fall in US onshore  
rigs in the first two months of 2015. Visibility 
in these upstream markets is limited as 
customers continue to adjust their operations 
to the evolving pricing environment, although 
a significant fall in activity levels is anticipated 
with resulting pricing pressure. Conditions  
are also expected to be more challenging  
in international and mid and downstream 
markets, although the impacts will be  
less pronounced.
The division has already acted to reduce 
costs and increase efficiency and will 
continue to monitor the need for further 
actions to support operational performance. 
However, these measures will not fully 
offset market impacts with a substantial 
reduction in divisional revenues and lower 
operating margins expected in 2015. 40 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Operational Review continued
Partners in production worldwide
Supporting  
developing oilfields 
In January 2014, the Group signed a contract with LUKOIL  
Oil Company to provide general maintenance services for  
the West Qurna-2 oilfield in Southern Iraq. 
The agreement, worth around US$100m 
(£60m), sees Weir engineers deliver 
mechanical, electrical, maintenance  
and pipeline services for the related 
production facilities, including the  
Mishrif Central Processing Plant.
Weir has significantly invested in 
establishing its service centre in Basra,  
Iraq and it is the first in-country location  
to offer fully comprehensive maintenance 
services for all kinds of rotating equipment, 
valves and wellheads. The facility is also the 
first in Iraq to obtain API and ISO licences. 
West Qurna-2 is one of the largest 
undeveloped oilfields in the world.  
Mishrif began production in March 2014, 
at which time Weir commenced work  
under the terms of its contract. 
By the end of the year production reached 
a peak of around 400,000 barrels per day.
This substantial contract demonstrates  
the importance of Weir’s long experience 
of working in Iraq and its reputation  
for delivering high-quality engineering 
services in support of the country’s 
developing oilfield infrastructure. It also 
reflects the Group’s ability to capture 
opportunities in high-growth markets  
and be a partner of choice to its  
worldwide customers.
In late 2014 Weir expanded its footprint  
in Iraq by acquiring Weatherford OCTG’s 
threading/machine shop and moving  
into a purpose-built workshop facility  
in North Rumaila, Basra, Iraq. 
In-keeping with Weir’s safety culture, the 
facility includes employee accommodation 
on-site, reducing the need for travel in  
the country and enhancing security for  
our employees.
The new facility increases Weir’s capacity 
in the country by adding new machines 
and capabilities, enabling it to provide 
wellheads and ‘Christmas trees’ to oil  
and gas producers. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
41 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 42 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Operational Review continued
Weir Power & Industrial 
Improving operations  
to drive future growth Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
43 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
The division responded to mixed market conditions by 
restructuring our operations to improve efficiency and 
position Power & Industrial to take advantage of future 
growth opportunities.
John Heasley
Divisional Managing Director
Geographical expansion: – Strong order growth in offshore oil and gas platforms in the Middle East and Asia. 
 – Expanded sales presence in Russia and Northern Europe. 
Best-cost sourcing: – Continued growth in manufacturing volumes in Korea, China, India and progressing 
utilisation of assets in Malaysia.
Product development: – Continued to develop Valve capabilities extending material ranges to deal with more 
extreme environments.
 – Commercialised turbine by-pass technology. 
Aftermarket enhancement: – Increased resource and capability in our aftermarket dedicated teams and, as a result, 
Valve aftermarket orders increased 26% year on year.
Market expansion:
  
 – Oil and gas orders increased by 20% with significant progress in LNG projects for our 
safety valves product range.
 – Enhanced application expertise with the addition of a number of specialist Valve and 
application engineers. 
Key priorities and progress in 2014
Strategic Goals
 Innovation
 Collaboration
  Value Chain Excellence
 Global Capability
Market drivers
Uncertain global economic conditions  
led to customer caution and subsequent 
project delays in power, industrial and 
downstream oil and gas projects,  
with a few limited exceptions. 
In the division’s core conventional power 
markets, steady demand in the US and 
China together with improving conditions  
in India offset by weakness in Korea and 
Europe. Nuclear activity gained some 
momentum, including the announcement  
of new developments in the UK but it will 
be later in 2015 before many projects move 
to the procurement stage. North American 
Hydro markets recovered from a low point 
in 2013 albeit not returning to peak levels.
There was weakness in mid and 
downstream oil and gas projects with 
customers cautious in allocating capital 
expenditure and thereby delaying projects, 
particularly in Europe and the Middle East. 
In Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG), project 
momentum continued for Australian and 
Russian projects. 
The slowdown in projects had a positive 
effect on aftermarket orders with strong 
demand across all geographies reflecting 
more intense use of assets. 
Aftermarket conditions were also supported 
by the first major maintenance cycles 
starting after the substantial increase in 
Chinese power projects in the last decade. 
Strategic progress 
The division responded to mixed market 
conditions and a consequently disappointing 
margin performance by restructuring 
operations as part of the Group-wide 
efficiency review. The new structure will 
more closely align resources to profitable 
opportunities while reducing costs, 
streamlining management and improving 
accountability. The programme involves a 
reduction of 90 posts and is expected to 
generate annualised benefits of £10m by 
the end of 2015. Value Chain Excellence 
initiatives made progress and the division 
will continue to support performance by 
capitalising on its global manufacturing 
capability in best-cost locations in  
Malaysia, China and India. 
Valves operational performance improved 
throughout the year as a result of recent 
investment. Hydro continued to use  
its technology and deep end market 
knowledge to develop strong partnerships 
with customers.  44 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
2014 £19m
2013 £30m
2012 £30m
2014 £318m
2013 £314m
2012 £310m
Power 58%
Industrial 15%
Other 12%
Minerals 1%
Oil and gas 14%
Market input breakdown
North America 33%
Europe 31%
Middle East/Africa 8%
Asia-Paciﬁc 26%
South America 2%
Geographic input breakdown
Operational Review continued
Strategic progress (continued)
There was further progress in oil and gas 
markets with notable success in a number 
of LNG projects and other severe service 
applications. 
In South Korea, we were pleased to 
commission a number of turbine bypass 
valves in the year which represents a  
key strategic opportunity for our Control 
Valve business. 
Order input decreased by 4% to £314m 
(2013: £326m) primarily due to a large 
£20m one-off Services order in 2013 which 
was not repeated and we withdrew from 
low margin projects in Libya. Excluding this, 
order input was up 3%. Original equipment 
orders were down 3%, with strong growth 
in Hydro more than offset by tougher end 
market conditions and project delays in 
Valves. Aftermarket input declined by 4%, 
with strong double-digit Valves growth 
offset by lower Services input. Total Valves 
input was slightly down year on year. 
Power markets represented 58% of orders 
(2013: 61%) and the proportion of orders 
from oil and gas markets increased to 14% 
(2013: 12%), supported by the division’s 
move into adjacent sectors such as LNG 
and Floating Production, Storage and 
Offloading (FPSO). Emerging markets 
accounted for 35% of input (2013: 33%). 
Revenue increased by 1% on a constant 
currency basis to £318m (2013: £314m), 
with aftermarket growth of 3% and original 
equipment revenues broadly flat on the prior 
year. Valves revenues were higher year on 
year but slightly below expectations due  
to customers delaying shipments and the 
impacts of a four-week strike from late 
November at its US facility. Hydro sales  
fell as a result of the lower opening order 
book. Full year divisional book-to-bill was 
marginally negative at 0.99 (2013: 1.04). 
Reported revenues fell by 3% after a 5% 
foreign exchange headwind (2013: £330m).
Operating profit was down 37% at £19m 
on a constant currency basis (2013: £30m) 
as a result of margin declines across  
Valves, Services and Hydro operations. 
Valve operating profits were lower as a 
result of £0.6m additional costs incurred 
following strike action at its US facility in 
December. Reported operating profits fell 
41% after a 6% foreign exchange headwind 
(2013: £31m).
Operating margin was down 360bps to 
5.8% (2013: 9.4%) on a constant currency 
basis, reflecting the disappointing operational 
performance and product mix within Valves 
and Services as higher-margin nuclear 
revenues were replaced by lower-margin 
commercial valve opportunities. Margins  
also declined in Hydro, reflecting negative 
operating leverage.
Investment
Capital expenditures of £9m (2013: £11m) 
was primarily focused on expanding the 
capacity of the division’s Valves facility  
in South Korea. 
Investment in research and development 
declined slightly to £2.4m (2013: £2.9m) 
with a new range of municipal pumps 
progressing to field trials.
Outlook
Power end markets are expected to  
remain subdued in 2015, with expenditure 
in Europe impacted by low projected 
economic growth rates and the majority  
of project activity continuing to be located  
in emerging markets. Mid and downstream 
oil and gas markets will be impacted by  
the recent fall in oil prices, with existing  
and new projects subject to delays.
Supported by the opening order book and 
good aftermarket opportunities, the division 
is targeting constant currency revenue 
growth and is expected to benefit from 
measures taken at the end of 2014 to 
improve the profitability of the business.
Operating profit
*
£19m
-37%
Revenue
*
£318m
+1%
* 2012 and 2013 restated at 2014 average exchange rates. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
45 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Partners in production worldwide
Key priorities in 2015
Complete and deliver the benefits  
of the division’s restructuring 
programme.
Expand low-cost sourcing and 
leverage VCE to deliver further 
operational efficiency benefits.
   
Continue to grow Valve  
aftermarket revenues.
  
Expand application and  
product range through  
new product development.
  
Expand geographical reach.
Serving South Korea’s 
growing need for 
electricity 
South Korea’s electricity suppliers have 
historically relied on nuclear and coal power 
generation to meet consumption needs  
of a growing population. 
Liquefied natural gas (LNG) combined 
cycle generation is an attractive and 
fast-growing application in the region  
due to its high-efficiency and cleaner 
performance.
In 2014, the Power & Industrial division 
delivered turbine bypass valves to two 
new combined cycle LNG power plants 
located in South Korea. The project 
represented the successful execution  
of the division’s strategy to serve global 
power generation customers with newly 
developed engineering solutions.
The new valves allow safer, more flexible 
operation of combined cycle turbines. 
During power plant commissioning, the 
product allows the boiler to be tested 
without running the turbine, saving 
significant fuel costs and time in the 
process. Weir International South Korea 
delivered the valves to the 950 megawatt 
Shin-Ulsan power plant in February  
and then the same set of valves to the 
Shin-Pyeongtaek power plant in March. 
The project marked a breakthrough in  
the country’s domestic power market  
as they were the first valves of their  
type manufactured locally for use in  
the South Korean domestic market. 
The technical expertise and product 
innovation involved in turbine bypass 
valves is market leading. The valves  
use high alloy steels to cope with 
operating temperatures up to 605 
degrees Celsius and have a forged- 
body design incorporating a number  
of key features which enable safe and 
reliable operation at high temperatures 
and extreme pressures.
Since delivering the project Weir has 
continued to develop the product  
further and is now engaging with  
Korean engineering, procurement and 
construction companies involved in the 
global power market including North 
American and European customers. 46 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Financial Review
Good underlying 
performance in fast 
changing markets
Operating profit (before exceptional items 
and intangibles amortisation) on a reported 
basis was down 4% on the previous year 
and was after an adverse foreign exchange 
impact of £37m.
Order input at £2,473m increased 9% on a 
constant currency basis. Original equipment 
orders were flat with the impact of lower 
mining capex in Minerals offset by a recovery 
in upstream Oil & Gas. Aftermarket orders 
were up 14% supported by strong growth in 
Oil & Gas and continued progress in Minerals. 
Aftermarket orders represented 67% of 
overall input (2013: 64%). Minerals order 
input was £1,127m, slightly down on 2013 
with the decline in original equipment orders 
outweighing the growth in aftermarket.  
Input in Oil & Gas of £1,032m was 34%  
up on 2013 driven by a strong performance  
in both Pressure Pumping and Pressure 
Control. Input in Power & Industrial was 
down 4% to £314m due to a weakening 
project environment in the second half  
of the year and with 2013 including a  
£20m, one-off order.
Revenue of £2,438m was 9% up on  
a constant currency basis. Aftermarket 
accounted for 66% of revenues, a three 
percentage point increase over the prior 
year. Minerals revenues were down 4%  
at £1,128m (2013: £1,178m) on a constant 
currency basis, impacted by the industrial 
action in South Africa and challenging 
original equipment markets. Oil & Gas 
revenues increased by 32% to £992m 
as a result of strong growth in both original 
equipment and the aftermarket. Power  
& Industrial revenues increased by 1%  
to £318m in 2014. The 2014 acquisitions  
of Trio and Metra contributed £12m in 
revenue. On a reported basis revenue  
was flat following a £185m (8%) foreign 
exchange headwind.
Operating profit from continuing 
operations (before exceptional items and 
intangibles amortisation) decreased by 4% to 
£450m on a reported basis. The movement 
in the average exchange rates year on year 
resulted in a significant adverse translational 
impact of £37m; the main driver being the  
US Dollar which moved from an average of 
$1.56:£1 in 2013 to $1.65:£1 in 2014. On a 
constant currency basis, operating profit 
increased by £20m (5%), with strong growth 
in Oil & Gas partly offset by decreases in 
Minerals and Power & Industrial. One-off 
costs incurred in the period, excluding 
exceptional items, were £2m (2013: £8m) 
and related solely to acquisition and integration 
costs, compared to the equivalent charge  
of £3m in 2013. Acquisitions contributed 
operating profit of £2m, before integration 
costs. Unallocated costs were £20m (2013: 
£14m), reflecting increased investment in our 
strategic initiatives of Value Chain Excellence 
and Innovation.
Operating margin from continuing 
operations (before exceptional items  
and intangibles amortisation) was 18.4%,  
a decrease of 80 basis points on the prior 
year (2013: 19.2%; 19.1% on a constant 
currency basis). Minerals reported an operating 
margin, on a constant currency basis, of 20.1% 
(2013: 20.6%) for the full year reflecting a 
higher mix of lower margin products and 
investment in our comminution platform. The 
Oil & Gas full year operating margin was in line 
with the prior year at 22.7% (2013: 22.7% 
constant currency) with strong flow-through on 
revenue in Pressure Pumping offset by lower 
margins in Pressure Control and the impact of 
higher bonus costs compared to the prior year. 
The operating margin in Power & Industrial 
was 5.8% (2013: 9.4% constant currency) and 
declined as a result of operational issues and 
the impact of the different product mix within 
Valves compared to 2013. 
Earnings before Interest, Tax, 
Depreciation and Amortisation (‘EBITDA’)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 
in the period was £61m (2013: £59m) 
resulting in EBITDA of £511m (2013: £526m).
Exceptional items and intangibles 
amortisation
An exceptional charge of £212m (2013:  
gain of £71m) and intangibles amortisation 
of £45m (2013: £47m) resulted in total 
Group operating profit for the year of £193m  
(2013: £490m). The primary components  
of the exceptional items in the current year 
were the charge relating to the Group-wide 
efficiency review announced in November 
of £49m and the impairment of intangible 
assets within the Pressure Control Cash 
Generating Unit (CGU) of £160m. 
The Group performed well in 2014 in what were 
fast changing markets. On a constant currency 
basis, operating profit (before exceptional  
items and intangibles amortisation) of £450m 
represented an increase of 5% year on year 
which clearly demonstrates the strength  
of our operating model and the continued 
benefits of the diverse end markets and 
geographies in which we operate. 
Jon Stanton
Finance Director Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
47 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
The purpose of the efficiency review was  
to identify opportunities to reduce costs, 
increase customer responsiveness and 
efficiency while aligning resources globally 
to capture end market opportunities. The 
total charge comprised an anticipated cash 
cost of £30m, of which £8m was reflected 
in the current year cash flow statement, and 
an impairment of tangible assets of £19m.
The main components of the Group-wide 
efficiency review within the Minerals division 
were (i) rationalisation of the North American 
businesses; (ii) closure and downsizing of 
certain sites in Europe; and (iii) reductions in 
headcount in response to market conditions 
in a number of other operations including 
Africa, Europe and South America. In the Oil 
& Gas division the actions were primarily in 
the Pressure Control business in anticipation 
of changing market conditions. Within Power 
& Industrial, the review will result in a  
new operating structure to bring clearer 
accountability for satisfying customers’ 
needs and improved profitability through 
reductions in headcount and the exit from 
low margin contracts, product lines and 
activities. As a result of the continued 
decrease in the oil price subsequent to the 
year end, further actions have been identified 
and are expected to lead to additional 
exceptional costs of circa £20m in 2015. 
The very significant decline in the oil price 
towards the end of 2014 and at the start  
of 2015, and the resultant impact on the 
North American rig count and related activity 
levels, has had a substantial impact on the 
short to medium term forecasts of our 
upstream oil and gas business. The Group 
has already reacted to market conditions 
through implementation of actions under  
the Group-wide efficiency review and is well 
placed to manage the current downturn. 
The cash flow forecasts underpinning the 
impairment testing reflect the current oil 
price and depressed activity levels enduring 
for the next two years, with pressure on 
both volumes and pricing, and a measured 
return to more ‘normal’ levels thereafter. 
With regard to impairment testing of the 
Pressure Pumping CGU, this business is 
more mature than Pressure Control and  
had significant levels of headroom between 
net asset value and value in use prior to the 
current market downturn. On this basis and 
even under the stress testing undertaken, 
no impairment has been assessed in 
respect of the carrying value of assets  
in this CGU. The impact on the Pressure 
Control CGU is such that an impairment 
charge of £160m has been recognised  
at the end of the year, allocated entirely 
against goodwill. Of the total impairment 
charge, £60m relates to goodwill remaining 
on the balance sheet post release of the 
contingent consideration liability in 2013  
and is essentially consideration that will 
ultimately not be paid. Further detail is 
presented in note 14. No impairment has 
been identified in relation to any of the  
other CGUs. 
The other exceptional costs in the period  
(note 5) relate to: (i) costs associated with the 
proposed acquisition of Metso Corporation of 
£2m; and (ii) an uplift of £1m in the net present 
value of contingent consideration payable in 
respect of the Weir International acquisition. 
 
The exceptional gain in the prior year  
related to the release of the contingent 
consideration liability for Weir Mathena  
of £68m and the curtailment gain of £3m 
recorded following the decision to close  
our main UK pension scheme to future 
accrual with effect from 30 June 2015. 
Amortisation decreased to £45m from £47m 
in the prior year as a result of favourable 
foreign exchange movements, partly offset 
by the impact of the Trio acquisition.
Net finance costs
Total net finance costs, including exceptional 
items, were £43m (2013: £59m). There were 
four components of this net charge, the most 
significant being the interest cost of £44m 
(2013: £48m) on the Group’s borrowings 
(including amounts in relation to derivative 
financial instruments). The other elements 
were finance income of £6m (2013: £3m),  
a charge of £3m (2013: £4m) in relation to the 
Group’s defined benefit pension plans and an 
exceptional cost of £2m (2013: £11m) being 
the unwind of the discount on contingent 
consideration liabilities.
The unwind of the discount on the 
contingent consideration liability is lower 
than the prior year due to the non-recurring 
impact of Mathena in 2013. The total 
contingent consideration liability recorded 
on the balance sheet in respect of all 
acquisitions is £35m (2013: £28m).
Net finance costs (excluding retirement 
benefit related amounts and exceptional 
items) were covered 11.7 times by operating 
profit from continuing operations, before 
exceptional items and intangibles 
amortisation (2013: 10.4 times).
Profit before tax from continuing 
operations (before exceptional items and 
intangibles amortisation) decreased by 2%  
to £409m (2013: £418m). Taking foreign 
exchange into consideration, the 2013 result 
on a constant currency basis would have 
been £35m lower with 2014 representing 
growth of 7% year on year. Reported profit 
before tax from continuing operations 
decreased by 65% to £149m (2013: £431m). 
The tax charge for the year of £106m 
(2013: £108m) on profit before tax from 
continuing operations (before exceptional 
items and intangibles amortisation) of 
£409m (2013: £418m) represents an 
underlying effective tax rate of 25.8% 
(2013: 25.7%). The Group’s policy with 
regard to tax matters is discussed later  
in this report.
Discontinued operations
The Group has recognised income from 
discontinued operations of £1m (2013: £nil) 
representing the release of unutilised 
provisions in relation to previous disposals 
on expiration of the tax warranty periods. 
Earnings per share
Earnings per share from continuing 
operations (before exceptional items  
and intangibles amortisation) decreased  
by 3% to 141.3p (2013: 145.4p). Reported 
earnings per share including exceptional 
items, intangibles amortisation and profit 
from discontinued operations was 33.8p 
(2013: 157.2p). The weighted average 
number of shares in issue increased  
slightly to 213.3m (2013: 213.0m).
Cash flows
Cash generated from operations before 
working capital movements was down 
£12m at £503m (2013: £515m). Cash 
generated from operations decreased by 
11% from £474m to £421m representing  
an EBITDA to cash conversion ratio of  
82% (2013: 90%). Working capital cash 
outflows of £82m (2013: £41m) reflect an 
outflow in the first half of £79m but only 
£3m in the second half.  48 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
20
15
10
5
2012 2013 2014
19.1 19.2
18.4
500
400
300
200
100
2012 2013 2014
440
418
409
Financial Review continued
Cash flows (continued)
Outflows in relation to both inventory and 
receivables were driven by the strong 
growth seen in Oil & Gas year on year. 
Exceptional items in the period resulted  
in cash outflows of £11m in relation to  
the Group-wide efficiency review and the 
Metso proposed acquisition (2013: £nil).
Net capital expenditure increased slightly 
from £97m in 2013 to £101m in 2014, 
reflecting strategic investments in production 
capacity in Malaysia and Information Systems 
across the Group, as well as building new 
facilities for our Middle East services business 
and a new R&D facility in SPM. The 
settlement of financing derivatives resulted  
in a net cash outflow of £3m (2013: £5m)  
and additional pension contributions of £11m 
(2013: £12m) were paid in the year in respect 
of agreed deficit recovery contributions. 
Free cash flow from continuing operations, 
before cash exceptional items and after 
dividends of £103m (2013: £83m), was 
£79m (2013: £168m). Outflows in respect 
of the acquisition of subsidiaries of £138m 
resulted in a closing net debt of £861m 
(2013: £747m, £791m constant currency). 
On a reported basis, the ratio of net debt  
to EBITDA was 1.7 times and on a debt 
covenant basis was 1.6 times.
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE)
The Group’s ROCE of 18.1% for 2014  
(on a constant currency and like for like 
basis, excluding Trio) was slightly higher 
than the prior year (2013: 17.5%).
Dividends
The Board is recommending a 5% increase in 
the full year dividend, with a final dividend of 
29.0p (2013: 33.2p). This reflects a rephasing 
of the dividend such that the final payment 
will represent approximately two-thirds of the 
full dividend for 2014, making a total of 44.0p 
for the year (2013: 42.0p). Dividend cover 
(being the ratio of earnings per share from 
continuing operations before exceptional 
items and intangibles amortisation to 
dividend per share) is 3.2 times. If approved 
at the Annual General Meeting, the final 
dividend will be paid on 29 May 2015 to 
shareholders on the register on 1 May 2015. 
Acquisitions and disposals
On 22 October 2014, the Group completed 
the acquisition of Trio Engineered Products 
(‘Weir Trio’) for a total consideration of 
US$236m (£146m) inclusive of net cash 
balances and a contingent consideration of 
US$13m (£8m). Details of the contingent 
consideration and related accounting are 
presented in note 13. During the year the 
Group also acquired 100% of the voting 
shares of Metra Equipment Inc, (‘Weir Metra’) 
for a cash consideration of CAD$6m (£3m).
Tax policy
The Group’s strategic tax objectives are to:
 – comply with all applicable tax laws  
and regulations, including the timely 
submission of all tax returns and tax 
payments; and
 – develop and maintain strong working 
relationships with local tax authorities 
and undertake all dealings with them  
in a professional and timely manner.
The Group has strong controls and clear 
policies and procedures covering tax, which 
must be followed by all finance personnel. 
We take a conservative approach to all tax 
planning with the overarching aim of paying 
the right amount of tax at the right time in 
each tax jurisdiction in which we operate. 
As a large multi-national, we conduct our 
business affairs in a way which is efficient 
from a tax perspective, for example by 
looking to take into account available global 
tax incentives and allowances, but we do 
not undertake tax planning for its own sake. 
In terms of cash tax, the Group paid  
income tax of £94m in 2014 across all of  
its jurisdictions compared to £72m in 2013. 
Net cash tax paid in the UK in 2014 across 
corporation tax, VAT and payroll taxes was 
approximately £41m (2013: £45m).
Treasury management
The Group is financed through a combination 
of bank debt, fixed rate private placement 
notes and equity. The capital structure is 
managed centrally with the objectives of 
optimising capital efficiency, diversifying the 
investor base, achieving an orderly maturity 
of funding yet maintaining a good degree  
of financial headroom.
The principal financial risks faced by  
the Group are those relating to liquidity, 
foreign currency and credit risk. The Group’s 
treasury policies and procedures, which are 
reviewed and updated on a regular basis, 
seek to reduce these financial risks. Within 
this framework, the Group uses financial 
assets and liabilities including derivatives  
to hedge certain foreign exchange and 
interest rate risks.
Funding and liquidity
The Group’s objective is to maintain a 
balance between continuity of funding  
and flexibility through the use of bank 
overdrafts, bank loans and long term fixed 
rate notes. During the year, the Group 
obtained public credit ratings from Moody’s 
(Baa1) and Standard & Poor’s (BBB+)  
to expand the range of financing options 
available. The Group held net cash balances 
of £167m at the end of 2014 (2013: £69m) 
representing operating balances held by  
the Group’s subsidiaries. 
In September 2014, the Group amended the 
US$800m multi-currency revolving credit 
facility, which was previously refinanced in 
July 2013 and due to mature in July 2018. 
The amendment extended the maturity date 
to July 2019, with the option of two one-year 
extensions. At 2 January 2015, US$210m 
was drawn under the revolving credit facility. 
Total unamortised issue costs at 2 January 
2015 were £5m (2013: £5m).
On 12 January 2015, the Group repaid 
US$90m fixed rate notes and £12m fixed 
rate notes as these fell due. These were 
refinanced using existing facilities including 
the US$800m multi-currency revolving 
credit facility and various uncommitted 
Sterling borrowing facilities in place.
All covenants were met at 2 January 2015 
with significant headroom under each 
financial ratio.
The Group has additional committed and 
uncommitted bonding facilities under which 
guarantees are issued in order to support 
commercial activities. 
Profit before tax
1, 2
 (£m) Operating margins
1
 (%)
1. Continuing operations excluding exceptional  
items and intangibles amortisation.
2. 2012 restated to reflect the impact of IAS 19R  
on pension costs. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
49 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Credit management
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable 
to its trade receivables with risk spread over  
a large number of countries and customers. 
There is no significant concentration of credit 
risk. Credit worthiness checks are undertaken 
before entering into contracts with new 
customers and credit limits are set as 
appropriate. We also use trade finance 
instruments such as letters of credit and 
insurance to mitigate any identified risk.  
The Group’s exposure to the credit risk  
of financial institutions is limited by the 
adherence to counterparty limits and by  
only trading with counterparties that have  
a strong credit standing based on ratings 
provided by the major credit rating agencies.
Interest rate risk management
The Group’s debt is in a combination of 
fixed and variable rates of interest. It is  
our policy to maintain a proportion of debt  
at fixed rates of interest subject to the 
future outlook for the level of interest rates. 
As at the end of 2014, the proportion of  
the Group’s debt at fixed rates was 78% 
compared to 92% as at the end of 2013  
due to additional borrowing on the revolving 
credit facility and uncommitted facilities 
during the year.
Foreign exchange
The Group is exposed to movements in 
exchange rates for transactions undertaken 
in non-functional currencies of the operating 
companies concerned and the translation  
of foreign currency denominated net assets 
and profit and loss items.
All material transactional currency exposures 
are hedged, usually by means of forward 
contracts thereby ensuring certainty over 
revenue and costs. Subject to local exchange 
controls, foreign exchange transactions are 
executed by the central treasury function.  
No speculative transactions are undertaken. 
Although hedging is carried out for all 
material economic exposures, only five 
subsidiaries applied cash flow hedge 
accounting under IAS 39 during the period.
In respect of translational risk, the Group  
has a policy to partially hedge United  
States Dollar (US$), Australian Dollar  
(AUD) and South African Rand (ZAR) net 
asset exposures. This is achieved through 
designating an element of foreign currency 
borrowings, forward foreign currency 
contracts and cross currency swaps as  
net investment hedges against the Group’s 
investments. The Group does not hedge  
the foreign currency translational exposure 
arising from profit and loss items. 
The strengthening of Sterling relative to 
2013 against most main currencies resulted 
in a net gain on translation of net assets of 
£45m, including the effect of the balance 
sheet hedging programme. The fair value  
of derivatives designated as net investment 
hedges at 2 January 2015 was a liability of 
£3m (2013: net £nil).
Further information on financial risk 
management objectives and policies  
can be found in note 30 to the Group 
financial statements.
Retirement benefits
The Group has four defined benefit pension 
plans, the largest of these being the two UK 
plans. The Group has sought to pro-actively 
manage its exposure to its pension plans 
and more than half of the liabilities of the 
main plan are hedged using insurance 
policies, providing significant protection 
against changes in market conditions. 
During the period to 3 January 2014, 
agreement was reached with the Trustees 
of the main plan to close the plan to future 
accrual of benefits with effect from 30 June 
2015 and accordingly a curtailment gain of 
£3m was recorded in 2013 as an exceptional 
item in the Income Statement. With regard 
to the key assumptions underpinning the 
IAS 19 (Revised) valuation, the discount  
rate applied to the pension liabilities has 
decreased from 4.4% to 3.5% with RPI 
inflation also decreasing from 3.4% to 3.0% 
since 2013. 
These changes have led to increases in the 
liabilities which are only partially offset by 
the returns on net assets and contributions 
in excess of benefit accrual. Combined 
these have led to an increase in the net 
deficit in the Group’s retirement benefit 
obligations from £70m to £94m over  
the year.
Net assets
Net assets at the end of 2014 were £1,482m, 
a decrease of £5m on the prior year (2013: 
£1,487m). This decrease is driven by the total 
net comprehensive income for the year of 
£93m less dividends paid of £103m.
Litigation
The Company and certain subsidiaries  
are, from time to time, parties to legal 
proceedings and claims which arise in the 
normal course of business. To the extent 
not already provided for, the Directors do 
not anticipate that the outcome of these 
proceedings or claims, either individually or 
in aggregate, will have a material adverse 
effect on the Group’s financial position.  
All actions are robustly defended.
i) Asbestos-related claims
Certain of the Group’s US-based 
subsidiaries are co-defendants in lawsuits 
pending in the United States in which 
plaintiffs are claiming damages arising from 
alleged exposure to products previously 
manufactured which contained asbestos. 
The Group has comprehensive insurance 
cover for these cases and since the 
inception of the litigations in 2002 all claims 
have been directly managed by the Group’s 
insurers who have, in the intervening period, 
made settlements totalling approximately 
£10m as well as meeting all associated 
defence costs. The insurers and their legal 
advisers agree and execute the defence 
strategy between them and there are no 
related cash flows to or from the Group. We 
expect this to continue for the foreseeable 
future as long as the litigation arises.  50 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
200
150
100
50
2012 2013 2014
62
168
79
25
20
15
10
5
2012 2013 2014
22.3
17.5
18.1
Financial Review continued
Litigation (continued)
i) Asbestos-related claims (continued)
At the end of 2014, there were 1,503 
asbestos-related claims outstanding in  
the US (2013: 1,129). In light of the recent 
significant increase in claims, a review was 
completed to assess the adequacy of the 
Group’s insurance policies to meet future 
settlement and defence costs. As a result of 
this review we have estimated settlement 
and defence costs for existing and projected 
claims which may be received in the next 
five years and recorded a provision of  
£28m within ‘employee related provisions’ 
(note 22) with an equivalent receivable  
for insurance proceeds recognised in  
‘other receivables’.
This provision represents the Directors best 
estimate of the future liability at this time 
although given the lack of consistent claims 
and settlement history, these estimates and 
the period over which they are assessed 
will continue to be refined.
Due to the inherent uncertainty associated 
with estimating future costs in respect of 
asbestos-related diseases, there can be  
no guarantee that the assumptions used  
to estimate the provision will result in an 
accurate prediction of the actual costs that 
may be incurred. However, we do not expect 
there to be a net financial exposure to the 
Group given the comprehensive insurance 
cover in place.
In the UK, there are 26 (2013: 26) outstanding 
asbestos-related claims which are not the 
subject of insurance cover. The expected 
settlement costs of these and anticipated 
future claims in the UK are fully provided  
for within ‘employee related provisions’ in 
note 22.
ii) Contingent liabilities
A claim has been made by Philippines Gold 
Processing & Refining Corporation against 
Weir Services Australia Pty Limited (WSA), 
a subsidiary of the Company, in arbitration 
proceedings in respect of two contracts 
relating to the refurbishment and installation 
of a mill undertaken by WSA in 2007-2008 
and 2008-2009, respectively. The amount 
claimed, which totals approximately £58m 
plus interest, seeks damages for the cost of 
repair and subsequent replacement of the 
mill together with business interruption loss 
at the processing plant. The original value  
of the contracts was around £1m. WSA is 
contesting the claim on multiple grounds. 
The claim is being vigorously defended 
although the outcome remains uncertain. 
The arbitration process is expected to 
conclude by the end of 2015. A contingent 
liability has been disclosed in note 27.
The Directors are of the view that the 
outcome of legal proceedings in 2014 in 
relation to the UN Oil for Food programme 
is such that a contingent liability no longer 
exists in relation to this matter.
Critical accounting policies
The financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRS and  
the material accounting policies are set  
out on pages 123 to 129 of this report. 
There have been no significant changes  
to the accounting policies adopted in 2014.
In the process of applying the Group’s 
accounting policies, management has 
applied certain judgements, assumptions 
and estimates. These estimates and 
assumptions are based on historical 
experience, information available at the  
time and other factors considered relevant. 
Those with the most significant effect on 
the amounts recognised in the financial 
statements are set out below. Further 
judgements, assumptions and estimates  
are set out on page 123.
Acquisition accounting
On the acquisition of a business management 
assess: (i) the Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) 
in order to attribute fair values to separately 
identifiable intangible assets providing they 
meet the recognition criteria; (ii) the fair  
values of other assets and liabilities; and (iii) 
compliance with the disclosure requirements 
of IFRS 3, ‘Business Combinations’.
The fair values of these intangible assets 
are dependent on estimates of attributable 
future revenues, margins and cash flows,  
as well as appropriate discount rates.  
In addition, the allocation of useful lives  
to acquired intangible assets requires the 
application of judgement based on available 
information and management expectations 
at the time of recognition. The valuation of 
other tangible assets and liabilities involves 
aligning accounting policies with those of 
the Group, reflecting appropriate external 
market valuations for property, plant & 
equipment, assessing recoverability of 
receivables and inventory and exposures to 
unrecorded liabilities. In deriving appropriate 
fair values the process will inevitably involve 
the use of estimates and the application of 
management judgement. The disclosure  
in relation to the acquisition of Trio in the 
current year is provided in note 13. 
Return on Capital Employed
1
 (%) Free Cash Flow (£m)
1. Continuing operations EBIT (excluding Trio EBIT  
and exceptional items) divided by average net assets 
excluding net debt, pension deficit (net of deferred 
tax asset) and Trio net assets. 2012: As 2013/14 but 
also excluding Mathena and Wales. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
51 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Impairment
IFRS requires companies to carry out 
impairment testing on any assets that  
show indications of impairment as well as 
annually for goodwill and other intangible 
assets with indefinite lives and so not 
subject to amortisation. This testing 
includes exercising management judgement 
about future cash flows and other events 
which are, by their nature, uncertain.  
During 2014, we completed impairment 
testing over the Group’s cash generating 
units (CGUs) and the details of this  
exercise are disclosed above and reported 
in note 14.
Retirement benefits
The assumptions underlying the valuation  
of retirement benefits assets and liabilities 
are important and based on actuarial advice. 
Changes in these assumptions could have  
a material impact on the measurement of 
the Group’s retirement benefit obligations. 
Sensitivities to changes in key assumptions 
are provided in note 24.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised where the Group 
has an obligation, as a result of a past event, 
that can be measured reliably and where an 
outflow of economic benefit is considered 
probable. Management judgement is used 
to determine the amount of such provisions, 
taking into account the commercial drivers 
which gave rise to them, the Group’s 
previous experience of similar obligations 
and the progress of any associated legal 
proceedings. Provisions for inventory and 
trade receivables are assessed along with 
those provisions set out in note 22. With 
regard to inventory provisioning, historical 
usage, as well as anticipated future demand 
is considered (note 16). Where changes to 
these factors occur during the period this 
may impact on the assumption integral to 
management’s assessment of the provision 
and the overall valuation. Any changes are 
recognised in the income statement in  
the period.
Taxation
Uncertainties exist with respect to the 
interpretation of complex tax regulations 
and the amount and timing of future  
taxable income. Given the wide range of 
international business relationships and the 
long term nature and complexity of existing 
contractual arrangements, differences 
arising between the actual results and the 
assumptions made or future changes to 
such assumptions could result in future 
adjustments to tax income and expense 
already recorded. Provisions are established 
based on reasonable estimates for possible 
consequences of audits by the tax 
authorities of the respective countries in 
which the Group operates. Management 
judgement is used to determine the amount 
of such provisions taking into account that 
differences of interpretation may arise on  
a wide variety of issues depending on the 
conditions prevailing in the respective  
Group company’s domicile. Detailed tax 
disclosures are provided in notes 7 and 23.
Jon Stanton
Finance Director
25 February 2015 52 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Sustainability Review
Sustainability: Essential  
for business success Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
53 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Engaging with stakeholders
Employees Investors Communities
Suppliers and 
customers
Government  
and regulators
 - Code of Conduct
 - Global intranet
 - Formalised staff 
meetings  
(‘Town Halls’)
 - Net Promoter
®
  
surveys
 - Personal  
Development Plans
 - Training  
programmes
 - Weir University 
(e-learning facility)
 - Social media 
 - Calls and face-to- 
face meetings
 - AGM
 - Reports and 
announcements
 - Website
 - Roadshows
 - Capital  
Markets Day
 - Investor Relations 
app for mobile  
devices
 - Social media  
 - Fundraising events
 - Sponsorship
 - Partnerships  
with educational 
institutes
 - Trainee and  
mentorship 
programmes
 - Volunteering
 - Armed Forces 
Covenant
 - Social media 
 - Face-to-face  
meetings
 - Weir customer 
experience  
programme
 - Global supplier 
scorecard for  
strategic suppliers
 - Code of Conduct
 - ISO 14001  
certification
 - Trade shows and 
industry events
 - Social media 
 - Consultation  
responses
 - Commissioning  
of reports
 - Face-to-face  
meetings
 - Visits to sites
 - Briefing papers
 - Industry events
The Group seeks to balance the broad societal benefits of our growing 
business with potential environmental and social impacts arising from 
our operations. Our business strategy is created with a fundamental 
premise that acting responsibly and sustainably is unconditional.  
We believe that acting responsibly and 
sustainably aligns with our core ethos  
and creates long-term value for all key 
stakeholders. Our goal is to operate 
efficiently, minimise our environmental 
impact, work in an ethically and socially 
considerate manner and build confidence 
and trust with our stakeholders.
Sustainability underpins the Group’s 
strategic priorities outlined on pages 8  
and 9 and is inherent in the Company’s 
purpose and values. 
Launched in 2013, our fourth strategic pillar 
of Value Chain Excellence (VCE) recognises 
the vital importance of ongoing sustainability. 
In the VCE system, we consider not only our 
own operations, but in addition assess those 
of our customers and suppliers.
Our sustainability approach is embedded  
in our business through six key areas: 
environment, health and safety, products 
and technology, our people, our communities 
and ethics. 
This Sustainability Review outlines  
the importance of these six areas to  
the business, our performance in these 
areas over the past year and the policies 
and practices applied to help monitor and 
manage this performance.
During 2014, we reviewed how 
sustainability priorities are identified and 
assessed at a Group level. We are in the 
process of completing a formal materiality 
assessment to confirm those issues with 
the greatest importance for our business. 
Following the outcomes of our materiality 
assessment, the changes which we believe 
need to be made to our existing processes 
will be incorporated into our management 
systems. 
The materiality assessment is being 
conducted in line with the Global Reporting 
Initiative G4 guidelines, which are generally 
considered to comprise global best practice 
for sustainability reporting.
Engagement with stakeholders during 2014
The Group has six sustainability priorities:
Environment
Health and safety
Products and 
technology
Our People
Our Communities
Ethics  54 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Identify
the risks
Quantify the
gross risk
Monitor
and report
controls are required
Identify if further
mitigating controls
Identify the existing
mitigating controls
Identify the existing
the net risk
Quantify
Identify
and quantify
and minimise
Manage 
T rack
and report
Sustainability Review continued
those sustainability issues with the greatest  
importance for our business, and will reflect 
the outcomes in our existing processes and 
management systems.
Managing environmental risk
Environmental, Health & Safety (EHS) 
Management System
Identifying and managing environmental 
risks is a key component of Weir’s  
internal control framework. The Weir  
EHS Management System sets out the  
11 priorities for assessing and measuring 
potential environmental impacts and  
details required control measures. These 
include, for instance, the use of registers  
to support compliance with permit and 
authorisation requirements, adherence  
to storage, containment and management 
criteria to mitigate potential impact on  
soil and groundwater, and assessment  
of environmental noise for all operations. 
Together, these measures are designed  
to enable conformance with all applicable 
legislation.
ISO 14001: Environmental  
Management System
ISO 14001 is an internationally recognised 
standard which sets out a framework for 
effective environmental management 
systems. Certification to ISO 14001 not  
only provides the mechanism to adequately 
manage environmental considerations  
but also demonstrates our ongoing 
environmental performance in terms of legal 
and environmental policy requirements. 
Under the Weir EHS Management System, 
all continuing operations are required to 
maintain ISO 14001 accreditation. As part  
of the integration process, new acquisitions 
are expected to implement an environmental 
management system and to seek external 
ISO 14001 accreditation. 
Monitoring impacts 
The Group operates an EHS audit 
programme which assesses compliance 
against a set of globally applicable EHS 
standards. A minimum standard has been 
prescribed against each of the criteria within 
the 76 EHS standards and ensures that 
there is both a leading EHS indicator of 
performance and an assurance process for 
all relevant stakeholders that EHS risks are 
adequately controlled across our operations. 
The 2014 audit programme gave an average 
14% increase across our subsidiaries. 
Environmental incidents and fines
No significant environmental incidents  
were reported at sites under the operational 
control of the Group during the 52 weeks  
to 2 January 2015. A minor environmental 
incident was reported at a Weir Seaboard 
customer site in Pennsylvania on 5 January 
2014. No injuries were sustained, however 
natural gas and production fluid were 
released during the disassembling of 
equipment. A well control contractor repaired 
the well, removed contaminated soil and 
monitored the groundwater. A formal field 
complaint report was completed with root 
cause and corrective action analysis. There 
was also a minor non-conformance in relation 
to the reporting of environmental data from 
one of the Group’s subsidiary companies. 
We operate under an awareness not just  
of the potential impact our business can 
have on the environment, but equally the 
risk to our operations from extreme weather 
or other environmental events. One incident 
of adverse business impact relating to  
a climatic event during 2014 has been 
reported: tropical cyclones in Southern India 
caused landslides and affected transport 
infrastructure, impacting operations of key 
customers. More details on risk can be 
found on pages 24 to 31.
Gavin Nicol
Director of Operations,  
Support & Development
Environment
We continue to incorporate environmental sustainability 
into both our strategic decision making and our daily 
operational activities.
The Group’s strategy for environmental 
management is three-fold: 
1. Identify and quantify key potential  
risks within the business;
2. Manage and minimise potentially 
adverse impacts arising from its 
operations; and
3. Track and report on the potentially  
most significant impacts. 
Where we acquire or open new sites,  
we assess the means by which potentially 
material environmental risks can be minimised 
and look to adopt new technologies and 
recognised good practice to help achieve this. 
We also strive to innovate and enhance the 
positive benefit of our products and services. 
Identifying potential risks and impacts
Risks are assessed, and quantified, in terms 
of impact and likelihood of occurrence, both 
before and after control mitigation. Risk is 
assessed across a range of factors, one  
of which is environment. As noted in the 
introduction to this Sustainability Review, 
we are in the process of completing a  
formal materiality assessment to identify  Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
55 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Greenhouse gas emissions
We are a growing business and the markets 
that we work in mean the majority of our 
businesses are energy, and thus carbon, 
intensive. However, we also have operations 
in the hydro, wind and nuclear energy 
industries which are contributing to the 
production of cleaner, low-carbon energy. 
Weir Minerals Africa provides high efficiency 
WRT impeller technology for both new and 
existing slurry pumps. This reduces energy 
input for the pumps and increases the 
operating life of the equipment. The result  
is a smaller overall carbon footprint, due to 
fewer parts being replaced less frequently, 
as well as fewer parts being manufactured. 
Recycled high chrome iron scrap is used  
to manufacture these parts.
A review of our approach and systems for 
measuring our global greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions was undertaken in 2013 to evolve 
best practice and to enable compliance with 
the new carbon reporting requirements 
under The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 
2013. In our last report, we reported that  
we had procured a new software solution  
to enable more complete data collation  
and accurate emissions calculation. 
Implementation of the system, including 
user training and data entry, was completed 
during 2014. Regular review of our data 
management system, processes and 
procedures is planned in order to maintain 
and improve the relevance, accuracy and 
scope of our reporting over time.
Our calculation methodology remains  
aligned with the principles of the 
‘Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard’ 
developed by the World Business Council 
for Sustainable Development and the  
World Resources Institute.
The Group has chosen to follow the 
‘operational control’ approach, whereby it 
accounts for 100% of the GHG emissions 
from operations over which it has control. 
This is consistent with our approach to 
financial accounting and reporting. On this 
basis, all subsidiary companies are included 
in reported annual GHG emissions, whilst 
our joint ventures which are not under our 
operational control are not. However, in 
reviewing our reporting, we have excluded 
some sites on the basis of materiality or 
because of the type of site. The Group  
GHG Inventory Management Plan provides 
guidance on our operational control approach.
The UK government GHG Conversion 
Factors 2014 have been used to calculate 
UK emissions. Factors from other credible 
sources have been used for overseas 
operations, specifically those published by 
the US Environmental Protection Agency, 
the International Energy Agency and the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
All elements considered likely to make a 
material contribution to Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions have been included. Scope 1 
sources are those emissions for which the 
Group is directly responsible, i.e. combustion 
of fuel for the operation of our facilities. 
Scope 2 sources comprise those emissions 
for which the Group is indirectly responsible, 
i.e. from the electricity, heat, steam and 
cooling we purchase to use in our operations 
or equipment.
Activities in recent years have focused on 
improving systems for GHG data capture and 
reporting across our global business, with a 
focus on Scope 1 and 2 emissions. We do 
not currently measure or report Scope 3 
emissions, which relate to sources not within 
our direct control, third-party warehouses and 
transport in vehicles not owned by the Group. 
However, we have conducted a high level 
qualitative assessment of which sources of 
Scope 3 emissions may be more material  
for our business. Those identified include 
purchased goods and services, transportation 
and distribution and use of sold products,  
and we are considering how to manage  
these in the future. 
The Group’s GHG data collection process  
is subject to ongoing review, resulting  
in improvements in the consistency and 
accuracy of the reported data. In particular, 
2013 was the initial year of implementing 
our comprehensive global GHG reporting 
system. During the course of updating the 
system with 2014 data, and conducting  
a review and assessment of data with our 
external consultants, we have enhanced  
the methodology and therefore the quality 
and consistency of the 2013 data set, 
enabling us to report an updated baseline as 
217,772 tonnes of Carbon Dioxide equivalent 
(tCO
2
e) for 2013. This compares against the 
reported total emissions of 212,000 tCO
2
e, 
representing a variance of 2.7%. 
Total Annual GHG emissions and emissions intensity by scope
Total annual GHG emissions 
(tCO
2 e)
Emissions intensity 
(tCO
2 e per £m revenue)
2014 2013 2014 2013
Scope 1: On-site combustion of fuel 76,418 85,245 31.3 35.1
Scope 2: Purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling for own use 132,339 132,527 54.3 54.5
Total 208,757 217 ,772 85.6 89.6
2013 versus 2014 – Foundry Emissions
Annual GHG emissions 
(tCO 2 e)
Proportion of total global 
annual GHG emissions
GHG emissions intensity 
(tCO 2 e per tonne  
of metal poured)
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Scope 1: On-site combustion of fuel – all foundries 19,769 22,545 9.5% 10.4% 0.6 0.6
Scope 2: Purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling 
for own use – all foundries 65,109 66,946 31.2% 30.7% 2.0 1.9 56 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Sustainability Review continued
Monitoring impacts (continued)
Greenhouse gas emissions (continued)
The restatement has been applied in 
accordance with recognised international 
standards, including the World Resources 
Institute, and in line with the principles set 
out in our Inventory Management Plan, 
approved in 2013 and revised and updated  
in 2015 to promote best practice in the 
collection of data across the Group.
The Group’s total annual GHG emissions  
in tCO
2
e for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 
2015 and the updated data for the 53 weeks 
ended 3 January 2014 are set out on page 55.
GHG emissions figures for 2013 (as 
updated) are presented as the baseline 
against which year on year performance  
is measured.
The Group now operates seven foundries, 
which are the most energy intensive areas 
of the business. We have presented foundry 
GHG emissions separately to enable closer 
performance review in a separate table,  
also on page 55.
Case study: Environment
Rubber as an 
engineering material
Natural rubber is an engineering material  
with unique properties. 
Natural rubber is used in many Weir 
products, including seals for valves, liners 
for pumps and cyclones, as well as linings 
for process vessels and pipes. Natural 
rubber is preferred due to its outstanding 
toughness which gives it superb abrasion 
resistance properties, exemplified by 
Weir Minerals’ Linatex
®
 Premium Rubber 
known throughout the mining industry 
due to outstanding performance as well 
as its familiar red colour. 
The primary rubber tree species cultivated 
as a crop is the Hevea Brasiliensis tree 
with the main producers of natural rubber 
latex being Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia 
and India. Over 12 million metric tonnes  
of natural rubber were produced globally  
in 2013.
Natural rubber’s unique physical properties 
are due to its inherent molecular structure 
created by nature. For 90 years, Weir 
Minerals Malaysia, the home of Linatex
®
 
production, has perfected the art of 
optimising the properties of Linatex
®
 and 
maximising its abrasion resistance by 
uniquely processing directly from latex.
Linatex
®
 Premium Rubber is a 95% 
natural rubber that exhibits outstanding 
resilience, strength and resistance to 
cutting, tearing and abrasion. In addition, 
natural rubber is a highly sustainable  
crop. Rubber plantations not only provide 
employment but rubber trees are also  
an important raw material source for 
furniture, manufacturing and as a bio-fuel. 
More importantly, rubber trees can be 
used to ‘sequester’ carbon dioxide from 
the atmosphere.
The Kyoto Protocol (1997) requires 
developed nations to cut their 
greenhouse gas emissions in order to 
tackle climate change. Carbon dioxide 
(CO
2
) is one of the major greenhouse 
gases created due to economic activity 
but each rubber tree can ‘fix’ one metric 
tonne of CO
2
 during its 30 year economic 
life. It is estimated that one hectare of 
natural rubber plantation can sequester 
up to 30 metric tonnes of CO
2
 per year. 
Carbon is also returned to the ground  
as leaves fall and is also captured in 
natural latex itself. Rubber trees have  
an optimum period of productive life  
As with total global GHG emissions, 
restated 2013 emissions figures for  
the foundries have been provided as  
a performance baseline.
For the first time in four years, we are 
reporting a reduction in absolute GHG 
emissions across the Group. It is very 
encouraging to see a change in the trend  
in both absolute emissions and emissions 
normalised by revenue. This suggests that 
the results of our energy efficiency and 
carbon reduction projects are now being 
reflected in performance. Our foundries 
account for approximately 40% of our total 
GHG emissions and therefore monitoring 
foundry performance is particularly important 
for driving onward performance. We have 
started to analyse the GHG emissions from 
these on an emissions per tonne of cast 
weight and between 2013 and 2014 there 
has been a marginal increase in carbon 
intensity of energy at the foundries. This is  
to be expected, given a slight reduction in 
throughput but a minimum energy base  
load required to maintain operations.
Minimising potential impacts
Energy/GHG reduction measures 
One of our sustainability improvement 
priorities is to reduce our energy use and in 
relative terms associated GHG emissions. 
Our focus to date has been to set and 
manage targets at an operating company 
level. We have aspirations to define carbon 
and potentially broader sustainability 
performance goals across the business to 
supplement the site level process. We will 
review this following completion of the 
sustainability materiality assessment.
Details of some of the sustainability 
improvement measures undertaken  
and targets set during 2014 are:
 – Weir Minerals Africa implemented power 
factor correction at the Isando foundry, 
delivering a predicted reduction in 
electricity usage of some 80 to  
100 Megawatt hours (MWh) per month.
 – Weir Gabbioneta replaced fluorescent 
light tubes with LED light fittings and 
this project has saved over £10,000 and 
51 tonnes of CO
2
e in the first year.
after which they are cut down and  
a new tree planted. Weir Minerals 
Malaysia only uses natural rubber  
from such a sustainable source.
Developing products that use natural 
rubber as an engineering material helps 
increase the sustainability of our products 
and practices. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
57 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
40
30
20
10
Foundry Metal
Reused Internally
Tonnes
Foundry 
Scrap Metal  
Purchased from  
Customer 
Tonnes
Foundry Metal  
Recycled to Third  
Party 
Tonnes
Foundry Timber  
Recycled 
Tonnes
2012 2013 2014
12.9
3.1
4.5
0.7
11.9
2.6
3.6
0.6
13.2
2.5
3.8
1.0
 – Weir Minerals Europe in Todmorden 
reduced gas usage for space heating  
by 45% in the machine shop and  
25% in the main office by improving 
employee awareness. Overall, this saved 
603MWh of gas energy, equivalent to 
over 111 tonnes of CO
2
e.
 – Weir Minerals India installed electric 
heated thermic fluid rather than a  
diesel fired boiler for the rubber plant  
in Bangalore. CO
2
e emissions were 
reduced by 27% from 916 tonnes to  
670 tonnes.
The Group continues to install and make 
use of telepresence video-conferencing 
facilities at its major sites worldwide.  
There are now 16 sites in eight countries 
with dedicated telepresence conference 
rooms. These allow meetings to be held 
throughout the Group as though attendees 
were in the same location. The facilities 
were used for both Board and Group 
Executive meetings as well as budget 
review meetings during the year, and their 
use has resulted in a notable reduction  
in air travel and related GHG emissions.  
We estimate that the use of telepresence 
has saved over 1,300 tonnes of CO
2
e. 
Recycling
As part of our environmental sustainability 
strategy, our businesses also focus on 
improving resource efficiency; for instance, 
increasing the proportion of waste materials 
that are recycled and reducing the total 
quantity of waste going to landfill.
Nearly 13,000 tonnes of metal were reused 
internally in our foundry operations in 2014. 
39% of all metal poured in the foundries in 
2014 was reused internally, compared to 
34% in 2013. The increase in the amount  
of metal being reused compared to the prior 
year is a reflection of the full year recycling 
data for the foundries acquired during 2013 
in Malaysia and South Africa being included 
in the 2014 data.
Additional reporting mechanisms
CDP Climate Change Initiative 
The CDP scheme (formerly known as  
the Carbon Disclosure Project) is a global, 
voluntary initiative for major companies to 
measure, disclose and share information 
about sustainability performance and 
associated risk management and 
performance with transparency  
and accountability.
In 2014, we achieved a disclosure score  
of 90 out of a possible 100 and a ‘C’ rating 
for our sustainability performance relative  
to that of other participants. This notable 
improvement on our 2013 score (77 D) 
reflects our ongoing commitment to 
continued improvement for all aspects  
of environmental sustainability. 
UK Carbon Reduction Commitment 
Energy Efficiency Scheme
Having met the qualification criteria, the 
Group was required to participate in Phase 
1 of the UK Carbon Reduction Commitment 
Energy Efficiency (‘CRC’) Scheme. The 
mandatory scheme aims to encourage large 
organisations to reduce GHG emissions 
through energy efficiency interventions. 
During specific scheme years, participants 
are required to purchase and surrender 
sufficient CRC allowances for their relevant 
GHG emissions. In 2014, the Company 
purchased and surrendered 3,437 CRC 
allowances at a cost of £41,244. A legal and 
technical assessment has confirmed that 
the Group does not qualify as a participant  
in Phase 2 of the scheme and was therefore 
no longer obligated to participate in the CRC 
Scheme after Phase 1 ended in March 2014. 
UK Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme 
Following a regulatory review, it has been 
determined that the Group will be required 
to participate in Phase 1 of the Energy 
Saving Opportunities Scheme (ESOS) 
Regulations 2014. ESOS is part of the UK’s 
implementation of the EU Energy Efficiency 
Directive 2012 (EED), which requires EU 
member states to introduce a framework of 
measures for promoting energy efficiency. 
The purpose of ESOS is to measure the 
energy consumption of large organisations 
from buildings, transport and industrial 
processes, determine participants’ 
significant areas of energy consumption  
and identify cost effective energy saving 
measures though auditing a representative 
sample of key areas of consumption. 
The Group is in the process of determining 
the most effective means of meeting  
the requirements of these regulations, 
which are to be complied with by early 
December 2015.
Foundry recycling (’000 tonnes) 58 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
2012 2013 2014
1.6
1.0
0.8
Health and Safety
The Weir Group is committed to a 
zero harm environment. Every Board 
meeting begins with a discussion  
of the Group’s progress towards  
its ambition of achieving a Total 
Incident Rate (TIR) of zero. 
In order to achieve that ambition, the Group 
has a range of initiatives to keep our people, 
customers, suppliers, sub-contractors and 
the environments in which they operate 
safe. In 2014, no fatalities were reported.
EHS Excellence Committee
The action towards a zero-accident workplace 
is led by the Environment, Health & Safety 
(EHS) Excellence Committee. Its remit is to 
set and monitor rigorous standards to improve 
EHS performance across the Group. In 2014, 
the committee continued to implement the 
Weir Group EHS Roadmap, which charts  
the path to a safer workplace and which  
is now in its third year of implementation.  
The committee has started the process of 
updating the roadmap to ensure it continues 
to drive progress in further years. 
Weir EHS Management System 
The Weir EHS Management System 
establishes a common set of EHS standards 
and expectations for addressing the risks 
that our operations face. Its purpose is to 
embed health and safety within our culture, 
behaviours and actions. The Duty of Care 
System provides an unbroken chain of 
accountability from the Chief Executive to 
our newest apprentice and details individual 
responsibilities for managing EHS risks.  
The EHS standards cover nine primary  
areas of risk, from supply chain to field 
operations, and provide step-by-step 
guidance on the minimum requirements 
expected at all of Weir’s operations 
anywhere in the world. Each division has a 
dedicated EHS director and they are jointly 
responsible for developing and delivering 
EHS strategy across the Group. In addition, 
they lead the implementation of the Weir 
EHS Management System and delivery of  
our EHS objectives. In 2014, employees  
in every Weir business received training  
in the standards.
Individual business units and all employees 
are engaged in delivering health and safety 
improvements. This includes employee 
safety committees, hazard and near miss 
reports and intra-departmental auditing. 
Weir Zero Harm Behavioural  
Safety System
Progress continued in the roll-out of the 
Behavioural Safety System, known as Weir 
Zero Harm. The Weir Zero Harm programme 
is focused on establishing demonstrable 
behavioural change across the entire Group. 
Case study: Health and safety
A critical priority  
for Weir 
Weir’s products are designed to operate  
in some of the world’s harshest environments,  
supported by a global service centre network. 
At the heart of this operation is safety. 
Weir assesses its safety performance 
using a Total Incident Rate (TIR) which 
measures medical treatment of any kind 
required by employees, excluding first aid 
injuries, divided by 200,000 hours worked.
In the last three years, the Group has 
implemented the Weir Environmental, 
Health and Safety (EHS) Management 
System. This has resulted in a significant 
improvement in the Group’s TIR 
performance of nearly 80%,  
from 3.4 in 2011 to 0.8 in 2014.
Safety is discussed at every Board 
meeting which helps to set a culture of 
continuous improvement throughout the 
business. The EHS management system 
sets minimum standards of performance 
and, through a stringent audit process, 
safety compliance is carefully monitored. 
Through continuous improvement, 
compliance scores have increased by  
over 30% since 2012, despite increases in 
the scope and level of standard required.
The EHS management system focuses on 
improving safety through the publication of 
best practice and protocols for high-risk 
activities. The system encourages visibility 
and transparency of all incidents, with rigorous 
reviews and corrective actions being taken 
as appropriate. This work is complemented 
by ongoing training and education 
programmes throughout the organisation.
The Board is committed to maintaining 
EHS as a critical priority for the Weir 
Group and does not tolerate complacency. 
Weir continues to target a TIR of ≤1 and 
an EHS audit score of >40% throughout 
the organisation.
Sustainability Review continued
It consists of three major strands:  
i) Safe Start; ii) climate surveys; and  
iii) participant observations. In 2014,  
we have completed our target of having all 
operational employees trained in strand one. 
Overall, Weir Zero Harm promotes a culture 
that values behaviours which continually 
improve EHS performance. The system 
involves face to face training in identifying 
behavioural types and behavioural states, 
and the critical errors that these can cause. 
The training is designed to promote safe 
behaviours and to increase awareness  
of how personal behaviours and habits 
influence risks. 
Measuring progress
These efforts contributed to a reduction  
in the Group’s TIR which measures lost 
time and recordable incidents divided by 
200,000 hours worked. The results for 2014 
show that our incident rate reduced by 20% 
compared to the previous year.
TIR performance Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
59 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Products and Technology
As one of the world’s leading 
engineering businesses, we are 
committed to developing sustainable 
products and technology. We continue 
to target our innovation efforts on 
products and services which make 
our customers more efficient by 
improving performance, durability 
and safety, as well as reducing 
potential environmental impacts.
The Group recognises the benefits of 
collaborating with a wide range of partners 
to turn the best ideas into effective 
products and services for our customers.  
In 2014, this involved working with some  
of the world’s leading universities to  
help us develop and exploit emerging 
technologies that create new products for 
our end markets and provide competitive 
advantages to our customers. During 2014, 
Weir invested resources in building a 
collaborative relationship with Imperial 
College, London, a world-renowned 
research establishment. This culminated  
in the recent commitment to a partnership 
to develop radical, new solutions to some  
of the most aggressive challenges 
experienced by our customers.
Engineering Excellence Committee
Weir’s Engineering Excellence Committee 
comprises senior engineering and 
technology leaders from around the 
business, including the Group Head of 
Technology, technology directors from  
each of our three divisions, the business 
head of our Bangalore-based engineering 
services team and the director and project 
manager of the Weir Advanced Research 
Centre. Its role is to ensure that through 
collaboration we are sharing and implementing 
best practice across all of our engineering 
teams, and, specifically, driving leading 
edge technology and innovation. 
The Committee drives the product 
innovation strategy across the Group  
and during 2014 defined four key areas  
of focus to support the growth and 
development ambitions of the business. 
Firstly, three core technologies have been 
identified that are critical to the current  
and future product portfolio. These will 
attract increased focus during 2015. 
Secondly, resources will be assigned  
to the development of a Weir engineering 
system. Thirdly, the further development 
and enhancement of our engineering talent, 
building on demonstrable improvements  
in the last three years. Finally, some fine 
tuning of the Weir engineering culture  
to ensure an even greater engagement  
with our customers to ensure an increased 
and better understanding of their future 
technical challenges.
Case study: Products and technology
Duralast™  
Fluid End system
Hydraulic fracturing, the process of creating 
fractures in oil and gas bearing rock formations 
to release trapped hydrocarbons, requires large, 
robust reciprocating pumps that operate in 
adverse environments. 
The last few years have seen a rise in 
pumping pressures due to rock formations 
becoming increasingly difficult to access. 
Gradually, the mechanical stresses in the 
pump components have approached their 
design limits. 
The Weir Advanced Research Centre 
embarked on a programme to extend 
pump longevity. Three primary failure 
modes were identified and separate 
research projects were initiated to 
address each. Once the wear mechanisms 
and failure modes were fully understood, 
an innovative approach was taken to 
create and assess options to extend  
the operating life by reducing the peak 
mechanical stresses in the critical  
areas of the highly loaded components.  
A number of solutions were selected for 
detailed analysis, then prototype testing. 
The final combination of improvements 
selected was determined using a 
scientific approach, combining advanced 
finite element analysis and computational 
fluid dynamics with controlled prototype 
testing. Field testing in collaboration with 
some of the Group’s customers was 
conducted to validate the changes  
before a full market launch.
The most significant and yet simplest 
change was to offset the valve and plunger 
bore axes in the fluid, or wet end of the 
pump, resulting in a reduction in peak 
stress of over 30%. This increased the 
service life of the fluid end to nearly twice 
the life of conventional technology. Design 
and utility patents have been granted for 
this feature. Combined with advanced 
materials, the offset bores extend the 
service life by more than five times that  
of previous products.
Other enhancements delivered by this 
programme, resulting in a fluid end with 
superior life, include optimisation of  
the design of the valve and seat, and 
further enhancements to the advanced 
manufacturing processes used by the 
Group in the preparation of the critical 
components. Together, these have enabled 
our customers to be more efficient by 
improving the service life of fluid ends.  
By utilising finite element stress analysis 
and fluid dynamics, the Weir Advanced 
Research Centre and the Group’s Pressure 
Pumping engineering team optimised the 
geometrical design of the fluid end system 
specifically for today’s pressure pumping 
applications. The results have been publicly 
recognised by many of Weir’s customers 
and development of the Duralast
™
 Fluid 
End system continues into 2015. 60 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Design and innovation
The Group spent £24.8m (2013: £21.5m)  
on research and development during the 
financial year. Weir has more than doubled 
its spend on fundamental research and 
development since 2009 and views 
meaningful investment in this arena as an 
essential element in supporting innovation, 
one of our four strategic pillars. We expect 
this growth in investment to continue as  
we work towards developing products  
and technologies which not only reduce 
environmental impact but are also capable 
of operating in the most challenging 
conditions. Weir is recognised as a world 
leader in the development and application  
of wear resistant materials technology. 
Now in its fourth year of operation, the  
Weir Advanced Research Centre (WARC)  
is Weir’s central research and development 
hub, supporting each of the three divisions 
and complementing the R&D activity 
ongoing around the world by the individual 
businesses. The Group has links with over 18 
universities around the globe, each carrying 
out fundamental and applied research into 
the following areas: materials and surface 
treatments, advanced manufacturing 
processes, fluid flow and wear mechanisms.
As WARC continues to evolve and the 
earlier projects near completion, the newly 
developed technologies continue to bring 
benefit to the businesses and support the 
launch of innovative new products into the 
market place. WARC is currently processing 
two patent applications for innovative 
technologies which are being developed  
in the research centre.
Early in 2015, WARC will transition to the 
newly built Technology and Innovation 
Centre (TIC) based at the University of 
Strathclyde in Glasgow, Scotland. TIC is a 
hub for world-leading research, transforming 
the way academics, business, industry and 
the public sector collaborate. Construction 
of the TIC building has been completed 
following a total investment of £89m  
from the University of Strathclyde,  
Scottish Enterprise and the European 
Development Fund.
During 2014, the Group, in collaboration 
with the University of Strathclyde and other 
strategic partners, has made a number  
of applications for both UK and European 
research funding. This includes Horizon 
2020, which is the biggest EU Research  
and Innovation programme ever. Leveraging 
research grants such as these enables  
the Group to maximise its investment  
in research and development.
Weir’s operating companies work with  
their customers to optimise the design  
and benefits available in their products.  
For example, in 2014, Weir Minerals  
India’s mill circuit optimisation initiative  
for customer Hindustan Zinc resulted in  
an estimated increase in recovery of 10%. 
For Trimex Sands, truck transportation of 
sand for two kilometres was replaced by 
pumping slurry through a pipeline, thereby 
resulting in an estimated saving of 15% of  
fuel consumed. In the same year, another 
customer, Gujarat Industries Power 
Company, benefited from an optimisation  
of the hydraulic design of the rotor of their 
boiler feed pumps which resulted in an 
estimated power consumption reduction  
of 65 kilowatt hours per pump.
Many of the Group’s products and services 
are also used in low carbon applications 
such as nuclear and renewables power 
generation. For example, Weir American 
Hydro creates state-of-the-art hydro-turbine 
designs. Hydropower generates cleaner 
energy that helps to offset carbon 
emissions. In 2014, Weir American Hydro 
developed and put into production new 
turbine design software to improve the 
efficiency and performance of its Francis 
turbine designs. This software is called 
AHRDS (American Hydro Runner Design 
System) and the benefits realised during 
this process include time-saving for other 
departments in the value chain and a 
reduction in lead time for our customers. 
Weir Mathena identified the opportunity to 
modify the design of its Shale Gas Separator 
in 2014. The Shale Gas Separator has proven 
to be a critical solution as energy operators 
drill for liquids and natural gas utilising large 
volumes of air verses traditional drilling fluid. 
The purpose of the modification was to 
extend the life of discharge piping; reduce 
water usage related to plugging; and reduce 
compressor use for discharge air jet. The 
discharge assembly was re-engineered  
to optimise the balance of pressure drop 
without plugging. The result was a dramatic 
decrease in the volume of compressed  
air required to operate the unit and thus a 
significant decrease in the diesel fuel required 
to run the generator for the compressor.
Product stewardship
Effective product stewardship ensures that 
every aspect of our products and services  
is incorporated in the design process. This 
includes environmental, health and safety 
and social considerations, from the drawing 
board to decommissioning and 2014 saw 
significant progress being made on the 
product stewardship initiative launched  
the previous year. Risk assessments have 
now been completed on the majority of  
the existing product portfolio. This involved 
taking an objective and systematic approach 
to the assessment of potential hazards 
associated with each product family,  
then determining an appropriate mitigation 
strategy for each. Product stewardship  
has now been embedded in the Weir  
New Product Introduction (NPI) process, 
making it a business-as-usual activity.
In product stewardship, Weir Minerals 
Netherlands is currently participating in a 
three year sustainability research project 
with the objective of determining the 
metrics of product design to review the 
environmental impact throughout the life 
cycle of a product. In parallel, the company 
is establishing a roadmap for business 
development in which the environmental 
benefits of its applications are considered 
as an integral aspect of the product offering 
alongside the technical and durability 
requirements of the market.
During 2014, product stewardship was  
also formally integrated into the Weir 
Environmental, Health and Safety system.
Sustainability Review continued Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
61 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
We are committed to attracting and 
retaining the best people, and developing 
them to ensure they achieve their full 
potential. In doing so, we seek to:
 – ensure no form of prejudice stands in  
the way of recruitment, development  
or promotion opportunities;
 – encourage, invest in and support our 
employees to achieve their full potential;
 – identify the training and development 
needs of employees and find ways  
to fulfil those requirements;
 – use the Weir Group Personal Development 
Plan (PDP) to address how we can support 
the development of our employees;
 – employ and retain people who share  
our values and behaviours and actively 
discourage those who do not;
 – work to maintain a business environment 
where individuals feel valued and 
respected; and
 – provide development opportunities to 
internationally mobile employees by 
encouraging overseas appointments.
Our values
The Weir Group believes in doing business 
in an ethical and transparent manner at all 
times. Our core values underpin this belief, 
as follows:
 – we value, support and care for  
our colleagues working towards  
a common purpose;
 – we act with integrity and are  
accountable to ourselves and others;
 – we strive to make our customers 
successful;
 – we explore ideas and possibilities  
to deliver innovative solutions; and
 – we are committed to quality in all  
that we do.
In 2014, we updated and refreshed our 
values in consultation with our teams across 
the Group. We conducted workshops with  
a cross section of employees, from those 
who have recently joined our team to  
those who have many years of experience 
working with Weir. We mirrored our 
geographical and cultural diversity and 
conducted workshops in five geographical 
territories. The results indicated that our core 
values should remain the same, but that it is 
now appropriate to re-express these values in 
language more fitting with our business today. 
Our values are embedded within our 
personal development planning process 
through regular employee appraisals and 
within all of our development programmes. 
In 2015, we will focus on ensuring our 
values are embedded within our businesses 
to ensure that they remain an integral part 
of our culture.
Weir Leadership Programme
As part of our leadership development 
programme, we work to equip future  
leaders with the skills necessary to lead  
the Group. The programme aims to deliver  
a sustainable step change in Weir leadership 
capability, specifically addressing our drivers 
of growth: Value Chain Excellence, Global 
Capability, Innovation and Collaboration.
The nine-month programme consists  
of residential events and monthly virtual 
conferences. Participants are asked to bring 
with them a strategic business objective to 
progress along with a set of learning goals 
for the programme. Pre-work includes 
completion of a Weir Leader Feedback 
Survey (360 degree), Myers-Briggs Type 
Indicator
®
 and pre-reading. The Group 
Executive and members of the Weir 
leadership team are involved in delivering 
elements of the programme and in actively 
supporting the learning process.
In 2014, around 60 senior managers took 
part in the programme, with a total of 275 
managers taking part since the programme 
was launched in 2011.
In 2015, a further 30 senior managers will 
join the programme which will run in North 
America. Since its launch, over 20 members 
of the senior management group have 
become programme learning advisors to 
their colleagues, giving substantial time  
to help foster a peer learning culture.
Weir Business Management Programme
The Weir Business Management 
Programme, run in conjunction with the 
University of Strathclyde Business School, 
puts in place a contextualised executive 
education programme that provides our 
leaders with the required management 
skills and knowledge to succeed within  
the Group. 
Participants work towards the completion  
of a post-graduate certificate in management 
studies through modules including operations 
management, commercial law and 
innovation. As well as the academic benefits, 
the programme promotes greater networking 
and global collaboration by bringing together 
a team of people from a mix of divisions, 
regions and functional backgrounds,  
who complete the programme together.
In 2014, around 40 managers took part  
in the programme, with a total of 115 
managers taking part since the programme 
was launched in 2012. A further 25 
managers will start the Weir Business 
Management Programme in 2015.
Weir MBA
Participants of the Weir Business 
Management Programme have the 
opportunity to obtain a full Masters  
in Business Administration (MBA) 
qualification. In 2014, 24 ‘graduates’ of the 
Weir Business Management Programme 
started their Weir MBA journey. Modules 
will continue throughout 2015 and they will 
complete their MBA in the summer of 2016. 
In 2016, we aim to start the second group 
of managers on the Weir MBA.
Pauline Lafferty
Director of Human Resources
Our People
Motivated, skilled and effective people  
are imperative to our business. 62 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Weir First Line Leadership Programme 
During 2014, the Weir First Line Leadership 
Programme was developed and rolled out 
across the Group, targeted at our people 
who are stepping up to their first line 
management role (or are preparing to  
do so). This programme has added to our 
Management and Leadership Development 
Framework and is a key building block 
developing future managers and leaders to 
ensure the ongoing success of our business.
The programme offers a blended solution 
that is built around 12 key Weir leadership 
attributes and is accessible via the Weir 
University (see below), making it a flexible 
development resource that first time 
managers can fit round the demands  
of their job. 
Since its launch in June 2014, over 600 
people have started the programme, with 
over 1,000 learning modules accessed. 
Weir University
The Weir University is an online learning 
resource which provides all employees  
with access to continuous professional 
development materials such as e-learning 
courses, presentations and reading material. 
This online resource continues to evolve, 
providing modules on topics such as health 
and safety, engineering, procurement, 
marketing, lean manufacturing principles, 
planning and project management, diversity, 
leadership, finance, IT and supply chain. 
Access to the Weir University is available  
to employees across the Group and user 
numbers continue to increase. Since its 
launch in 2011, over 7,700 hours of training 
have been delivered. More content, aligned 
to business requirements, will be added  
to Weir University in 2015, including 
‘Infosmart’: modules on information 
security and intellectual property; and 
further Code of Conduct online training. 
Developing our graduates
Our graduate development programme  
was established in 2011 and is designed  
to provide people joining Weir as a graduate 
with greater leadership understanding and 
experience. It prepares our graduates to 
take on more demanding roles as their 
career within the Group develops. In 2014, 
we recruited a total of 19 graduates from a 
variety of professional disciplines. A further 
17 graduates (from a previous intake) from 
across the world attended the well-
established Weir Graduate Development 
Programme in Scotland. In 2015, another  
20 graduates will attend this programme. 
During 2015, we will continue to improve 
our Graduate Development Framework  
to ensure that we provide a best-in-class 
personal development offering to our 
graduate population.
Supporting society and  
developing our people
We undertake various initiatives across  
the organisation in support of the needs  
of local people within the regions in which 
we operate.
Arkwright Scholarships: The Arkwright 
Scholarships Trust is a registered UK charity 
that identifies, selects and engages the 
engineering industry in offering two-year 
scholarships to 15-16 year old students  
who are focused on pursuing a career in 
engineering, either through apprenticeships, 
further or higher education. We supported 
three scholars in 2012 and 2013 and have 
engaged with another two students in 2014. 
In 2015, we will look to expand this type  
of initiative into our international markets. 
Armed Forces Covenant: The Weir Group 
is among a growing list of organisations 
which have signed the UK Government’s 
Armed Forces Covenant. The document  
is a written and publicised voluntary  
pledge from businesses and charitable 
organisations which wish to demonstrate 
their concrete support for the armed forces 
community. The covenant commits Weir to 
supporting the armed forces and its alumni 
by employing veterans, offering flexibility  
to employees who are reservists and 
supporting local cadet units. While the 
document has been produced by the UK 
Armed Forces community, the Group aims 
to adopt these principles, where possible,  
in every region in which it operates.
CSCLeaders: A number of our leaders 
undertook specialist leadership development 
programmes during the year. One such 
programme was CSCLeaders, a global 
leadership development conference run  
by Common Purpose which “assembles 
exceptional senior people from across  
the Commonwealth to tackle challenges  
that businesses, governments and society 
face today”, with the aim of building global 
relationships for the future.
Primary Engineer: Primary Engineer is a 
UK not-for-profit organisation established  
in 2005 which aims to encourage young 
people to consider careers in Science, 
Technology, Engineering and Mathematics 
(STEM) related professions. In July 2014, 
Weir became a founding member of 
Primary Engineer’s Institution of Primary 
Engineers and Institution of Secondary 
Engineers which was launched at the 
House of Lords in London.
33Fifty: 33Fifty is a Global Leader 
Experience for young Commonwealth 
leaders aged between 18 and 25.  
The name comes from the fact that  
33% of the world’s population lives in  
the Commonwealth, and 50% of those  
are under 25. In July, as the corporate 
partner for the programme, Weir hosted a 
group of students in Glasgow ahead of the 
Commonwealth Games. The next event  
is planned for the 2018 Games in the Gold 
Coast, Australia. 
Diversity and inclusion
We seek to recruit and develop people 
regardless of background or personal 
circumstance. All of our businesses operate 
in compliance with the inclusion and diversity 
laws and regulations in their respective 
countries. The majority of our operating 
companies have a diversity and inclusion 
policy in place.
On 2 January 2015, we employed 16,347 
people across the Group, an increase  
of 1,127 since last year. Of our 16,347 
employees, 14,317 are male and 2,030  
are female. There are nine Directors of  
The Weir Group PLC: seven males and  
two females. The Board Diversity Policy  
is to maintain a significant level of female 
representation on the Board.
The Senior Management Group is made up 
of 302 people, 269 of which are male and 
33 are female. In addition, there are 99 
individuals who are directors of subsidiary 
companies of The Weir Group PLC, who are 
not part of our Senior Management Group. 
Of these, 90 are male and 9 are female.
A joint cross-business group is in place to 
drive best practice in embracing diversity 
and inclusion across the organisation  
and our Finance Director, Jon Stanton,  
is the executive sponsor for diversity  
and inclusion. 
In 2014, Jon and our customer EDF Energy 
were interviewed about the importance  
of diversity and inclusion in the customer/
supplier relationship. The video was 
promoted internally to employees through 
Weir’s internal employee blog and can  
be viewed online at weir.co.uk/careers/
working-at-weir/diversity. In addition, we 
developed a global project plan to address 
diversity and inclusion issues, changing our 
recruitment protocol accordingly, including 
equal opportunity monitoring and engaging 
our Group Executive in an unconscious  
bias workshop.
We are a member of Race for Opportunity, 
the race campaign from Business in the 
Community, and Opportunity Now, the 
women at work campaign from Business  
in the Community. Race for Opportunity  
is committed to improving employment 
opportunities for ethnic minorities across 
the UK. Opportunity Now empowers 
employers to accelerate change for  
women in the workplace.
Sustainability Review continued Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
63 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Succession planning
Over 140 years of knowledge and expertise 
has enabled Weir to become the global 
engineering solutions provider that it is today. 
We recognise the absolute importance of 
strong succession planning to identify our 
engineers and leaders of the future. As such, 
we have developed a robust management 
and leadership development framework 
which supports the succession planning 
process across each of our businesses.
We recognise the importance of balance  
in developing talent from within the Group, 
as well as bringing in external expertise  
in order to successfully compete in the 
competitive markets of the future. 
Initiatives at a local level seek to ensure 
knowledge is retained within the business.  
In various parts of our business, we pair high 
potential employees with mentors who are 
nearing retirement. This programme actively 
supports succession planning and knowledge 
transition from our highly-skilled workforce.
Employee engagement
We believe strong employee engagement  
is an important attribute of a successful  
and innovative organisation. In the past  
12 months, we have been developing  
our employee engagement channels.
At our offices, factories, workshops and 
service centres across the globe, our 
employees take part in regular meetings 
known as ‘Town Halls’. These sessions 
typically last 60 minutes and are designed 
to educate, inform and share knowledge 
and understanding of best practice and 
occasionally include external speakers. 
Topics regularly featured include safety, 
conduct and operational performance.
An internal employee blog called  
‘Talking Weir’ was introduced in late  
2013 and is consistently one of the most 
popular areas of our intranet. In 2014,  
the blog featured articles on a range of 
subjects including safety, diversity, working 
with our communities, innovation, personal 
development and ethics from employees  
at all levels of the organisation. Comments 
on articles are encouraged.
Members of the Group Executive meet 
monthly to discuss operational issues  
and Group strategy. In August, we began 
publishing monthly blogs from members  
of the Group Executive, highlighting what  
is discussed at these meetings and 
demonstrating openness and transparency 
from the most senior level of the Group.
In 2014, the Group began to make greater 
use of video to communicate internally.  
In January, the Chief Executive published  
a ‘start of the year’ message focusing  
on safety and performance. In March and 
July, an internal interview with the Chief 
Executive was published, talking about  
Case study: Our people
Developing our 
graduate network
Weir has recruited around 150 graduates  
since its graduate development framework  
was established in 2011. 
In 2014, the inaugural Weir Graduate 
Alumni Programme was held close to 
Weir Minerals’ Venlo operational base  
in the Netherlands and was attended by 
24 graduates who were recruited in 2011 
and 2012. The week-long event enabled 
the graduates to continue their personal, 
team and business learning and develop 
their network with their peers.
Working as a group, the graduates 
undertook a problem-solving exercise 
relevant to the Weir Group and designed 
to test their knowledge, skills and ability 
to work together. With input from 
external facilitators, the graduates were 
given a refresher on essential business 
skills including effective public speaking, 
leadership and personal development. 
There was also an opportunity to reflect 
on their experience of the Weir Group 
Graduate Development Programme  
with Weir’s Head of Learning and 
Development, Jim McHarg.
The week included a tour of Weir’s facility 
in Venlo which manufactures equipment 
for the mining and aggregates market. 
The graduates, who are based across 
Weir’s global operations, had the 
opportunity to learn more about the 
Minerals division, the Venlo facility and 
the products which are manufactured 
locally. In 2015, around 30 graduates  
who were recruited in 2013 will attend 
this programme in Fort Worth, Texas.
our financial performance and highlighting 
areas of focus, including safety. Videos 
were also used to support Value Chain 
Excellence communications, diversity and 
inclusion, education and understanding of 
our markets.
The Group publishes an online news-  
letter, available at weir-bulletin.co.uk  
in eight languages.
Employee engagement is measured 
throughout the year using a combination  
of methods, including Net Promoter
®
 
scoring which assesses and evaluates 
employee satisfaction. 
Further information on our employment 
policies and employee involvement and 
feedback initiatives is contained in the 
Directors’ Report section below at page 109.
  64 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Case study: Our communities
Weir Cares in  
the community
Weir Cares is the name of the corporate social 
responsibility (CSR) programme at Weir India, 
which started in 2008 and is largely driven  
by employee volunteers. 
During 2014, Weir India undertook a 
review of its CSR activities, with a CSR 
committee being formed in March 2014. 
The agreed budget and activities were 
determined with the involvement of the 
core volunteer groups at all the business 
units in India.
During 2014, over 1,500 hours were spent 
volunteering by employees at Weir India. 
Weir Cares identifies underprivileged 
groups and works alongside or in 
partnership with non-governmental 
organisations (NGOs) whose focus is  
on education, health and sustainable 
livelihoods. During the past six years,  
the number of partners has increased 
from two to eighteen. One of the main 
projects undertaken includes responding 
to the healthcare needs in Gokul Village, 
Hubli. The Sanjeevini Health Clinic was 
set up by Weir BDK in 2011 and employs 
medical staff to provide highly subsidised 
treatment to the community.
Weir BDK also adopted the Government 
Higher Primary School, in Gokul, Hubli,  
in 2011. Since then, the company has 
supported infrastructure development 
through the building of a new school block 
with three classrooms, toilet facilities and 
an activity centre. In addition, they have 
invested in the educational needs of the 
children through the provision of a full-time 
computer teacher and English speaking 
classes. The school received the award  
of Best Regional School in 2014. Weir 
volunteers also support the high school  
in the same village, conducting health 
education for the pupils and sponsoring the 
development of a science activity centre.
In Peenya, an industrial area in Bangalore, 
Weir India supports various initiatives 
including working in partnership with  
the local Government Industrial Training 
Institute (ITI). Since 2008, Weir volunteers 
have been coaching students at the ITI  
on writing their resumes and interview 
techniques, enhancing their chances of 
employment. In 2014, volunteers also 
explored a new livelihood enhancing 
initiative to improve hands-on training  
for students of the ITI, where Weir is 
undertaking to repair and maintain five 
turner section machines and provide 
monthly hands-on training sessions for 
groups of students using these machines. 
In addition, in June 2014, Weir volunteers 
and NGO staff at Bangalore Medical 
Services Trust provided HIV/AIDS 
education to over 500 students at  
the ITI. In the wider community, Weir 
Cares volunteers facilitated the STOP 
Malnutrition initiative during 2014.  
A health screening camp was set up to 
help malnourished and underprivileged 
children in Peenya and 40 children were 
provided with free medication.
Our Communities
The Group is fortunate to be a part of 
many communities around the world. 
We value the contributions these 
communities make to our businesses 
and strive to make a positive impact  
in return. 
Wherever we operate, we aim to:
 – be responsible employers and neighbours;
 – respect the communities we operate in;
 – strive to make a positive impact by the 
responsible running of our operations; and 
 – invest in the communities for the long 
term mutual benefit of the community 
and Weir.
We believe the best people to look after  
the interests of communities are those who 
live and work there. That is why we devolve 
responsibility for community relations to  
the people who know them best – our local 
businesses. Like any good neighbour, we 
build close relationships by regularly having 
open conversations so that local people are 
well informed about any of our projects that 
might affect them. Where issues do arise, 
we listen carefully and do our best to help 
find a solution. 
We support our local communities through 
charitable contributions and by being a 
source of employment, education and 
training. In addition, we support our 
employees in their community initiatives 
and fundraising activities. For instance, Weir 
Gabbioneta in Italy participated in Green 
Day which is part of an ongoing initiative 
called Zero Impact. Employees planted 
trees and helped maintain a local park in 
order to reduce CO
2
 emissions. Weir Oil & 
Gas Services in Aberdeen has also engaged 
a local furniture manufacturing company 
which employs individuals who receive 
training in joinery and associated trades to 
help them gain employment in those fields. 
2014 marked the hundredth anniversary  
of the outbreak of World War I and Weir 
helped to commemorate the sacrifices 
made by so many in that conflict by 
sponsoring the UK’s Armed Forces Day 
celebrations, which took place in June.
The interaction of our businesses is far 
reaching but is governed by our desire  
to support and improve the communities  
in which we work. Key priorities are the 
improvement of health and education  
of both our employees and the local 
community. It is viewed that contributing  
to these two areas can have an enduring 
effect on the wellbeing of the individuals 
and the community as a whole.  
Sustainability Review continued Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
65 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Community 42%
Education 36%
Health 22%
Community 42%
Education 36%
Health 22%
Charitable donations
As a 144 year old engineering company, we 
are particularly keen to develop engineering 
excellence. Weir was the first company  
in Scotland to set up an apprentice school 
and our commitment to training is as strong 
in the 21st century as it was in the 19th.
Charitable giving
In 2014, the total amount of charitable 
donations made by Group companies was 
£597,700 (2013: £457,000). We do not 
make any political donations. This includes 
cash and non-cash items such as services, 
materials, employee time and use of 
corporate facilities.
The Group continues to work in partnership 
with AMAR International Charitable Foundation 
(AMAR), a British not-for-profit organisation.  
In 2013, we made a commitment to support 
AMAR financially over the next three years to 
improve health, education and training in Basra, 
Iraq, where Weir has operations. In 2014, the 
Group contributed approximately £100,000  
to AMAR, which has been used to support  
a health conference and the running of two 
women’s training centres.
Education
Our businesses provide experience and 
training to develop the next generation  
of engineers. Whilst our focus may be  
on engineering, we also provide work 
placements and internships across all 
sectors. Our placement projects allow 
school children and young people from 
around the world to see the opportunities 
available to them by working for a  
global business.
With the aim of promoting opportunities for 
education and careers in engineering, the 
Weir Group holds an Engineering in Schools 
competition. For the third consecutive year, 
secondary school pupils across Scotland 
were asked to produce a report and present 
on the topic ‘The importance of engineering 
in Scotland’. This year’s winners were  
a team from Arbroath High School, who 
impressed the panel with their insights  
into renewable energy and won £3,000  
for their school.
Following its pilot run in 2013, the  
Group continues to support the Primary 
Engineer initiative, and also the Arkwright 
scholarships, both detailed above in the  
Our People section. 2014 also marked the 
third successive year of support from the 
Group towards a 3D printing programme, 
run in partnership with Scottish Council  
for Development and Industry and the 
Department of Design, Manufacture and 
Engineering Management at the University 
of Strathclyde. Funding of £11,650 was 
provided by Weir to cover the purchase  
of ten 3D printers to selected secondary 
schools and a contribution towards the 
support provided by student mentors.
In 2014, the Group agreed to a sustainable 
partnership in the development and 
operation of the Newlands Junior College  
in Glasgow. This is a newly established 
vocational school giving career opportunities 
to young people who may be disengaged 
with the traditional education system, and 
who have the potential to excel in their field.
In May 2014, the Group was one of the 
main sponsors of the ‘Be Your Personal 
Best’ campaign with 150 young school 
pupils from all over Scotland being inspired 
by Sir Chris Hoy and Katherine Grainger to 
“be their personal best in life“. This was 
run in partnership with The Winning 
Scotland Foundation.
Weir Minerals Multiflo supports the 
Mechanical Engineering Scholarship at the 
University of the Sunshine Coast in Australia, 
by the provision of funds to the scholarship 
winners. These individuals, along with others 
from universities in Queensland, seek work 
experience placements as part of their 
engineering programme. Support for these 
initiatives provides a career pathway into 
engineering for the undergraduates and 
develops an engineering employee pipeline 
for our business.
Weir Minerals Latin America participates  
in programmes in Brazil, Chile and Peru, 
where students are invited from schools 
and universities to work as apprentices 
within the local businesses. At the end  
of the apprenticeship, if they match the 
required competencies they may be  
offered a job with the Group.
Health
Being a truly global company, health can 
play a key issue in the communities in  
which we operate. The Group supports the 
health of its employees, their families and 
communities through various programmes 
and initiatives, which are often run in 
partnership with local service providers.  
A small selection of the activities undertaken 
by Weir companies is outlined below.
Weir SPM held a health fair in 2014 where 
employees were offered free screenings, 
including blood pressure, BMI and 
cholesterol, by a health care provider.
Weir Minerals Brasil promoted a health 
week which involved a variety of workshops, 
nutritional advice and medical diagnosis 
sessions at their plant in Jundiaí, São Paulo. 
The event was for all employees and 
contractors and approximately 380 people 
took part. 
As well as contributing funds or time towards 
several non-profit organisations locally in 
California, Weir Minerals Floway is partnered 
with Valley Children’s Healthcare (formerly 
Children’s Hospital Central California). ‘Big 
Heart, Little Hands’ is a project the hospital 
has created as an opportunity for volunteers 
to donate a designated period of time to 
conduct an activity for the hospitalised 
children, which employees at Weir Minerals 
Floway participate in each month during 
working hours.
Employee activities
The Group is very proud of the charitable 
work that our people undertake. Our 
businesses operate their own policies for 
supporting these, whether by matching 
donations, providing support or equipment  
or by allowing employees to participate in 
charitable activities during working hours.
A small selection of the numerous projects 
undertaken by our employees in 2014 is 
highlighted below:
 – Employees at Weir Specialty Pumps built a 
patio at a home for adults with disabilities.
 – Each month, employees at Weir SPM in 
Texas, USA, cook meals for families with 
sick children at nearby hospitals.
 – At Weir SPM in Canada, employees 
made a contribution of CAD$4,000 to  
a local food bank.
 – Employees at Weir Minerals Netherlands 
dedicated 100 working hours to charitable 
initiatives during the year.
 – Weir Minerals Andean employees spent  
a day building a local community garden.
 – Employees at Weir Minerals Linatex  
North America volunteer for a variety  
of roles, including sitting on various 
non-profit boards or as firefighters or 
emergency medical technicians in  
their communities. 66 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
All employees are expected to 
maintain the highest standards  
of integrity consistent with our  
Code of Conduct. 
A revised edition of the Code of Conduct 
was launched in January 2014 and full 
details are provided below on page 67.  
As noted in the Our People section above, 
we also redefined our values in consultation 
with business teams across the Group.  
As part of this process, we have also 
created a set of behaviours which underpin 
our values. These behaviours are not new  
to us and are already demonstrated in our 
operations across the world. By defining 
these behaviours, however, we are clearly 
setting out what we expect of our people 
now and in the future. These behaviours 
should be exhibited in all aspects of our  
day to day business operations.
The Group has been a member of the 
FTSE4Good Index since September 2013.
Created by the global index company FTSE 
Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series 
that is designed to facilitate investment in 
companies that meet globally recognised 
corporate responsibility standards. FTSE 
Group confirms that the Company has been 
independently assessed according to the 
FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the 
requirements to become a constituent of 
the FTSE4Good Index Series. 
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series 
have met stringent environmental, social  
and governance criteria, and are positioned  
to capitalise on the benefits of responsible 
business practice. The Company is very proud 
to be included in the FTSE4Good Index.
The Company is also a member of 
Transparency International UK’s Business 
Integrity Forum, having joined in September 
2011. Transparency International UK (TI-UK) 
is the country’s leading anti-corruption 
organisation and part of the global 
Transparency International (TI) movement. 
The Business Integrity Forum is the UK’s 
leading anti-corruption forum for businesses 
in all sectors, comprising companies and 
professional firms of all sizes. Through their 
membership, companies are demonstrating 
their support for TI’s work, helping TI in its 
mission to reduce corruption in both the 
public and the private sector throughout  
the world. All members sign up to a set  
of principles and are dedicated to ensuring 
their operations and business dealings  
are corruption free. Through the Forum, 
companies have the opportunity to have 
well-informed discussions with peers  
and experts, increasing their knowledge  
in relation to risks, mitigating measures  
and emerging trends, as well as making  
a positive contribution to TI-UK’s thought 
leadership and to the wider international 
debate on corruption.
Code of Conduct
The Code of Conduct provides a clear 
framework for decision-making, highlighting 
the values and behaviours we expect our 
people to demonstrate whilst making those 
decisions. It provides details on how we 
expect our people to conduct themselves 
on a day-to-day basis and guidance on 
where to go for help. 
Supporting the second edition of the  
Code of Conduct is a mandatory e-learning 
programme. A new provider was appointed 
during 2014, with the programme being 
rolled out towards the end of the year.  
The first wave of training was targeted  
at head office and other Group functions, 
Weir China, Weir India and Weir Africa 
employees who are deemed to have  
a potentially higher risk of exposure to 
bribery and corruption as a consequence  
of their decision-making responsibilities 
with regard to third parties, including 
customers, suppliers, and sales agents. 
This includes the Senior Management Group, 
as well as sales and marketing, purchasing 
and finance employees within certain sectors 
of the Company’s operations. Subsequent 
training will be targeted at all divisional 
business employees. Approximately 2,300 
employees have already completed the 
online compliance training programme, and  
a further 1,700 are currently undertaking the 
training. After completion of the assessment, 
all participants are asked to complete a 
compliance statement to confirm that they 
have read, understood and comply with  
the Code of Conduct in their work for Weir. 
The completion of the e-learning programme 
and online certification is monitored by the 
Company Secretary.
The Code of Conduct is also reinforced 
through various means of communications 
with our employees, such as induction 
training, Town Hall meetings, conferences, 
training courses and our 100 day integration 
plan for new acquisitions. The Code applies 
to everyone who is employed by the Weir 
Group and compliance is of the utmost 
importance. Anyone found in breach of  
the Code may be liable to disciplinary 
action, up to and including termination of 
employment or cancellation of contract.
Competition law
During 2014, the Company completed a 
comprehensive review of its competition 
law (anti-trust) policies and procedures. 
As a result, the Weir Group Competition 
Law Manual was produced and is accessible 
to all employees via the Weir intranet.
The document was designed specifically  
to meet our business needs in very close 
cooperation with our businesses. It provides 
an overview of competition law; a description 
of how competition law is enforced across 
the world; guidance with respect to dealings  
and meetings with competitors; guidance  
Keith Ruddock
Group General Counsel  
and Company Secretary
Ethics
A critical feature of the Group operating  
as a well-managed and sustainable company  
is our commitment to doing business at all  
times in an ethical and transparent manner.
Sustainability Review continued Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
67 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
on dealings with customers, distributors  
and agents; a review of illegal and high risk 
matters such as price fixing, bid-rigging 
activities, market and territory sharing or 
allocation agreements and abusing market 
powers; and guidance on exchanging 
information about competitors or customers.
Accompanying the manual, the Company 
will be delivering both face to face and 
e-learning competition law training during 
2015, focusing in particular on employees  
in roles which have been identified as 
potentially high risk.
Human rights 
As part of its human rights policy, the  
Group has adopted a series of human  
rights principles across all of its businesses.  
These principles relate to anti-discriminatory 
attitudes and respect for ethical values; 
employee rights, which include health  
and safety, living wages, working hours, 
freedom of association and the right to 
collective bargaining; and prohibition of  
child labour.
By promoting sound ethical values and 
human rights principles, Weir aims to be  
a business with which people are proud  
to be involved. The Weir Group Human 
Rights Policy expresses the organisation’s 
commitment to promoting and upholding 
the “common standard of achievement for 
all people and all nations”, as endorsed by 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 
Other guiding principles include those  
of the Conventions of the International 
Labour Organisation and the United Nations 
Convention on the Rights of the Child. 
These manifest themselves in Weir’s 
anti-discriminatory attitudes and respect  
for ethical values, providing our people  
with a safe and healthy working 
environment and fairness in employment 
terms. For example, national living wage  
is applied and working hours determined  
in accordance with applicable laws, as well 
as the recognition and non-discrimination of 
rights of association in collective bargaining. 
In addition, the Group has a zero tolerance 
of the employment of children in any of  
its businesses.
We will not exploit anyone, wherever in the 
world we are working. We will respect the 
human rights of all those working for or with 
us, and of the people in the communities 
where we operate. We will not do business 
with companies, organisations or individuals 
that we believe are not working to 
acceptable human rights standards. 
We expect employees to maintain the 
highest standards of conformity with these 
principles and their adoption, and adherence 
is contained within Weir’s Code of Conduct. 
Case study: Ethics
Updated Code  
of Conduct
The Code of Conduct (the ‘Code’) covers  
a wide range of topics, including anti-bribery 
and corruption, competition (anti-trust) law, 
developing our people, health and safety,  
use of Group property and resources,  
and conflicts of interest. 
A major review of the Code was 
undertaken during 2013 with input  
from various sectors of the Group.  
The revised Code received Board 
approval in January 2014 and was rolled 
out during 2014. The revised edition 
reflects developments in a number of 
areas, both externally and within the 
Group, since it was first introduced  
in January 2011. In particular, these 
changes address developments in the 
areas of anti-bribery and corruption and  
in relation to competition (anti-trust) law.
Reflecting the global nature of our business, 
we have translated the document into 12 
languages. The Code can be accessed by 
our employees via our Global Intranet, as 
well as being available to download from  
our website. Copies are also shared with  
our key suppliers, customers, agents and 
distributors. As before, it reinforces our 
shared core values and behaviours –  
known to us all as the Weir Way.
The Code has three main purposes:
 – firstly, to clearly set out the behaviour 
we expect from all of our employees; 
 – secondly, to provide guidelines to help 
our people follow the Weir Way; and
 – thirdly, to enable all employees to raise 
concerns or ask questions if they have 
any doubts about someone’s actions 
or activities.
The Code of Conduct provides our people 
with a clear framework on which to base 
decision making and ensure that the 
Company consistently operates to a high 
standard. It supports our teams to ensure 
that they demonstrate both integrity in the 
workplace and in conducting the Group’s 
business activities while respecting  
our working relationships and place  
in the world.
If there is any doubt about their potential 
conduct, employees are asked to consider 
the following questions:
 – Is what I am doing or being asked  
to do legal?
 – Does it comply with the Code  
of Conduct?
 – Am I setting a good example?
 – Would I be comfortable reading about 
this in the media? 68 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Human rights (continued)
To ensure this policy is upheld in practice, in 
addition to Group wide assurance activity, all 
operating companies complete a compliance 
scorecard self-assessment twice per annum 
which assesses compliance with Group 
policies and procedures.
Suppliers and third parties
We source raw materials, components and 
services across the globe. Our suppliers 
play a critical role in our business and  
our relationships with them are based  
on achieving best performance, product, 
delivery, service and total cost in an ethical 
and sustainable manner. Embracing a  
closer relationship with our key suppliers is 
fundamental to our Value Chain Excellence 
initiative. In 2014, we have introduced  
a supplier business review programme 
designed to fully engage our key suppliers 
in performance reviews and mutually 
agreed improvement programmes. 
The Group recognises that its responsibilities 
extend to our supply chain. We have a Supply 
Chain Policy which sets out the minimum 
standards we expect our suppliers to abide 
by with respect to:
 – how they treat their workforce;
 – legal and regulatory compliance;
 – health and safety;
 – business ethics; and
 – environmental standards.
During 2014, the Group has continued to 
work on increasing the level of contractual 
agreements in place with our supply base. 
These now equate to over 50% of our  
total spend. Weir has also joined the UK 
Government sponsored Prompt Payment 
Code, which is a scheme designed to 
support on time payment to small and 
medium sized suppliers (SMEs).
In addition, our Code of Conduct is issued 
to our key suppliers. Assessments are 
undertaken with regard to compliance  
with Group standards as part of the  
vetting process for new suppliers. We also 
audit our key suppliers regularly to assess 
ongoing compliance with the Supply Chain 
Policy and other relevant Group standards. 
Wherever possible, we work with our 
suppliers to support them to address 
weaknesses identified. 
The Group is committed to working only 
with third parties, including customers, 
sub-contractors, suppliers and joint  
venture and strategic alliance partners, 
whose business ethics and behaviours are 
consistent with our own Code of Conduct.
During 2015, we will be increasing our 
focus in this area through the introduction  
of a web based compliance tool, designed 
to assess our key suppliers’ compliance 
with our Code of Conduct.
External sales agents
The Group engages a number of external 
sales agents across the globe to act on its 
behalf in locations where it does not have  
a permanent sales presence, or in regard  
to specific projects. The Group has a sales 
agents’ manual which sets out the Group 
requirements with regard to appointing and 
reappointing agents, as well as the ongoing 
monitoring requirements. Due diligence  
is performed prior to all appointments and 
reappointments and overseen by the legal 
department. The standard Weir contract 
must be used unless the legal department 
has agreed modifications, but the terms of 
the agreements always include stipulation 
that agents must comply with the Code of 
Conduct. The agents are required to confirm 
in writing their compliance with the Code  
of Conduct.
Gifts and hospitality
We recognise that gifts and hospitality have 
the potential to create a conflict of interest, 
or the perception of a conflict of interest.  
As a result, there are Group policies with 
regard to receiving and giving gifts and 
hospitality from, and to, third parties. In no 
circumstances should gifts or hospitality  
be solicited, and they should not place the 
recipient under any obligation.
All gifts and hospitality above the minimum 
threshold must be pre-approved using an 
online gifts and hospitality register. Our 
Internal Audit team assess compliance  
with the Group’s gifts and hospitality 
policies during audit visits and undertake 
monthly reviews of the register, which  
are shared with senior management. 
Reporting issues
The Group encourages our people to 
discuss any ethical concerns they may  
have with local management or the legal 
department. In addition, the Weir Ethics 
Hotline, an independent and confidential 
telephone helpline and an online reporting 
system is available for our employees, 
partners and third parties to call or  
email with any concerns that they have 
concerning unethical behaviour. Calls to  
the helpline are free and lines are open  
24 hours a day, seven days a week.  
Reports can be made in a wide range of 
languages, reflecting our global footprint. 
Online reporting remains the most common 
form of reporting matters, with 76% of 
reports being made in this way.
All reports are investigated. During 2014,  
51 reports were submitted via the Weir 
Ethics Hotline and each report was fully 
investigated. Confidentiality and anonymity 
are important features of the Ethics Hotline, 
and both elements are maintained where 
requested by the reporting party. In 2014, 
both anonymity and confidentiality  
was sought in 73% of the cases, and 
confidentiality only in 26% of the cases. 
Complainants can receive updates and the 
details of the outcome of the investigation 
via the Ethics Hotline when it is possible  
to provide this in adherence with privacy  
or local legal restrictions. 
The Strategic Report, covering pages 1  
to 68 of the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements 2014, has been approved by  
the Board of Directors in accordance with 
The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report 
and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Keith Ruddock
Company Secretary
25 February 2015
Sustainability Review continued Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
69 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Group Executive
Name and title
Paul Coppinger 
Oil & Gas Divisional 
Managing Director (53)
John Heasley 
Power & Industrial 
Divisional Managing 
Director (40)
Dean Jenkins 
Minerals Divisional 
Managing Director (43)
Keith Ruddock 
Group General 
Counsel and Company 
Secretary (54)
Biography Paul is the Divisional Managing 
Director of the Oil & Gas 
Division, based in Fort Worth, 
Texas, USA. He has held this 
position since January 2015. 
Prior to this, he held the 
position of President of the 
Pressure Pumping business 
within the Oil & Gas Division. 
He joined Weir in 2011 as 
President of SPM. Prior to 
joining Weir, Paul was the 
President of the Energy  
Group for ten years at Circor 
International, Inc., a diversified 
manufacturer of valves and 
related products. He has been 
a director of the Petroleum 
Equipment & Services 
Association since 2007  
and presently is the  
Association’s Chairman. 
John joined the Group 
Executive in January 2014  
as Divisional Managing 
Director for Weir Power  
& Industrial. He is based  
at the divisional headquarters 
in East Kilbride, Scotland.  
A chartered accountant, he 
has held a number of senior 
financial, commercial and 
operational roles. At PwC,  
he worked in mergers and 
acquisitions before joining 
Scottish Power in business 
development and financial 
posts. John joined Weir in 
2008 as Group Financial 
Controller before becoming 
Valves Managing Director in 
the Power & Industrial Division.
Dean is the Minerals Divisional 
Managing Director, based  
in Melbourne, Australia.  
He joined the Group in 
November 2010, becoming 
Power & Industrial Divisional 
Managing Director in January 
2011. He was appointed to his 
current role in August 2012. 
Dean previously worked  
for Qantas Airlines and the 
Australian listed infrastructure 
services company UGL Ltd, 
most recently as Chief 
Executive of the latter’s  
Rail Division.
Keith is Group General 
Counsel and Company 
Secretary and is based at  
the Group’s Head Office  
in Glasgow. He joined the 
Group in April 2012 from  
Royal Dutch Shell plc, where 
he was General Counsel for 
Upstream International, Shell’s 
largest business unit, based in 
The Hague. He has extensive 
international commercial  
and legal experience, having 
worked in the Middle East, 
North America, Africa, 
Australasia and Europe.  
He is also a member of  
the Development Board  
of the Bingham Centre  
for the Rule of Law.
Name and title
Pauline Lafferty 
Director of Human 
Resources (49) 
Andrew Neilson 
Director of Strategy & 
Corporate Affairs (39)
Gavin Nicol 
Director of Operations, 
Support & 
Development (53)
Biography Pauline is the Director of  
Human Resources, based at  
the Group’s Head Office in 
Glasgow. She joined the Group 
in 2011. Pauline was previously 
in executive search with Miles 
Partnership and Russell 
Reynolds Associates in the  
UK and Australia. Prior to this, 
she held business planning and 
operational roles for 11 years 
with Motorola and Digital 
Equipment Corporation (DEC)  
in Scotland, Australia and Hong 
Kong, ultimately becoming  
Asia Pacific Director of Supply 
for DEC. Pauline is also a 
Non-Executive Director of the 
Scottish Exhibition Centre.
Andrew joined the Group 
Executive in January 2014  
as Director of Strategy & 
Corporate Affairs. He is based 
at the Group’s Head Office  
in Glasgow. Andrew holds a 
Masters degree in engineering 
from the University of 
Strathclyde and is a qualified 
accountant. Before joining 
Weir in 2010, he held a variety 
of senior roles with banking, 
energy and professional 
services companies, including 
HSBC, HBOS, Scottish Power  
and KPMG.
Gavin is the Director of 
Operations, Support & 
Development, based at  
the Group’s Head Office in 
Glasgow. He was previously 
President of Weir SPM for  
two years, based in Fort 
Worth, Texas, USA. Gavin 
joined Weir in 2005 and was 
managing director of the Weir 
Pumps business prior to its 
sale in 2007. Before joining 
Weir, he worked for a number 
of multinationals, including the 
Terex Corporation, PwC and 
Coats Viyella. Gavin is also  
a member for the council of 
the CBI in Scotland and has 
recently been appointed to a 
Visiting Professorship at the 
University of Strathclyde.
Keith Cochrane and Jon Stanton are also members of the Group Executive Committee.  
Their biographical information can be found on the pages overleaf.
Steve Noon held the position of Oil & Gas Divisional Managing Director until 31 December 2014. 70 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Board of Directors
Charles Berry 
Chairman (62) 
Keith Cochrane 
Chief Executive (50)
Alan Ferguson 
Non-Executive 
Director (57)
Melanie Gee 
Non-Executive  
Director (53) 
Mary Jo Jacobi
Non-Executive  
Director (63)
Professor Sir  
Jim McDonald 
Non-Executive  
Director (57) 
Richard (Rick) 
Menell 
Non-Executive 
Director (59) 
John Mogford 
Non-Executive  
Director (61) 
Jon Stanton 
Finance Director (47) 
Lord Robertson  
of Port Ellen 
Former Non-Executive  
Director (68) 
Nationality
British British British British Dual American and  
British citizenship
British South African British British British
Date of appointment
Non-Executive Director since 
March 2013 and Chairman 
since January 2014.
Joined the Group as Finance 
Director in July 2006 and 
appointed Chief Executive  
in November 2009.
December 2011. May 2011. January 2014. January 2015. April 2009.
Senior Independent Director 
from 1 February 2015.
June 2008. April 2010. February 2004.  
Retired 31 January 2015 
(including as Senior 
Independent Director).
Committee Membership
Chairman of the  
Nomination Committee.
Member of the  
Nomination Committee.
Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and Member of 
the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Audit 
Committee.
Member of the  
Remuneration Committee.
Member of the  
Audit Committee.
Member of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees. 
Audit Committee Member – 
January 2014 to January 2015.
Member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees.
None. Member of the  
Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees 
until his retirement on  
31 January 2015.
Expertise
Charles was an Executive 
Director of Scottish Power  
UK plc from 1999 to 2005  
and Chief Executive of its UK 
operations between 2000 and 
2005. Prior to joining Scottish 
Power, he was Group 
Development Director of 
Norwest Holst, a subsidiary  
of Compagnie Générale des 
Eaux and held management 
positions within subsidiaries  
of Pilkington plc. 
He is a former Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman of Eaga 
plc and Thus Group plc, and a 
former Non-Executive Director 
of Impax Environmental 
Markets PLC and Securities 
Trust of Scotland plc.
Following a number of years 
with Arthur Andersen, Keith 
joined Stagecoach Group plc  
in 1993. He was appointed 
Finance Director in 1996 and 
Group Chief Executive in 2000. 
He joined ScottishPower plc  
in 2003 where he became 
Director of Group Finance.
He is a chartered accountant 
and a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants  
of Scotland.
Keith is also Chairman of the 
selection group for CSCLeaders, 
which is a senior leadership 
programme for leaders from 
across the Commonwealth.
Alan was Chief Financial 
Officer and a Director of 
Lonmin plc, one of the world’s 
largest producers of platinum 
group metals, from 2007 until 
2010. Prior to his role with 
Lonmin, he held the position  
of Group Finance Director with 
the BOC Group plc. Before 
this, he spent 22 years working 
for Inchcape plc in a variety  
of roles, including six years  
as Group Finance Director.
Alan is a member of the 
Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland  
and sits on their Business 
Policy Committee.
Melanie is a Senior Adviser at 
Lazard & Co. Limited, having 
worked for them since 2008. 
Formerly, she spent a number 
of years with S.G. Warburg 
(now part of UBS) and was 
appointed a Managing Director 
of UBS in 1999. Between 
2006 and 2008, she was a 
Senior Relationship Director  
of UBS. 
She was an alternate member 
of The Takeover Panel – LIBA 
(CFC) between 2006 and 2013.
Melanie was reappointed as a 
Council member and Trustee 
of Fauna & Flora International 
in 2013, having previously 
served from 2008 until 2010.
Mary Jo is currently the 
Managing Director of her  
own consultancy practice  
and is also a member of  
The Leadership Council and a 
board mentor with CriticalEye. 
She was formerly a Senior 
Executive of Royal Dutch  
Shell plc, BP America Inc., 
Lehman Brothers Inc.,  
HSBC Holdings plc and  
Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. 
She was a Non-Executive 
Director of Tate & Lyle plc 
between 1999 and 2004.
She served in the 
administrations of Presidents 
Reagan and George H.W. Bush 
and was one of Her Majesty’s 
Civil Service Commissioners 
from 2005 to 2010. She is 
currently a visiting Fellow  
at Oxford University.
Sir Jim McDonald has been 
Principal and Vice Chancellor 
of the University of Strathclyde 
since March 2009 and has 
held the Rolls-Royce Chair  
in Electrical Power Systems 
since 1993. 
Sir Jim is Chairman of both  
the Institute for Energy and 
Environment, the largest 
power engineering and  
energy systems research 
group internationally,  
and the Rolls-Royce 
Technology Centre.
He is also a member of the 
Scottish Enterprise Board, 
Scottish Science Advisory 
Council and has recently 
become a member of the  
UK Trade and Investment 
Energy Excellence Board.
He co-chairs (with the  
First Minister of Scotland)  
the Energy Advisory Board  
in Scotland. He is a fellow  
of the Royal Academy of 
Engineering and of the 
Institution of Engineering  
and Technology. 
Rick worked as an investment 
banker before joining 
Anglovaal Group in 1992. He 
was appointed Chief Executive 
of Anglovaal Mining in 1996, 
then Executive Chairman  
in 2002. In 2005, he left to 
become President and Chief 
Executive of TEAL Exploration 
& Mining Inc. He was formerly 
Chairman of Avgold Ltd 
(1996-2004) and Bateman 
Engineering BV (2005-2009) 
and Director of Mutual & 
Federal Insurance Company 
Ltd (1996-2010) and Standard 
Bank Group Ltd (1997-2011). 
Rick is a Senior Advisor to 
Credit Suisse and Chairman  
of Credit Suisse Securities 
(Johannesburg) (Pty) Limited.
He serves as a Director on a 
number of unlisted companies 
and non-profit organisations.
He is a fellow of the Geological 
Society (London), and both  
the Australasian and South 
African Institutes of Mining 
and Metallurgy. 
John is currently a Managing 
Director for First Reserve,  
a large global energy focused 
private equity firm. As part  
of this role, he sits on  
several boards.
He was formerly an Executive 
Vice President of BP plc, having 
been with BP for over 30 years, 
initially in their exploration 
division and progressively rising 
to Executive Vice President 
(Chief Operating Officer  
US Downstream & Head of 
Refining). He held numerous 
positions in every area of 
operations from gas and 
renewables to upstream  
and downstream oil.
He was formerly Chairman  
of Amromco Energy LLC in 
Romania, White Rose Energy 
Ventures LLP in the UK and  
a Non-Executive Director  
of Deep Gulf Energy LP  
in America. 
He was also formerly  
a Non-Executive Director  
of CHC Helicopters SA  
in Luxembourg.
He is a fellow of the Institution 
of Mechanical Engineers.
Jon was formerly a partner 
with Ernst & Young, having 
joined as a graduate trainee  
in their Birmingham office in 
1988. He was appointed as a 
partner in their London office 
in 2001 with lead responsibility 
for the audit of a number of 
FTSE 100 multinational clients.
He is a chartered accountant 
and a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants in 
England and Wales.
Lord Robertson is an  
Adviser to Cable and 
Wireless Communications 
plc, Special Adviser to BP plc 
and a Senior Counsellor with 
The Cohen Group (USA).  
He was the Secretary of 
State for Defence from 1997 
until 1999 before becoming 
Secretary General of NATO 
from 1999 until 2003. He 
was formerly a Director of 
Smiths Group plc (2004-
2006) and Deputy Chairman 
of Cable & Wireless plc 
(2004-2006) and TNK-BP Ltd 
(2006-2013).
A member of Her Majesty’s 
Privy Council, he is Chairman 
of the Ditchley Foundation and 
of the Commission on Global 
Road Safety. He is honorary 
Professor of Politics at Stirling 
University, an honorary  
Fellow of the Royal Society  
of Edinburgh, an Elder Brother  
of the Corporation of Trinity 
House and is Chancellor  
of the Order of St Michael  
and St George. 
Key external appointments
Non-Executive Chairman  
of Drax Group plc (resigning  
at its AGM in April 2015). 
Non-Executive Chairman  
of Senior plc.
Non-Executive Director  
of Royal Scottish National 
Orchestra Society Ltd.
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director and 
Audit Committee Chairman  
of Johnson Matthey plc.
Non-Executive Director and 
Audit Committee Chairman  
of Croda International plc.
Non-Executive Director  
of Drax Group plc.
Non-Executive Director  
of Mulvaney Capital 
Management Limited.
Member, UK Government 
Advisory Committee on 
Business Appointments.
Advisory Board co-chair, 
George Washington University 
Institute for Corporate 
Responsibility.
Non-Executive Director of  
Allt Dearg Educational Trust.
Non-Executive Director of 
Glasgow Science Centre 
Charitable Trust.
Non-Executive Director of UK 
Offshore Renewable Energy 
Catapult Board.
Non-Executive Director of 
Gold Fields Ltd and Sibanye 
Gold Limited, both South 
African companies listed  
on the Johannesburg Stock 
Exchange and the New York 
Stock Exchange.
Non-Executive Director of 
Rockwell Diamonds Inc., a 
South African company listed 
on both the Johannesburg 
Stock Exchange and the 
Toronto Stock Exchange.
Non-Executive Director of 
DOF Subsea AS in Norway 
and Midstates Petroleum 
Company, Inc. in America. 
None. Non-Executive Director of 
Western Ferries (Clyde) Ltd. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
71 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Charles Berry 
Chairman (62) 
Keith Cochrane 
Chief Executive (50)
Alan Ferguson 
Non-Executive 
Director (57)
Melanie Gee 
Non-Executive  
Director (53) 
Mary Jo Jacobi
Non-Executive  
Director (63)
Professor Sir  
Jim McDonald 
Non-Executive  
Director (57) 
Richard (Rick) 
Menell 
Non-Executive 
Director (59) 
John Mogford 
Non-Executive  
Director (61) 
Jon Stanton 
Finance Director (47) 
Lord Robertson  
of Port Ellen 
Former Non-Executive  
Director (68) 
Nationality
British British British British Dual American and  
British citizenship
British South African British British British
Date of appointment
Non-Executive Director since 
March 2013 and Chairman 
since January 2014.
Joined the Group as Finance 
Director in July 2006 and 
appointed Chief Executive  
in November 2009.
December 2011. May 2011. January 2014. January 2015. April 2009.
Senior Independent Director 
from 1 February 2015.
June 2008. April 2010. February 2004.  
Retired 31 January 2015 
(including as Senior 
Independent Director).
Committee Membership
Chairman of the  
Nomination Committee.
Member of the  
Nomination Committee.
Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and Member of 
the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Audit 
Committee.
Member of the  
Remuneration Committee.
Member of the  
Audit Committee.
Member of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees. 
Audit Committee Member – 
January 2014 to January 2015.
Member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees.
None. Member of the  
Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees 
until his retirement on  
31 January 2015.
Expertise
Charles was an Executive 
Director of Scottish Power  
UK plc from 1999 to 2005  
and Chief Executive of its UK 
operations between 2000 and 
2005. Prior to joining Scottish 
Power, he was Group 
Development Director of 
Norwest Holst, a subsidiary  
of Compagnie Générale des 
Eaux and held management 
positions within subsidiaries  
of Pilkington plc. 
He is a former Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman of Eaga 
plc and Thus Group plc, and a 
former Non-Executive Director 
of Impax Environmental 
Markets PLC and Securities 
Trust of Scotland plc.
Following a number of years 
with Arthur Andersen, Keith 
joined Stagecoach Group plc  
in 1993. He was appointed 
Finance Director in 1996 and 
Group Chief Executive in 2000. 
He joined ScottishPower plc  
in 2003 where he became 
Director of Group Finance.
He is a chartered accountant 
and a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants  
of Scotland.
Keith is also Chairman of the 
selection group for CSCLeaders, 
which is a senior leadership 
programme for leaders from 
across the Commonwealth.
Alan was Chief Financial 
Officer and a Director of 
Lonmin plc, one of the world’s 
largest producers of platinum 
group metals, from 2007 until 
2010. Prior to his role with 
Lonmin, he held the position  
of Group Finance Director with 
the BOC Group plc. Before 
this, he spent 22 years working 
for Inchcape plc in a variety  
of roles, including six years  
as Group Finance Director.
Alan is a member of the 
Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland  
and sits on their Business 
Policy Committee.
Melanie is a Senior Adviser at 
Lazard & Co. Limited, having 
worked for them since 2008. 
Formerly, she spent a number 
of years with S.G. Warburg 
(now part of UBS) and was 
appointed a Managing Director 
of UBS in 1999. Between 
2006 and 2008, she was a 
Senior Relationship Director  
of UBS. 
She was an alternate member 
of The Takeover Panel – LIBA 
(CFC) between 2006 and 2013.
Melanie was reappointed as a 
Council member and Trustee 
of Fauna & Flora International 
in 2013, having previously 
served from 2008 until 2010.
Mary Jo is currently the 
Managing Director of her  
own consultancy practice  
and is also a member of  
The Leadership Council and a 
board mentor with CriticalEye. 
She was formerly a Senior 
Executive of Royal Dutch  
Shell plc, BP America Inc., 
Lehman Brothers Inc.,  
HSBC Holdings plc and  
Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. 
She was a Non-Executive 
Director of Tate & Lyle plc 
between 1999 and 2004.
She served in the 
administrations of Presidents 
Reagan and George H.W. Bush 
and was one of Her Majesty’s 
Civil Service Commissioners 
from 2005 to 2010. She is 
currently a visiting Fellow  
at Oxford University.
Sir Jim McDonald has been 
Principal and Vice Chancellor 
of the University of Strathclyde 
since March 2009 and has 
held the Rolls-Royce Chair  
in Electrical Power Systems 
since 1993. 
Sir Jim is Chairman of both  
the Institute for Energy and 
Environment, the largest 
power engineering and  
energy systems research 
group internationally,  
and the Rolls-Royce 
Technology Centre.
He is also a member of the 
Scottish Enterprise Board, 
Scottish Science Advisory 
Council and has recently 
become a member of the  
UK Trade and Investment 
Energy Excellence Board.
He co-chairs (with the  
First Minister of Scotland)  
the Energy Advisory Board  
in Scotland. He is a fellow  
of the Royal Academy of 
Engineering and of the 
Institution of Engineering  
and Technology. 
Rick worked as an investment 
banker before joining 
Anglovaal Group in 1992. He 
was appointed Chief Executive 
of Anglovaal Mining in 1996, 
then Executive Chairman  
in 2002. In 2005, he left to 
become President and Chief 
Executive of TEAL Exploration 
& Mining Inc. He was formerly 
Chairman of Avgold Ltd 
(1996-2004) and Bateman 
Engineering BV (2005-2009) 
and Director of Mutual & 
Federal Insurance Company 
Ltd (1996-2010) and Standard 
Bank Group Ltd (1997-2011). 
Rick is a Senior Advisor to 
Credit Suisse and Chairman  
of Credit Suisse Securities 
(Johannesburg) (Pty) Limited.
He serves as a Director on a 
number of unlisted companies 
and non-profit organisations.
He is a fellow of the Geological 
Society (London), and both  
the Australasian and South 
African Institutes of Mining 
and Metallurgy. 
John is currently a Managing 
Director for First Reserve,  
a large global energy focused 
private equity firm. As part  
of this role, he sits on  
several boards.
He was formerly an Executive 
Vice President of BP plc, having 
been with BP for over 30 years, 
initially in their exploration 
division and progressively rising 
to Executive Vice President 
(Chief Operating Officer  
US Downstream & Head of 
Refining). He held numerous 
positions in every area of 
operations from gas and 
renewables to upstream  
and downstream oil.
He was formerly Chairman  
of Amromco Energy LLC in 
Romania, White Rose Energy 
Ventures LLP in the UK and  
a Non-Executive Director  
of Deep Gulf Energy LP  
in America. 
He was also formerly  
a Non-Executive Director  
of CHC Helicopters SA  
in Luxembourg.
He is a fellow of the Institution 
of Mechanical Engineers.
Jon was formerly a partner 
with Ernst & Young, having 
joined as a graduate trainee  
in their Birmingham office in 
1988. He was appointed as a 
partner in their London office 
in 2001 with lead responsibility 
for the audit of a number of 
FTSE 100 multinational clients.
He is a chartered accountant 
and a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants in 
England and Wales.
Lord Robertson is an  
Adviser to Cable and 
Wireless Communications 
plc, Special Adviser to BP plc 
and a Senior Counsellor with 
The Cohen Group (USA).  
He was the Secretary of 
State for Defence from 1997 
until 1999 before becoming 
Secretary General of NATO 
from 1999 until 2003. He 
was formerly a Director of 
Smiths Group plc (2004-
2006) and Deputy Chairman 
of Cable & Wireless plc 
(2004-2006) and TNK-BP Ltd 
(2006-2013).
A member of Her Majesty’s 
Privy Council, he is Chairman 
of the Ditchley Foundation and 
of the Commission on Global 
Road Safety. He is honorary 
Professor of Politics at Stirling 
University, an honorary  
Fellow of the Royal Society  
of Edinburgh, an Elder Brother  
of the Corporation of Trinity 
House and is Chancellor  
of the Order of St Michael  
and St George. 
Key external appointments
Non-Executive Chairman  
of Drax Group plc (resigning  
at its AGM in April 2015). 
Non-Executive Chairman  
of Senior plc.
Non-Executive Director  
of Royal Scottish National 
Orchestra Society Ltd.
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director and 
Audit Committee Chairman  
of Johnson Matthey plc.
Non-Executive Director and 
Audit Committee Chairman  
of Croda International plc.
Non-Executive Director  
of Drax Group plc.
Non-Executive Director  
of Mulvaney Capital 
Management Limited.
Member, UK Government 
Advisory Committee on 
Business Appointments.
Advisory Board co-chair, 
George Washington University 
Institute for Corporate 
Responsibility.
Non-Executive Director of  
Allt Dearg Educational Trust.
Non-Executive Director of 
Glasgow Science Centre 
Charitable Trust.
Non-Executive Director of UK 
Offshore Renewable Energy 
Catapult Board.
Non-Executive Director of 
Gold Fields Ltd and Sibanye 
Gold Limited, both South 
African companies listed  
on the Johannesburg Stock 
Exchange and the New York 
Stock Exchange.
Non-Executive Director of 
Rockwell Diamonds Inc., a 
South African company listed 
on both the Johannesburg 
Stock Exchange and the 
Toronto Stock Exchange.
Non-Executive Director of 
DOF Subsea AS in Norway 
and Midstates Petroleum 
Company, Inc. in America. 
None. Non-Executive Director of 
Western Ferries (Clyde) Ltd. 72 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Corporate Governance Report
Corporate  
Governance  
Report
Charles Berry
Chairman
Dear Stakeholder
Achieving excellence in corporate governance remains vitally important to us as a Board, recognising that it is crucial to the overall 
delivery of the Group’s strategy. I have now been Chairman of the Group for over a year, having been a Non-Executive Director for ten 
months before that. I am very proud to set the tone of both the Board and the Company with regards to corporate governance and strive 
to ensure that this is at the highest standard possible. I am supported in this endeavour by the committed individuals forming both the 
Board of Directors and the senior executives of the Company, who establish and maintain business practices and policies that exemplify 
best practice within the Group. 
Within the Our People section of the Sustainability Review above at page 61, we detail the review of our core values undertaken in  
2014. This consultation exercise across the Group confirmed our fundamental drive to do business in an ethical and transparent manner, 
underpinned by core values which include acting with integrity, being accountable and committing to quality in all that we do. As a Board, 
we work hard to deliver consistently in line with these values, demonstrating the behaviours in a manner which inspires our teams across 
the world to do the same. 
UK Corporate Governance Code
As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring that under my leadership the Board operates effectively and in compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the ‘2012 Code’). In accordance with the Listing Rules, the Group is reporting on how it has applied the 
main principles and whether we have complied with the relevant provisions of the 2012 Code. 
I am pleased to report that the Group has complied fully with all the principles of the 2012 Code, for the 52 weeks to 2 January 2015, and 
from that date to the date of approval of this Annual Report, with the exception of one part of a provision which is detailed on page 74.
In September 2014, a revised Code (the ‘2014 Code’) and related Guidance on Risk Management and Internal Controls were issued, and 
these apply to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014. The amendments are welcomed by us as part of a move towards 
further transparency and good reporting for the benefit of all our stakeholders. Key changes include disclosures with regards to longer-
term viability, risk management/internal controls, and also directors’ remuneration. Both the Audit and Remuneration Committees, along 
with the Board, are reviewing current practices with a view to ensuring compliance with the 2014 Code during 2015, which fits with our 
goal of continuous improvement in our governance arrangements. 
Changes to the Board
Board and Committee changes during 2014 and early 2015 were as follows, and will enable fresh perspectives to be brought to different 
aspects of the Group’s governance framework.
 – I was appointed Chairman of the Board and Nomination Committee Chairman on 1 January 2014.
 – Mary Jo Jacobi was appointed Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2014 and to the Remuneration Committee on 21 January 2014. 
 – John Mogford was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 21 January 2014.
 – Sir Jim McDonald was appointed Non-Executive Director and as member of the Audit Committee on 1 January 2015. 
 – Lord Robertson resigned as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 31 January 2015. He therefore also ceased to be Senior 
Independent Director, and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees, on that date. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
73 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
 – Rick Menell was appointed Senior Independent Director on 1 February 2015. He was appointed to the Audit Committee on 21 January 
2014 and ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 1 January 2015.
 – Alan Ferguson was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 1 February 2015. 
We review our composition and have spent time on succession planning to ensure that we continue to evolve as a Board, enabling us to 
further enhance our leadership of the Group. The induction of our new Directors and Committee members remains an important focus, 
and we continue to work hard towards a cohesive approach between the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors, while 
maintaining a robust challenge of matters presented for discussion. 
Board effectiveness
During 2014, the Group submitted an indicative all-share acquisition proposal to the board of Metso Corporation which was subsequently 
rejected. As a result of this proposed transaction, the Board of Directors held five additional meetings, as well as extended communications 
by phone and email. I felt that the composition and time commitments of the various Board members were tested during this time and 
found to be highly effective. I am confident that the Board and its Committees have the experience, skill and commitment to handle 
additional responsibilities as and when they are required, and have an excellent range of talents which will enable us to respond to 
challenges faced by the Group.
The Board of Directors and the Board Committees underwent an external evaluation by Independent Board Review during 2014,  
and the review concluded that the Board was functioning well, with a strong combination of skills and experience being brought by  
both Executive and Non-Executive Directors. It is recognised that the Non-Executive Directors are keen to contribute even more to 
further support the Company’s continued growth, and there are aspects of the meeting cycle and agenda format which we can develop 
to enhance the way we function as a Board. Further details of the Board evaluation are set out below at pages 80 and 81, and the reports 
on the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees are set out on pages 83, 86 and 103 respectively, each reflecting the progress 
which those Committees have made over the course of 2014.
All of our stakeholders are important to us at Weir and contribute greatly to our continued strength as a Group. We will therefore 
endeavour to maintain and enhance our high standards of corporate governance in order to protect your interests, and I welcome  
this opportunity to report in detail on our activities as a Board and our progress during the past year. 
Charles Berry
Chairman
25 February 2015 74 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
The UK Corporate Governance Code
The UK Corporate Governance Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and sets out standards of good practice in relation  
to issues such as board composition and effectiveness, the role of board committees, risk management, remuneration and relations  
with shareholders. Paper and downloadable versions can be obtained from the Financial Reporting Council via its website at frc.org.uk. 
As a listed company, we must detail how we have complied with the Code and provide an explanation of instances where we have not. 
This report, in addition to the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committee reports, details how the Company has applied the main 
principles of the Code. For the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015 and from that date to the date of approval of this Annual Report, except  
in the instance of one part of a provision detailed below, the Board considers that the Company has complied fully with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2012 (the ‘Code’). 
Code provision E.1.1 states that the Senior Independent Director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders  
to listen to their views in order to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders. During 2014, 
Lord Robertson undertook engagement with various stakeholders but he did not attend meetings with a range of major shareholders.  
It is considered that the Company has a robust Investor Relations department who oversee such meetings and that there are sufficient 
processes in place for the issues and concerns of major shareholders to be communicated to all members of the Board such that it is not 
necessary for the Senior Independent Director to attend these meetings. He was of course willing to attend such meetings had the need 
arisen. The Board does not feel that this in any way impeded its good corporate governance and believes that the practice was in compliance 
with the main and supporting principles under section E of the Code regarding dialogue with shareholders. Further details of the Company’s 
relations with its shareholders can be found on page 82.
Leadership
The Board of Directors 
The current Directors of the Company as at the date of this report are as follows:
Table of the Board of Directors
Name Designation Date of Appointment Date of most recent re-election
Charles Berry Chairman 1 March 2013 1 May 2014
Keith Cochrane Chief Executive 3 July 2006 1 May 2014
Alan Ferguson Non-Executive Director 13 December 2011 1 May 2014
Melanie Gee Non-Executive Director 4 May 2011 1 May 2014
Mary Jo Jacobi Non-Executive Director 1 January 2014 1 May 2014
Sir Jim McDonald Non-Executive Director 1 January 2015 –
Rick Menell Non-Executive Director 1 April 2009 1 May 2014
John Mogford Non-Executive Director 1 June 2008 1 May 2014
Jon Stanton Finance Director 19 April 2010 1 May 2014
Biographical information on the Board of Directors, including their relevant experience and significant appointments, can be found  
on pages 70 and 71. Their relevant skills and experiences are further detailed in the Board composition section below.
Sir Jim McDonald was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2015. Lord Robertson resigned as Senior Independent  
Director and as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 31 January 2015. Lord Robertson was succeeded by Rick Menell as Senior 
Independent Director.
The role and responsibilities of the Board
The Board of Directors has a collective duty to promote the long term success of the Company for its shareholders. The Board provides 
leadership of the Company and sets the Group’s strategic aims. It ensures that the necessary resources are in place to achieve the agreed 
strategic priorities and provides guidance to senior management. In determining the long term strategy and objectives of the Group,  
the Board is mindful of its duties and responsibilities not just to shareholders but also to customers, employees and other stakeholders. 
The Board reviews management and financial performance and monitors the delivery of strategy and the achievement of business 
objectives. At all times, it works within a robust framework of internal controls and risk management. The Board both develops and 
promotes the collective vision of the Group’s purpose, culture, values and behaviours.
Board composition
During the period, the Board has comprised two Executive Directors, the Chairman and six Non-Executive Directors. During January 
2015, the number of Non-Executive Directors rose to seven on the appointment of Sir Jim McDonald before returning to six following  
the resignation of Lord Robertson. There is a Company Secretary to the Board. More information on their respective positions and the 
division of their responsibilities is outlined below.
Chairman and Chief Executive
Charles Berry was appointed Chairman of the Board on 1 January 2014. The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for ensuring 
conditions that allow for the effectiveness of individual Directors and the Board as a whole. The Chairman’s additional commitments are 
summarised on page 70 and he will step down as chairman of Drax Group plc at its AGM in April 2015. The independent Board evaluation 
carried out for 2014 confirmed that the Chairman is widely respected for his inclusive and highly professional approach to conducting meetings 
and overseeing the business of the Board generally. His leadership demonstrates the values and behaviours at the core of the Group.
Corporate Governance Report continued Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
75 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
The Chairman, in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, sets the agenda for the Board’s meetings and 
ensures that there is sufficient time available for the discussion of all items, in particular strategic issues, whilst giving the appropriate 
weighting of time to their relative importance.
Keith Cochrane is the Chief Executive and is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Company. He provides leadership to the 
Group to successfully plan and execute the objectives and strategy agreed by the Board. The Chief Executive is supported in his role by 
the Group Executive and various management committees, known as ‘Excellence Committees’.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, with each having clearly defined duties and responsibilities. Following 
Charles Berry’s appointment as Chairman in January 2014, the division of responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive was 
reviewed and adopted by the Board in February 2014.
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors contribute independent challenge and rigour to the Board’s deliberations and assist in the development  
of the Company’s strategy. In addition, they are responsible for monitoring the performance of the Executive Directors against agreed 
goals and objectives. Their views are essential in overseeing the performance of the Company and ensuring the integrity of the financial 
information, controls and risk management processes. In order to carry out these functions appropriately, the Non-Executive Directors 
meet regularly with senior management and make periodic site visits. Senior managers are also regularly invited to Board meetings to 
make business presentations to the Board. As encouraged by the Code, the Non-Executive Directors (including the Chairman) also met 
during the year (in February 2014) without Executive Directors present.
Senior Independent Director
Rick Menell is the Senior Independent Director of the Company. He replaced Lord Robertson, who had held the role during 2014, 
following his resignation from the Board with effect from 31 January 2015. The Senior Independent Director works alongside the 
Chairman and is available to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors if necessary. He is also available to shareholders if direct 
contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive or other Executive Directors has failed to resolve the concerns of shareholders or for which 
such contact is inappropriate. As Senior Independent Director, he also leads the annual review of the performance of the Chairman.
Company Secretary
Keith Ruddock was appointed as Company Secretary in May 2012. He is secretary to the Board of Directors and to all of the Board 
Committees. He is also Group General Counsel and a member of the Group Executive and his biography is set out on page 69. 
The Company Secretary advises the Board on any changes in legislation, governance codes or regulatory requirements. He reports to  
the Chairman on corporate governance matters and oversees, in parallel with the Chairman, the governance procedures of the Board.  
The Company Secretary has a responsibility to ensure that these Board procedures are adhered to and periodically reviews them with 
regards to best practice. The Company Secretary’s additional responsibilities include ensuring good information flows within the Board 
and its Committees and between senior management and Non-Executive Directors, as well as facilitating induction and assisting with 
professional development.
Board meetings
The Board’s scheduled meetings are held in person or by telepresence videoconferencing. During 2014, there were eight scheduled 
meetings. Five additional meetings were also held in relation to proposals made to Metso Corporation. In October 2014, the Board 
meeting was held in Dubai. This was part of a Board visit to view both the old and new facilities of the Company’s operations in Dubai. 
More information on this can be found on page 80. In addition to the formal Board meetings, the Board maintains an open dialogue 
throughout the year and contact by telephone occurs whenever necessary.
The table below details the attendance at Board meetings of each of the Directors during their term of office for the 52 weeks to  
2 January 2015. 
Name Attendance
Charles Berry 13 of 13
Keith Cochrane 13 of 13
Alan Ferguson 13 of 13
Melanie Gee 13 of 13
Mary Jo Jacobi 13 of 13
Rick Menell 12 of 13
1
John Mogford 13 of 13
Lord Robertson 13 of 13
Jon Stanton 13 of 13
1. Rick Menell was unable to attend one of the Board meetings convened at short notice in connection with the Company’s approach to Metso Corporation, as he was travelling  
on a flight at the relevant time.
There were no Board meetings held between the date of Sir Jim McDonald’s appointment to the Board on 1 January 2015 and  
2 January 2015. 76 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Strategy
Setting strategy 
targets.
Reviewing 
potential mergers 
and acquisitions.
Products and 
technology.
Risk
Risk Appetite 
Statement.
Group’s risk and 
internal control 
framework.
Crisis 
management.
Governance
Legal updates and 
new disclosure 
requirements.
External Board 
review.
Succession 
planning.
Finance
Oversight of the 
preparation and 
management of 
the financial 
statements.
Dividend policy.
Pensions.
Stakeholder 
engagement 
AGM and other 
shareholder 
feedback.
Investor calls, 
meetings and 
roadshows.
Oversight of 
remuneration 
consultation 
process.
Safety 
EHS Standards  
and Management 
System.
EHS Audit  
System.
Board
Group Executive
Board and Group Executive meeting locations for 2009-2014
Corporate Governance Report continued
Leadership (continued)
Board meetings (continued)
During the year, the Chairman, supported by the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, continued the practice of maintaining a rolling 
12 month agenda for Board and Committee meetings. At each meeting, the Board receives reports from the Chief Executive and other 
members of the Group Executive, including information on safety, strategy, human resources, finance and legal. The Board also receives 
periodic updates from the Committee Chairmen, who in particular report to the Board on Committee meetings. Other standing items 
include reviewing the risk register and internal controls, strategy and succession planning. 
The Board’s time during 2014 can be grouped into six key areas as outlined below. A portion of their time is also spent on  
administrative matters. 
Board activities during 2014
The Board receives presentations by members of the Weir Group senior management team and external advisors as required.
The annual timetable is discussed in May of the preceding year and circulated as soon as it is finalised, which ensures that the Chairman 
can be comfortable that each Director is able to devote the time and resources required to act as a Director during that period. The system 
for establishing agenda items means both the Chairman and the Board have the confidence that all required items are included at the most 
appropriate time of the year and there is sufficient time allocated for discussion by the Board, allowing the Directors to discharge their 
duties effectively. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
77 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee
General Administration 
Committee
Group Executive Committee
Risk 
Committee
Board and committee structure
Board 
Committees
Engineering 
Excellence 
Committee
Finance 
Excellence 
Committee
EHS  
Excellence 
Committee
IT Excellence 
Committee
HR Excellence 
Committee
Value Chain 
Excellence 
Committee
Chief Executive
Board of Directors
Management 
Committees
Matters Reserved for Approval by the Board
The Board recognises that to ensure the long term success of the Company, certain specific matters should be reserved for the consideration and 
decision of the Board alone. Other matters may be delegated by the Board to its committees or executive management. Decisions specifically 
reserved for approval by the Board are formally recorded in a document entitled Matters Reserved for Approval by the Board, and include: 
 – annual and interim accounts and financial statements;
 – dividend policy;
 – Board appointments;
 – Group strategy and the annual operating budget;
 – changes relating to the Group’s capital structure;
 – changes to the Group’s management and control structure;
 – major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals;
 – treasury policies;
 – risk management strategy;
 – Group corporate governance policy; and
 – environmental, health and safety and sustainability policies.
The matters reserved for approval by the Board are reviewed by the Board on an annual basis to ensure they remain appropriate and adhered to.
Board committees 
The Board has established a number of committees to assist in the discharge of its responsibilities. The principal committees are the 
Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee. The responsibilities of these Board committees are set 
out in the individual Terms of Reference of each committee, which are available on the Company’s website. The roles and responsibilities 
of the committees, along with the activities undertaken during the period, are outlined in each of their respective reports found on pages 
83 to 108. The Company Secretary acted as secretary to the committees in 2014. In 2015, the Deputy General Counsel will act as 
secretary to the Audit Committee.
Only committee members are entitled to attend meetings. However, other Directors may attend at any time, while professional advisors 
and members of the senior management team may attend when invited to do so.
When the need arises, separate ad hoc committees may be set up by the Board to consider specific issues.
General Administration Committee
The General Administration Committee is a sub-committee of the Board which comprises any two Directors of the Company, at least  
one of whom must be an Executive Director. The Committee is responsible to the Board as a whole and meets as required. The principal 
duties of the Committee include attending to administrative and procedural matters in relation to existing bank and finance facilities and 
the issue and allotment of shares under Group share plans. It also attends to other matters of a routine manner relating to the Company’s 
share capital, including the administration of unclaimed dividends and the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan. The Committee has 
written Terms of Reference which are periodically reviewed to ensure their continuing appropriateness. Minutes of meetings of the 
General Administration Committee are made available to all Directors. 78 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Corporate Governance Report continued
Leadership (continued)
Group Executive
The Group Executive comprises the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, the three 
Divisional Managing Directors, the Director of Operations, Support & Development, the Director of Strategy & Corporate Affairs and the 
Director of Human Resources. Biographical details of the members of the Group Executive can be found on page 69. The Group Executive 
is chaired by the Chief Executive, Keith Cochrane.
In the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015, the Group Executive met 12 times. The Group Executive is responsible for ensuring that each  
of the Group’s businesses is managed effectively and that the key performance indicators of the Group, as approved by the Board, are 
achieved. The Group Executive’s role includes the preparation of the Group budget for approval by the Board, management of business 
performance to achieve the Group budget, establishing and maintaining reporting systems which provide clear and consistent information 
on all aspects of business performance, managing and minimising corporate risk, and ensuring that the necessary mechanisms are in 
place to achieve effective inter-divisional coordination in areas such as purchasing, branding and career development planning. It also 
approves major items of capital expenditure within limits authorised by the Board.
Management committees
In addition to the committees detailed above at page 77, there exist several management committees, known as Excellence Committees. 
These have been created to deal with specific areas and under their clearly defined remits they work across the Group promoting best 
practice and information sharing. In 2014, the Manufacturing Excellence Committee (a sub-committee of the Value Chain Excellence 
Committee) evolved into the Lean Enterprise Excellence Committee. This reflects the recognition and need to apply a lean philosophy 
throughout the value chain following the success of deploying the lean based Weir Production System to the factories throughout the Group.
The Executive Directors and members of the Group Executive are able to delegate their responsibilities to these committees and utilise 
the areas of expertise contained within them. The Excellence Committees report to the Group Executive and to the Board as required. 
The composition of the various committees along with their accompanying terms of reference, the matters reserved for approval by the 
Board, and delegated authority matrices combine to create a clear authority matrix across the Group for timely and effective decision-
making. This structure provides the Board with confidence that the appropriate decisions are being taken at the appropriate levels,  
and information flows both up and down reporting lines.
Effectiveness
Board skills and attributes
Skills and experience
Independence
Banking  
& finance Governance International Leadership Engineering Mining Oil and gas Power
Charles Berry
1
x x x x x
Keith Cochrane x x x
Alan Ferguson x x x x x
Melanie Gee x x x x
Mary Jo Jacobi x x x x x
Sir Jim McDonald x x x x x
Rick Menell x x x x
John Mogford x x x
Lord Robertson x x x x
Jon Stanton x x
     
Note
1. Charles Berry was considered independent on his appointment as Chairman in January 2014.
The Board considers that it has the right combination of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to be useful and effective  
in meeting the needs of the business. More than half of the Board are independent Non-Executive Directors. All the Non-Executive 
Directors are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement. 
This combination of individuals and skills ensures that the Board is sufficiently balanced such that no individual or group of individuals  
can dominate decision-making and allows for an effective division of responsibilities within the Board and its committees. The positions 
of Chairman and Chief Executive are held separately. Each Director devotes sufficient time and attention as is necessary in order to 
perform their duties.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with the appropriate information to enable it to discharge its duties and any further back-up 
papers and information are readily available to all Directors on request to the Company Secretary. The Chairman ensures that  
Non-Executive Directors are properly briefed on any issues arising at Board meetings and Non-Executive Directors have access  
to the Chairman at any time. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
79 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Appointment and tenure
Name
Length of tenure at 2 January 2015 Date of  
next election  
or re-election 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 6 years 7 years 8 years 9 years 10 years 11 years
Charles Berry 29 April 2015
Keith Cochrane 29 April 2015
Alan Ferguson 29 April 2015
Melanie Gee 29 April 2015
Mary Jo Jacobi 29 April 2015
Sir Jim McDonald 29 April 2015
Rick Menell 29 April 2015
John Mogford 29 April 2015
Lord Robertson –
Jon Stanton 29 April 2015
The Executive Directors have contracts of service with one year’s notice, whilst Non-Executive Directors’ appointments can be terminated 
at any time with six months’ notice. The letters of appointment of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, which are available for 
inspection at the Company’s registered office, set out the required commitment to the Company. Further details can also be found in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and good practice, Sir Jim McDonald will resign and offer himself for election  
at the Company’s AGM on 29 April 2015. All other Directors on the Board at 2 January 2015, with the exception of Lord Robertson who 
resigned on 31 January 2015, will seek re-election at the Company’s AGM in compliance with the Code.
Induction and ongoing training
When a new Director joins the Company, he or she is provided with information on the Group’s structure, operations, policies and other 
relevant documentation. New Directors are able to attend the Group’s senior management induction programme which provides an 
insight into the Group’s key processes and controls and includes presentations from the heads of departments located at the Group’s 
Head Office in Glasgow. Following her appointment as a Non-Executive Director in January 2014, Mary Jo Jacobi attended such an 
induction in April 2014. The induction process for Sir Jim McDonald has included introductory meetings with senior executives in the 
Company and planned visits to the Company’s facilities in Todmorden in the UK and Fort Worth in the USA, in addition to a formal  
briefing on legal and governance matters from the Company Secretary.
Directors are informed of relevant material changes to laws and regulations affecting the Group’s business and their duties as Directors. 
The Company Secretary advises the Board on governance matters and is available to all Directors for advice as required. In addition,  
the Board meets once a year or more at one of the Group’s operational sites, which includes presentations from key senior employees 
and the opportunity to meet employees across the global operations. 
The Chairman regularly reviews and agrees with each Director their training and development needs, and additional induction and training 
is also available to new committee members as required.
During 2014, the Board received its annual training on competition law at the December Board meeting, which was provided by outside 
counsel, to coincide with the roll out of the Group’s new Competition Law Manual.
Directors and their other interests
Under the Companies Act 2006, a director of a company must avoid a situation in which he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect 
interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the company. The Company has a formal procedure in place to manage 
the disclosure, consideration and, if appropriate, the authorisation of any such possible conflict. Each Director is aware of the requirement 
to notify the Board, via the Company Secretary, as soon as they become aware of any possible future conflict or a material change to an 
existing authorisation. Upon receipt of any such notification, the Board, in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, will 
consider the situation before deciding whether to approve the perceived conflict. At the outset of every Board meeting, the Chairman also 
checks that no new conflicts have arisen. Only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant 
decision and Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate. The Director in 
question will then be notified of the outcome. Overall, the Board is satisfied that there are appropriate procedures in place to deal with 
conflicts of interest and that they have operated effectively.
None of the Non-Executive Directors has any material business or other relationship with the Company or its management. Although  
Sir Jim McDonald is the Principal and Vice Chancellor of the University of Strathclyde, he has no direct involvement on a day-to-day  
basis in relation to the Weir Advanced Research Centre (‘WARC’) which is operated in conjunction with the University of Strathclyde.  
In particular, he will offer to recuse himself from any discussions in relation to the relationship between the Group and the University  
of Strathclyde, whether in relation to WARC or otherwise.
Details of the Directors’ service contracts, emoluments, the interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company and options  
to subscribe for shares in the Company are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 80 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Corporate Governance Report continued
Effectiveness (continued)
Board evaluation
Following the internal effectiveness review undertaken in 2013, the Company Secretary implemented a number of logistical suggestions 
from Directors in relation to the way in which Board and Committee papers were distributed and to enable the Board to receive market 
and media information on a more regular basis. In addition, specific comments received on aspects of the operation of the Nomination 
and Audit Committees were addressed during the course of the year.
An external review of the Board and its Committees in 2014 was undertaken by Independent Board Review, a division of Independent 
Audit Limited. The most recent independent review was carried out by other external consultants in 2011, and Independent Audit Limited 
had undertaken the previous review of Board effectiveness in 2010. Otherwise, Independent Audit Limited has no connections with  
the Company. 
Board site  
visit to Dubai 
In October 2014, the Board of Directors visited  
Weir’s Oil & Gas Services facilities in Dubai. 
The Middle East was chosen for the  
visit because it is one of the fastest 
growing areas of the Group’s business  
and a key region for the success of the  
Oil & Gas Division. 
Given the complexities of the Middle  
East, it was felt important for the Board to 
gain direct experience of the environment,  
and in particular to hear directly from local 
customers and other stakeholders about 
the opportunities, issues and challenges 
of operating in the region. 
A reflection of the Group’s success in the 
Middle East is the construction of a brand 
new facility and regional head office in Dubai. 
The Group has been active in the region for 
many years, and throughout its presence 
there has recognised that establishing  
strong relationships with local partners has 
made a key contribution to its success.
The current facility which was visited by 
the Board has been in use since 1982. 
Due to the expanding requirements of  
the business, it was determined in 2013 
that a new, purpose built facility should be 
created. The Board also visited this newly 
constructed facility and Charles Berry 
formally opened the site in the presence 
of WESCO Abu Dhabi joint venture 
partner, Mr Faraj Ali Bin Hamoodah,  
Mr Samir Al Gharbi, Ms Salma Hareby, 
CEO of Jebel Ali Free Zone (‘Jafza’),  
and Mr Ibrahim Al Janahi, Deputy CEO 
and COO of Jafza. The Board undertook  
a tour of the new facility, which is due  
to become fully operational in 2015.
Following the tour, Vikas Handa, the 
Managing Director of Weir Oil & Gas 
Services Middle East, presented an 
overview on strategy for the Oil & Gas 
Division in the Europe, Middle East 
and Africa (EMEA) region. In addition,  
Paul Coppinger, now Oil & Gas  
Divisional Managing Director, provided  
a presentation on the pressure pumping 
business in the Asia Pacific and EMEA 
regions. The scheduled Board meeting 
was held later on that day in the new 
facility, which included an Oil & Gas 
Division strategy review. 
The following day, the Board received a 
presentation on the region from a senior 
representative of Shell in Iraq, and then 
met with the joint venture partner for its 
Saudi Arabian business. In both cases,  
the presenters provided invaluable insights 
into the current political, security and 
economic environment in the region, 
which was extremely helpful to the Board. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
81 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Independent Board Review’s work consisted of a review of the Board papers, confidential interviews with all Directors, along with 
selected executives and advisors who have significant interaction with the Board and its Committees. The evaluation considered the 
balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Board, its diversity, including gender, how the Board works together  
as a unit, and other factors relevant to its effectiveness. The review outcomes were discussed fully with the Chairman and subsequently 
with the Board at its January 2015 meeting, with all Directors receiving a copy of the full report. The Board considered Independent 
Board Review’s findings and their suggestions for improvement, and agreed an action plan to consider and, if agreed, implement these 
proposed improvements. The Board considers the review to have been rigorous and fully independent. As is customary, Rick Menell,  
as the new Senior Independent Director, oversaw the review of the Chairman. 
Overall, the review concluded that the Board was functioning well, with a strong combination of skills and experience being brought by 
both Executive and Non-Executive Directors. The report highlighted in particular a desire on the part of the Non-Executive Directors to 
seek ways in which they can contribute even more to further support the Company’s continued growth. The main aspects of the Board’s 
work which offer scope for further development include reviewing the current meeting cycle and agenda format, in particular with a view 
potentially to increasing the time spent by the Board on considering wider ranging strategic matters and the balance between monitoring 
financial outcomes and strategic KPIs. 
The review also covered the operations of the Board Committees and, while concluding that they were each operating satisfactorily,  
also made recommendations for their further improvement which the respective Committees are considering. In part, the findings of  
the review in relation to the satisfactory operation of the Nomination and Audit Committees reflected improvements implemented in  
the course of 2014 in response to areas for further improvement identified in the 2013 Board review. Further details of the evaluation  
of the Board Committees are set out below in their respective reports.
Accountability
The Audit Committee and auditors
Details on the roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee, and its members can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 
85 to 90. Information on the Company’s external auditors is also contained within this section.
Internal control and risk management
In accordance with Internal Control: Guidance to Directors (formerly known as the Turnbull Guidance), the Group has an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks through an internal control framework. This process has been in place throughout 
2014, and the process for 2015 has been considered in light of the requirements of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code and the 
accompanying Guidance on Risk Management and Internal Controls. The Board conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Group’s 
systems of internal control and risk management during 2014 and more information can be found on risk management on pages 24 to 31.
Our internal control framework has four key layers:
Functional and front line controls
Monitoring and oversight controls
Assurance activities
Ethical and cultural environment
Risks
 – Functional and front line controls
This includes a wide spectrum of controls as seen in most organisations, including, for example, standard operating procedures and 
policies; a comprehensive financial planning and reporting system, including quarterly forecasting; regular performance appraisals and 
training for employees; restricted access to financial systems and data; delegated authority matrices for review and approval of key 
transactions; protective clothing and equipment to protect our people from harm; IT and data security controls; business continuity 
planning; and assessment procedures for potential new recruits.
 – Monitoring and oversight controls
There is a clearly defined organisational structure within which roles and responsibilities are articulated. There are monitoring controls  
at operating company, regional, divisional and Group level, including standard key performance indicators, with action plans to address 
underperforming areas.
A compliance scorecard self-assessment is completed and reported by all operating companies twice per annum. The scorecard 
assesses compliance with Group policies and procedures.
Financial monitoring includes comparing actual results with the forecast and prior year position on a monthly and year-to-date basis. 
Significant variances are highlighted to Directors on a timely basis, allowing appropriate action to be taken. 82 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Corporate Governance Report continued
Accountability (continued)
Internal control and risk management (continued)
 – Assurance activities
We obtain a wide range of assurance to provide comfort to management and the Board that our controls are providing adequate 
protection from risk and are operating as we would expect. Following the Board and Committee structure set out on page 77, various 
internal and external sources of assurance report to the Board and management. These are principally external audit, internal audit,  
EHS audits, intellectual property audits, engineering audits, procurement audits, IT audits, and production system lean audits. The legal 
function introduced a legal audit programme in 2014.
The various audit teams plan their activities on a risk basis, ensuring resources are directed at the areas of greatest need. Issues and 
recommendations to enhance controls are reported to management to ensure timely action can be taken, with oversight provided from 
the relevant governance committees, including the Audit Committee and the Excellence Committees.
 – Ethical and cultural environment
We are committed to doing business at all times in an ethical and transparent manner. This is supported by the Weir values which are the 
core behaviours we expect our people to live by in their working lives. The Weir Code of Conduct, updated and reissued during the year, 
also contributes to our culture, providing a high benchmark by which we expect our business to be conducted. Any examples of unethical 
behaviour are dealt with robustly and promptly. The Ethics section within the Sustainability Review on page 66 provides more details on 
the Group’s activities to promote ethical behaviour.
The Group’s internal control procedures described on page 89 of the Audit Committee Report do not cover joint venture interests. We have 
Board representation on each of our joint venture companies where separate, albeit similar, internal control frameworks have been adopted.
Remuneration
Details of the Company’s Remuneration Committee, including its roles, responsibilities and members are contained within the Remuneration 
Report on pages 91 to 108. The Remuneration Report also details the Company’s approved remuneration policy table and the remuneration 
received by Directors in 2014.
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of establishing and maintaining good relationships with all of the Company’s shareholders.  
The Company’s investor relations programme includes formal presentations of full year and interim results and meetings with individual 
investors. Through this programme, the Company has directly engaged with 478 investors in 2014 either face-to-face or via telephone or 
video-conferencing. Other areas where the Company engages with shareholders include attendance at investor conferences held by the 
financial community and roadshows and Investor Relations events held by the Company, of which there were 23 during the year held in 
Canada, Denmark, Finland, Germany, The Netherlands, Sweden, the UK, Singapore and the USA.
The Company holds an annual capital markets day, which in 2014 was held in London in June. This event allows shareholders to meet the 
broader management team and to gain a more in-depth understanding of one business or one aspect of the business. The capital markets 
day this year focused on progress in our Power & Industrial Division and initiatives relating to procurement and supplier development.
During the period under review, the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Chairman and Remuneration Committee Chairman have met with 
analysts and institutional shareholders to keep them informed of significant developments and report to the Board accordingly on the 
views of these stakeholders. Each of the other Non-Executive Directors is also offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major 
shareholders and would do so if requested by any major shareholder.
Our brokers and public relation advisors undertake investor roadshow feedback which is shared with the Board, and the Group appointed 
Goldman Sachs International in September 2014 as its joint brokers, alongside UBS. The Company Secretary is also charged with bringing 
to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Company’s shareholders.
The primary means of communicating with the Company’s shareholders are the Weir Group’s Annual Report and Financial Statements 
and the Interim Report. Both are available on the Company’s website and the Annual Report is posted out to all shareholders who elect  
to receive it. Copies are available upon request to the Company Secretary.
The Board recognises the importance of the internet as a means of communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively and a Group 
website is maintained to facilitate communications with shareholders. As well as the Interim and Annual Report, the website contains 
information on the business of the Company and corporate governance, all Group press releases and Company news, key dates in the 
financial calendar and other important shareholder information. The terms of reference for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees can also be found on the website.
The Board is committed to the constructive use of the Annual General Meeting as a forum to meet with shareholders and to hear  
their views and answer their questions about the Group and its business. The 2015 AGM is to be held on Wednesday 29 April 2015  
at the Radisson Blu Hotel in Glasgow. Together with the rest of the Board, the Chairmen of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit 
Committees will be available to answer questions relevant to the work of the Board and the Committees. It is the Company’s practice  
to propose separate resolutions on each substantive issue at the AGM. Details on proxy voting will be contained in the proxy form and 
the Notice of Meeting sent to shareholders and the Chairman will also advise shareholders at the meeting. Electronic proxy voting is 
available and details of this are also included in the Notice of Meeting. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
83 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Nomination Committee Report
Nomination Committee 
Report
Charles Berry
Chairman of the  
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee consists of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and two Non-Executive Directors. John Mogford joined the 
Committee at the start of 2014, and Lord Robertson retired from the Committee on 31 January 2015. The Committee is chaired by 
Charles Berry. Senior members of management and advisors are invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
There were three scheduled meetings and two additional meetings held during the year. Details of the attendance of the members  
of the Committee for the 52 weeks to 2 January 2015 are contained in the table above.
The Chairman does not chair the meeting when the matters under consideration relate to him or his position. Similarly, should a matter 
under discussion relate to any of the other Committee members, they would excuse themselves from the meeting. 
Committee’s role
The Committee has responsibility for considering the size, structure and composition of the Board of the Company, for reviewing  
senior management succession plans, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors and making appropriate 
recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board. The terms of reference of the 
Committee are available on the Company’s website.
The Committee was evaluated as part of the 2014 Board evaluation process, conducted externally by Independent Board Review.  
In particular, the process around Sir Jim McDonald’s appointment was highlighted as being smoothly handled, as well as the continued 
progress towards enhanced transparency of decision-making.
Current members
Charles Berry (Chairman)
Keith Cochrane
Rick Menell 
John Mogford
1
Name Attendance
Charles Berry 5 of 5 
Keith Cochrane 5 of 5 
Rick Menell 5 of 5 
John Mogford 4 of 4 
Lord Robertson
2
5 of 5
Notes
1. John Mogford was appointed to the Committee on 21 January 2014.
2. Lord Robertson retired from the Committee on 31 January 2015. 84 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Independence
The Nomination Committee reviewed and confirmed the independence of all Non-Executive Directors and in particular Lord Robertson 
who, before his retirement in January 2015, had been a Non-Executive Director of the Company for a period of 11 years. In accordance 
with the Code, a rigorous review was undertaken which examined his continued contribution to the Board and its Committees and his 
external interests and roles. It was concluded that the Board still considered all of its Non-Executive Directors, including Lord Robertson 
prior to his retirement, to be independent in character and judgement. The continued service as directors for both Rick Menell and John 
Mogford was specifically reviewed, in light of their respective lengths of service, as noted above at page 79. 
Processes are in place to identify any business relationships held by Non-Executive Directors or additional directorships or significant links 
with other directors through involvement in other companies or bodies which may be of relevance in determining the independence of a 
Non-Executive Director. The Nomination Committee is satisfied that all Non-Executive Directors continue to be independent in character and 
judgement and that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors’ judgement.
Board appointments
The Committee has established a process for Board appointments that it considers to be formal, rigorous and transparent and involves 
the use of external executive recruitment agencies. This process includes drawing up a description of the role and capabilities required for 
the particular appointment, together with a review of the skills, knowledge and experience of the existing Directors. The existing balance 
of the Board and the time commitment required are also taken into consideration when assessing candidates.
A formal search process was undertaken in 2014 to recruit a new Non-Executive Director to succeed Lord Robertson. The Company 
engaged an external search consultancy, The Inzito Partnership, to identify a successor. The Inzito Partnership has no other connection 
with the Company. A sub-committee was formed to produce a short list of candidates from the long list produced by the Inzito Partnership 
and the Committee recommended the appointment of Sir Jim McDonald to the Board. 
Succession planning
The Committee continued to give significant meeting time and focus to senior executive succession planning, identifying the talent pool 
for potential candidates and succession planning within the Group. During the year, the Director of Human Resources presented a review 
of senior executive succession planning, containing details of ongoing or proposed talent development, the methods for identifying and 
cultivating potential internal candidates, and the balance of internal and external recruiting for the most senior positions. Attention and 
consideration was given in 2014 to developing a longer-term succession pool and establishing development roles to provide additional 
experience and opportunities for high-potential talent. The Committee also spends time on succession planning for the various Board 
level roles.
Boardroom diversity
The considerations to be taken into account in each appointment to the Board are stipulated in the terms of reference of the Nomination 
Committee which are available on the Company’s website. Specifically, the Nomination Committee must ‘consider candidates on merit and 
against objective criteria, and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender’ in identifying and recommending 
candidates. The Nomination Committee recommends appointments to the Board based on the existing balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board, on the merits and capabilities of the nominee and on the time they are able to devote to the role in order to 
promote the success of the Company. 
The Board acknowledges the benefits a diverse pool of talent can bring to a boardroom. Among other things, a diverse board encompasses 
diversity of experience, social background, education and training, life skills and personal attributes, as well as differences in age, nationality, 
race and gender. The Board approved a policy with respect to Board diversity at its meeting in January 2014 and the Nomination Committee 
has operated under and reported against this policy from this date. 
The recent focus on Board diversity has centred on gender and the Board aspires to maintain a significant level of female representation on 
the Board. At the end of the financial year, two of the ten Board members of the Company were female (20%). Following the resignation of 
Lord Robertson at the end of January 2015, this percentage increased to 22%. The Board will continue to consider its policy with respect to 
Board diversity on future appointments but will not place a higher regard for one form of diversity over any other. The appropriate composition 
of the Board as a whole with regard to the size and activity of the Company will be taken into account at all times.
Charles Berry
On behalf of the Nomination Committee
25 February 2015
Nomination Committee Report continued Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
85 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Report of the Audit Committee
Report of the  
Audit Committee
Alan Ferguson
Chairman of the  
Audit Committee
Introduction
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present our report to shareholders in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the ‘Code’). Through this report, I hope we will demonstrate our commitment, as an Audit Committee, to our responsibilities under 
the Code and how we have discharged them effectively during the year. The revised Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 
September 2014, effective for accounting periods starting on or after 1 October 2014, will be reflected in next year’s report. 
Key objective
Our key objective is to provide effective governance over the appropriateness of the Group’s financial reporting. We do this by focusing 
on, amongst other things:
 – the adequacy of accounting policies, practices and disclosures;
 – the performance of both the internal audit function and the external auditor; and
 – oversight of the Group’s systems of internal control, framework for identification and management of business risks and related 
compliance activities. 
Membership
I chair the Committee with the current members being Melanie Gee, John Mogford and Sir Jim McDonald, all of whom are independent 
Non-Executive Directors. Rick Menell was appointed to the Committee on 21 January 2014 and resigned from the Committee on 1 January 
2015. Jim was appointed to the Committee coincident with his appointment to the Board on 1 January 2015. Both Melanie and John have 
been members of the Committee for the full year and to the date of this report.
Each of the Committee members has, through their other business activities, significant experience in financial matters and has been 
selected with the aim of providing the wide range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil our responsibilities. Summary 
biographies have been presented on pages 70 and 71.
Responsibilities
As a Committee, we are responsible for:
 – reviewing the announcements of the Group’s financial results, including the Interim Report and Annual Report and Financial 
Statements, and monitoring compliance with relevant statutory and Listing Rules requirements;
 – reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policies and practices, including critical accounting policies 
and those judgements and estimates with the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements;
 – advising the Board on whether the Committee believes that the processes underlying the compilation of the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements are robust and supportive of the assertion reached by the Board that the document, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy;
 – overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, covering their appointment, audit quality and effectiveness, independence and fees;
 – reviewing and approving the remit of the Internal Audit function, ensuring its independence and that there are the necessary resources 
and access to information available in order for it to fulfil its mandate; 
 – reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s systems for financial control, financial reporting and risk management, incorporating a 
review of reports on any significant frauds, misappropriation of assets or unethical behaviour; 86 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Responsibilities (continued)
 – oversight of the Anti-Bribery & Corruption (AB&C) programme and providing input to the Board on ethics compliance; and
 – reviewing treasury policy including foreign exchange exposure.
The terms of reference can be found on the Group’s website, weir.co.uk.
Committee evaluation
The Committee was evaluated as part of the 2014 Board evaluation process, conducted externally by Independent Board Review.  
It concluded that the performance of the Committee has continued to improve over recent years, with good levels of challenge on  
key issues, persistence and a comprehensive annual agenda. The Committee receives well-presented papers and good reports from 
management and internal audit. However, there are always areas where improvements can be made, for example risk assurance will  
be an area of focus in 2015; we can do more here and the revised Code places more responsibilities on boards and audit committees  
in this regard.
Meetings
We met four times during the period. Each Committee meeting takes place prior to a Board meeting, during which I provide a report  
on our activities. 
There is at least one meeting each year when we meet with each of the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors separately, 
without any executive management present. This provides us with the opportunity for any issues of concern to be raised by, or with,  
the auditors.
We have the ability to call on Group employees to assist in our work and to obtain any information required from Executive Directors  
in order to carry out our roles and duties. We are also able to obtain outside legal or independent professional advice if required. 
The table below details the Board members and members of senior management who were invited to attend meetings as appropriate 
during the calendar year. In addition, Ernst & Young LLP (EY) attended the meetings as auditors to the Group by invitation.
Audit Committee attendees
Charles Berry Chairman Attends by invitation
Keith Cochrane Chief Executive Attends by invitation
Jon Stanton Finance Director Attends by invitation
Keith Ruddock Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Attends as secretary to the Committee
Christopher Morgan Deputy General Counsel Attends as nominee of Keith Ruddock (from 18/2/15)
Lindsay Dixon Group Financial Controller Attends by invitation
Sarah Caldwell Head of Internal Audit (to 10/2/14) Attended by invitation
Brian Gibson Head of Internal Audit (from 10/2/14) Attends by invitation
The Committee members’ attendance at the meetings held during the calendar year is summarised in the table below.
Current members Name Attendance
Alan Ferguson (Chairman) Alan Ferguson 4 of 4
Melanie Gee Melanie Gee 4 of 4
John Mogford John Mogford 4 of 4
Sir Jim McDonald
1
Rick Menell 4 of 4
Note
1. Sir Jim McDonald joined the Committee on 1 January 2015 and has attended both meetings held since that date.
Between the end of the calendar year and the date of this report, there were two meetings of the Audit Committee, both of which were 
attended by all members of the Committee during that period.
Main activities 
Over the course of the period since the last Annual Report, our work was focused in the following areas:
(i) financial reporting;
(ii) internal control and risk management; 
(iii) internal audit; and
(iv) external audit.
Report of the Audit Committee continued Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
87 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
The following sections provide more detail on our specific items of focus under each of these headings, explaining the work we,  
as a Committee, have undertaken and the results of that work.
(i) Financial reporting
Our principal responsibility in this area is the review and challenge, where necessary, of the actions and judgements of management  
in relation to the half year and annual financial statements before submission to the Board, paying particular attention to:
 – critical accounting policies and practices, and any changes therein;
 – decisions requiring judgements and estimates with the most significant effect or where there has been discussion with the  
external auditor;
 – the existence of any adjustments resulting from the audit;
 – the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with accounting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements; and
 – the processes surrounding the compilation of the annual report and financial statements with regard to fair, balanced and understandable.
We received formal reports from the Finance Director and the external auditor, summarising the main discussion points for both the half 
year and full year reporting and explored these in detail at our meetings in January, February and July.
The significant financial reporting issues discussed in the current year are summarised below.
Current period matters
(1) Accounting for the acquisition of Trio Engineered Products (‘Trio’) – note 13
The specific items we have discussed and reviewed with management and the external auditors, EY, in relation to the £146m acquisition of 
Trio were: (a) the Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) exercise to attribute provisional fair values to separately identifiable intangible assets and 
the related accounting for deferred tax; (b) the assessment of provisional acquisition fair values of other assets and liabilities, specifically 
property, plant & equipment, inventory and provisions; and (c) compliance of the disclosures in the financial statements with IFRS 3, 
‘Business Combinations’.
Management engaged with an independent external advisor to complete the PPA exercise and reported a summary of the underpinning 
assumptions and related results to us. We reviewed that summary and also compared the assumptions used to those for other recent 
acquisitions where appropriate. The accounting for deferred tax has included technical input from the Group Head of Tax. We examined 
the nature and extent of provisional fair value adjustments to other assets and liabilities noting a rigorous process was being undertaken 
and would be finalised, as required by IFRS 3, in 2015. Finally, we challenged management on the completeness of the related 
disclosures and satisfied ourselves that they were complete, accurate, understandable and compliant with IFRS 3.
(2) Exceptional items – Group-wide efficiency review – note 5
The Group announced in November 2014 that it had undertaken a Group-wide review in the third quarter to identify opportunities to 
reduce costs, increase customer responsiveness and efficiency while aligning resources globally to capture end market opportunities. 
This programme was extended towards the end of the fourth quarter in response to the very significant decline in the oil price. The 
financial impact of the initiatives underpinning the programme is a cost in 2014 of £49m, which has been reported as exceptional on  
the face of the Income Statement. This figure comprises asset impairments of £19m and reorganisation costs (which have or will result  
in a cash out flow for the Group) of £30m. Further detail in relation to the initiatives is provided in the Financial Review on page 46. 
As well as being party to discussions at Board level on this subject, the Audit Committee has received detailed reporting from the Finance 
Director covering the following aspects: (i) costs by initiative, by division; (ii) accounting treatment adopted in relation to recognition of 
provisions and impairments; and (iii) disclosure of the amounts and related narrative reporting. The Committee has probed management  
to understand and confirm that the requirements of IAS 37 ‘Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets’ have been met in terms 
of recognising a provision at the end of the year and received reporting from EY that confirms management’s treatment as appropriate. 
Furthermore, we considered the nature of these costs in light of the Group’s accounting policy for exceptional items. The Committee 
agrees with the accounting treatment and disclosure of these items in the 2014 Annual Report.
(3) Exceptional items – impairment of intangible assets – notes 5 and 14
At least once every year, as required, management undertakes a detailed, formal impairment review of goodwill and other intangible 
assets and related reporting is provided to the Audit Committee. The most significant judgements are in setting the assumptions 
underpinning the calculation of the value in use of the Cash Generating Units (CGUs), specifically the achievability of the long-term 
business plan and macroeconomic assumptions underlying the valuation process. In the current year, and as a direct result of the recent 
very significant drop in the oil price, specific focus has been given to the basis of the assumptions underpinning the business plans of the 
Pressure Control and Pressure Pumping CGUs. In addition, consideration has been given to the long term growth rates and discount rates 
used in the cash flow models for all the CGUs. Business plans and budgets were Board approved and underpin the cash flow forecasts.
Specifically in relation to Pressure Control, we have discussed the cash flow forecasts underpinning the impairment test with management 
to understand the main assumptions around macroeconomic factors, volume/price effect and any strategic initiatives. We agreed that  
the assumption of the current oil price of around US$50 a barrel, and consequent activity levels, enduring for the next two years with  
a measured return to more ‘normal’ levels thereafter is the most appropriate one given what we know today. On that basis, we agree  
with the best estimate impairment charge of £160m of the Pressure Control CGU and concur with its allocation against goodwill. 
With regard to Pressure Pumping, this business is more mature and had significant levels of headroom between net asset value and 
discounted cash flows going into the current market downturn. Management have included in their reporting to us the stress test scenarios 
that have been applied and we agreed, following a detailed review, that no impairment charge is required. Although the Weir Gabbioneta CGU 
is an Oil & Gas business, its focus is on downstream operations and so is not expected to be as adversely impacted by the current market 
downturn. However a sensitivity analysis has been undertaken by management and we agreed that no impairment charge is required.
Finally, we have reviewed the disclosures in the financial statements and agree with the reporting of the impairment charge as an 
exceptional item and the related narrative provided in note 14.  88 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Report of the Audit Committee continued
Main activities (continued)
(i) Financial reporting (continued)
Current period matters (continued)
(4) Contingent liability – Philippines Gold Processing & Refining Corporation – note 27
A claim has been made by Philippines Gold Processing & Refining Corporation against Weir Services Australia Pty Limited (WSA),  
a subsidiary of the Company as disclosed in note 27. 
In relation to this claim, the Group has engaged external legal advisors to support and advise throughout the legal proceedings. These 
external legal advisors have provided a letter to the Audit Committee setting out the current status of the claim and discussions have 
been held with both management and EY with regard to the accounting treatment applied. On the basis of the external advice and these 
discussions, the Committee agrees that the disclosure of a contingent liability is appropriate given the significant uncertainty surrounding 
the outcome of the claim at the balance sheet date and at the date of this report. 
Recurring agenda items
(1) Accounting for pensions – note 24
We have examined these disclosures and we are satisfied they are complete and accurate. In reaching this conclusion, we have challenged 
management on the key assumptions used underpinning the valuation, taking assurance from the fact that external advice is taken by them. 
During the current year, we gave specific consideration to the additional disclosure provided by management summarising the most recent 
actuarial funding valuation deficits under the two main UK plans as well as the agreed future contributions under the respective schedules  
of contributions. We consider that these disclosures enable users of the financial statements to better understand the risk and impact of  
the agreed future contributions on the Group.
(2) Tax charge and provisioning – note 7
The Audit Committee receives a detailed report from the Finance Director every six months, which covers the following key areas: (i) 
status of on-going enquiries and tax audits with local tax authorities; (ii) the Group’s effective tax rate for the current year; and (iii) the 
level of provisioning for known and potential liabilities, including significant movements on the prior period. In addition, the Committee 
takes comfort from the presentation to the main Board on tax strategy and risk, given by the Group Head of Tax, every year. A summary 
of the Group’s tax policy is provided in the Financial Review on page 48. Based on the work we have undertaken in the current year,  
we are satisfied that the position presented in these financial statements is reasonable and understandable. 
(3) Accounting for provisions – note 22
Total provisions on the Group Balance Sheet are £113m (2013: £55m) at the end of the period with the breakdown by category presented  
in note 22. The increase on 2013 is a direct result of two factors. Firstly the recognition of the provision in relation to obligations that existed  
at the balance sheet date as part of the Group-wide efficiency review (£22m), which will result in cash outflows over 2015 and, secondly,  
the recognition of a provision for US asbestos-related claims (£28m). 
As explained in detail in the Financial Review on page 49, in light of the recent increase in the US of asbestos-related claims, a review 
was completed by the Group to assess the adequacy of its insurance policies to meet future settlement and defence costs. The outcome 
of this review was the recognition of a provision and equivalent receivable for insurance proceeds for £28m, the latter reported within 
‘other receivables’ (note 17).
In addition to receiving Board reporting on this matter, we have challenged management on the assumptions underpinning the liability 
assessment. We agree that, given the inherent uncertainty associated with estimating future costs in respect of asbestos-related diseases, the 
current approach is appropriate. Furthermore, we agree that the matched receivable representing the insurance cover available is appropriate.
With regard to provisions in overall terms, we have examined the other key movements between the opening and closing provision balances 
and challenged management on the commercial drivers which caused them. We have also examined, through discussion and updates provided 
by the Group General Counsel (where it is relevant to do so based on the nature of the provision), the appropriateness of the closing positions. 
Nothing arose from our work that gave the Committee any concern.
(4) Valuation of inventory – note 16
In the prior year, we reported on our work in this area as it related to the excess capacity remaining in certain pressure pumping equipment 
sectors within the North American gas drilling market as a result of the shift to oil and liquids rich shale formations in Q1 2012 and the  
related impact on customer activity. We received an update from management in the current year on this inventory and also considered the 
implications for inventory valuation of the recent sharp decline in oil price, particularly in light of the increased activity that had been generated  
in those businesses over the majority of 2014. Based on the information provided in the areas of inventory reduction initiatives, provisioning and 
forward purchase commitments, we concluded that management action had been effective and that the level of provisioning was appropriate. 
Fair, balanced and understandable
The Audit Committee has reviewed the contents of this year’s annual report and financial statements and the process that has been 
followed in the preparation of the document. With regard to the latter, the Committee received a report from management summarising 
the detailed approach that had been taken which covered, but was not limited to, the following:
 – involvement of a cross section of management across the organisation, including the Group Executive, Group Communications,  
Group Finance (including Group Tax and Group Treasury) and Company Secretariat;
 – input and advice from appropriate external advisers, including the Company’s brokers and PR agency;
 – use of available disclosure checklists for both Corporate Governance and financial statement reporting;
 – regular research to identify emerging practice and guidance from relevant regulatory bodies, for example the Financial Reporting Lab;
 – regular weekly meetings of the Disclosure Committee (from December to February inclusive), which comprises the key contributors 
to the document, during which specific consideration was given to the fair, balanced and understandable assertion; and
 – use of two cold readers; one an employee and member of the Senior Management Group and the other an external, independent proof reader.
The successful completion of this work has been reported to the Board. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
89 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
(ii) Internal control and risk management
During the year, we reviewed the process by which the Group evaluated its internal control environment. Our work in this area was 
supported by reporting from the Head of Internal Audit on the results of the programme of audit visits undertaken; the overall assessment 
of the internal control environment; and the incidence of any significant frauds or any fraud that involved management or employees with 
a significant role in internal controls.
The Committee also receives regular reporting on the Group’s compliance related activities from the Group General Counsel and 
Company Secretary and Head of Internal Audit. In addition, reporting, either verbal or written, from senior management covering  
any investigations into known or suspected fraudulent activities, including assertions of such via the Group’s whistleblowing 
arrangements, is reviewed.
Since the last Annual Report and Financial Statements, there have been presentations from two of the three Divisional Finance Directors 
(DFDs) on the divisional risk dashboards, the significant findings from the internal audit visits and the Compliance Scorecard process over 
the last 12 months, as well as an overview of their divisional finance teams. 
The Compliance Scorecard is a control mechanism whereby each operating company undertakes a self-assessment every six months  
of their compliance with Group policies and procedures, including key internal controls across a range of categories including finance, 
Anti-Bribery & Corruption, tax, treasury, Trade & Customs, HR, IT and legal. As far as the elements relating to finance are concerned, 
these cover (but are not limited to) management accounts and financial reporting, balance sheet controls, employee costs and other 
financial policies. The scorecard for the second half of the year was enhanced through the addition of new questions in relation to the 
management of remote locations and treasury operations.
Operating companies are required to gather evidence and undertake sample testing to validate their self-assessment responses. Internal 
Audit then has responsibility for confirming the self-assessment responses during planned visits. Any significant variances are reported to 
local, divisional and Group management. Any companies reporting lower levels of compliance are required to prepare improvement plans 
to demonstrate how they will improve over a reasonable period of time. The overall compliance scores (in percent) are tracked over time 
and reported to the Audit Committee twice a year with the Committee paying particular attention to the variances between self-assessed 
and Internal Audit assessed scores as well as trends and the performance of newly acquired companies. 
Our role with regard to risk is to look at the process of formulating the risk matrix and the assurance provided over internal controls and 
other mitigating factors. The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the principal risks included in the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements remains with the Board.
(iii) Internal audit
One of the main duties of the Committee is to review the annual internal audit programme and ensure that the internal audit function  
is adequately resourced, effective (which includes assessing the independence of the function) and has appropriate standing within the 
Company. As far as the scope of the Internal Audit programme is concerned, the aim is to carry out visits to each operating company in 
the Group on a periodic, rotational basis. A risk based approach is taken when deciding which businesses to audit and the scope of each 
audit. The factors considered are, amongst other things, the volatility of end markets, critical system or senior management changes  
in the period, financial results, the timing of the most recent Internal Audit visit and any other assurance reviews undertaken, and whether  
the business is a recent acquisition. In addition, the emergence of any common themes or trends in the findings of recent internal audits  
or compliance scorecard submissions (see previous section) are taken into consideration. As part of the annual plan, Anti-Bribery & 
Corruption reviews are undertaken, focusing on areas such as relationships with agents, accounting for employee expenses and 
corporate hospitality/gifts.
The Internal Audit Plan is reviewed and approved by the Committee each year. Twice annually the Head of Internal Audit reports on  
audit activities, progress against the plan and the results of audit visits with particular focus on high priority findings and the action plans, 
including management responses, to address these areas. 
Private discussions between me and the Head of Internal Audit are held during the year and once a year with the full Committee. I also 
receive copies of all internal audit reports issued during the year.
(iv) External audit
Auditor effectiveness
The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent on appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle. EY present 
their detailed audit plan to us each year identifying their assessment of these key risks. For the current period, the significant risks identified 
were the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets, valuation of inventory, adequacy of liability provisioning, including provisions for 
legal obligations, exceptional items and the exposure to significant tax risks due to the inherent management judgement required in all these 
areas. Our work in each of these areas has been covered in detail earlier in this report.
Our assessment of the effectiveness and quality of the audit process in addressing these matters is formed by, amongst other things,  
a review of the reporting from the auditors to the Committee and also by seeking feedback from management on the effectiveness  
of the audit process. During the first half of the year, management issued a detailed questionnaire to every Finance Manager/Director  
and Divisional Finance Director to collect feedback on the 2013 audit process. This covered resource and expertise of the audit teams, 
quality of planning, execution and deliverables as well as an assessment of overall performance. 
Resultant themes and findings were discussed between ourselves, management and EY with both management and the auditors 
reporting to us on the actions being implemented in response. In addition, on a periodic basis, the Finance Director and Group Financial 
Controller meet with the overseas external audit teams.  90 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Report of the Audit Committee continued
Main activities (continued)
(iv) External audit (continued)
Auditor effectiveness (continued)
The Committee discussed the Audit Quality Inspection report on EY issued by the FRC in May 2014 at its meetings in July and September 
and I also had a separate meeting with the lead audit partner to discuss the report. Although the principal findings of the FRC report indicated 
a deterioration on the previous year, the Committee agreed that this report, in itself, did not have an impact on our assessment of audit 
effectiveness at Weir.
Overall management were satisfied that there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk, although  
there are of course some areas where improvements can be made, and assessed the quality of the audit process to be good. Based  
on the input from management and discussions we have had with EY and key finance individuals, we also hold this view. This process 
will be repeated in respect of the 2014 audit in advance of the Committee’s meeting in July 2015.
The Committee holds private meetings with the external auditor each year to provide additional opportunity for open dialogue and 
feedback from the Committee and the auditor without management being present. Matters typically discussed include the auditor’s 
assessment of business risks and management activity thereon, the transparency and openness of interactions with management, 
confirmation that there has been no restriction in scope placed on them by management and how they have exercised professional 
scepticism. I also meet with the lead audit partner outside the formal committee process as necessary throughout the year.
Independence policy and non-audit services
The Audit Committee is responsible for the appointment and role of the auditor. This includes keeping under review the auditor’s 
independence by providing guidelines on any non-audit services that are to be provided by them. In addition, a formal policy exists  
which ensures that the nature of the advice to be provided could not impair the objectivity of the auditor’s opinion on the Group’s  
financial statements. All non-audit services require the approval of management and, where the expected cost of the service  
is in excess of £75,000, the approval of the Audit Committee. No changes have been made to the policy in the current year.  
The auditors confirm their independence at least annually.
Fees payable to EY in respect of audit and assurance services for 2014 of £2.0m (2013: £1.9m) were approved by the Committee after  
a review of the level and nature of work to be performed, including the impact of acquisitions, and after being satisfied by EY that the 
fees were appropriate for the scope of the work required.
Non-audit fee work conducted by EY over the past year for assurance services amounted to £0.1m, which represented 5% of the total 
fees, including audit fees, and were incurred primarily in relation to other assurance services. We are of the view that the level and nature 
of non-audit work does not compromise the independence of the external auditors.
Auditor choice, tenure, tendering and reappointment
The Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor, including rotation of the audit partner, each year. The external auditor 
is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years and the current lead audit partner has been in place 
for three years, including 2014.
EY, or its predecessor firms, has been the Company’s external auditor, with no formal tender process, since prior to its stock market 
listing in 1946. As part of our annual review of the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit, we conduct an in depth review of their 
performance as noted above. There were no matters arising from the review in the current year, which we felt required the service  
to be tendered immediately. We have considered the audit tendering provisions outlined in the Code of which we are supportive. We 
have also reviewed the subsequent guidance provided by the European Commission and the Competition & Markets Authority (CMA). 
The European transitional provisions relating to Mandatory Firm Rotation are likely to require rotation of the external auditor of the Group 
within 6 years from July 2014, effectively the 2020 year end, which is also when the CMA mandates a tender process. However, we 
intend to tender the external audit, at the latest, coincident to the next rotation of the incumbent lead audit partner, which would be for 
the 2017 year end and are starting to plan for this process. Taking into account the circumstances noted above, this timing is viewed by 
the Committee as being in the best interests of shareholders.
Having considered the relationship with the independent auditor, their qualifications, expertise, resources and effectiveness, the Committee 
concluded that the external auditors remain independent and effective and recommended to the Board that EY be re-appointed as the 
Company’s external auditors for 2015. There are no contractual obligations restricting the Group’s choice of external auditors.
A resolution to re-appoint EY as the Company’s auditor will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Our focus for 2015
In addition to our routine business, the Committee will increase its focus on risk assurance as part of the adoption of the revised  
UK Corporate Governance Code and the FRC’s Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business 
Reporting. In addition we will progress the audit tender plans so that we are well prepared for this important process.
Alan Ferguson
On behalf of the Audit Committee
25 February 2015 Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
91 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Remuneration Report
Directors’  
Remuneration  
Report
Melanie Gee
Chairman of the  
Remuneration Committee
Dear Shareholder
As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present this 2014 Remuneration Report, incorporating our remuneration 
policy table as approved at the 2014 AGM. This year, we have sought to make the detail of our remuneration arrangements easier to 
follow by including an ‘At a Glance’ section at the beginning of the report. 
Business context 
2014 was a challenging year for most commodity prices, with the downward trend in mining company capital expenditure continuing and 
oil prices, having been stable through the year, experiencing their biggest fall since 2009 in the fourth quarter. Against this background,  
and as described more fully in the Chief Executive’s Strategic Review (at page 10), management has focused on accelerating operational 
efficiencies through our four strategic pillars (as detailed on pages 15 to 21). This includes significant progress on Value Chain Excellence, 
and we continue to build on our operational and strategic initiatives through Innovation, Collaboration and extending our Global Capability.
We remain confident in the long term growth trends in our key end markets. However, in 2015 we expect continued price volatility in many 
commodities, including those to which we are most exposed, with our mining customers remaining focused on optimising their current 
assets to support increased production. Many of our oil and gas customers have already significantly reduced their capital spending plans in 
response to lower oil prices, and our visibility in these markets is limited as they adjust plans in the evolving pricing environment. In light of the 
near term uncertainties and emerging pricing pressure in oil and gas markets, which represented nearly 50% of our 2014 revenues, senior 
management undertook an efficiency review across all divisions in the third quarter of 2014, with a view to ensuring that the Group entered 
2015 optimally placed to tackle what is expected to be a challenging year. The oil and gas division took further action at the start of 2015.
In this letter and in the report itself, we have demonstrated how the various elements of compensation link to the implementation of our 
strategy and align Executive Directors with the long-term interests of our shareholders, in particular in these times of unpredictable oil 
and gas markets. 
2014 remuneration outcomes
As part of implementing our approved remuneration policy, the salaries of the Chief Executive and the Finance Director were unchanged 
in 2014. During the year, the Company made changes to the pension arrangements for all UK staff in response to the introduction of 
pension auto-enrolment and, as of July 2014, senior executives had the option to join the Company’s defined contribution scheme or 
receive an equivalent cash amount. Prior to this, there had been no specific pension provision for senior executives. Both the Chief 
Executive and the Finance Director have chosen to take the cash amount.
The 2014 annual bonus payout, as a percentage of maximum opportunity for both the Chief Executive and Finance Director, was 61.2%. 
The 2014 bonus had two performance metrics – financial (80% of bonus entitlement) and personal (20% of bonus entitlement). The 
financial element was based on the achievement of Normalised Profit Before Tax and Amortisation (NPBTA), and capable of being reduced 
to the extent that Group working capital targets were not achieved. Given challenging markets, the relative performances of our two main 
businesses were strong during the year and performance under the NPBTA measure was just below target. The Group working capital 
target was not achieved and, as a result, the Committee has reduced the bonus entitlement under the financial performance element  
by 10%.  92 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
2014 remuneration outcomes (continued)
The Committee reviewed personal performance of each of the Chief Executive and Finance Director against their respective individual 
performance objectives, which were set at the beginning of the year and built around the Company’s KPIs. All individual performance 
objectives were measurable and further details are set out in the report. The Committee concluded that all personal objectives were 
achieved and the Chief Executive and Finance Director were awarded the maximum entitlement under this element.
No performance or matching shares will vest in March 2015 under the 2012 LTIP awards, as the performance conditions required were 
not met. Awards were based on relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and growth in Earnings per Share (EPS) performance conditions 
over the three year period to 31 December 2014. The Company’s TSR performance over the period was below median relative to the 
comparator group, this being the threshold vesting level, and EPS growth was 2.55% per annum, also below the threshold level of 7% 
per annum. 
As part of our remuneration policy approved in 2014, the Company has the ability to operate malus and clawback in certain circumstances 
for the cash bonus, the bonus shares and the LTIP. We have expanded on the disclosure of the details of our malus and clawback 
arrangements on pages 95 and 96.
Implementation of remuneration in 2015
The Committee considered base pay increases for our Chief Executive and Finance Director, in line with our policy. We were comfortable 
that the good relative performance of the business and the strong performance of the two individuals supported an increase. In April 
2015, the salaries for the Chief Executive and the Finance Director will both be increased by 3.4%, which is broadly in line with salary 
increases applied to UK employees.
The bonus opportunity and LTIP award levels are unchanged in 2015.
Considering the appropriate performance measures and setting the underlying calibration has been particularly challenging this year given 
the external environment, as we seek to ensure the 2015 annual bonus and LTIP targets support the Group’s strategy, are compatible 
with the Group’s appetite for risk (see page 25), and are stretching but achievable to provide appropriate incentivisation. The market 
environment is discussed further in the Chief Executive’s Strategic Review (starting on page 10). 
 
In relation to annual bonus incentives and pursuant to our remuneration policy, the Committee reviews the measures and sets the targets  
each year, reflecting the relevant business context for the period. As a result of this year’s review, we are introducing a new cash flow measure 
alongside NPBTA in the financial element of the 2015 bonus scheme targets. The Committee has carefully considered the targets for the 2015 
annual bonus scheme, against the backdrop of uncertain, and potentially volatile, oil and gas markets. The Committee is comfortable that the 
targets we have set are sufficiently stretching and appropriate for the year ahead, based on the range of assumptions in the Company’s internal 
budget at that time.
 
The Committee has also set the three year targets for the 2015 LTIP awards, which has been equally challenging and compounded by the 
relatively high EPS and Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) achieved in 2014, which forms the starting point for each measure’s growth target 
over the three year period. The required growth targets are described below. In relation to the ROCE measure, the Committee considered the 
2014 base figure and the uncertain business environment over the three year period ahead covered by the 2015 LTIP awards, and concluded 
that there were exceptional circumstances making it appropriate to adjust the way we assess this performance measure. As a result of this 
adjustment, 2017’s ROCE only will be assessed relative to the 2014 level, rather than taking a three year average per annum growth approach. 
This decision has been taken to ensure that the ROCE measure for the 2015 LTIP award remains both incentivising and challenging. Overall, 
after careful consideration and in light of the uncertain longer term outlook for oil and gas markets, the Committee is also comfortable that the 
2015 LTIP targets are sufficiently stretching and appropriate for the three year period ahead.
In line with our policy, remuneration will be implemented as follows:
2015 bonus scheme
 – Our new cash flow measure, alongside NPBTA, better aligns Executive Directors’ interests with our operational priorities and provides  
a clearer link between performance and reward. 2015 bonus performance measures will therefore comprise 60% NPBTA, 20% cash 
flow and 20% personal performance. 
 – The Committee will review performance against the 2015 bonus scheme targets on an interim basis, with appropriate input from 
management, at its meetings in the second half of the year. In accordance with our policy, the Committee has the ability to exercise 
discretion in exceptional circumstances to alter the payout levels of an award at the end of a performance period if it believes this will 
better reflect the underlying performance of the Company.
 – The Committee has taken particular care in reviewing the personal objectives for the Chief Executive and Finance Director, given the 
market backdrop, and is comfortable that they are measurable and appropriately defined to support our growth strategy, including our 
four strategic pillars, whilst also focusing on the effective management of the business in the shorter term. 
2015 LTIP awards 
 – The equal weighting of our three long-term measures of TSR, EPS and ROCE remains unchanged and our relative TSR group remains 
broadly the same. 
 – For all measures, threshold vesting remains unchanged at 25% of maximum vesting. For TSR, the performance required for threshold 
and maximum vesting remains unchanged at median performance and upper quintile performance respectively. 
 – Against the backdrop of the recent significant fall in the oil price, emerging pricing pressure in our businesses exposed to oil and gas 
markets, and also the uncertain medium term outlook for these markets, the Committee has been concerned to ensure that the EPS 
element provides appropriate incentivisation that is both achievable and stretching for the next three years. Recognising the 2014 base 
EPS of 141.3p, we have set the performance required for threshold EPS vesting to 2.5% per annum over the three year period (from 
5% for the 2014 LTIP awards) and the level for maximum vesting to 7.5% per annum (from 11%) to ensure that Executive Directors 
remain incentivised. 
Remuneration Report continued Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
93 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
 – We introduced our ROCE measure last year, which is a KPI used within the business (as detailed in the Strategic Report on page 23). 
Whilst it drives operational excellence, as it is calculated on a constant currency basis it is less influenced by external factors than  
the other two measures. For the 2014 LTIP awards, the ROCE measure was expressed as a three year average percentage increase 
per annum and the range was set at 0.5% per annum to 4% per annum. The Committee has decided that for the 2015 LTIP awards, 
instead of using the average per annum growth for the ROCE measurement it will assess the comparable 2017 ROCE against the 
base 2014 ROCE of 17.3%. This is different from the 2014 ROCE of 18.1% (as referred to on page 23) because, in accordance with  
our remuneration policy, we have included our recent Trio acquisition in the base figure, in order to make an appropriate comparator  
for our 2015 LTIP award ROCE targets. These targets have been set with a threshold ROCE of 18.8% (0.5% per annum improvement) 
to a maximum of 24.8% (2.5% per annum improvement).
Shareholder engagement 
The Committee welcomes the views of shareholders on remuneration on an ongoing basis. In 2013 and early 2014, the Committee 
consulted extensively with shareholders on changes to our remuneration policy and received strong support for our proposals at the  
2014 AGM. The Committee’s activities following the 2014 AGM have focused on implementing this approved policy. We continue to  
value shareholders’ views on our remuneration arrangements and I can be contacted via the Company Secretary. 
Further details of the implementation of the policy and the outturn for 2014 are set out in the rest of this Remuneration Report and 
shareholders will be invited to approve the report in an advisory vote at the Company’s AGM on 29 April 2015. We look forward to 
shareholders’ continued support. 
Melanie Gee
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
25 February 2015 94 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Element Operation of the element Maximum potential value Performance metrics used
Base salary A competitive base salary to attract and  
retain talented leaders.
£750,000 (3.4% increase) – CEO
£455,000 (3.4% increase) – FD
Not applicable.
Benefits  
and pension
A market aligned benefits package.
No specific provision for Executive Directors’ 
pensions. Standard auto-enrolment entitlement.
Value of benefits determined by 
the cost of insured products.
12% of salary in lieu of provision 
for auto-enrolment.
Not applicable.
Annual bonus Bonus based on in-year performance against 
financial and personal (including strategic) goals. 
150% of salary – CEO 
125% of salary – FD
NPBTA (60%)
Cash flow (20%)
Personal performance (20%)
Bonus shares Bonus converted into shares with a restriction 
on sale for three years.
30% of bonus. Not applicable.
Performance  
shares
Grant of performance shares subject to  
a 3 year performance period followed by  
a 2 year holding period. 
250% of salary – CEO
200% of salary – FD
EPS (33%)  
TSR (33%)  
ROCE (33%)
Shareholding  
requirements
Requirement to build up a shareholding in  
the Company over a five year period.
200% CEO requirement  
150% FD requirement
Not applicable.
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2015
At a Glance
Shareholding requirement targets for 2019 and actual shareholding at year end
Shareholding requirement
Shareholding requirement
Actual shareholding 
Actual shareholding 
Keith Cochrane
Jon Stanton
0% 100% 200% 300% 400% 500% 600% 700% 800% % salary
Performance achieved in 2014 against targets
Annual Bonus Performance Measures
Below 
threshold Threshold Target Maximum
Above  
maximum
Percentage  
as maximum  
of payout
Contribution 
to payout as 
percentage  
of maximum
NPBTA (after working capital adjustment) £377.6m £410.8m £444.0m 51.5%
(80% weighting)
41.2%
Personal Performance 0% 100% 100%
(20% weighting)
20%
Bonus payout 61.2%
2012 LTIP Performance Measures
Below 
threshold Threshold Target Maximum
Above  
maximum
Percentage  
as maximum  
of payout
Contribution 
to payout as 
percentage  
of maximum
EPS growth per annum 7% 15% 0%
(50% weighting)
0%
Relative TSR growth  
against comparator group
Median Upper  
Quintile
0%
(50% weighting)
0%
LTIP payout 0%
Remuneration Report continued
Single total figure of remuneration
Maximum opportunity
Maximum opportunity
2014 Single total figure 
2014 Single total figure 
Keith Cochrane
Jon Stanton
0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 Value (£’000)
• 
Base salary
• 
Annual Bonus
• 
Benefits 
• 
Retirement benefits
• 
LTIP –  performance shares and matching shares Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
95 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Annual Report on Remuneration
Note: certain sections of the report have been audited, which are identified either in text or with the ‘#’ symbol. 
Statement of Implementation of Directors’ Remuneration Policy in 2015
In 2015, the approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy will be implemented as follows.
Executive Directors
Fixed elements – Base salary
The Committee made the following 2015 base salary decisions which are in line with the approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy:
2015 salary 
£
2014 salary 
£
Percentage 
change
Keith Cochrane 750,000 725,000 3.4%
Jon Stanton 455,000 440,000 3.4%
Salaries are effective from 1 April each year. The Committee has considered the broader employee context and economic factors in 
determining salaries. In 2015, the increase in base salaries for UK employees will be up to 4%.
Fixed elements – Retirement and other benefits
The implementation of policy in relation to pension and benefits is in line with the approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy. 
Short term incentives – Annual bonus
The implementation of policy in relation to annual bonus is in line with the approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy.
The annual bonus is based on in-year performance against targets. The performance measures are: 60% Group Normalised Profit  
before Tax and Amortisation (NPBTA) measured over the financial period, 20% cash flow and 20% personal performance targets.
The cash flow measure is defined as cash generated from operations, including additional pension contributions paid and excluding  
the impact of derivative financial instruments on working capital cash flows. The performance targets are determined annually by the 
Committee. The performance targets for the cash flow measure are set at levels equivalent to the threshold, target and maximum levels 
for the NPBTA measure, with similar pay out percentages at each. The performance target of cash flow is adjusted to match the actual 
foreign exchange rates during the financial period and is also increased or decreased to reflect the impact of any acquisitions or disposals 
made in the year that are of a size requiring Board approval. Exceptional items or extraordinary items as agreed by the Remuneration 
Committee are excluded.
Targets are approved by the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of the performance year. As set out in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy, the Company will disclose the NPBTA and cash flow targets and the main groupings of individual performance measures retrospectively 
in the Annual Report on Remuneration. Performance targets will not be disclosed prospectively for commercial reasons.
30% of bonus payable will be converted into shares with a restriction on sale under the 2014 LTIP. There are no performance conditions 
on the bonus shares.
Malus and clawback arrangements operate in respect of the annual bonus and bonus shares. These arrangements enable the Company 
not to release any bonus shares before the end of the restriction period. This policy also enables the Company to clawback the annual 
bonus after the payment date and the bonus shares (or their relevant value) after the restriction period has ended for a period of up to 
three years. Malus and clawback may be applied in certain circumstances where there is found to be a material misstatement in the 
audited accounts of the Group or a Group company accounts, where the executive’s action or conduct amounts to gross misconduct,  
or where there is a significant detrimental reputational impact on the Company for which the executive is responsible.
Long term incentives – performance shares
The Committee has determined that the following awards be made for 2015, in line with the approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy. 
Awards vest after three years, subject to performance conditions. Awards for Executive Directors are then subject to a two year  
holding period.
Award type Basis on which award made
Face value of award 
at threshold vesting 
(% of 2015 salary)
Face value of award 
at maximum vesting 
(% of 2015 salary) Performance period
Keith Cochrane Performance shares A grant of shares will be made 
based on policy opportunity 
levels, the salary of the  
individual, and the share price  
on the three days prior to grant.
62.5% 250% 1 Jan 2015 –  
31 Dec 2017
Jon Stanton Performance shares 50% 200% 1 Jan 2015 –  
31 Dec 2017
Note 
The performance period for each LTIP award is based on calendar years. The TSR performance measure is calculated over calendar years. The EPS and ROCE measures are 
calculated over the relevant financial periods.
In all cases, awards will only vest subject to the achievement of the performance conditions and if the Committee determines that the 
underlying performance of the Company is sufficient to justify the vesting of the awards. 96 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
Statement of Implementation of Directors’ Remuneration Policy in 2015 (continued)
Executive Directors (continued)
Long term incentives – performance shares (continued)
The three performance measures for the 2015 award apply in equal weighting and their performance targets are:
TSR EPS ROCE
Relative TSR growth 
against comparator group
Percentage of TSR 
proportion vesting
EPS growth  
per annum
Percentage of EPS 
proportion vesting 2017 ROCE
Percentage of ROCE 
proportion vesting
Upper quintile 100% 7.5% 100% 24.8% 100%
Median 25% 2.5% 25% 18.8% 25%
Below median 0% Less than 2.5% 0% Less than 18.8% 0%
The TSR comparator group for the 2015 LTIP grant is:
Amec Foster Wheeler, Atlas Copco AB, Cameron International Corporation, Crane Company, Dover Corporation, Fenner PLC, FLSmidth  
& Co. A/S, Flowserve Corporation, FMC Corporation, Forum Energy Technologies Inc, IMI PLC, ITT Corporation, John Wood Group PLC, 
Joy Global Inc., Melrose Industries PLC, Metso Corporation, Outotec Oyj, Rotork PLC, Sandvik AB, Smiths Group PLC, Spirax-Sarco 
Engineering Plc, SPX Corporation, Sulzer Ltd and Vesuvius Plc.
The base 2014 EPS and ROCE used for the purposes of the 2015 LTIP award are 141.3p and 17.3% respectively. 2017 figures will be 
calculated on a consistent basis, in accordance with our approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy.
Malus and clawback arrangements operate in respect of performance shares. These enable the Company to reduce unvested awards and 
to clawback the relevant value of the vested shares for a period of up to three years after the date of vesting. Malus and clawback may be 
applied in certain situations where there is found to be a material misstatement in the audited accounts of the Group or a Group company 
accounts, where the executive’s action or conduct amounts to gross misconduct, or where there is a significant detrimental reputational 
impact on the Company for which the executive is responsible.
Non-Executive Directors
Annual fees for 2015
The implementation of the Non-Executive Director remuneration is in line with the approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy. The fees per 
annum for Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below. The fees for Non-Executive Directors, including those for additional 
responsibilities, were not increased in 2014.
2015 fees  
£
Percentage 
change
2014 fees  
£
Chairman’s fee for all responsibilities 290,000 5.5% 275,000
Non-Executive Directors’ base fee 58,000 5.5% 55,000
Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 12,000 20% 10,000
Additional fee for Audit Committee Chairman 15,000 50% 10,000
Additional fee for Remuneration Committee Chairman 15,000 50% 10,000
 
Fees are effective from 1 April each year. Additional allowances are made available to Non-Executive Directors, where appropriate,  
to reflect the additional time commitment in attending intercontinental Board meetings and operational visits.
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors
Details of the remuneration for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015 and the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 received by the Executive 
Directors who served on the Board during the 2014 financial period are set out in the table below. The summary table comprises a number of 
key components which are set out in further detail in the relevant sections that follow. The table and accompanying notes have been audited.
Fixed elements Short term incentives Long term incentives Pension Total
Base salary (i) Benefits (ii) Annual bonus (iii)
LTIP – performance 
shares and matching 
shares (iv)
Retirement benefits 
(v) Total
2014  
£
2013  
£
2014  
£
2013  
£
2014  
£
2013  
£
2014  
£
2013  
£
2014  
£
2013  
£
2014  
£
2013  
£
Keith Cochrane 725,000 718,750 22,781 21,656 665,564 108,750 – 938,171 43,500 – 1,456,845 1,787 ,327
Jon Stanton 440,000 435,000 18,804 18,334 336,607 44,000 – 401,687 26,400 – 821,811 899,027
Notes to the single figure of remuneration for Executive Directors table
There were no other payments made during 2013 and 2014 and no Executive Director received remuneration for external appointments 
during 2014.
i) Base salary
Corresponds to the amounts received during the 2014 financial year.
Salary is paid monthly to Executive Directors. No salary increases were made for Executive Directors in 2014. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
97 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
ii) Benefits
Corresponds to the taxable value of all benefits paid in respect of the 2014 financial year.
Keith 
Cochrane 
2014  
£
Jon  
Stanton 
2014  
£
Life insurance cover 4,143 4,336 
Car allowance 17 ,015 13,970
Group healthcare 498 498 
Other benefits 1,125 –
Total 22,781 18,804
  
iii) Short term incentives
Corresponds to the total bonus earned under the annual bonus in respect of 2014 performance and includes both the cash 
element (70%) and the bonus to be converted into shares with a restriction on sale (30%).
The 2014 annual bonus was based on achievement of Group Normalised Profit before Tax and Amortisation (NPBTA) (80%), capable of being 
reduced by 10% to the extent that Group working capital targets were not met, and personal performance targets (20%). Executive Directors’ 
2014 performance was assessed relative to both the financial targets and other performance considerations further outlined below.
2014 performance measures for Executive Directors 
NPBTA
2014 performance  
required  
£m
Actual  
performance  
£m
Payout as a  
percentage of 
maximum
Weighting as  
percentage of  
total bonus  
opportunity
Contribution to  
payout as  
percentage of  
maximum bonus 
opportunity
Based on the achievement of NPBTA  
targets measured over the financial period.
Threshold 377.6
Target 410.8
Stretch 444.0
£408.5 57.2%  
(before 
adjustment*)
51.5%  
(after 
adjustment*)
80% 41.2%  
(after 
adjustment*) 
Note
The performance measure is Normalised Profit before Tax and Amortisation as disclosed in the Group’s financial reporting for the relevant financial year. The targets are set at the 
start of the period and are subsequently adjusted at the end of the period to ensure comparability. The adjustments are approved by the Remuneration Committee and include 
restating targets on a constant currency basis and adjusting for certain other items, including to reflect the direct impact of industrial actions on Group facilities.
*  Payouts under the NPBTA element may be reduced to the extent that Group working capital is above target. The Remuneration Committee considered the 2014 Group working 
capital targets (20.8% of revenues) and actuals (22.1% of revenues) and determined a reduction of 10% was appropriate. 
Individual performance objectives 2014 performance required
Payout as a  
percentage of  
maximum
Weighting as  
percentage of  
total bonus  
opportunity 
Contribution to  
payout as  
percentage of  
maximum bonus 
opportunity
Individual performance objectives  
are robustly set and are customised 
for each individual. All objectives 
are measurable and are objectively 
determined. Individual objectives for 
2014 were built around the Company’s 
key performance indicators.
Keith Cochrane:
Objectives included areas such as 
strategic growth of the Company, 
stakeholder engagement, organisational 
capability and innovation.
100% 20% Keith Cochrane:
20.0%
Jon Stanton:
Objectives included areas such as 
delivery of IT strategy, optimisation  
of capital structure, and finance  
team succession planning and  
talent development. 
100% 20% Jon Stanton:
20.0% 98 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors (continued)
iii) Short term incentives (continued)
2014 short term incentive awards
Based on the outcome of 2014 performance as outlined above, the Committee approved the following annual bonus awards under the 
Executive Bonus Scheme to Executive Directors:
Executive Director
Payout as 
percentage 
of maximum 
bonus 
opportunity
Payout as 
percentage 
of salary
Payout
£
Keith Cochrane 61 .2% 91 .8% 665,564
Jon Stanton 61 .2% 76.5% 336,607
   
Notes
1. Includes 30% conversion into shares with restriction on sale over three years.
2. Bonus award is based on salary as at 31 December in the relevant financial year.
3. Bonus to be paid in March 2015.
iv) Long term incentives
The value represents an estimate of the market value of the 2012 Performance and Matching Share awards at year end.
LTIP awards vesting in 2015
In accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013  
(the ‘Regulations’), the single total remuneration figure for 2014 includes the vesting value of the performance and matching shares  
made under the 2012 LTIP Award, with a performance period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014. 
The 2012 performance share and matching share awards for Keith Cochrane and Jon Stanton were due to vest on 9 March 2015.  
The table below sets out a summary of the performance conditions, performance against these conditions as well as the resulting  
gross vesting value using the share price over Q4 of 2014 in accordance with the Regulations.
The Committee reserves the right to make adjustments to the performance conditions to reflect significant one-off items which occur 
during the performance period. No discretion was exercised in respect of the awards.
2012 performance  
share awards
Performance conditions  
and targets set Maximum potential value 
Maximum number  
of shares granted
Performance metrics, weighting 
and period and method of 
determining performance
Resulting 
vesting  
£
Keith Cochrane Performance  
conditions set  
out on page 100.
Performance period of 
three years ended on  
31 December 2014  
due to vest on  
9 March 2015.
Shares with value  
of 100% of salary  
on the date of grant.
35,953 Overall level of  
vesting 0%.
50% of award is based on 
EPS growth. Actual EPS 
growth was 2.55% p.a., 
resulting in 0% vesting
1
.
50% of award is based 
on TSR growth. Actual 
TSR growth was 19%, 
corresponding to below 
median performance 
relative to peers between 
January 2012 and 
December 2014,  
resulting in 0% vesting.
Dividend equivalents  
are paid on vested  
shares based on dividend 
payments over the 
performance period. 
Dividend equivalents to  
be delivered in shares.
–
Jon Stanton 21,572 –
2012 matching 
share awards
Resulting 
vesting  
£
Keith Cochrane Performance  
conditions set  
out on page 100.
Performance period of 
three years ended on  
31 December 2014  
due to vest on  
9 March 2015.
Shares with value of 
200% of compulsory 
and voluntary deferred 
annual bonus on the 
date of grant, subject to 
continued employment 
and retention of 
compulsory investment 
shares and voluntary 
investment shares 
where applicable.
45,573 –
Jon Stanton 12,327 –
Note
1. The EPS outcome has been adjusted to remove the impact of IAS 19R on the 2014 result to ensure a consistent measurement basis across the performance period.
Note that compulsory and voluntary investment shares will be released in 2015 to individuals. The number of shares expected to be 
released in 2015 is 19,166 for Keith Cochrane and 6,163 for Jon Stanton. The compulsory investment shares also have the right to receive 
dividend equivalents in the form of shares to the value of 120.8p per share at the date of vesting. The value of these shares does not form 
part of the single total figure table as they have not been subject to performance measures since they were granted.
LTIP awards vested in 2014
In accordance with the Regulations, the estimate shown in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 of the value for 2013 for  
the performance and matching awards under the 2011 LTIP has now been restated based on the actual share price at the date of vesting  Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
99 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
on 17 March 2014 of £25.06. Keith Cochrane received 37,437 shares, which included 1,845 shares in the respect of dividend equivalents, 
and Jon Stanton received 16,029 shares, which included 790 shares in respect of dividend equivalents. 
v) Retirement benefits
Represents the value of the cash allowance towards retirement benefit provision 
In July 2014, the Company introduced an auto-enrolment provision for Executive Directors to receive a contribution to the pension plan  
or a cash allowance of 12% of salary. Both the Chief Executive and the Finance Director have chosen to take the cash allowance.
The Group made no additional provisions for Executive Director pensions in 2014.
Payments for loss of office
#
No payments were made for loss of office during the year.
Payments to past directors
#
The following payments were made to Alan Mitchelson in 2014 in relation to his outstanding 2011 LTIP Award, details of which were 
disclosed in the Company’s 2012 Remuneration Report.
 – 15,522 Performance and Matching Shares which vested from the 2011 LTIP Award, and which included 613 dividend equivalent 
shares, giving a taxable gain on exercise of £380,444.22, based on the closing market share price on 14 March 2014 of £24.51. 
Options exercised in 2014 had zero exercise price. The award vested on 17 March 2014 with a closing market share price of £25.06.
 – 6,508 Compulsory Investment Shares which vested from the 2011 LTIP Award, and which included 257 dividend equivalent shares, 
giving a taxable gain on exercise of £159,511.08, based on the closing market share price on 14 March 2014 of £24.51. Options 
exercised in 2014 had zero exercise price. The award vested on 17 March 2014 with a closing market share price of £25.06.
No further payments to Alan Mitchelson are due in 2015. 
# Subject to audit.
Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman
Details of the remuneration for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015 and the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 received by the  
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman who served on the Board during the 2014 financial period are set out in the table below.  
The table and accompanying notes have been audited.
Basic fee Other fees Total fees
2014  
£
2013  
£
2014  
£
2013  
£
2014  
£
2013  
£
Charles Berry
1
275,000 45,416 – 6,667 275,000 52,083
Alan Ferguson 55,000 53,750 10,000 10,000 65,000 63,750
Melanie Gee 55,000 53,750 10,000 10,000 65,000 63,750
Mary Jo Jacobi
2
55,000 – – – 55,000 –
Sir Jim McDonald
3
– – – – – –
Rick Menell 55,000 53,750 – – 55,000 53,750
John Mogford 55,000 53,750 – – 55,000 53,750
Lord Robertson 55,000 53,750 10,000 8,750 65,000 62,500
             
Notes
1. Charles Berry joined the Board as a Director on 1 March 2013 and was appointed Chairman on 1 January 2014.
2. Mary Jo Jacobi joined the Board as a Director on 1 January 2014 and did not receive any remuneration during 2013.
3. Sir Jim McDonald joined the Board as a Director on 1 January 2015 and did not receive any remuneration during 2013 or 2014.
Scheme interests awarded during 2014
The following table sets out the interests of the Executive Directors in the Company’s share schemes, comprising awards of performance shares 
under the LTIP, which were awarded during the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015. The closing market price of the Company’s ordinary shares at 
2 January 2015 was £18.83 and the range during the year was £16.39 to £28.48. The table and accompanying notes have been audited.
2014 LTIP awards Award type
Type of 
interest 
awarded
Date of 
award
Grant 
share 
price Basis of award
Number 
of shares 
awarded
Face 
value of 
award at 
threshold 
vesting  
£ 
Face value 
of award at 
maximum 
vesting  
£ 
Date of 
vesting
Performance 
period
Keith Cochrane Performance  
shares
Nil cost 
options
29 May 14 £25.71 250% salary 70,489 453,068 1,812,272 29 May 17 1 Jan 14 –  
31 Dec 16
Jon Stanton Performance  
shares
Nil cost 
options
29 May 14 £25.71 200% salary 34,223 219,968 879,873 29 May 17 1 Jan 14 –  
31 Dec 16
Notes
1. The figures shown for performance share awards are maximum entitlements and the actual number of shares (if any) which vest will depend on the performance conditions 
being achieved as set out on page 100. Threshold vesting equals 25% vesting. Maximum vesting equals 100% vesting. No performance and matching shares will vest for  
below threshold performance.
2. The performance period for each LTIP award is based on calendar years. The TSR performance measure is calculated over calendar years. The EPS and ROCE measures  
are calculated over financial periods.
3. The face value of the award is based on the share price at grant, which is calculated as the average of the closing share price for the three days prior to the date of grant.  
The exercise price for performance shares is zero.
4. No additional shares were granted other than at the date of award set out above. 100 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
Performance conditions for the LTIP
2012 2013 2014
TSR
Weighting 50% 50% 33.3%
Target structure Relative TSR 
Growth against 
comparator 
group
Percentage of the 
TSR portion of 
the award that 
vests
Relative TSR 
Growth against 
comparator 
group
Percentage of the 
TSR portion of 
the award that 
vests
Relative TSR 
Growth against 
comparator 
group
Percentage of the 
TSR portion of 
the award that 
vests
Maximum 
performance
Upper quintile 100% Upper quintile 100% Upper quintile 100%
Threshold 
performance
Median 25% Median 25% Median 25%
Below threshold 
performance
Below median 0% Below median 0% Below median 0%
Comparator group Amec Foster Wheeler
2
, Cameron, 
Crane, Dover, Dresser Rand, 
FLSmidth, Flowserve, FMC, Halma, 
IMI, Joy Global, Meggitt, Melrose, 
Metso, Outotec, Rotork, Smiths  
Group, Spirax Sarco, SPX, Sulzer, 
Vesuvius
3
, Wood Group
Amec Foster Wheeler
2
, Cameron, 
Crane, Dover, Dresser Rand, Fenner, 
FLSmidth, Flowserve, FMC, Forum 
Energy
4
, Halma, IMI, Joy Global, 
Meggitt, Melrose, Metso, Outotec,
Rotork, Smiths Group, Spirax Sarco, 
SPX, Sulzer, Vesuvius, Wood Group
Amec Foster Wheeler
2
, Atlas Copco, 
Cameron, Crane, Dover, Dresser Rand, 
Fenner, FLSmidth, Flowserve, FMC, 
IMI, ITT, Joy Global, Melrose, Metso, 
Outotec, Rotork, Sandvik, Smiths 
Group, Spirax Sarco, SPX, Sulzer, 
Vesuvius, Wood Group
EPS
1
Weighting 50% 50% 33.3%
Target structure EPS Growth 
per annum
Percentage  
of EPS portion 
of the award 
that vests
EPS Growth 
per annum
Percentage  
of EPS portion 
of the award 
that vests
EPS Growth 
per annum
Percentage  
of EPS portion 
of the award 
that vests
Maximum 
performance
15% 100% 11% 100% 11% 100%
Threshold 
performance
7% 25% 5% 25% 5% 25%
Below threshold 
performance
Less than 7% 0% Less than 5% 0% Less than 5% 0%
ROCE
1
Weighting 0% 0% 33.3%
Target structure – – – – Improvement in 
average ROCE 
per annum
Percentage of 
ROCE portion  
of the award  
that vests
Maximum 
performance
– – – – 4% 100%
Threshold 
performance
– – – – 0.5% 25%
Below threshold 
performance
– – – – Less than 0.5% 0%
Performance 
periods
Single three year performance period 
for both elements
Single three year performance period 
for both elements
Single three year performance period 
for all elements
Notes
1. EPS and ROCE are subject to adjustments in line with policy.
2. AMEC has been renamed to Amec Foster Wheeler following its acquisition of Foster Wheeler in 2014. 
3. Cookson Group demerged on 1 November 2012, with the new company Alent Plc being separated from the rest of the business, which has been renamed Vesuvius Plc. 
Vesuvius Plc has succeeded Cookson Group in the comparator group.
4. Gardner Denver was acquired and delisted in 2013. It has been removed from the 2012 comparator group and replaced by Forum Energy Technologies in the 2013  
comparator group.
5. Lufkin was acquired during 2013 and has been removed from the 2012 and 2013 comparator groups. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
101 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Statement of Directors’ shareholdings and share interests
The Committee believes that employee share ownership is an important means to support long term commitment to the Company  
and the alignment of employee interests with those of shareholders.
The interests of the Executive Directors and other senior executives are closely aligned with those of shareholders in this regard through 
the operation of the Company’s LTIP and the conversion into shares with restriction on sale of 30% of the annual bonus award for a 
period of three years. These elements constitute a significant proportion of individual remuneration packages.
Following shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM, the shareholding guidelines outlined in the policy table on page 107 apply to all Executive 
Directors. All shares beneficially owned by an Executive Director count towards achieving these guidelines. There is no shareholding 
requirement for Non-Executive Directors.
Current shareholding levels for Directors are set out in the table below.
Summary of total number of interests in shares in the Company and scheme interests as at 2 January 2015
The table and accompanying notes have been audited.
Interests in shares in  
the Company as at  
2 January 2015
Scheme interests as at  
2 January 2015
Scheme interests vested 
and exercised in 2014  
(2011 grant)
1
Security 
type Total shares
Total shares 
(% of 2014 
salary)
Total 
performance 
shares and 
matching 
shares 
(options 
with 
performance 
conditions)
2
Total 
compulsory 
investment 
shares 
(options 
without 
performance 
conditions)
Total 
performance 
shares and 
matching 
shares 
(options 
with 
performance 
conditions)
Total 
compulsory 
investment 
shares 
(options 
without 
performance 
conditions)
Total shares 
contributing 
to 2019 
shareholding 
target 
(% of 2014 
salary)
Shareholding 
guidelines 
(% of 2014 
salary)
Keith Cochrane Shares 285,789 742% 198,328 22,113 37 ,437 13,844 742% 200%
Jon Stanton Shares 30,614 131% 92,082 8,999 16,029 5301 131% 150%
Charles Berry Shares 2,000 – – – – – – –
Alan Ferguson Shares 2,730 – – – – – – –
Melanie Gee Shares 2,500 – – – – – – –
Mary Jo Jacobi
10
Shares 2,000 – – – – – – –
Sir Jim McDonald Shares – – – – – – – –
Richard Menell Shares 1,000 – – – – – – –
John Mogford Shares 12,031 – – – – – – –
Lord Robertson Shares 10,650 – – – – – – –
Notes
1. On 17 March 2014, the 2011 Award under the LTIP for Keith Cochrane and Jon Stanton vested in part. On 29 May 2014, they exercised 42.8% of their performance and 
matching shares and 100% of their compulsory shares as set out in the table above, selling 23,933 shares and 9,955 shares respectively to pay the relevant tax and National 
Insurance and retaining the balance. The market price at date of exercise was £26.11. Options exercised in 2014 had zero exercise price.
2. Awards under the LTIP take the form of nil cost options and have no performance retesting facility.
3. The share awards have a right to receive dividend equivalents in the form of shares payable at vesting. The awards exercised by Keith Cochrane and Jon Stanton on 29 May 2014 
include dividend equivalents of 134.0p per share, being the dividends paid between the date of award and the date of exercise, which equated to 2,527 shares and 1,051 shares 
respectively. 
4. No Director had, during or at the end of the year, any material interest in any contract of any significance in relation to the Group’s business, in any debenture stocks of the 
Company, or in the share capital or debenture or loan stocks of any subsidiary.
5. Due to the vesting outcome of the 2011 LTIP, 47,569 shares under Keith Cochrane’s grant and 20,367 shares under Jon Stanton’s grant lapsed.
6. There are no unexercised vested options held by Executive Directors.
7. All scheme interests outstanding or vesting in the year were share options rather than shares.
8. Total shares as a percentage of salary is based on salary as of 31 December in the relevant financial year and on the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares at the 
financial period end. For 2014, the closing market price at 2 January 2015 was £18.83.
9. There have been no changes to Directors’ interests between 2 January 2015 and 25 February 2015.
10. Mary Jo Jacobi’s interest in 2,000 shares shown above is through her holding of 4,000 of the Group’s unsponsored American Depositary Receipts (‘ADRs’), one ADR being 
equivalent to 0.5 shares.
11. 30% of the annual bonus is converted into shares with a restriction on sale. This resulted in Keith Cochrane receiving 653 shares and Jon Stanton receiving 264 shares.  
These shares are shown in the interests in shares column above. 102 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
4000
4500
5000
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
4,500
5,000
£’000 TSR Index
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1,000
Performance & 
matching shares
Bonus
Fixed elements
The Weir Group PLC TSR
FTSE 100 Index TSR
2014 LTIP Comparator Group TSR
Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
Performance graph and table for Chief Executive
The graph below shows the total shareholder return (TSR) for The Weir Group PLC, the FTSE 100 Index and the 2014 LTIP Comparator 
Group over the six year period ending 31 December 2014. This is set out with the total vested and received remuneration for the Chief 
Executive over the same period, which is set out numerically below the chart. 
The Committee considers that these are the most relevant indices for a comparison of total shareholder return.
Remuneration history for Chief Executive between 2009 and 2014
Mark Selway Keith Cochrane
2009
1
2009
2
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Fixed elements £662,077 £95,384 £572,146 £646,645 £710,501 £740,406 £791,281
Bonus (percentage of maximum) 83.7% 83.7% 100.0% 100.0% 54.0% 10.0% 61.2%
Performance shares and matching  
shares (percentage of maximum) 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 42.8% 0%
Total remuneration £2,237,201 £217,746 £2,913,022 £4,728,338 £3,363,555 £1,787,327 £1,456,845
Notes
1. 2009 remuneration relates to the ten months Mark Selway was Chief Executive until his resignation in November 2009.
2. 2009 remuneration relates to the two months Keith Cochrane was Chief Executive from November 2009.
Total remuneration is calculated on the same basis as the 2014 remuneration summary in the single total figure of remuneration for 
Executive Directors table on page 96. In particular, this includes the value of performance shares and matching shares that vest following 
the end of each financial year, including dividends equivalents where appropriate. For 2014, the value of the share awards is estimated 
based on the average share price in the last financial quarter. This will be restated next year once the share price at the date of vesting  
is known. Prior year calculations are based on the actual share price at date of vesting and the 2013 value has been restated from that 
disclosed in the 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements accordingly. 
Percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration
The percentage change in elements of remuneration for the Chief Executive between the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 and the  
52 weeks ended 2 January 2015 is detailed below. The change in remuneration for UK employees for the same period is also provided.
 
Chief 
Executive 
Percentage 
change
 
UK 
Employees 
Percentage 
change
Salary & Fees 0.9% 3.4%
Taxable Benefits 5.2% 15.4%
Bonus 512.0% 284.3%
For the purposes of this section, remuneration has been calculated in accordance with the Regulations to include salary, fees, taxable 
benefits (including emoluments) and certain performance-related pay for the relevant financial year (primarily bonuses but excluding  
long term incentives). Pension and retirement benefits are not included. To help minimise distortions in the data, the UK employee 
remuneration figures have been prepared on the basis of employees who were employed by Weir companies whose principal  
reporting currency was pounds Sterling during 2013 and 2014.   Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
103 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
The increase in bonus for the Chief Executive reflects the figures in the single total figure table in 2013 and 2014. In 2013, the NPBTA 
element of the bonus did not meet threshold and the bonus paid out at 10.0% of maximum. In 2014, the NPBTA element of the bonus 
was just below target and the bonus paid out at 61.2% of maximum. The total of the single total figure for the Chief Executive decreased 
by 18.5% from 2013 to 2014.
The UK employee population has been selected as it reflects a broad sample of employees which includes Head Office employees  
and other individuals located in the same country as the Executive Directors.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below shows the expenditure of the Company on employee remuneration costs in the 2014 financial year and 2013 financial 
year. In addition, it details the disbursements from profit made by way of dividend payments during the same periods.
   
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Percentage 
change
Profit distributed by way of dividend 102.7 82.6 24.3%
Overall spend on pay for employees 630.7 602.0 4.8%
 
Details of the overall spend on pay for employees can be found in note 4 to the Financial Statements on page 133. Employees include 
Executive Directors but not Non-Executive Directors. The Company considers employee remuneration costs in the context of the general 
financial performance and position of the Company, including when determining the salary increase budget, annual bonus funding, long 
term incentive grant budget, and pension levels.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration, Terms of Reference and Evaluation
To ensure reward arrangements support the Company’s philosophy, strategy and culture, the Committee reviews compensation and 
benefit plans for the Executive Directors, senior leadership, and the broader employee population. In December 2014, the Committee 
reviewed its Terms of Reference. The Remuneration Committee was evaluated as part of the 2014 Board evaluation process, conducted 
externally by Independent Board Review, and it was concluded that the Committee continued to function strongly in accordance with 
good corporate governance. The report highlighted that in a busy year involving the formulation of the new remuneration policy, there  
had been a cohesive approach and in particular a significant amount of good work undertaken on shareholder consultation. Improvements 
can always be made and the Committee has agreed a number of these for implementation in 2015.
More details of the Board evaluation can be found on pages 80 and 81. The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the  
Company’s website.
Remuneration Committee membership and attendance
Current members Name Attendance
Alan Ferguson
1
Melanie Gee 5 of 5
Melanie Gee (Chairman) Mary Jo Jacobi 4 of 4
Mary Jo Jacobi
2
Rick Menell 5 of 5
Rick Menell Lord Robertson
3
5 of 5
Remuneration Committee attendees
Charles Berry Group Chairman Attends by invitation
Keith Cochrane Chief Executive Attends by invitation
Keith Ruddock Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Attends as Secretary to the Committee
Pauline Lafferty Director of Human Resources Attends by invitation
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) Attends as adviser to the Committee
Notes
1. Alan Ferguson was appointed to the Committee on 1 February 2015.
2. Mary Jo Jacobi was appointed to the Committee on 21 January 2014.
3. Lord Robertson retired from the Committee on 31 January 2015.
There were five meetings held during the 52 weeks to 2 January 2015, and the attendance of the individual members of the Committee 
during that period is detailed in the table above. All members of the Committee are considered to be independent Non-Executive Directors 
and no Director plays a part in the determination of their own remuneration. Executive Directors and senior management attend committee 
meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman. No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest, other than as a 
shareholder, in the matters decided by the Committee. 104 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
Remuneration Committee activities in 2014
In 2014, the Committee discussed the key agenda items set out in the following table:
Date Agenda items
January Approval of salaries and 2014 annual bonus targets/measures for Executive Directors/Group Executive; approval of 
Chairman fee; review of internal operating guidelines for remuneration; review of draft 2013 Remuneration Report; 
update on consultation process; review of terms of reference; feedback on Committee effectiveness review; change 
of Committee members. 
February Approval of 2013 bonus payments for Executive Directors/Group Executive; note payment of 2013 bonuses 
to senior managers; approval of vesting for 2011 LTIP; approval of new LTIP rules; approval of participants/
performance conditions for 2014 annual bonus and LTIP; finalisation of 2013 Remuneration Report.
May Update on remuneration related matters with regards to current business strategy.
July Approval of LTIP grants for new joiners; review outcome of Weir AGM and update on the AGM season; approval 
of standing items for Remuneration Committee calendar; and consideration of the role of PwC as advisors to  
the Committee.
December Consideration of draft Directors’ Remuneration Report in context of current market practice; review of business 
outlook and timing for approval of 2015 LTIP award performance targets and measures and targets for the 2015  
annual bonus plan; review of initial proposals for 2015 salaries of Executive Directors and the wider Group; review of 
the Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference; and review of the 2015 calendar for the Remuneration Committee.
Advisors to the Committee
In discharging its responsibilities in 2014, the Committee was materially assisted by the Director of Human Resources and the Company Secretary.
PwC was appointed following a review of providers by the Committee in 2011. In July 2014, the Committee considered the role of  
PwC and agreed to extend their tenure as independent external advisor to the Committee. Fees paid to PwC in relation to remuneration 
services provided to the Committee in 2014 totalled £50,815. This included advice on remuneration policy and practice, as well as 
guidance to the Committee on corporate governance trends and best practice. PwC is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants’ 
Group Voluntary Code of Conduct.
The Committee recognises the need to obtain independent advice and given that PwC provides additional services to the Group, the 
Remuneration Committee Chairman has discussed this with PwC and management. The Committee is confident that any potential 
conflicts are managed appropriately by the Company and PwC. For information, the additional services provided by PwC include advice 
on pension schemes, IT project assurance, and global mobility services. PwC also provided advice on taxation, company secretarial 
services, internal audit services and due diligence and corporate finance advice in relation to acquisitions. 
Statement of voting at general meeting
The Company is committed to maintaining an open shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes. In the event  
of a substantial vote against the Directors’ Remuneration Report, the Company would explain when announcing the results of voting 
what actions would be taken to understand the reasons for any such vote and would also set out in the following Annual Report actions 
implemented in response. 
At the Company’s last Annual General Meeting on 1 May 2014, the resolutions to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy as contained in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 were supported as follows:
Voting outcome
Votes  
for Percentage
Votes 
against Percentage
Votes  
total 
Votes 
withheld 
2013 Directors’ Remuneration Report  
(excluding the Directors’ Remuneration Policy) 146,473,090 99.84% 227 ,564 0.16% 146,700,654 467 ,724
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 144,926,563 99.61% 564,376 0.39% 145,490,939 1,676,889
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The full Directors’ Remuneration Policy, as approved at the 2014 AGM on 1 May 2014, is set out on the Company’s website in the 
Remuneration Committee section. The Company is not proposing any changes to this policy.
Below and incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Remuneration, we set out the Directors’ policy table for reference, 
updated only to remove information which is now historic. This reflects the structure of remuneration for future awards and does not 
replace or override the full approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Melanie Gee
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board
25 February 2015 Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
105 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Directors’ policy table
The Group’s overarching remuneration policy is designed to ensure that remuneration supports the Group’s strategy and business 
objectives. The policy and practice have been developed to support the creation of value for shareholders, drive appropriate behaviours 
and incentivise outperformance, while being clearly linked to both individual and corporate performance. The Committee is mindful of  
a broad range of stakeholders in setting this policy and has considered best practice guidelines from shareholders and representative 
bodies. The Committee has adopted a set of principles which are used as the basis against which remuneration arrangements have  
been established.
The Group’s remuneration principles are that reward should enable the Group to:
 – attract, motivate and retain senior executives with the necessary abilities to manage and develop the Group’s activities successfully 
for the benefit of shareholders;
 – clearly align remuneration outcomes with the long term interests of the Group and its shareholders;
 – drive appropriate behaviours that are in line with the culture of the Group and focus senior executives on the critical business 
objectives by rewarding them against challenging performance criteria; and 
 – provide a significant part of potential reward through performance based incentive plans.
Base salary
How the element supports our strategic objectives
The provision of a competitive base salary as part of an overall 
compensation package enables the Group to attract and retain  
talented leaders.
Operation of the element
Reviewed annually with effect from 1 April. Set by reference to 
market practice for a similar role in a peer group of global companies 
of a similar size and complexity; personal performance; the wider 
employee context; and economic and labour market conditions.
Maximum potential value and payment at threshold
It is expected that salary increases for Executive Directors  
will be made broadly in line with salary increases applied to  
UK employees or the relevant jurisdiction if an Executive  
Director is based outside the UK. 
Higher increases may apply if there is a change in role or 
responsibility, the individual is relatively new in role, or there is 
significant variance to the market. Any significant salary increases 
will be appropriately explained. The maximum salary level for each 
Executive Director is set by reference to a peer group of FTSE 51-
100 companies and appropriate overseas comparators of similar 
size and complexity.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to change the 
peer group during the life of this policy.
Performance metrics used, weighting and time  
period applicable
Not applicable. 
Benefits and pension
How the element supports our strategic objectives
To provide a market aligned benefits package.
Operation of the element
Benefits include, but are not limited to: Group health care; car 
allowance; travel allowance; and death in service insurance.
The Company may also meet certain mobility costs and pay 
additional tax arising due to an international assignment, and may 
also provide for long term disability benefits. Additional benefits may 
be provided where required by legislation or to align the package 
with market practice where these are not significant in value. 
Directors and Officers’ Liability insurance will also be provided.
The Group makes no specific provision for Executive Directors’ 
pensions. However, the Board has considered the implications 
of the new UK government legislation on auto-enrolment for UK 
employees and has adopted a policy for all UK employees to  
be implemented when the auto-enrolment regulations come  
into force.
Maximum potential value and payment at threshold
The value of relevant benefits will be determined by the cost of 
the provision of insured products. As the cost of providing such 
insurance benefits varies according to premium rates and the cost 
of other benefits is dependent on market rates and other factors, 
there is no formal maximum monetary value. Car allowance will 
normally be no greater than £20,000 per annum. As part of the 
Company’s provision in respect of auto-enrolment, at senior levels 
individuals are eligible for a contribution into the pension plan  
or a cash allowance of 12% of salary per annum from July 2014.
Performance metrics used, weighting and time  
period applicable 
Not applicable. 106 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ policy table (continued)
Annual bonus (see also notes 1 and 3)
How the element supports our strategic objectives
To reward the achievement of stretching Group performance for 
the current year, supporting our strategy of delivering sustainable 
growth in our key markets.
Operation of the element
The annual bonus (the Executive Bonus Scheme) is based on in-
year performance against financial, personal and strategic goals.
The annual bonus plan has two parts – a cash element (70%) 
and an element converted into shares where there is a restriction 
on sale for three years (30%). The size of both elements is 
determined by performance in the year.
Targets are set at the beginning of the performance year which 
runs from the start to the end of each financial period.
Any changes to original targets, measures or payout levels will  
be fully explained in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
On change of control, the bonus payment will be pro-rated for 
time and an assessment of performance over the appropriate 
period, with the Committee having discretion to make 
adjustments to this figure if appropriate.
Maximum potential value and payment at threshold
150% of salary for Chief Executive.
125% of salary for other Executive Directors.
The achievement of stretch targets results in maximum bonus 
payout. 20% of bonus will pay out for performance at threshold, 
with payment on a straight line basis between threshold and stretch.
Performance metrics used, weighting and time  
period applicable 
The measures, as well as the weightings within these measures, 
will depend on the strategic focus of the Company in any given year. 
The financial element of the annual bonus is based on the 
achievement of a Group Normalised Profit before Tax and 
Amortisation (NPBTA) target measured over the financial period.
No more than 20% of the annual bonus will be based on personal 
performance targets.
Payouts under the NPBTA element may be reduced to the extent 
that Group working capital targets are not achieved.
The Committee has discretion in exceptional circumstances  
to alter the measures and/or targets during the performance 
period if it believes the original measures and/or targets are  
no longer appropriate.
The Committee also has discretion in exceptional circumstances  
to alter the payout levels of an award at the end of the performance 
period if it believes this will better reflect the underlying performance 
of the Company but in no circumstances will exceed the maximum 
bonus potential.
Bonus shares subject to restriction on sale
How the element supports our strategic objectives
Bonus converted into shares with restriction on sale (Bonus 
shares), which supplements the long term elements of pay  
and further aligns executives to the interests of shareholders.
Operation of the element
30% of the annual bonus paid in respect of the performance  
year is converted into shares with a restriction on sale.
Bonus shares are subject to malus and clawback which enables 
the Company not to release any bonus shares before the end  
of the restriction period, or to clawback the relevant value after 
the restriction period has ended for a period of up to three years.
Malus and clawback may be applied in certain circumstances 
where there is found to be a material misstatement in the audited 
accounts of the Group or a Group company accounts, where  
the executive’s action or conduct amounts to gross misconduct,  
or where there is a significant detrimental reputational impact  
on the Company for which the executive is responsible.
Bonus shares subject to a restriction on sale may vest on  
a change of control and on certain other corporate events  
in accordance with the rules of the 2014 LTIP.
Bonus shares are subject to a restriction on sale under the  
rules of the 2014 LTIP.
Maximum potential value and payment at threshold
30% of any bonus payable is converted into shares.
Performance metrics used, weighting and time  
period applicable 
The Bonus shares are subject to a restriction on sale for three 
years. No performance conditions apply. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
107 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Performance shares (see also notes 2 and 3)
How the element supports our strategic objectives
To incentivise executives to achieve sustained growth  
through superior long term performance and create  
alignment with shareholders.
The performance share awards reward executives for performance 
against key measures which are critical to delivering our strategy.
Operation of the element
Allows for annual grants of performance shares. Awards vest after 
three years, subject to performance conditions. Vested shares for 
Executive Directors are then subject to a two year holding period.
Participants are entitled to dividend equivalents between award 
and vesting, paid in additional shares at vesting in respect of 
awards that vest. 
Malus and clawback arrangements operate in respect of 
performance shares. These enable the Company to reduce 
unvested awards and to clawback the relevant value of the vested 
shares for a period of up to three years after the date of vesting. 
Malus and clawback may be applied in certain situations where 
there is found to be a material misstatement in the audited 
accounts of the Group or a Group company accounts, where 
the executive’s action or conduct amounts to gross misconduct,  
or where there is a significant detrimental reputational impact  
on the Company for which the executive is responsible.
Awards granted under the LTIP may vest on a change of 
control and certain other corporate events, assessed (unless 
the Committee in its discretion otherwise decides) against 
performance conditions and on a time pro-rated basis in 
accordance with the rules of the plan. 
Maximum potential value and payment at threshold
Awards may be made to Executive Directors at the following levels:
 – Chief Executive: 250%.
 – Other Executive Directors: 200%.
300% of salary may be awarded in exceptional circumstances.
Performance metrics used, weighting and time  
period applicable 
Performance conditions measured over three financial years. 
Vested shares for Executive Directors are then subject to a two 
year holding period.
Performance measures and relative weightings are:
 – Earnings per share (EPS) growth (1/3 weighting).
 – Relative total shareholder return (TSR) (1/3 weighting).
 - TSR relative to comparator group of global engineering 
companies.
 - Threshold vesting at median. Maximum vesting at  
upper quintile.
 – Improvement in average return on capital employed (ROCE) 
(1/3 weighting).
  
For all three measures, 25% of the maximum award vests at 
threshold and 100% at maximum, with vesting calculated on  
a straight line basis.
In exceptional circumstances, where the Committee believes 
that the original performance measures and targets are no longer 
appropriate, it has discretion to substitute or vary these measures 
and targets. The Committee will only take such a course of action 
where it considers it to be in the best interests of the shareholders. 
In these exceptional circumstances, the Committee will make full 
disclosure of the arrangements and their rationale in the following 
year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
Shareholding guidelines
How the element supports our strategic objectives
To ensure the interests of the Executive Directors remain aligned 
with those of shareholders.
Operation of the element 
Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding in the 
Company over a five year period.
Under the 2014 LTIP, 30% of the annual bonus is converted into 
shares with a restriction on sale. The Company requires Executive 
Directors to retain 50% of performance shares received, after the 
deduction of applicable taxes, from the 2014 LTIP and the bonus 
shares subject to restriction on sale until the requirements are met.
All shares beneficially owned by an executive and shares subject  
to a restriction on sale count towards achieving these guidelines. 
The Committee reviews share ownership levels annually for this 
group. The Committee has flexibility in the application of this 
policy to take into account particular individual circumstances.
Maximum potential value and payment at threshold
The minimum shareholding requirement is as follows: 
 – Chief Executive: 200% of base salary. 
 – Other Executive Directors: 150% of base salary.
Performance metrics used, weighting and time  
period applicable 
Not applicable. 
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
How the element supports our strategic objectives
To attract and retain experienced and skilled Non-Executive 
Directors.
Operation of the element
Fees will be reviewed annually by reference to companies 
of similar size and complexity, economic and labour market 
conditions as well as time commitment and responsibilities.
Additional allowances are made available to Non-Executive 
Directors, where appropriate, to reflect the additional time 
commitment in attending intercontinental Board meetings  
and operational visits.
Maximum potential value and payment at threshold
Increases are effective in April and any planned increases in fees 
will take into account general increases across the Group along 
with market practice.
The maximum fee level for each Non-Executive Director would be 
set within the range of fee levels in our peer group of companies 
of a similar size and complexity.
Performance metrics used, weighting and time  
period applicable 
The fees paid to the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors 
are not performance related. 108 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ policy table (continued)
Notes to the policy table
1. Annual bonus performance measures and targets
 – The profit performance measure of Normalised Profit before Tax and Amortisation (NPBTA) was selected by the Company as 
profitability is central to the Company’s overall strategy. The performance measure is adjusted to exclude items that are one  
off in nature, subject to Remuneration Committee approval.
 – The performance targets are determined annually by the Committee. The performance targets for the NPBTA performance measure 
are set in the context of consensus forecasts and the internal budget.
 – The performance required for maximum payout is typically set at a level that is above the level of the Company’s forecasts. If performance 
is in line with the forecast then typically part of the annual bonus would pay out.
 – The performance target of NPBTA is adjusted to match the actual foreign exchange rates during the financial period and is also increased or 
decreased to reflect the impact of any acquisitions or disposals made in the year that are of a size requiring Board approval. For acquisitions, 
the target is increased by the expected NPBTA from the acquired business. For disposals, the target is reduced by the budgeted NPBTA 
from the business which was disposed of.
 – The Committee is of the view that the performance target for the financial element under the annual bonus is commercially sensitive  
and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose this before the end of the financial year. Disclosure of the 
performance target of the financial element in advance could lead the Company to be at a competitive disadvantage as many competitors 
are not listed in the UK and would not be subject to this requirement. The Company would be releasing potentially commercially sensitive 
information which many of the Company’s direct competitors in its three end markets would not be required to disclose.
 – The personal performance measures relate to achievement of personal and strategic goals.
 – Personal performance measures and targets are set by the Chairman for the Chief Executive and by the Chief Executive for other 
Executive Directors. The Committee discusses and approves these targets for Executive Directors in consultation with the Director  
of Human Resources and they are linked to the Company’s annual appraisal process.
 – The Committee is of the view that the performance targets for the personal element are commercially sensitive as they relate to 
internal management projects and personal goals.
 – The performance targets for the financial elements of the bonus and the main groupings of individual performance measures will  
be retrospectively disclosed after the end of the relevant financial period in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
2. LTIP performance measures and targets
 – The Committee selected the performance conditions for the LTIP as these are central to the Company’s overall strategy and are 
intended to link reward to long term sustainable growth.
 – The performance measures are EPS, TSR and ROCE:
 - EPS is adjusted earnings per fully paid ordinary share in the capital of the Company calculated on such basis as the Committee  
may specify. In addition, the EPS figure used to calculate the award may be adjusted for changes in accounting standards to ensure 
a consistent measurement basis across the performance period.
 - TSR is the increase in the net return index (the index that reflects movements in share price over a period and dividend reinvested 
net of any associated tax credit in shares on the ex-dividend date) for a company as calculated by Datastream (or such other 
financial information provider as selected by the Committee) over the performance period.
 - ROCE is defined as earnings before interest and tax divided by capital employed. Earnings before interest and tax is taken as Group 
continuing operations after intangibles amortisation but before exceptional items for the relevant financial year. Capital employed  
is taken as the average of opening and closing Group net assets excluding net debt/cash and pension deficit (net of deferred tax 
asset) for the relevant financial year. To eliminate the impact of movements in foreign exchange rates over the period of the plan, 
the average foreign exchange rates for the base year are held constant throughout the plan period. With regard to acquisitions, 
those acquisitions made in the base year are included, based on a full year’s ownership, for the purposes of target setting. Where 
acquisitions are made in subsequent years of the plan period, these are excluded from the assessment of performance relative to 
the target. Where there are disposals during the plan period, the base and target ROCE calculations will be restated to eliminate 
the contribution from the disposed business in the period of ownership.
 – The performance targets are determined annually by the Committee. EPS, TSR and ROCE targets are set to ensure they are 
sufficiently stretching but also motivational and consistent with the Company’s remuneration strategy. In setting targets the 
Committee considers the Company’s operating environment, and internal and external growth forecasts.
 – The performance required for maximum vesting is typically set at a level that is above the level of the Company’s forecasts. If performance 
is in line with the forecast then typically part of the award would vest.
 – EPS, TSR and ROCE targets are disclosed prospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant year.
3. Differences in remuneration policy for all employees
 – The Company seeks to operate a locally driven approach to pay and benefits in all its locations.
 – Employees in management roles are also eligible to participate in an annual bonus. The maximum opportunity available in the annual 
bonus scheme is based on the seniority and responsibility of the role.
 – The LTIP seeks to encourage a shared focus on our corporate goals within the senior management and executive populations. Grants 
under the 2014 LTIP may be made to around 300 of the most senior managers in the Group. The nature of the award depends on the 
individual’s location and seniority. When used, the performance conditions will be the same throughout the Group.
 – In markets other than the UK, LTIP awards may be made in the form of a combination of performance shares and/or either restricted 
shares or share appreciation rights with a corresponding reduction in award level. The restricted shares or share appreciation rights  
are subject to a service condition of continued employment within the Group. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
109 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Directors’ Report
The Directors present their report for the year ending 2 January 2015.
This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons. The Company,  
its directors, employees, agents and advisors, do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is 
shown or into whose hands it may come, and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. This Annual Report may contain 
statements which are not based on current or historical fact and/or which are forward looking in nature. Please refer to the cautionary 
statement on page 188.
2015 Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.30pm on Wednesday 29 April 2015 at the Radisson Blu Hotel, Argyle Street, Glasgow.  
The Notice of Meeting along with an explanation of the proposed resolutions are set out in a separate circular to shareholders which 
accompanies this Annual Report and can be downloaded from the Company’s website.
Notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting. The Company conducts the vote at the AGM  
by electronic poll and the result of the votes, including proxies, is published on the Company’s website after the meeting.
Dividend
The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 29.0p per share for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015. Payment of this dividend  
is subject to shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM.
Substantial shareholders
At 2 January 2015, the Company had been notified in accordance with the UK Listing Authority’s Disclosure Rules and Transparency 
Rules that the following held, or were beneficially interested in, 3% or more of the Company’s issued share capital.
Shareholder
Number of 
shares
Percentage of 
issued share 
capital
Aberdeen Asset Managers Ltd 10,797,589 5.07%
AXA 10,637,959 4.99%
Norges Bank 8,503,919 3.99%
Note 
The entire shareholdings of AXA and Aberdeen Asset Managers Ltd are held indirectly.
No changes have been disclosed to the Company between 2 January 2015 and 25 February 2015. Since this date, the interest of any 
shareholder listed above may have increased or decreased. Information provided to the Company pursuant to the relevant Disclosure 
Rules and Transparency Rules is publicly available via the regulatory information services. No requirement to notify the Company of any 
increase or decrease would have arisen unless the holding moved up or down through a whole number percentage level. The percentage 
level may increase (if the Company cancelled shares pursuant to the power to purchase its own shares) or decrease (on the issue of new 
shares under the LTIP).
Employment policy and involvement
The average number of employees in the Group during the period is given in note 4 to the Group financial statements on page 133.
Group companies operate within a framework of HR policies, practices and regulations appropriate to their market sector and country of 
operation. Policies and procedures for recruitment, training and career development promote equality of opportunity regardless of gender, 
sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
The aim is to encourage a culture in which all employees have the opportunity to develop fully according to their individual abilities and 
the needs of the Group. The Group remains committed to the fair treatment of people with disabilities regarding applications, training, 
promotion and career development.
Employee involvement and feedback is actively encouraged. A variety of ways are used to consult and inform employees including  
a Groupwide bulletin, e-mail, intranet and local briefings. These are designed to facilitate dialogue while enabling the development  
of a common awareness among employees of what affects business performance.
Further details of the Group’s employment policies and involvement are detailed in the Our People section of the Sustainability Review  
on pages 61 to 63.
Greenhouse gas emissions
The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from activities for which  
the Company is responsible, including the combustion of fuel and the operation of any facility. The Group’s global greenhouse gas  
(GHG) emissions for 2014 and related disclosures required under The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) 
Regulations 2013 are contained in the Environment section of the Sustainability Review on pages 54 to 57 and form part of the Directors’ 
Report disclosures.
Financial instruments
The information required in respect of financial instruments as required by Schedule 7 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies  
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 is given in note 30 to the Group financial statements on pages 161 to 168. 110 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Share capital and rights attaching to the Company’s shares
Details of the issued share capital of the Company, which comprises a single class of ordinary shares of 12.5p each are set out in note 25  
to the Group financial statements on page 156. The rights attaching to the shares are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association. 
There are no special control rights in relation to the Company’s shares and the Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and/or voting rights.
The Weir Group has two employee benefit trusts: one with the trustees Kleinwort Benson (Guernsey) Trustees Limited (the ‘Kleinwort 
EBT’) and one with the trustees Appleby Trust (Jersey) Limited (the ‘Appleby EBT’).
During the period, the 2011 LTIP award vested and the trustees of the Kleinwort EBT transferred 36,239 ordinary shares to employees  
to satisfy the LTIP awards using ordinary shares purchased by the Kleinwort EBT in the market. In addition, a total of 222,521 ordinary 
shares, with an aggregate nominal value of £27,815.13, were allotted during the period in connection with the Company’s LTIP. The 
222,521 shares were issued to senior managers of the Group pursuant to LTIP awards granted on 17 March 2011, on which date the 
closing share price was £16.06. The allotments of these 222,521 shares were made as follows: 17 March 2014 – 94,612 shares at a 
closing price of £25.06; 21 March 2014 – 10,042 shares at a closing price of £24.40; 1 April 2014 – 312 shares at a closing price of £25.18; 
7 April 2014 – 1,930 shares at a closing price of £25.17; 25 April 2014 – 4,789 shares at a closing price of £26.62; 13 May 2014 – 3,022 
shares at a closing price of £26.96; 15 May 2014 – 766 shares at a closing price of £25.98; 28 May 2014 – 942 shares at a closing price  
of £25.84, 29 May 2014 – 85,035 shares at a closing price of £26.11; 13 June 2014 – 4,499 shares at a closing price of £26.59; 11 August 
2014 – 10,093 shares at a closing price of £26.07; 18 September 2014 – 6,479 shares at a closing price of £26.30.
Both EBTs have agreed to waive any right to all dividend payments on shares held by them, with the exception of shares held in respect 
of awards which have a dividend entitlement. Details of the shares held by the EBTs are set out in note 25 to the Group financial statements 
on page 156. The 83,850 shares held in the Appleby EBT for the deferred element are the shares in respect of which dividends have not 
been waived. The Kleinwort EBT holds, through its account nominee K.B. (CI) Nominees Limited, 0.03% of the issued share capital of the 
Company, as at 2 January 2015, in trust for the benefit of certain Executive Directors and senior executives of the Group. The Appleby 
EBT holds, through account nominee CGWL Nominees Ltd, 0.12% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 2 January 2015. 0.04% 
of this is held in trust for the benefit of certain senior executives of the Group, and 0.08% is held in trust on behalf of the Company for 
satisfaction of any future vesting of the Weir Group Deferred Bonus Plan. With the exception of the shares held for the benefit of certain 
senior executives, the voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the trustees. The EBTs may vote or abstain from voting with 
the shares or accept or reject any offer relating to shares, in any way they see fit, without incurring any liability and without being required  
to give reasons for their decision.
Repurchase of shares
At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, shareholders renewed the Company’s authority to make market purchases of up to 21.3m ordinary 
shares (representing approximately 10% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares). No shares were purchased under this 
authority during the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015 and at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Board will again seek 
shareholder approval to renew the annual authority for the Company to make market purchases at the same level.
Voting rights
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that on a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of ordinary 
shares present in person and by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy 
and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held. The Notice of the AGM specifies deadlines for exercising voting 
rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM. The Company conducts the vote at the 
AGM by electronic poll. All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced 
at the AGM and published on the Company’s website after the meeting.
The Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution passed at a general meeting of shareholders.
Transfer of shares
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company, other than as contained in the Articles of Association:
 – The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any certificated share which is not fully paid up, provided that this power will  
not be exercised so as to disturb the market in the Company’s shares.
 – The Directors may also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share unless it is delivered to the registrar’s office, or such  
other place as the Directors have specified, accompanied by a certificate for the shares to be transferred and such other evidence  
as the Directors may reasonably require to prove title of the intending transferor.
Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations, for example, insider trading laws, in relation to the 
transfer of shares.
Appointment and replacement of Directors
The provisions about the appointment and re-election of Directors of the Company are contained in the Articles of Association.
Powers of Directors
The business of the Company is managed by the Directors who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions  
of the Company’s Articles of Association, any special resolution of the Company and any relevant legislation.
Directors’ indemnities
The Company has granted indemnities to each of its Directors in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution  
of their powers, duties and responsibilities as Directors to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s Articles 
of Association. In addition, directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and trustees of its pension schemes are covered  
by directors and officers’ liability insurance.
Directors’ Report continued Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
111 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Pension scheme indemnities
The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes in the UK which provide retirement and death benefits for employees  
and former employees of the Group. The corporate trustees of the pension schemes are The Weir Group Pension Trust Limited  
and The Weir Group Senior Executives Pension Trust Limited, which are subsidiary companies of the Group. Qualifying pension scheme 
indemnity provisions, as defined in section 235 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force for the financial year ended 2 January 2015 and 
remain in force for the benefit of each of the directors of the corporate trustees of the pension schemes. These indemnity provisions cover, 
to the extent permitted by law, certain losses or liabilities incurred as a director or officer of the corporate trustees of the pension schemes. 
Change of control – significant agreements
The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to require prior approval, exercise termination, 
alteration or similar rights in the event of a change of control of the Company.
The Group has in place a five year US$800m multi-currency revolving credit facility with a syndicate of 11 banks due to mature in 
September 2019. Under the terms of this agreement, if there is a change of control of the Company, any lender may request, by not less 
than 30 days’ notice to the Company, that its commitment be cancelled and all outstanding amounts be repaid to that lender at the expiry 
of such notice period.
The Company has in issue fixed rate private placement notes with a range of maturities: US$70m at an interest rate of 5.03% due on 
11 January 2018, £43m at an interest rate of 5.36% due on 11 January 2018, US$210m at an interest rate of 3.69% due on 16 February 
2019, US$590m at an interest rate of 4.27% due on 16 February 2022 and US$200m at an interest rate of 4.34% due on 16 February 
2023. Under the terms of the applicable note purchase agreements, if there is a change of control of the Company, the notes must  
be offered for prepayment by the Company within seven days of the change of control. The prepayment date would be no later than  
60 days after the offer of prepayment by the Company. Private placement notes for US$90m at an interest rate of 4.2% were repaid  
on 11 January 2015 and £12m at an interest rate of 4.58% were repaid on 11 January 2015.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or 
employment (whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise) that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Management report
The Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report constitute the management report as required under the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rule 4.1.5R.
Directors’ Report disclosures contained in the Strategic Report
The Company has chosen to disclose the following information in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 68:
 – Particulars of any important events, if any, affecting the Company which have occurred since the end of the financial year.
 – An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Company.
 – An indication of the activities of the Company in the field of research and development.
 – Details of Employee Involvement. 
 – Information on Greenhouse Gas emissions.
Corporate Governance Statement
The information which fulfils the requirements of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules can be found in this Directors’ Report and in 
the Corporate Governance sections on pages 69 to 108, which form part of this Directors’ Report and are incorporated into it by reference.
Disclosure of information under Listing Rule 9.8.4
The information that fulfils the reporting requirements relating to the following matters can be found on the pages identified.
Subject matter Page reference
Allotment of shares for cash (LR 9.8.4(7)) Page 110 – reference to allotment of 222,521 ordinary shares,  
with an aggregate nominal value of £27,815.13.
Waiver of dividends (LR 9.8.4(12)) Page 110 – reference to waiver of dividends by Kleinwort EBT and 
Appleby EBT (as defined at page 110), referencing note 25 to the 
consolidated financial statements on page 156.
Confirmations
So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information (as defined by section 481 of the Companies Act 2006)  
of which the Company’s auditors are unaware.
Each of the Directors has taken all of the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information. 112 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Going concern
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future.  
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. In forming this view, the Directors 
have reviewed the Group’s budgets, plans and cash flow forecasts, including market downturn sensitivities. In addition, the Directors 
have considered the potential impact of credit risk and liquidity risk detailed in note 30 to the Group financial statements on pages 161 
to 168. Each of these items has been considered in relation to the Group’s banking facilities described in note 20 on pages 147 and 148.
The Directors’ Report has been approved by the Board of Directors in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors have prepared 
the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union 
and the Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to:
 – Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
 – Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
 – State that the Group financial statements have complied with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material 
departures being disclosed and explained.
 – State for the Company financial statements whether the applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures being disclosed and explained.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the 2006 Act and Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and 
provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, as at the date of this report, confirms to the best of their knowledge that:
 – The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group.
 – The Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
  
Charles Berry    Keith Cochrane
Chairman    Chief Executive
25 February 2015    25 February 2015
Directors’ Report continued Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
113 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of The Weir Group PLC 
Opinion on the financial statements 
In our opinion:
 – the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 2 January 2015 
and of the Group’s profit for the 52 weeks then ended; 
 – the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs)  
as adopted by the European Union; 
 – the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice; and 
 – the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
We have audited the Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements (together, the ‘financial statements’)  
of The Weir Group plc for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015 which comprise:
 – for the Group financial statements, the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income,  
the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the 
related notes 1 to 32; and
 – for the Parent Company financial statements, the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 17.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Parent Company’s circumstances and have  
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors;  
and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual 
Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.  
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our application of materiality 
We set certain thresholds for materiality. These provide a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, 
identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group to be £18.0m (2013: £20.0m), which is 5% of adjusted 
profit before tax from continuing operations. We have considered profit before tax from continuing operations, adjusted for the impact  
of exceptional items, as we consider this adjusted measure to be a key driver of business value and therefore a focus for shareholders. 
The decrease in materiality applied from the prior year is reflective of the reduction in this adjusted measure.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the overall control environment, our judgement is that performance 
materiality was 75% (2013: 75%) of our materiality, namely £13.5 million (2013: £15.0 million). Our objective in adopting this approach was 
to ensure that uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our planning materiality level.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all individual unadjusted audit differences and significant 
judgemental items which either affect the Income Statement in excess of £0.5m (2013: £0.5m), or the Balance Sheet in excess of  
£2.0m (2013: £2.0m), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our professional judgement, warrant reporting on qualitative 
grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of  
the financial statements.
 
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
Changes from prior year
We no longer consider that the fair valuation assessment of contingent consideration is a risk that had the greatest effect on the audit 
strategy, following the exceptional gain on release of Mathena Inc. contingent consideration liability in 2013.
We no longer consider that acquisition accounting is a risk that had the greatest effect on the audit strategy, following consideration  
of the size and complexity of the acquisition fair values for current year acquisitions.
We have considered that a material misstatement arising from the presentation and consistency of costs and income within exceptional 
items is a risk that had the greatest effect on the audit strategy, following the Group-wide efficiency review announced in the current year. 114 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of The Weir Group PLC  
continued
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement (continued)
Current year assessment
We identified the following risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on the audit strategy; the allocation of resources  
in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team:
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Exceptional items: Group-wide efficiency review
Refer to page 46 (Financial Review), page 87 (Audit Committee report) and page 134 (note 5 to the financial statements).
The presentation, consistency and recognition of costs and 
income within exceptional items is a key determinant in the 
assessment of the quality of the Group’s underlying earnings.
We have evaluated this as a risk of material misstatement, given 
the increase in items presented as exceptional from prior years.
The primary components of the exceptional items in the current 
year – and therefore the focus of our audit – were the charge 
relating to the Group-wide efficiency review announced in 
November 2014 (£49.4m) and the impairment of goodwill within 
the Pressure Control Cash Generating Unit (CGU) (£160.0m).
We have considered the risk relating to the impairment of  
goodwill later within this report.
We obtained and assessed management’s summary of charges 
incurred under the Group-wide efficiency review, split by Division 
and principal business unit. We looked to understand with 
Management the rationale behind each business units’ charge, 
then selected the seven key business units for further 
consideration. 
For these seven key business units, we obtained a breakdown  
of the charges and obtained supporting source documentation, 
rationale behind key assumptions or the estimation process 
undertaken to confirm the appropriateness of charges recognised.
We further considered the nature of these charges, to assess 
whether they are in line with the Group’s accounting policy for 
exceptional items, and the Financial Reporting Council’s reminder 
on consistency and clarity of presentation.
We also assessed whether the disclosures within the financial 
statements in note 5 and related narrative reporting provide sufficient 
detail for the reader to understand the nature of these items.
Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets
Refer to page 46 (Financial Review), page 87 (Audit Committee report), page 134 (note 5 to the financial statements) and pages 143  
to 144 (note 14 to the financial statements).
The key assumptions used in the assessment of the carrying 
value of goodwill and intangible assets are determined with 
reference to judgemental factors such as future projected cash 
flows, growth rates and appropriate discount rates. This therefore 
gives rise to inherent subjectivity in the carrying value of these 
assets recorded in the financial statements.
In particular, the Pressure Control and Pressure Pumping CGUs are 
noted as requiring specific focus as a direct result of the near-term 
lower oil price environment those CGU’s operate in.
An impairment charge of £160.0m was noted as recognised 
against Goodwill in the Pressure Control CGU at the year end.
We obtained and considered management’s impairment testing, 
considering the calculation methodology, sources for key 
assumptions and sensitivities applied.
We challenged the key assumptions behind the model, being 
discount rate, long term growth rate, revenue growth and EBIT 
margins; utilising our valuations specialists to assist in this review. 
The significant assumptions and their rationale are disclosed in  
note 14 to the financial statements.
We considered potential indicators of impairment for each  
Group entity with associated intangible assets, focusing on  
those businesses experiencing particularly challenging markets 
and subject to restructuring under the Group-wide efficiency 
review. We further considered the Group’s sensitivity analysis 
showing the impact of a reasonable change in impairment 
assumptions, to determine whether an impairment charge  
was required.
For the Pressure Control and Pressure Pumping CGUs, given the 
near-term lower oil price environment, we focused on the projected 
cash flows for these businesses under a range of oil price assumptions 
in the short and long terms, including scenarios generated from 
external analyst reports and internal EY economic projections.
For the Minerals CGU, we focused on challenging the short to 
medium term growth assumptions for these businesses through 
sensitivity analyses, following the rationalisation of certain 
businesses in that CGU as part of the Group-wide efficiency review.
Following management’s assessment of impairment, and related 
sensitivities, an impairment charge of £160.0m was recognised 
against Goodwill in the Pressure Control CGU at the year end.  
The rationale behind this charge is described in note 14 to the 
financial statements. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
115 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Valuation of inventory
Refer to page 46 (Financial Review), page 88 (Audit Committee report) and page 145 (note 16 to the financial statements).
Following the shift of North American drilling activity from gas  
to oil and liquids rich shale formations in Q1 2012, the North 
American Oil and Gas pressure pumping business continues  
to have excess capacity in certain pressure pumping equipment 
sectors within that market.
Furthermore, the recent decline in oil prices leaving a near-term 
lower oil price environment and corresponding effect on oil  
rig count has increased the valuation risk within the Oil and  
Gas Division.
Focusing on the North American Oil & Gas Pressure Pumping 
business, we performed an aged analysis of the inventory, comparing 
specific inventory lines against market activity as well as current and 
forecast sales to identify excess or obsolete inventory exposures.
For full and specific scope business units within the Oil & Gas 
division, we performed further inquiries of management, review 
of the underlying product lines, detailed gross margin analysis  
and review of booked sales orders.
We also considered the application of the inventory provisioning 
accounting policy, including challenging the appropriateness  
of assumptions made by management, through comparison  
of the provisioning made against our analysis of excess or 
obsolete inventory.
Adequacy of the Group’s liability provisioning 
Refer to page 46 (Financial Review), page 88 (Audit Committee report), pages 149 to 150 (note 22 to the financial statements)  
and page 159 (note 27 to the financial statements).
The recognition and valuation of the expected outcome of 
employee related or other legal claims and exposures across  
the Group requires the exercise of management judgement  
in assessing the amounts recorded and the disclosures made  
in the financial statements.
For those exposures where provision is made, the use of estimates 
within those provisions gives rise to inherent subjectivity in the 
amounts recorded in the financial statements.
For those exposures where no provision has been made, the 
obligation to disclose the nature and estimate of its financial 
impact gives rise to further judgement in the disclosure within  
the financial statements.
We evaluated and challenged the assumptions and methodologies 
applied behind specific employee related provision calculations, 
and compared against our expectations. Where applicable, we 
have agreed projected costs against historical cost experience  
or supporting external evidence.
We have discussed the status of current litigation or regulatory 
issues with Group Legal Counsel and external lawyers throughout 
our audit process, reviewing correspondence with third parties 
and related contractual agreements.
We considered the current status of the UN Oil for Food programme 
and Philippines Gold contingent liability disclosures in note 27. This 
included review of current correspondence relating to these cases, 
meeting with Group Legal Counsel on several occasions and 
obtaining confirmations from external legal advisors engaged  
by management.
Following the increase in US asbestos-related claims during the 
year, we have considered management’s review to assess and 
estimate the settlement and defence costs associated with these 
claims, and the adequacy of the Group’s related insurance policies. 
This included review of correspondence with insurers and actuaries, 
examination of the calculation behind the Directors’ best estimate of 
the future liability and disclosure within note 22.
Exposure to significant tax risks
Refer to page 46 (Financial Review), page 88 (Audit Committee report) and pages 135 to 136 (note 7 to the financial statements).
The value of the tax provisions recorded in respect of a number  
of uncertain tax positions which require judgements in respect  
of the likely outcome of negotiations with and enquiries from 
various tax authorities. 
We have utilised internal national and appropriate international 
taxation specialists to assist the Group team in the evaluation  
and challenge of the assumptions and estimates in relation  
to the level of provisions recognised for significant tax risks.
We have considered the movements in these provisions during 
the period, and the closing balances against our expectations.  
We also considered any penalty regimes that could apply should 
any of the tax positions be successfully challenged. 116 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of The Weir Group PLC  
continued
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement (continued)
Current year assessment (continued)
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Revenue and profit recognition on construction contracts
Refer to page 125 (note 2 (iii) to the financial statements) and pages 129 to 132 (note 3 to the financial statements).
Auditing standards require that we consider the risk of fraud or 
management override of internal controls in revenue recognition.
We have evaluated that the key risk of misstatement due to 
management override, fraud and error specifically relates to: 
 – revenue recognition where construction contract accounting 
principles are followed (as this involves judgement over  
future cost elements and percentage of completion).
 – manual journal adjustments to revenues made as a result  
of overriding existing processes or controls.
In relation to construction contract accounting risk, we tested controls 
around accounting for construction contracts at five specific scope 
components, performed reviews of those contracts at those 
components with operational management, and challenged the 
appropriateness of assumptions made by management following  
the outcome of similar assumptions made at the prior year end.
In relation to the revenue manual journal entry risk, we tested 
reconciliation and manual journal entry authorisation controls  
at those full scope and specific scope components where we 
deemed there to be a higher country, control or management  
risk. In our testing of revenue recognition at those components, 
we considered the timing of revenue recognised and validity  
of manual journal entries posted around the year end.  
For transactions close to the period end we tested that  
cut-off procedures were appropriately applied.
An overview of the scope of our audit 
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, we selected twenty one (2013: twenty 
one) components which represent the principal business units within the Group’s three reportable segments.
Of the twenty one components selected we performed an audit of the complete financial information of three components (full scope 
components), which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics. For the remaining eighteen selected components (specific 
scope components) we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within the component that we considered had the potential  
for the greatest impact on the amounts in the Group financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
These twenty one components account for 74% (2013: 69%) of revenue, 78% (2013: 73%) of adjusted profit before tax from continuing 
operations and 70% (2013: 75%) of net assets, although for components where a specific scope audit was performed, not all balances 
that comprise these coverage percentages have been audited.
The audits of these components are performed at a materiality level calculated by reference to a proportion of the Group materiality 
appropriate to the relevant account size, risk profile, changes in the business environment and other factors for the business concerned. 
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was £7.4m to £1.2m (2013: £7.5m to £1.5m).
In addition, certain central reporting entities and Group functions including those covering treasury, taxation, pensions and the Parent 
Company were subject to a full scope audit. In order to support our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement  
of the aggregated financial information of the remaining business units not subject to a full or specific scope audit, we tested the consolidation 
process, carried out analytical procedures and performed selected substantive procedures for any significant balance sheet items in excess of 
performance materiality at the Group level.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits and Video Conferencing that has been designed to ensure that 
the Senior Statutory Auditor or his designate visits those components with greatest exposure to the risks of material misstatements 
noted above. This year, visits included key business units in Australia, United States of America, Canada and the United Kingdom.  
We also ensure we have on-going communication with component teams throughout the year.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:
 – the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
 – the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the Group and Parent Company financial statements. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
117 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: 
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course  
of performing our audit; or 
 – is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during  
the audit and the Directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the  
Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should  
have been disclosed. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
 – the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or
 – certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 – the Directors’ statement, set out on page 112, in relation to going concern; and 
 – the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 112, the directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for 
Auditors.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in 
an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
James Nisbet (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
Glasgow
25 February 2015 118 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Consolidated Income Statement 
for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015
52 weeks ended 2 January 2015 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014
Notes
Before  
exceptional  
items &  
intangibles  
amortisation 
£m
Exceptional 
items & 
intangibles 
amortisation 
(note 5) 
£m
Total 
£m
Before 
exceptional 
items & 
intangibles 
amortisation 
£m
Exceptional 
items & 
intangibles 
amortisation 
(note 5) 
£m
Total 
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 3 2,438.2 – 2,438.2 2,429.8 – 2,429.8
Continuing operations
Operating profit before share of results of joint ventures 439.8 (257 .3) 182.5 458.1 23.8 481 .9
Share of results of joint ventures 15 10.0 – 10.0 8.4 – 8.4
 
Operating profit 449.8 (257 .3) 192.5 466.5 23.8 490.3
Finance costs 6 (44.5) (2.1) (46.6) (47 .9) (10.7) (58.6)
Finance income 6 6.0 – 6.0 3.0 – 3.0
Other finance costs – retirement benefits 24 (2.8) – (2.8) (3.5) – (3.5)
 
Profit before tax from continuing operations 408.5 (259.4) 149.1 418.1 13.1 431 .2
Tax expense 7 (105.5) 30.1 (75.4) (107 .5) 12.0 (95.5)
Profit for the period from continuing operations 303.0 (229.3) 73.7 310.6 25.1 335.7
Profit for the period from discontinued operations 8 – 1.0 1.0 – – –
Profit for the period 303.0 (228.3) 74.7 310.6 25.1 335.7
 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 301.4 (228.3) 73.1 309.8 25.1 334.9
Non-controlling interests 1.6 – 1.6 0.8 – 0.8
303.0 (228.3) 74.7 310.6 25.1 335.7
 
Earnings per share 9
Basic – total operations 34.3p 157 .2p
Basic – continuing operations 141.3p 33.8p 145.4p 157 .2p
Diluted – total operations 34.2p 156.6p
Diluted – continuing operations 140.9p 33.7p 144.9p 156.6p Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
119 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015
Notes
52 weeks 
ended  
2 January 
2015 
£m
53 weeks 
ended 
3 January 
2014 
£m
Profit for the period 74.7 335.7
Other comprehensive income 
(Losses) gains taken to equity on cash flow hedges (4.0) 0.1
Exchange gains (losses) on translation of foreign operations 61.3 (111 .3)
Exchange (losses) gains on net investment hedges (16.1) 16.5
Reclassification adjustments on cash flow hedges 0.9 0.2
Tax relating to other comprehensive income (expense) to be reclassified in subsequent periods 7 0.3 0.3
Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 42.4 (94.2)
Remeasurements on defined benefit plans 24 (31.1) 8.0
Tax relating to other comprehensive (expense) income that will not be reclassified in subsequent periods 7 6.8 (2.2)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods (24.3) 5.8
Net other comprehensive income (expense) 18.1 (88.4)
Total net comprehensive income for the period 92.8 247 .3
 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 90.7 246.5
Non-controlling interests 2.1 0.8
92.8 247 .3 120 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Consolidated Balance Sheet
at 2 January 2015
Notes
2 January 
2015 
£m
3 January 
2014 
£m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant & equipment 11 435.0 398.7
Intangible assets 12 1,638.3 1,614.5
Investments in joint ventures 15 33.7 27 .1
Deferred tax assets 23 22.8 17.2
Other receivables 17 22.3 –
Retirement benefit plan assets 24 4.1 1.4
Derivative financial instruments 30 3.5 1.1
Total non-current assets 2,159.7 2,060.0
Current assets
Inventories 16 551.3 485.0
Trade & other receivables 17 625.0 497 .1
Construction contracts 18 31.3 28.3
Derivative financial instruments 30 10.5 11.1
Income tax receivable 5.8 2.3
Cash & short-term deposits 19 178.7 79.1
Total current assets 1,402.6 1,102.9
Total assets 3,562.3 3,162.9
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans & borrowings 20 166.1 26.5
Trade & other payables 21 581.4 476.8
Construction contracts 18 13.8 12.1
Derivative financial instruments 30 11.3 9.6
Income tax payable 32.1 36.7
Provisions 22 65.1 28.9
Total current liabilities 869.8 590.6
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans & borrowings 20 873.3 799.6
Other payables 21 25.6 22.4
Derivative financial instruments 30 3.1 0.6
Provisions 22 47 .4 25.7
Deferred tax liabilities 23 162.5 165.5
Retirement benefit plan deficits 24 98.4 71 .8
Total non-current liabilities 1,210.3 1,085.6
Total liabilities 2,080.1 1,676.2
NET ASSETS 1,482.2 1,486.7
CAPITAL & RESERVES
Share capital 25 26.8 26.7
Share premium 38.0 38.0
Treasury shares (5.8) (5.8)
Capital redemption reserve 0.5 0.5
Foreign currency translation reserve (12.6) (57 .3)
Hedge accounting reserve (2.0) 0.8
Retained earnings 1,430.5 1,479.3
Shareholders’ equity 1,475.4 1,482.2
Non-controlling interests 6.8 4.5
TOTAL EQUITY 1,482.2 1,486.7
Approved by the Board of Directors on 25 February 2015
Keith Cochrane  Jon Stanton
Director   Director Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
121 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes
52 weeks 
ended 
2 January 
2015 
£m
53 weeks 
ended 
3 January 
2014 
£m
Continuing operations
Cash flows from operating activities 26
Cash generated from operations 421.3 473.9
Additional pension contributions paid (10.6) (12.1)
Exceptional cash items (10.6) –
Income tax paid (94.1) (71 .9)
Net cash generated from operating activities 306.0 389.9
Continuing operations
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisitions of subsidiaries 26 (137 .7) (201 .2)
Disposals of subsidiaries 26 – (0.3)
Investment in joint ventures – (14.0)
Purchases of property, plant & equipment and intangible assets (108.0) (108.4)
Other proceeds from sale of property, plant & equipment and intangible assets 6.7 11.1
Interest received 6.2 2.8
Dividends received from joint ventures 15 6.0 6.1
Net cash used in investing activities (226.8) (303.9)
Continuing operations
Cash flows from financing activities
Purchase of shares for equity settled share-based incentives (0.2) (2.2)
Proceeds from borrowings 404.0 312.5
Repayments of borrowings (237 .5) (572.0)
Settlement of external debt of subsidiary on acquisition 26 – (1 .3)
Settlement of derivative financial instruments (3.1) (5.0)
Interest paid (42.7) (43.3)
Proceeds from increase in non-controlling interests 0.2 0.6
Dividends paid to equity holders of the Company 10 (102.7) (82.6)
Net cash generated from (used in) financing activities 18.0 (393.3)
Net increase (decrease) in cash & cash equivalents from continuing operations 97 .2 (307 .3)
Cash & cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 68.6 384.2
Foreign currency translation differences 0.8 (8.3)
Cash & cash equivalents at the end of the period 19 166.6 68.6
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015 122 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Treasury 
shares 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve 
£m
Hedge 
accounting 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Attributable 
to equity 
holders 
of the 
Company 
£m
Non- 
controlling 
interests 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
At 28 December 2012 26.7 38.0 (5.6) 0.5 37 .5 0.2 1,209.8 1,307 .1 3.2 1,310.3
Profit for the period – – – – – – 334.9 334.9 0.8 335.7
Gains taken to equity  
on cash flow hedges – – – – – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1
Exchange losses on translation 
of foreign operations – – – – (111 .3) – – (111 .3) – (111 .3)
Exchange gains on net 
investment hedges – – – – 16.5 – – 16.5 – 16.5
Remeasurements on  
defined benefit plans – – – – – – 8.0 8.0 – 8.0
Reclassification adjustments 
on cash flow hedges – – – – – 0.2 – 0.2 – 0.2
Tax relating to other 
comprehensive income – – – – – 0.3 (2.2) (1 .9) – (1 .9)
Total net comprehensive 
income for the period – – – – (94.8) 0.6 340.7 246.5 0.8 247 .3
Proceeds from increase  
in non-controlling interests – – – – – – – – 0.5 0.5
Cost of share-based payments 
inclusive of tax charge – – – – – – 12.6 12.6 – 12.6
Dividends – – – – – – (82.6) (82.6) – (82.6)
Purchase of shares
*
– – (1 .4) – – – – (1 .4) – (1 .4)
Exercise of LTIP awards – – 1.2 – – – (1 .2) – – –
At 3 January 2014 26.7 38.0 (5.8) 0.5 (57 .3) 0.8 1,479.3 1,482.2 4.5 1,486.7
Profit for the period – – – – – – 73.1 73.1 1.6 74.7
Losses taken to equity  
on cash flow hedges – – – – – (4.0) – (4.0) – (4.0)
Exchange gains on translation 
of foreign operations – – – – 60.8 – – 60.8 0.5 61.3
Exchange losses on net 
investment hedges – – – – (16.1) – – (16.1) – (16.1)
Remeasurements on  
defined benefit plans – – – – – – (31.1) (31.1) – (31.1)
Reclassification adjustments 
on cash flow hedges – – – – – 0.9 – 0.9 – 0.9
Tax relating to other 
comprehensive income – – – – – 0.3 6.8 7.1 – 7.1
Total net comprehensive 
income for the period – – – – 44.7 (2.8) 48.8 90.7 2.1 92.8
Proceeds from increase  
in non-controlling interests – – – – – – – – 0.2 0.2
Cost of share-based payments 
inclusive of tax credit – – – – – – 5.2 5.2 – 5.2
Dividends – – – – – – (102.7) (102.7) – (102.7)
Exercise of LTIP awards 0.1 – – – – – (0.1) – – –
At 2 January 2015 26.8 38.0 (5.8) 0.5 (12.6) (2.0) 1,430.5 1,475.4 6.8 1,482.2
* These shares were purchased on the open market and are held by the Appleby EBT on behalf of the Group for satisfaction of any future vesting of the deferred bonus plan. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
123 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
1. Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance
The consolidated financial statements of The Weir Group PLC (the ‘Company’) and its subsidiaries (together, the ‘Group’) for the 52 weeks 
ended 2 January 2015 (‘2014’) were approved and authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 25 February 
2015. The comparative information is presented for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 (‘2013’). For practical reasons, the Group prepares 
its financial statements to the week ending closest to the Company reference date of 31 December. The results on this basis are unlikely to 
be materially different from those that would be presented for a period of one year. The Weir Group PLC is a limited company incorporated 
in Scotland and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of The Weir Group PLC have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The principal activities of the Group are described in note 3. 
2. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
These financial statements are presented in Sterling. All values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million pounds (£m) except where 
otherwise indicated.
The accounting policies which follow are consistent with those of the previous period except for the adoption of the following standards and 
interpretations. The standards listed below have not resulted in a change to the Group’s financial statements in the period of initial application.
IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated financial statements’ builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor  
in whether an entity should be included within the consolidated financial statements of the parent company. The standard provides 
additional guidance to assist in the determination where it is difficult to assess.
IFRS 11, ‘Joint arrangements’ focuses on the rights and obligations of the parties to the arrangement rather than its legal form. There are  
two types of joint arrangement: joint operations and joint ventures. Joint operations arise where the investors have rights to the assets and 
obligations for the liabilities of the arrangement, while joint ventures arise where the investors have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
IFRS 12, ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’ includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities including 
joint arrangements, associates, structured entities and other off balance sheet vehicles.
There are several other standards and amendments which apply for the first time in 2014 which also do not impact the Group financial statements.
Exceptional items
In order to provide the users of the financial statements with a more relevant presentation of the Group’s underlying performance, profit 
for each financial period has been analysed between:
i) profit before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation; and
ii) the effect of exceptional items and intangibles amortisation.
Exceptional items are items of income and expense which, because of the nature, size and /or infrequency of the events giving rise to 
them, merit separate presentation to allow a better understanding of the elements of the Group’s financial performance for the period 
and are presented on the face of the income statement to facilitate comparisons with prior periods and assessment of trends in financial 
performance. Exceptional items may include but are not restricted to: profits or losses arising on disposal or closure of businesses;  
the cost of significant business restructuring; significant impairments of intangible or tangible assets; adjustments to the fair value of 
acquisition related items such as contingent consideration and inventory; other items deemed exceptional due to their significance,  
size or nature; and the related exceptional taxation.
Intangibles amortisation has been shown separately to provide visibility over the impact of increased acquisition activity on intangible assets.
Further analysis of the items included in the column ‘Exceptional items & intangibles amortisation’ is provided in note 5 to the financial statements.
Use of estimates & judgements
The Group’s significant accounting policies are set out below. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements, in conformity  
with IFRS, requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies  
and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expense. 
Management base these judgements, estimates and assumptions on a combination of past experience, professional expert advice  
and other evidence that is relevant to each individual circumstance. Actual results may differ from these estimates, judgements and 
assumptions, which are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the 
estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
The areas where management consider the more complex estimates, judgements and assumptions are required are those in respect  
of acquired assets and liabilities – business combinations (note 13), exceptional items (above and note 5), retirement benefits (note 24), 
taxation (note 7), inventory valuation (note 16), provisions (note 22), impairment of non-current assets (note 14) and legal claims (note 27).
Further commentary on areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements made in applying accounting policies that have the most 
significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are provided in the Financial Review on page 50.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements 124 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
2. Accounting policies (continued)
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the results, cash flows and assets and liabilities of The Weir Group PLC and its subsidiaries, 
and the Group’s share of results of its joint ventures. The financial statements of subsidiaries and joint ventures are prepared for the same 
reporting period as the Company using consistent accounting policies.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled, either directly or indirectly, by the Company, where control is achieved when the Group is exposed,  
or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the 
investee. The results of a subsidiary acquired during the period are included in the Group’s results from the effective date on which control  
is transferred to the Group. The results of a subsidiary sold during the period are included in the Group’s results up to the effective date on 
which control is transferred out of the Group. All intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that are not held by the Group and are 
presented within equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, separately from the Company shareholders’ equity.
Joint ventures
The Group has a number of long-term contractual arrangements with other parties which represent joint ventures. A joint venture is a  
type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint venture. 
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities 
require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. The Group’s interests in the results and assets and liabilities of its joint ventures 
are accounted for using the equity method.
These investments are carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net assets less any 
impairment in value. The income statement reflects the share of results of operations of these investments after tax. Where there has 
been a change recognised directly in the investee’s equity, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this when 
applicable in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a joint venture, representing the excess of the cost of the investment over the Group’s share  
of the net fair value of the joint venture’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying amount of the 
joint venture and is not amortised. To the extent that the net fair value of the joint venture’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised and added to the Group’s share of the joint venture’s profit or  
loss in the period in which the investment is acquired.
Foreign currency translation
The financial statements for each of the Group’s subsidiaries and joint ventures are prepared using their functional currency. The functional 
currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates.
At entity level, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the entity’s functional currency at the exchange rate 
ruling on the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange 
rate ruling on the balance sheet date. Currency translation differences are recognised in the income statement except when hedge 
accounting is applied and for differences on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Group’s net investment in a foreign 
operation. These are recognised in other comprehensive income until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are 
recognised in profit or loss.
On consolidation, the results of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at the average exchange rate for the period and their assets 
and liabilities are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date. Currency translation differences, including 
those on monetary items that form part of a net investment in a foreign operation, are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
In the event that a foreign operation is sold, the gain or loss on disposal recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement is determined 
after taking into account the cumulative currency translation differences that are attributable to the operation. As permitted by IFRS 1,  
the Group elected to deem cumulative currency translation differences to be £nil as at 27 December 2003. Accordingly, the gain or loss 
on disposal of a foreign operation does not include currency translation differences arising before 27 December 2003.
In the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the cash flows of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at the average exchange rate 
for the period.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and to the extent that it is probable that the economic 
benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue is shown net of sales taxes, discounts and after 
eliminating sales within the Group. 
i. Sale of goods
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been 
transferred to the buyer, usually on despatch of goods, and reliable measurement is possible. No revenue is recognised where recovery 
of the consideration is not probable or there are significant uncertainties regarding associated costs, or the possible return of goods. 
Transfers of risks and rewards vary depending on the nature of the products sold and the individual terms of the contract of sale.  
Where the sale of product requires customer inspection, revenue is not recognised until the inspection has been completed and  
approved by the customer. 
This policy is applicable to the sale of both original equipment and spare parts, whether sold individually, in bulk or as part of a cross- 
selling marketing strategy. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
125 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
ii. Provision of services
Revenue from the rendering of services is generally recognised on completion if the service contract is short-term in nature. Where this 
is not the case, revenue from services is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the service at the balance sheet date.  
The stage of completion is assessed by reference to the contractual agreement with each separate customer and the costs incurred on 
the contract to date in comparison to the total forecast costs of the contract. Revenue recognition commences only when the outcome  
of the contract can be reliably measured otherwise it is recognised to the extent costs are incurred.
iii. Construction contracts
Construction contracts usually contain discrete elements separately transferring risks and rewards to the customer. The stage of completion 
of a contract is determined either by reference to the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated 
total contract costs, or by reference to the completion of a physical proportion of the contract work. The basis used is dependent upon the 
nature of the underlying contract and takes into account the degree to which the physical proportion of the work is subject to formal customer 
acceptance procedures. Losses on contracts are recognised in the period when such losses become probable. Construction contracts are 
primarily entered into by the Group’s ‘Engineer to Order’ businesses.
Property, plant & equipment
The Group elected to use previous UK GAAP revaluations of land and buildings, amounting to £10.5m, prior to 27 December 2003 as 
deemed cost at the date of the revaluation.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment losses. Cost includes 
borrowing costs for qualifying assets for which the commencement date for capitalisation is on or after 1 January 2009. Prior to this date, 
the Group recognised all borrowing costs as an expense immediately. Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land and assets under construction, is provided on a straight-line  
basis so as to charge the cost less residual value, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, to the income statement over  
the expected useful life of the asset concerned, and is in the following ranges:
Freehold buildings, long leasehold land & buildings 10 – 40 years
Short leasehold land & buildings   duration of lease
Plant & equipment     3 – 20 years
Goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents any excess of the cost of the acquired entity over the Group’s interest in 
the fair value of the entity’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities determined at the date of acquisition. Acquisition costs 
are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. Goodwill in respect of an acquired subsidiary is recognised as an intangible asset. 
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried at cost less any recognised impairment losses.
Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid,  
the excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income statement.
Goodwill recognised as an asset as at 27 December 2003 is recorded at its carrying amount at that date and is not amortised. The carrying 
amount of goodwill allocated to a cash generating unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit. 
Goodwill that was written off directly to reserves under UK GAAP is not taken into account in determining the gain or loss on disposal  
of acquired businesses on or after 27 December 2003.
Any contingent consideration is recognised at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are 
adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments (see below). All other subsequent changes 
in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with the relevant IFRS.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and 
circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any recognised impairment losses.
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured at cost on initial recognition. An intangible resource acquired in a business combination is 
recognised as an intangible asset if it is separable from the acquired business or arises from contractual or legal rights, is expected to generate 
future economic benefits and its fair value can be measured reliably. An intangible asset with a finite life is amortised on a straight-line basis so 
as to charge its cost, which in respect of an acquired intangible asset represents its fair value at the acquisition date, to the income statement 
over its expected useful life. An intangible asset with an indefinite life is not amortised but is tested at least annually for impairment and 
carried at cost less any recognised impairment losses. 126 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
2. Accounting policies (continued)
Other intangible assets (continued)
Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant & equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset. 
Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis so as to charge the cost of the software to the income statement over its expected 
useful life, not exceeding eight years.
The expected useful lives of acquired intangible assets are as follows:
Brand names indefinite life
Customer & distributor relationships 5 – 25 years
Purchased software 4 – 8 years
Intellectual property & trade marks 6 – 15 years
Other up to 6 years
Research & development costs
All research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred unless it relates to the development  
of a new product or technology and it is incurred after the technical feasibility and commercial viability of the product has been proven, 
the development costs can be measured reliably, future economic benefits are probable and the Group intends to and has sufficient 
resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset. Any such capitalised development expenditure is amortised on  
a straight-line basis so that it is charged to the income statement over the expected life of the resulting product.
Impairment of non-current assets
All non-current assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying values might be impaired. 
Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with an indefinite life and any capitalised development expenditure are subject to an annual 
impairment test.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that an asset’s carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount, which represents the 
higher of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. An asset’s value in use represents the present value of the future 
cash flows expected to be derived from the asset. Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset,  
the impairment test is conducted for the cash generating unit to which it belongs. Similarly, the recoverable amount of goodwill is 
determined by reference to the discounted future cash flows of the cash generating units to which it is allocated.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. Impairment losses recognised in previous periods for an asset other than 
goodwill are reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount. The carrying 
amount of an asset shall not be increased above the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been 
recognised for the asset in prior periods. Impairment losses recognised in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, with due allowance for any obsolete or slow moving items.  
Cost represents the expenditure incurred in bringing inventories to their existing location and condition and comprises the cost of raw 
materials, direct labour costs, other direct costs and related production overheads. Raw material cost is generally determined on a first in, 
first out basis. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less costs to complete and sell.
Financial assets & liabilities
The Group’s principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise bank overdrafts, short-term borrowings, loans and 
fixed rate notes, cash and short-term deposits. The Group also has other financial assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade 
payables which arise directly from its operations and contingent consideration in relation to acquisitions.
A financial asset is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. Where an existing financial 
liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially 
modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability,  
such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables, which are generally of a short term nature, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts. Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances 
in full. Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Cash & cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits available on demand and other short-term highly liquid investments with a 
maturity on acquisition of three months or less and bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings with a maturity on acquisition of three 
months or less. Bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances.
Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
127 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Interest-bearing loans & borrowings
Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when the Group becomes party to the related contracts and are measured initially  
at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs  
and any discount or premium on settlement. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right  
to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event,  
the obligation can be estimated reliably and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.  
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Derivative financial instruments & hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps, to reduce its 
exposure to exchange rate movements. The Group also uses foreign currency borrowings as a hedge of its exposure to foreign exchange 
risk on its investments in foreign subsidiaries. Additionally, the Group uses interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate 
risk. The Group does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date. The fair 
value of forward foreign currency contracts is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on spot and 
forward foreign exchange rates and counterparty and the Group’s own credit risk. The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency 
swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on interest rate curves, spot foreign exchange rates 
and counterparty and own credit risk. Changes in their fair values have been recognised in the income statement, except where hedge 
accounting is used, provided the conditions specified by IAS 39 are met. Hedge accounting is applied in respect of hedge relationships 
where it is both permissible under IAS 39 and practical to do so. When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships will 
be classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a fair value hedge, the carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability will be adjusted  
by the increase or decrease in its fair value attributable to the hedged risk and the resulting gain or loss will be recognised in the income 
statement where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, it will be offset by the change in the fair value of the hedging instrument.
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow hedge or as a net investment hedge, to the extent that the hedge is effective, 
changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument will be recognised directly in other comprehensive income rather than in the income 
statement. When the hedged item is recognised in the financial statements, the accumulated gains and losses recognised in other 
comprehensive income will be either recycled to the income statement or, if the hedged item results in a non-financial asset, will be 
recognised as adjustments to its initial carrying amount.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for 
hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive 
income is kept in other comprehensive income until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected  
to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts are recognised separately as derivative financial instruments when their risks  
and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not stated at its fair value with changes  
in its fair value recognised in the income statement.
Share-based payments
Equity settled share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Group’s Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) and as a consequence 
of occasional one-off conditional awards made to senior executives. The last equity settled grant under the Executive Bonus Scheme (‘EBS’) 
was during 2013, with no award being made in the current year.
The fair value of the LTIP at the date of the grant is calculated using appropriate option pricing models and the cost is recognised on  
a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period 
due to failure to satisfy service or performance conditions. The changes to the LTIP which took effect in 2014 are summarised in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 91.
The previously granted equity settled incentives under the EBS were determined as a percentage of the annual bonus and were matched 
by the Group with a share award that would vest on the third anniversary of the grant date provided the individual continued to hold  
the original bonus shares awarded and continued to be employed by the company at the date of vesting. In addition the EBS included  
a strategic bonus shares element for a limited number of senior employees. The fair value of the matching and strategic elements of  
the EBS was determined at the date of grant of the bonus and the cost is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.  
The Group recognises a compensation cost in respect of this plan that is based on the fair value of the awards granted. The fair value  
was determined at the date of grant and is not subsequently re-measured unless the conditions on which the award was granted  
are modified.  128 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
2. Accounting policies (continued)
Treasury shares
The Weir Group PLC shares held by the Company are classified in shareholders’ equity as treasury shares and are recognised at cost. 
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and 
the original cost being taken directly to revenue reserves. No gain or loss is recognised in total comprehensive income on the purchase, 
sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Post-employment benefits
Post-employment benefits comprise pension benefits provided to certain current and former employees in the UK, US and Canada and 
post-retirement healthcare benefits provided to certain employees in the US.
For defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare plans, the annual service cost is calculated using the projected unit credit 
method and is recognised over the future service lives of participating employees, in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries. 
Current service cost and administration expenses are recognised in operating costs and net interest on net pension liability is recognised 
in finance costs.
The finance cost recognised in the income statement in the period reflects the net interest on the net pension liability. This represents 
the change in the net pension liability resulting from the passage of time, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening 
net liability, taking into account employer contributions paid into the plan, and hence reducing the net liability, during the period.
Past service costs resulting from enhanced benefits are recognised immediately in the income statement. Actuarial gains and losses, 
which represent differences between interest on the plan assets, experience on the benefit obligation and the effect of changes in 
actuarial assumptions, are recognised in full in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
The defined benefit liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet comprises the net total for each plan of the present value of the 
benefit obligation, using a discount rate based on yields at the balance sheet date on appropriate high quality corporate bonds that  
have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations and are denominated in the currency in which the benefits are 
expected to be paid, minus the fair value of the plan assets, if any, at the balance sheet date. The balance sheet amount recognised  
is limited to the present value of economic benefits which the Group expects to recover by way of refunds or a reduction in future 
contributions. In order to calculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is also given to any minimum funding 
requirements.
For defined contribution plans, the costs represent the Group’s contributions to the plans and these are charged to the income statement 
in the period in which they fall due.
Leases
Leases which transfer to the Group substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance 
leases. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are included within property, plant and equipment, initially measured at their fair value or, if lower,  
the present value of the minimum lease payments and a corresponding liability is recognised within obligations under finance leases. 
Subsequently, the assets are depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or the lease term if shorter. At the inception  
of the lease, the lease rentals are apportioned between an interest element and a capital element so as to produce a constant periodic 
rate of interest on the outstanding liability. Subsequently, the interest element is recognised as a charge to the income statement while 
the capital element is applied to reduce the outstanding liability.
Operating lease rentals and any incentives receivable are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term  
of the lease.
Taxation
Current tax is the amount of tax payable or recoverable in respect of the taxable profit or loss for the period.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance sheet and its tax 
base with the following exceptions:
i) Deferred tax arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination, 
that, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, is not recognised;
ii) Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where the timing 
of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future; and
iii) A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the 
asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities represent tax payable in future periods in respect of taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets represent 
tax recoverable in future periods in respect of deductible temporary differences, the carry forward of unutilised tax losses and the carry 
forward of unused tax credits. Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis using the tax rates and tax laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the 
deferred tax liability is settled.
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the income statement except if it relates to an item recognised directly in equity, in which case 
it is recognised directly in equity.
  Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
129 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
New standards & interpretations
The International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee have issued the following 
standards and interpretations, which are considered relevant to the Group, with an effective date after the date of these financial statements.
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS)
Effective date  
for periods
IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies 17 June 2014
Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions (Amendments to IAS 19) 1 July 2014
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle 1 July 2014
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011–2013 Cycle 1 July 2014
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012–2014 Cycle 1 January 2016
*
Amendment to IAS 1: Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2016
*
Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate  
or Joint Venture 1 January 2016
*
Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2016
*
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation 1 January 2016
*
Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations 1 January 2016
*
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2017
*
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018
*
* Not yet adopted for use in the European Union.
The above standards and interpretations will be adopted in accordance with their effective dates and have not been adopted in these 
financial statements. There is not expected to be a significant impact on the 2015 financial statements as a result of these standards.  
An exercise to assess the impact of standards applicable from 2016 and 2017 is due to commence during 2015.
3. Segment information
For management purposes, the Group is organised into three operating divisions: Minerals, Oil & Gas and Power & Industrial. These three 
divisions are organised and managed separately based on the key markets served and each is treated as an operating and a reportable 
segment under IFRS 8. The operating and reportable segments were determined based on the reports reviewed by the Chief Executive 
which are used to make operational decisions.
The Minerals segment is the global leader in the provision of slurry handling equipment and associated aftermarket support for abrasive 
high wear applications used in the mining and oil sands markets. The Oil & Gas segment provides products and service solutions to 
upstream, production, transportation, refining and related industries. The Power & Industrial segment designs and manufactures valves, 
pumps and turbines as well as providing specialist support services to the global power generation, industrial and oil and gas sectors.
The Chief Executive assesses the performance of the operating segments based on operating profit from continuing operations before 
exceptional items (including impairments) and intangibles amortisation (‘segment result’). Finance income and expenditure and associated 
interest-bearing liabilities and derivative financial instruments are not allocated to segments as all treasury activity is managed centrally by 
the Group treasury function. The amounts provided to the Chief Executive with respect to assets and liabilities are measured in a manner 
consistent with that of the financial statements. The assets are allocated based on the operations of the segment and the physical location 
of the asset. The liabilities are allocated based on the operations of the segment. 
Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. 130 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
3. Segment information (continued)
The segment information for the reportable segments for 2014 and 2013 is disclosed below.
Minerals Oil & Gas Power & Industrial Total continuing operations
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Revenue
Sales to external customers 1,127 .9 1,304.3 992.1 795.9 318.2 329.6 2,438.2 2,429.8
Inter-segment sales 3.9 4.4 14.6 15.7 8.5 7.3 27 .0 27 .4
Segment revenue 1,131.8 1,308.7 1,006.7 811 .6 326.7 336.9 2,465.2 2,457 .2
Eliminations
(27 .0) (27 .4)
2,438.2 2,429.8
Sales to external customers – 2013 at 2014 average exchange rates
Sales to external customers 1,127 .9 1,177 .7 992.1 753.6 318.2 314.0 2,438.2 2,245.3
2,438.2 2,245.3
Segment result
Segment result before share of results  
of joint ventures 226.4 268.7 214.9 172.1 18.6 31 .3 459.9 472.1
Share of results of joint ventures – – 10.0 8.4 – – 10.0 8.4
Segment result 226.4 268.7 224.9 180.5 18.6 31 .3 469.9 480.5
Unallocated expenses
(20.1) (14.0)
Operating profit before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation
449.8 466.5
Total exceptional items & intangibles amortisation
(259.4) 13.1
Net finance costs before exceptional items
(38.5) (44.9)
Other finance costs – retirement benefits
(2.8) (3.5)
Profit before tax from continuing operations
149.1 431 .2
Segment result – 2013 at 2014 average exchange rates
Segment result before share of results of 
joint ventures 226.4 243.1 214.9 162.8 18.6 29.6 459.9 435.5
Share of results of joint ventures – – 10.0 8.0 – – 10.0 8.0
Segment result 226.4 243.1 224.9 170.8 18.6 29.6 469.9 443.5
Unallocated expenses
(20.1) (14.0)
Operating profit before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation
449.8 429.5
There are no material revenues derived from a single external customer.  Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
131 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Minerals Oil & Gas Power & Industrial Total continuing operations
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Assets & liabilities
Intangible assets 536.9 397 .0 991.3 1,109.4 102.0 101 .6 1,630.2 1,608.0
Property, plant & equipment 214.6 198.7 167 .0 147 .2 52.3 50.9 433.9 396.8
Working capital assets 504.6 449.6 532.4 390.9 178.4 176.2 1,215.4 1,016.7
1,256.1 1,045.3 1,690.7 1,647 .5 332.7 328.7 3,279.5 3,021 .5
Investments in joint ventures – – 33.7 27 .1 – – 33.7 27 .1
Segment assets 1,256.1 1,045.3 1,724.4 1,674.6 332.7 328.7 3,313.2 3,048.6
Unallocated assets
249.1 114.3
Total assets
3,562.3 3,162.9
Working capital liabilities 286.0 243.4 242.8 149.9 113.8 87 .3 642.6 480.6
Unallocated liabilities
1,437 .5 1,195.6
Total liabilities
2,080.1 1,676.2
Other segment information
Segment additions to non-current assets 56.9 56.6 50.6 37 .6 8.9 11.1 116.4 105.3
Unallocated additions to non-current assets
3.7 6.3
Total additions to non-current assets
120.1 111 .6
Segment depreciation & amortisation 37 .7 35.3 54.7 54.9 10.6 14.2 103.0 104.4
Impairment of property, plant & equipment 4.0 – 5.2 – – – 9.2 –
Impairment of intangible assets – – 160.0 – – – 160.0 –
Unallocated depreciation & amortisation
3.0 1.4
Total depreciation, amortisation & impairment
275.2 105.8
Unallocated assets primarily comprise cash and short-term deposits, derivative financial instruments, income tax receivable, deferred tax 
assets and retirement benefit surpluses as well as those assets which are used for general head office purposes. Unallocated liabilities 
primarily comprise interest-bearing loans and borrowings, derivative financial instruments, income tax payable, provisions, deferred tax 
liabilities and retirement benefit deficits as well as liabilities relating to general head office activities. Segment additions to non-current 
assets do not include those additions which have arisen from business combinations (note 13).
Geographical information
Geographical information in respect of revenue and non-current assets for 2014 and 2013 is disclosed below. Revenues are allocated 
based on the location to which the product is shipped. Assets are allocated based on the location of the assets and operations. Non-
current assets consist of property, plant & equipment, intangible assets and investments in joint ventures.
52 weeks ended 2 January 2015
UK 
£m
USA 
£m
Canada 
£m
Europe & 
FSU 
£m
Asia 
Pacific 
£m
Australia 
£m
South 
America 
£m
Middle 
East & 
Africa 
£m
Total 
£m
Revenue from continuing operations
Sales to external customers 113.0 875.9 246.0 180.9 252.4 220.3 261.6 288.1 2,438.2
Non-current assets 144.7 1,130.5 59.0 144.6 304.6 163.0 49.5 111.1 2,107 .0
53 weeks ended 3 January 2014
UK 
£m
USA 
£m
Canada 
£m
Europe & 
FSU 
£m
Asia 
Pacific 
£m
Australia 
£m
South 
America 
£m
Middle 
East & 
Africa 
£m
Total 
£m
Revenue from continuing operations
Sales to external customers 104.8 743.4 234.6 246.1 229.8 223.2 308.1 339.8 2,429.8
Non-current assets 102.8 1,251 .5 58.1 141 .7 180.3 157 .5 50.2 98.2 2,040.3 132 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
3. Segment information (continued)
Geographical information (continued)
The following disclosures are given in relation to continuing operations.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows
Original equipment 748.7 818.8
Aftermarket parts 1,145.3 1,074.4
Sales of goods 1,894.0 1,893.2
Aftermarket services 470.5 461 .4
Revenue from construction contracts 73.7 75.2
Revenue 2,438.2 2,429.8
Finance income 6.0 3.0
Total revenue 2,444.2 2,432.8
4. Revenues & expenses
The following disclosures are given in relation to total continuing operations and include exceptional items and intangible amortisation. 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
A reconciliation of revenue to operating profit is as follows
Revenue 2,438.2 2,429.8
Cost of sales (1,632.2) (1,557 .2)
Gross profit 806.0 872.6
Other operating income
*
4.1 70.8
Selling & distribution costs (213.5) (222.6)
Administrative expenses (254.1) (238.9)
Goodwill impairment (160.0) –
Share of results of joint ventures 10.0 8.4
Operating profit 192.5 490.3
* Other operating income in the prior year includes the £67.8m exceptional gain on release of the Mathena contingent consideration liability (note 5). 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Operating profit is stated after charging (crediting)
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 1,632.2 1,557 .2
Depreciation of property, plant & equipment (note 11) 61.1 59.1
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 12) 44.9 46.7
Acquisition transaction costs 0.9 2.7
Other one-off costs
*
1.1 5.3
Group-wide efficiency review
**
49.4 –
Metso aborted acquisition costs 2.4 –
Net foreign exchange losses 1.4 4.1
Net impairment of trade receivables excluding Group-wide efficiency review amounts (note 17) (0.6) 5.5
* Other one-off costs include acquisition integration costs.
** Details of the Group-wide efficiency review are detailed in note 5. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
133 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
The following disclosures are given in relation to total operations.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Auditors remuneration
The total fees payable by the Group to Ernst & Young LLP and their associates for work performed in respect 
of the audit and other services provided to the Company and its subsidiary companies during the period are 
disclosed below.
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company & Group financial statements 0.4 0.4
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.5 1.4
Other assurance services 0.1 0.1
Fees payable in respect of the Group’s pension schemes
Audit 0.1 0.1
Research & development costs
Research & development costs amount to £24.8m (2013: £21.5m) of which £22.4m (2013: £17.6m) were charged directly to cost of sales 
in the income statement and £2.4m (2013: £3.9m) were capitalised (note 12).
Operating leases
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the period were £42.7m (2013: £42.1m).
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Employee benefits expense
Wages & salaries 552.5 523.0
Social security costs 52.2 52.7
Pension costs
Defined benefit plans (note 24) 2.1 2.6
Defined benefit plans exceptional item (note 5) – (2.7)
Defined contribution plans 19.5 17.7
Share-based payments – equity settled transactions 4.4 8.7
630.7 602.0
2014 
Number
2013 
Number
The average monthly number of people employed by the Company and its subsidiaries is as follows
Minerals 8,271 7 ,699
Oil & Gas 3,923 3,234
Power & Industrial 3,015 2,752
Group companies 79 65
15,288 13,750
At 2 January 2015, the number of people employed by the Group including those under temporary contracts was 16,347 (2013: 15,220). 134 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
5. Exceptional items & intangibles amortisation
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Recognised in arriving at operating profit from continuing operations
Intangibles amortisation (note 12) (44.9) (46.7)
Exceptional item – Intangibles impairment (note 12) (160.0) –
Exceptional item – Group-wide efficiency review (49.4) –
Exceptional item – Metso aborted acquisition costs (2.4) –
Exceptional item – release of Mathena contingent consideration liability (note 13) – 67 .8
Exceptional item – pension curtailment gain (note 24) – 2.7
Exceptional item – uplift in respect of contingent consideration liability (0.6) –
(257 .3) 23.8
Recognised in finance costs
Exceptional item – unwind in respect of contingent consideration liability (2.1) (10.7)
Recognised in arriving at profit for the period from discontinued operations
Exceptional item (note 8) 1.0 –
A Group-wide efficiency review was undertaken in the third quarter to identify opportunities to reduce costs, increase customer 
responsiveness and efficiency while aligning resources globally to capture end market opportunities. This review resulted in the Group 
taking a number of actions including the closure of a number of small manufacturing facilities, consolidation of service centres, workforce 
reductions in other areas and the exit from certain lower margin activities. The review was extended towards the end of the fourth quarter 
to include additional workforce reductions in Oil & Gas in anticipation of reduced activity levels following the significant oil price decline. 
Exceptional costs totalling £49.4m have been recognised in the Income Statement in relation to these actions, represented by £30.1m in 
restructuring costs and impairment charges of £19.3m. The restructuring costs include £15.6m of termination costs and the impairment 
charge includes £9.2m in relation to property, plant & equipment, £5.3m on inventory and £4.8m on trade receivables. The cash outflow  
in 2014 was £8.2m in relation to the restructuring costs.
As a further consequence of the decline in oil prices an impairment of £160m has been recognised in the period in relation to goodwill held 
in the Pressure Control CGU. Further details are provided in note 14.
Other exceptional items in the period include costs associated with the aborted acquisition of Metso, the uplift in the contingent 
consideration payable on the acquisition of Weir International and the unwind of contingent consideration liabilities. Included within 
discontinued operations is the release of unutilised tax warranty provisions regarding previous disposals.
The exceptional items in 2013 related to:
 – release of the entire Mathena contingent consideration liability offset by the unwind of the contingent consideration liability which had 
been recorded in that period.
 – recognition of a curtailment gain in the Main Plan following a consultation process which ended in August 2013, concluding that the 
Plan will close to future accrual of benefits effective from 30 June 2015.
6. Finance (costs) income
Finance costs
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Interest payable on bank loans, fixed rate notes & overdrafts (36.2) (39.1)
Losses on financial assets & liabilities at fair value through profit & loss (6.2) (2.9)
Finance charges related to committed loan facilities (2.1) (5.9)
(44.5) (47 .9)
Unwind of discount in respect of contingent consideration – exceptional item (note 5) (2.1) (10.7)
(46.6) (58.6)
Finance income
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Interest receivable on financial assets 1.1 1.3
Gains on financial assets & liabilities at fair value through profit & loss 4.9 1.7
6.0 3.0 Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
135 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
7. Tax expense
Income tax expense
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Consolidated Income Statement
Current income tax
UK corporation tax – continuing operations (3.1) (12.1)
Adjustments in respect of previous years 4.6 4.2
UK corporation tax 1.5 (7 .9)
Foreign tax – continuing operations (89.2) (81 .2)
Adjustments in respect of previous years 1.8 1.0
Total current income tax (85.9) (88.1)
Deferred income tax
Origination & reversal of temporary differences – continuing operations 12.6 (1 .9)
Adjustment to estimated recoverable deferred tax assets 1.2 (1 .2)
Effect of changes in tax rates (0.2) (1 .3)
Adjustments in respect of previous years (3.1) (3.0)
Total deferred tax
*
10.5 (7 .4)
Total income tax expense in the Consolidated Income Statement (75.4) (95.5)
* Includes £12.1m of deferred tax credit relating to foreign tax (2013: £3.2m charge).
The total income tax expense is disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement as follows.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Tax expense – continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation (105.5) (107 .5)
– exceptional items 16.0 (0.5)
– intangibles amortisation 14.1 12.5
Total income tax expense in the Consolidated Income Statement (75.4) (95.5)
The total deferred tax included in the income tax expense is detailed in note 23.
Tax relating to items charged or credited to equity
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Current tax on pension contributions 1.7 3.9
Deferred tax – origination & reversal of temporary differences 5.1 (6.1)
Tax credit (charge) on actuarial losses (gains) on retirement benefits 6.8 (2.2)
Deferred tax credit on hedge losses 0.3 0.3
Tax credit (charge) in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 7.1 (1 .9)
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Deferred tax on share-based payments 0.9 0.8
Current tax on share-based payments – 3.1
Tax credit in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 0.9 3.9 136 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
7. Tax expense (continued)
Reconciliation of the total tax charge
The tax expense in the Consolidated Income Statement for the period is higher (2013: lower) than the weighted average of standard rates 
of corporation tax across the Group of 22.9% (2013: 29.7%). The differences are reconciled below.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Profit before tax from continuing operations 149.1 431 .2
Profit before tax from discontinued operations 1.0 –
Accounting profit before tax 150.1 431 .2
At the weighted average of standard rates of corporation tax across the Group of 22.9% (2013: 29.7%) 34.3 128.2
Adjustments in respect of previous years – current tax (6.4) (5.2)
– deferred tax 3.1 3.0
Joint ventures (3.1) (1 .2)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets 1.2 1.2
Overseas tax on unremitted earnings 4.3 5.6
Permanent differences (2.7) 0.7
Tax effect of funding overseas operations (19.1) (17 .6)
Effect of changes in tax rates (0.2) 1.1
Exceptional items ineligible for tax 64.0 (20.3)
At effective tax rate of 50.2% (2013: 22.1%) 75.4 95.5
8. Discontinued operations
There were no disposals of core businesses during the current or prior period. As disclosed in note 5 an exceptional gain of £1.0m  
(2013: £nil) has been recognised in the period in relation to the release of unutilised tax warranty provisions relating to previous disposals.
Earnings per share from discontinued operations were as follows.
2014 
pence
2013 
pence
Basic 0.5 n/a
Diluted 0.5 n/a
These earnings per share figures were derived by dividing the net profit attributable to equity holders of the Company from discontinued 
operations by the weighted average number of ordinary shares, for both basic and diluted amounts, shown in note 9.
9. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net 
profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period 
(adjusted for the effect of dilutive share awards).
The following reflects the profit and share data used in the calculation of earnings per share.
2014 2013
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company
Total operations
*
 (£m) 73.1 334.9
Continuing operations
*
 (£m) 72.1 334.9
Continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation
*
 (£m) 301.4 309.8
Weighted average share capital
Basic earnings per share (number of shares, million) 213.3 213.0
Diluted earnings per share (number of shares, million) 213.9 213.8
* Adjusted for £1.6m (2013: £0.8m) in respect of non-controlling interests. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
137 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
The difference between the weighted average share capital for the purposes of the basic and the diluted earnings per share calculations 
is analysed as follows.
2014 
Shares 
Million
2013 
Shares 
Million
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share 213.3 213.0
Effect of dilution: LTIP and deferred bonus awards 0.6 0.8
Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 213.9 213.8
The profit attributable to equity holders of the Company used in the calculation of both basic and diluted earnings per share from 
continuing operations before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation is calculated as follows.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Net profit attributable to equity holders from continuing operations
*
72.1 334.9
Exceptional items & intangibles amortisation net of tax 229.3 (25.1)
Net profit attributable to equity holders from continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles 
amortisation
*
301.4 309.8
2014 
pence
2013 
pence
Basic earnings per share:
Total operations
*
34.3 157 .2
Continuing operations
*
33.8 157 .2
Continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation
*
141.3 145.4
Diluted earnings per share:
Total operations
*
34.2 156.6
Continuing operations
*
33.7 156.6
Continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation
*
140.9 144.9
* Adjusted for £1.6m (2013: £0.8m) in respect of non-controlling interests.
There have been no share options (2013: nil) exercised between the reporting date and the date of signing of these financial statements.
10. Dividends paid & proposed
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Declared & paid during the period
Equity dividends on ordinary shares
Final dividend for 2013: 33.2p (2012: 30.0p) 70.7 63.8
Interim dividend for 2014: 15.0p (2013: 8.8p) 32.0 18.8
102.7 82.6
 
Proposed for approval by shareholders at the annual general meeting
Final dividend for 2014: 29.0p (2013: 33.2p) 61.9 70.8
The dividend has been re-phased such that the final payment will represent approximately two thirds of the total dividend for 2014.
The proposed dividend is based on the number of shares in issue, excluding treasury shares held, at the date the financial statements 
were approved and authorised for issue. 
The final dividend may differ due to increases or decreases in the number of shares in issue between the date of approval of the report 
and financial statements and the record date for the final dividend. 138 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
11. Property, plant & equipment
Land & 
buildings 
£m
Plant & 
equipment 
£m
Total 
property, 
plant & 
equipment 
£m
Cost
At 28 December 2012 145.3 444.9 590.2
Additions 17.4 73.0 90.4
Acquisitions 6.9 19.5 26.4
Disposals (3.3) (20.6) (23.9)
Reclassifications from intangible assets (note 12) – 1.0 1.0
Reclassifications 4.1 (4.1) –
Exchange adjustment (10.8) (33.6) (44.4)
At 3 January 2014 159.6 480.1 639.7
Additions 23.9 72.1 96.0
Acquisitions 5.2 5.7 10.9
Disposals (3.2) (19.9) (23.1)
Reclassifications to intangible assets (note 12) – (0.4) (0.4)
Reclassifications to inventory – (2.2) (2.2)
Reclassifications 0.6 (0.6) –
Exchange adjustment 4.0 5.8 9.8
At 2 January 2015 190.1 540.6 730.7
 
Accumulated depreciation & impairment
At 28 December 2012 34.2 182.0 216.2
Depreciation charge for the period 6.1 53.0 59.1
Disposals (1 .0) (15.9) (16.9)
Reclassifications from intangible assets (note 12) – 0.4 0.4
Reclassifications 0.7 (0.7) –
Exchange adjustment (2.1) (15.7) (17 .8)
At 3 January 2014 37 .9 203.1 241.0
Depreciation charge for the period 6.0 55.1 61.1
Impairment 1.6 7.6 9.2
Disposals (2.3) (16.4) (18.7)
Reclassifications to intangible assets (note 12) – (0.1) (0.1)
Reclassifications to inventory – (0.6) (0.6)
Reclassifications 0.2 (0.2) –
Exchange adjustment 0.6 3.2 3.8
At 2 January 2015 44.0 251.7 295.7
Net book value at 28 December 2012 111 .1 262.9 374.0
Net book value at 3 January 2014 121 .7 277 .0 398.7
Net book value at 2 January 2015 146.1 288.9 435.0
The carrying value of buildings held under finance leases is £1.0m (2013: £1.3m). The carrying value of plant & equipment held under 
finance leases is £0.4m (2013: £0.4m). Leased assets are pledged as security for the related finance lease liabilities.
   
The carrying amount of assets under construction included in plant & equipment is £36.6m (2013: £29.2m).
   
The impairment charges in the year are related to actions undertaken as a result of the Group-wide efficiency review as outlined in note 5.  Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
139 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
12. Intangible assets
Goodwill 
£m
Brand 
names 
£m
Customer 
and 
distributor 
relationships 
£m
Purchased 
software 
£m
Intellectual 
property & 
trade marks 
£m
Development 
costs 
£m
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 28 December 2012 908.9 169.7 384.5 33.2 58.0 4.5 17.7 1,576.5
Additions – – – 6.6 10.4 3.9 0.3 21 .2
Acquisitions 95.5 9.7 129.2 – 0.2 – – 234.6
Disposals – – – (0.9) – – – (0.9)
Reclassifications from property,  
plant & equipment (note 11) – – – (1 .0) – – – (1 .0)
Reclassifications – – – (0.7) – 0.7 – –
Exchange adjustment (32.6) (4.2) (11 .6) (1 .8) (1 .7) (0.7) (1 .0) (53.6)
At 3 January 2014 971.8 175.2 502.1 35.4 66.9 8.4 17.0 1,776.8
Additions – – 0.1 20.7 0.8 2.4 0.1 24.1
Acquisitions 77 .1 14.7 21.9 0.1 7.2 – 4.8 125.8
Disposals – – – (1.1) – – – (1.1)
Reclassifications from property,  
plant & equipment (note 11) – – – 0.4 – – – 0.4
Reclassifications – – – 0.2 (0.2) – – –
Exchange adjustment 42.4 11.5 29.3 (0.1) 3.6 (0.2) 1.0 87 .5
At 2 January 2015 1,091.3 201.4 553.4 55.6 78.3 10.6 22.9 2,013.5
 
Accumulated amortisation & impairment
At 28 December 2012 – – 67 .4 18.8 19.9 0.3 16.0 122.4
Amortisation charge for the period – – 37 .0 3.8 4.4 0.4 1.1 46.7
Disposals – – – (0.9) – – – (0.9)
Reclassifications from property,  
plant & equipment (note 11) – – – (0.4) – – – (0.4)
Reclassifications – – 1.0 0.4 – – (1 .4) –
Exchange adjustment – – (3.0) (1 .1) (0.7) – (0.7) (5.5)
At 3 January 2014 – – 102.4 20.6 23.6 0.7 15.0 162.3
Amortisation charge for the period – – 30.6 6.0 6.1 0.8 1.4 44.9
Impairment 160.0 – – – – – – 160.0
Disposals – – – (1.1) – – – (1.1)
Reclassifications from property,  
plant & equipment (note 11) – – – 0.1 – – – 0.1
Exchange adjustment – – 6.3 0.2 1.5 0.1 0.9 9.0
At 2 January 2015 160.0 – 139.3 25.8 31.2 1.6 17.3 375.2
Net book value at 28 December 2012 908.9 169.7 317 .1 14.4 38.1 4.2 1.7 1,454.1
Net book value at 3 January 2014 971 .8 175.2 399.7 14.8 43.3 7.7 2.0 1,614.5
Net book value at 2 January 2015 931.3 201.4 414.1 29.8 47 .1 9.0 5.6 1,638.3
The impairment charge recorded in the period relates to the write down of goodwill in the Pressure Control CGU (note 14).
The increase in goodwill of £77.1m during 2014 is represented by the current year acquisitions of Trio and Metra (note 13). 140 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
12. Intangible assets (continued)
Brand names have been assigned an indefinite useful life and as such are not amortised. The carrying value of £201.4m (2013: £175.2m)  
is tested annually for impairment (note 14). The brand name value comprises the brands of Linatex, BDK, American Hydro, Warman, SPM, 
Gabbioneta, Multiflo, Novatech, Mathena, Wales and Trio all of which are considered to be market leaders in their respective markets.
The allocation of significant brand names is as follows.
Brand names
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Gabbioneta 5.3 5.6
Linatex 37 .1 34.7
Mathena 7.7 7.2
Seaboard 31.9 29.8
SPM 30.9 28.0
Trio 15.3 -
Warman 54.0 50.5
Other 19.2 19.4
201.4 175.2
The allocation of customer and distributor relationships and the remaining amortisation period of these assets is as follows.
Remaining amortisation  
period
Customer and distributor 
relationships
2014 
Years
2013 
Years
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Mathena 11 12 97 .8 99.1
Novatech 11 12 43.0 44.1
Seaboard 13 14 129.3 130.2
SPM 17 18 78.5 76.6
Trio 10 – 22.4 –
Other Up to 16 Up to 17 43.1 49.7
414.1 399.7
The amortisation charge for the period is included in the income statement as follows.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Cost of sales 3.5 2.0
Selling & distribution costs 1.0 0.6
Administrative expenses 40.4 44.1
Amortisation charge for the period 44.9 46.7 Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
141 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
13. Business combinations
On 25 July 2014, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of the voting shares of Metra Equipment Inc, (Weir Metra) for a cash 
consideration of CAD$6.0m (£3.4m) less cash acquired of CAD$0.7m (£0.4m). Based in Saskatchewan, Canada, Weir Metra is a niche 
provider of wellhead equipment and services and will support and expand the existing Pressure Control business. The provisional fair 
value of the net assets has been assessed as £2.0m, giving rise to goodwill on acquisition of £1.4m. No separately identifiable intangible 
assets have been recognised in relation to the acquisition.
On 22 October 2014, the Group completed the acquisition of Trio Engineered Products (Weir Trio) a Chinese-American manufacturer  
of crushing and separation equipment for the mining and aggregate markets, for a consideration of US$236.0m inclusive of net cash 
balances held by Weir Trio. The consideration includes US$13.2m discounted contingent consideration deferred for up to 2 years 
conditional on the realisation of certain working capital targets and the achievement of agreed management goals. The provisional fair 
values are disclosed in the table below and are subject to change following completion of the fair value exercise during 2015. There are 
certain intangible assets in the £75.7m of goodwill recognised that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due to their 
nature. These items include anticipated business growth, synergies and an assembled workforce.
Provisional fair values
Trio 
2014 
£m
Property, plant & equipment 10.1
Inventories 20.9
Intangible assets
– customer and distributor relationships 21.9
– brand name 14.7
– order backlog 3.5
– intellectual property 7.2
– purchased software 0.1
– other 1.3
Trade & other receivables 15.6
Cash & cash equivalents 8.0
Trade & other payables (20.0)
Provisions (10.9)
Current tax (1.2)
Deferred tax (1.0)
Fair value of net assets 70.2
Goodwill arising on acquisition 75.7
Total consideration 145.9
Cash consideration 137 .7
Contingent consideration 8.2
Total consideration 145.9
The total net cash outflow on current year acquisitions was as follows
Weir Trio
– cash paid (137 .7)
– cash & cash equivalents acquired 8.0
Weir Metra – net cash outflow (3.0)
Total cash outflow (note 26) (132.7)
The fair value of the Weir Trio trade receivables amounts to £15.6m. The gross amount of trade receivables is £20.2m, of which £4.6m 
have been impaired as it is expected that the full contractual amounts may not be collected. 142 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
13. Business combinations (continued)
Together, Weir Trio and Weir Metra contributed £11.7m to revenue and £1.1m to operating profit (including exceptional items and 
intangibles amortisation) in the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015. The contribution of the individual acquisitions to revenue and profit  
for the period from continuing operations after exceptional items and intangibles amortisation of the Group was not material and so  
has not been separately disclosed. If the acquisitions had occurred at the start of 2014 the combined revenue and profit for the period 
from acquired operations after exceptional items and intangibles amortisation, would not have been materially different from the results 
disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The fair values for Weir Mathena, Weir Wales and all other acquisitions during 2013 were finalised in the financial statements for the 
period ended 3 January 2014. The 2013 cash flows in relation to these acquisitions are disclosed in note 26.
Contingent consideration
The purchase price of Trio included US$14.7m in respect of contingent consideration payable on the recovery of certain working capital 
balances and the achievement of agreed management goals over the next 2 years. Expectations at the date of acquisition were that  
the full amount will be payable and a discounted value of £8.2m was recognised. There has been no change in this view between the 
date of acquisition and the period end, with unwind of the discount being recognised in the Income Statement in the period. 
A significant increase (decrease) in the discount rate would result in a lower (higher) fair value of the liability. The discount rate applied  
in the fair value calculation for Trio was 13.0%.
The acquisition of Weir International in 2011 included an earn out based on EBITDA achieved in 2013 and 2014, with further EBITDA 
targets also extending to 2019. Weir International has met the 2013 and 2014 targets resulting in the settlement of contingent 
consideration in line with expectations.
The estimated fair value of the contingent consideration at the date of acquisition was £13.9m. Based on trading performance the liability 
was reassessed during 2012 and uplifted by a further £5.8m. During 2014 the fair value of the contingent consideration was uplifted by a 
further £0.6m following agreement with the minority shareholder over additional working capital targets applicable in 2019. The unwind 
of the discount has been recognised in the Income Statement in the period. 
A significant decrease in the EBITDA of Weir International would result in a lower fair value of the contingent consideration liability,  
while a significant increase (decrease) in the discount rate would result in a lower (higher) fair value of the liability. The discount rate 
applied in the fair value calculation for Weir International was 11.2%.
During 2013 the full contingent consideration liability in relation to Mathena of £60.1m was recognised on a discounted basis, and the 
unwind of the discount of £8.6m was recognised as an exceptional item. The contingent consideration was reduced to nil by 3 January 
2014, with the release of the contingent consideration liability of £67.8m, after allowing for exchange movements in the period, recorded 
as an exceptional item in the 2013 Income Statement.
A reconciliation of fair value measurement of the contingent consideration liability is provided below:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Opening balance 27 .7 24.5
Liability arising on business combinations 8.2 61 .7
Fair value changes in profit or loss 0.6 (67 .8)
Exchange movements in the period 1.0 (1 .1)
Contingent consideration paid (5.0) (0.3)
Unwind of discount 2.1 10.7
Closing balance 34.6 27 .7
The contingent consideration in relation to other acquisitions is considered to be immaterial for further disclosure.
The contingent consideration liability for Weir Trio is due for final measurement in 2016, while the contingent consideration liability for 
Weir International is due for final measurement in 2019. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
143 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
14. Impairment testing of goodwill & intangible assets with indefinite lives
Goodwill acquired through business combinations and intangible assets with indefinite lives have been allocated at acquisition to cash 
generating units (CGUs) that are expected to benefit from the business combination. 
The acquisitions during 2014, as described in note 13, have been allocated to these CGUs. Trio has been included within the Minerals 
CGU, while Metra has been added to the Pressure Control CGU. 
The carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives has been allocated as per the table below.
Goodwill 
2014 
£m
Intangibles
*
 
2014  
£m
Goodwill 
2013 
£m
Intangibles
*
 
2013 
£m
Pressure Pumping 298.5 35.5 279.3 33.2
Pressure Control 185.8 39.7 321 .9 37 .1
Gabbioneta 56.3 5.3 59.7 5.6
Minerals 318.1 111.7 239.6 90.7
Other 72.6 9.2 71 .3 8.6
931.3 201.4 971 .8 175.2
* Intangible assets with indefinite lives (brand names).
Impairment testing and sensitivity analysis
The very significant decline in the oil price towards the end of 2014 and at the start of 2015, and the resultant impact on the North American 
rig count, has had a substantial impact on the short to medium term forecasts of our Pressure Control CGU such that an impairment charge 
of £160m has been recognised at the end of the year. This has been entirely allocated against goodwill. 
The estimated recoverable amount of the Pressure Control CGU is equal to its carrying value. Consequently, any adverse charge in key 
assumptions would, in isolation, cause a further impairment loss to be recognised.
The following table shows the changes to assumptions used in the Pressure Control impairment model that would, in isolation, lead to an 
(increase)/decrease in the impairment loss recognised in 2014.
Increase by 
50bps
£m
Decrease by 
50bps  
£m
Increase by 
5% 
£m
Decrease by 
5% 
£m
Discount rate (27 .4) 30.6 n/a n/a
Real growth rate 21 .9 (19.7) n/a n/a
Forecast revenue growth
*
n/a n/a 13.3 (12.8)
EBIT margin 10.9 (10.3) n/a n/a
* Forecast revenue growth is expressed as the percentage increase/decrease in each of the initial five years used in the impairment testing.
As explained in other sections of this Annual Report (but specifically in the Financial Review on page 46 and in note 5), the Group has already 
reacted to market conditions through implementation of actions under the Group-wide efficiency review and is well placed to manage the 
current downturn.
The cash flow forecasts underpinning the impairment testing reflect the current oil price (and related activity levels) enduring for the next 
two years, with pressure on both volumes and pricing, and a measured return to more ‘normal’ levels thereafter.
No impairment has been identified in relation to any of the other CGUs. With regard to the Pressure Pumping CGU, this business is more 
mature and had significant levels of headroom between net asset value and discounted cash flows prior to the current market downturn. 
A number of stress test scenarios have been modelled which do not result in any impairment being identified.
For the Gabbioneta, Minerals and Other CGUs, base case forecasts show significant headroom above carrying value. Sensitivity analysis 
has been undertaken for each of these CGUs to assess the impact of any reasonable possible change in key assumptions. There is no 
reasonably possible change that would cause the carrying values to exceed recoverable amounts.
A description of each of the CGUs is provided below along with a summary of the key drivers of revenue growth and EBIT margin.
Pressure Pumping
Pressure Pumping includes the Weir SPM, Weir Novatech and Weir Mesa brands. Pressure Pumping is a supplier of oil and gas well 
service pumps, associated flow control equipment and services to the oil and gas production industry. Demand for Pressure Pumping 
products and services is closely related to the number of conventional and unconventional oil drilling rigs and gas well drilling rigs which  
is in turn dependent upon oil and natural gas prices and storage levels. Independent forecasts of North American oil and gas well drilling 
activity, which take into account forecast oil and natural gas prices and storage levels, have been used to derive revenue growth 
assumptions. These independent forecasts were updated during the first quarter of 2015 for the downturn in oil price. 144 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
14. Impairment testing of goodwill & intangible assets with indefinite lives (continued)
Pressure Control
Pressure Control includes the Weir Seaboard, Weir Mathena and Weir Metra brands. Weir Pressure Control is a supplier of oil and gas 
wellhead solutions and associated rental equipment to the oil and gas production industry. A large proportion of the business’ revenues 
are generated in North America with demand being closely related to the number of conventional oil drilling rigs and gas well drilling rigs 
in operation which is in turn dependent upon oil and natural gas prices and storage levels. Independent forecasts of North American  
oil and gas well drilling activity, which take into account forecast oil and natural gas prices and storage levels, have been used to derive 
revenue growth assumptions. These independent forecasts were updated during the first quarter of 2015 for the downturn in oil price.
Minerals
Minerals includes the Weir Warman, Weir Linatex, Weir Multiflo, Weir Wales and Weir Trio brands. Weir Minerals companies supply 
pumps and associated equipment and services to all global mining markets. The key drivers for revenues are (i) levels of mining capital 
expenditure which drives demand for original equipment and (ii) levels of actual mining activity which drives demand for spare parts and 
service. Independent forecasts of mining capital expenditure and activity have been used to derive revenue growth assumptions. These 
independent forecasts were prepared during the final quarter of 2014. Weir Trio was excluded from the Group impairment test as a fair 
value review of goodwill and intangible assets was performed in the final quarter of 2014 as part of the acquisition process. A breakdown 
of Weir Trio’s goodwill and intangible assets are disclosed in note 13. 
Gabbioneta
Gabbioneta is a supplier of heavy duty process applications to oil and gas refinery, petro-chemical and power generation industries. The 
key drivers for revenues are capital expenditure within oil refinery and petro-chemical industries. Independent forecasts of expenditure  
in these sectors have been used to derive revenue growth assumptions. These independent forecasts were prepared during the final 
quarter of 2014.
Other 
The amounts included in Other are not considered individually significant. There have been no changes in the period. 
The Group tests goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications 
that these might be impaired. The basis of the impairment tests for the four primary CGUs including key assumptions are set out in the 
table below.
CGU
Basis of 
valuation
Period of 
forecast Discount rate
1
Real growth
2
Key assumptions Source
Pressure Pumping Value in use 5 years 12.9% (2013:12.2%) 1.5% (2013:1.5%)
Revenue growth 
EBIT margins
External forecast 
Historic experience
Pressure Control Value in use 5 years 12.9% (2013:12.2%) 1.5% (2013:1.5%)
Revenue growth 
EBIT margins
External forecast 
Historic experience
Gabbioneta Value in use 5 years 11.8% (2013:13.6%) 1.5% (2013:1.5%)
Revenue growth 
EBIT margins
External forecast 
Historic experience
Minerals Value in use 5 years 13.7% (2013:14.7%) 1.5% (2013:1.5%)
Revenue growth 
EBIT margins
External forecast  
Historic experience
1 
Discount rate
The discount rates presented above reflect the pre-tax nominal weighted average cost of capital (WACC) in the most appropriate 
geographic region. The WACC is the weighted average of the pre-tax cost of debt financing and the pre-tax cost of equity finance.  
During the year, there have been reductions to the 10 year government bond yields for some countries, including Italy, which has led  
to a decrease in the cost of equity, and as a result, the overall discount rates for those countries.
2 
Real growth
Real growth beyond the five year forecast period of 1.5% is in line with 2013 reflecting the gradual return to a more stable economic environment.
EBIT margins
EBIT margins have been forecast based on historic levels taking cognisance of the likely impact of changing economic environments and 
competitive landscapes on volumes and revenues and the impact of associated management actions on costs. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
145 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
15. Investments in joint ventures
The significant investments in joint ventures are as follows.
£m
At 28 December 2012 12.0
Additions 14.0
Share of results 8.4
Share of dividends (6.1)
Exchange adjustment (1 .2)
At 3 January 2014 27 .1
Disposals 0.3
Share of results 10.0
Share of dividends (6.0)
Exchange adjustment 2.3
At 2 January 2015 33.7
Details of the Group’s share of the balance sheet, revenue and profit of each of its joint ventures are given below.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Share of joint ventures balance sheets
Goodwill 12.7 11.8
Current assets 33.4 19.9
Non-current assets 4.3 3.3
Current liabilities (15.1) (6.2)
Non-current liabilities (1.6) (1 .7)
Net assets 33.7 27 .1
 
Share of joint ventures revenue & profits
Revenue 56.2 36.8
Cost of sales (37 .5) (22.9)
Selling & distribution costs (3.8) (2.6)
Administrative expenses (1.8) (1 .5)
Income tax expense (3.1) (1 .4)
Profit after tax 10.0 8.4
The Group’s significant investments in joint ventures are listed on page 183.
16. Inventories
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Raw materials 171.6 150.8
Work in progress 120.9 112.8
Finished goods 258.8 221 .4
551.3 485.0
In 2014 the cost of inventories recognised as an expense within cost of sales amounted to £1,632.2m (2013: £1,557.2m). In 2014 the 
write-down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to £13.8m (2013: £9.0m), which included £5.3m in relation to the Group-wide 
efficiency review, as disclosed in note 5. Write-downs in both years relate to on-going assessments of inventory obsolescence, excess 
inventory holding and inventory resale values across all of the Group’s businesses. 146 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
17. Trade & other receivables
Other receivables presented as non-current on the face of the Consolidated Balance Sheet of £22.3m (2013: £nil) are in respect  
of insurance contracts relating to asbestos-related claims made in the US. Further detail is presented in note 22.
Current trade & other receivables are analysed in the following table.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Trade receivables 530.9 437 .9
Allowance of doubtful debts (17 .9) (15.4)
513.0 422.5
Other debtors 47 .9 22.8
Sales tax receivable 12.9 11.4
Accrued income 24.1 21 .8
Prepayments 27 .1 18.6
625.0 497 .1
The average credit period on sales of goods is 77 days (2013: 63 days). Other debtors includes £11.5m (2013: £0.3m) in respect of 
amounts due from joint ventures, and £5.9m (2013:nil) in respect of insurance contracts relating to asbestos-related claims in the US  
(note 22).
Analysis of trade receivables
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Neither impaired nor past due 346.9 286.6
Past due but not impaired 166.1 135.9
Impaired 17.9 15.4
530.9 437 .9
Ageing of past due but not impaired trade receivables
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Up to 3 months 114.6 100.8
Between 3 & 6 months 24.5 21 .1
More than 6 months 27 .0 14.0
166.1 135.9
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Balance at the beginning of the period (15.4) (12.6)
Impairment losses recognised on receivables (6.0) (7 .1)
Amounts written off as uncollectable 1.4 1.5
Amounts recovered during the period 0.3 0.3
Impairment losses reversed 1.8 1.6
Exchange adjustment – 0.9
Balance at the end of the period (17 .9) (15.4)
Impairment losses recognised in 2014 include £4.8m as a result of actions taken following the Group-wide efficiency review, as disclosed 
in note 5.
Ageing of impaired trade receivables
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Up to 3 months 1.9 3.2
Between 3 & 6 months 1.5 0.8
More than 6 months 14.5 11.4
17.9 15.4 Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
147 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
18. Construction contracts
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Gross amount due from customers for contract work (included in current assets) 31.3 28.3
Gross amount due to customers for contract work (included in current liabilities) (13.8) (12.1)
17.5 16.2
 
Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 99.4 94.4
Less: progress billings (81.9) (78.2)
17.5 16.2
The amount of retentions held by customers for contract work amounted to £nil (2013: £nil) and the amount of advances received from 
customers for contract work amounted to £2.4m (2013: £4.9m).
19. Cash & short-term deposits
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Cash at bank & in hand 160.4 70.9
Short-term deposits 18.3 8.2
178.7 79.1
 
For the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash & cash equivalents comprise the following
Cash & short-term deposits 178.7 79.1
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings (note 20) (12.1) (10.5)
166.6 68.6
Cash at bank & in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying 
periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the 
respective short-term deposit rates.
20. Interest-bearing loans & borrowings
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Current
Bank overdrafts 10.7 8.1
Short-term borrowings 1.4 2.4
12.1 10.5
Fixed rate notes 70.6 –
Bank loans 83.3 15.8
Obligations under finance leases (note 27) 0.1 0.2
166.1 26.5
Non-current
Bank loans 135.2 40.3
Fixed rate notes 737 .9 759.0
Obligations under finance leases (note 27) 0.2 0.3
873.3 799.6 148 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
20. Interest-bearing loans & borrowings (continued)
Weighted average  
interest rate
Bank loans Maturity Interest basis
2014 
%
2013 
%
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Revolving credit facility
United States Dollar variable rate loans 2019 US$ LIBOR 0.51 0.97 42.8 39.9
United States Dollar variable rate loans 2019 £ LIBOR 0.85 – 91.0 –
Other
Uncommitted facility loan 2015 £ LIBOR 0.89 0.82 83.2 15.8
United States Dollar buyer credit facility 2015 US$ LIBOR 2.11 2.24 0.1 0.4
South African Rand loan facility 2016 ZAR JIBAR 7 .03 – 1.4 –
218.5 56.1
Less: current instalments due on bank loans
Uncommitted facility loan 2015 £ LIBOR (83.2) (15.8)
United States Dollar buyer credit facility 2015 US$ LIBOR (0.1) –
Non-current bank loans 135.2 40.3
Weighted average  
interest rate
Fixed rate notes Maturity Interest basis
2014 
%
2013 
%
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Private placement
Sterling fixed rate notes 2015 FIXED 4.58 4.58 12.0 12.0
United States Dollar fixed rate notes 2015 FIXED 4.20 4.20 58.6 54.8
Sterling fixed rate notes 2018 FIXED 5.36 5.36 43.0 43.0
United States Dollar fixed rate notes 2018 FIXED 5.03 5.03 45.6 42.6
United States Dollar fixed rate notes 2019 FIXED 3.69 3.69 136.4 127 .5
United States Dollar fixed rate notes 2022 FIXED 4.27 4.27 383.0 357 .8
United States Dollar fixed rate notes 2023 FIXED 4.34 4.34 129.9 121 .3
808.5 759.0
Less: current instalments due on fixed rate notes
Sterling fixed rate notes 2015 FIXED (12.0) –
United States Dollar fixed rate notes 2015 FIXED (58.6) –
Non-current fixed rate notes 737 .9 759.0
US$ LIBOR is the United States Dollar London Inter Bank Offer Rate and £ LIBOR is the Great British Pound London Inter Bank Offer 
Rate. The weighted average interest rates include an applicable margin over and above the interest basis. 
The disclosures above represent the interest profile and currency profile of financial liabilities before the impact of derivative financial 
instruments.
In September 2014, the Group amended the US$800m multi-currency revolving credit facility, which was previously refinanced in  
July 2013 and due to mature in July 2018. The amendment extended the maturity date to July 2019, with the option of two one-year 
extensions. At 2 January 2015, US$209.8m was drawn under the revolving credit facility. Total unamortised issue costs at 2 January 
2015 were £4.6m (2013: £4.9m).
On 12 January 2015, the Group repaid US$90m US Dollar fixed rate notes and £12.0m Sterling fixed rate notes as these fell due. These 
were refinanced using existing facilities including the US$800m multi-currency revolving credit facility and various uncommitted Sterling 
borrowing facilities in place. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
149 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
21. Trade & other payables
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Current
Trade payables 305.3 272.9
Other creditors 24.5 18.8
Other taxes & social security costs 18.3 12.9
Accruals 159.3 100.7
Contingent consideration 9.0 5.3
Deferred income 65.0 66.2
581.4 476.8
Non-current
Contingent consideration 25.6 22.4
22. Provisions
Warranties 
& onerous 
sales 
contracts 
£m
Employee 
related 
£m
Exceptional 
rationalisation 
£m
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
At 3 January 2014 27 .8 22.5 – 4.3 54.6
Additions 16.4 30.6 30.1 1.9 79.0
Acquisitions 8.7 1.5 – 0.7 10.9
Utilised (15.2) (1.7) (8.2) (1.8) (26.9)
Unutilised (3.1) (0.9) – (1.2) (5.2)
Exchange adjustment 1.0 (0.4) (0.3) (0.2) 0.1
At 2 January 2015 35.6 51.6 21.6 3.7 112.5
Current 2014 30.8 10.9 20.3 3.1 65.1
Non-current 2014 4.8 40.7 1.3 0.6 47 .4
35.6 51.6 21.6 3.7 112.5
Current 2013 21 .7 3.7 – 3.5 28.9
Non-current 2013 6.1 18.8 – 0.8 25.7
27 .8 22.5 – 4.3 54.6
Warranties and onerous sales contracts
Provision has been made in respect of actual warranty and contract penalty claims on goods sold and services provided and allowance 
has been made for potential warranty claims based on past experience for goods and services sold with a warranty guarantee. It is 
expected that all costs related to such claims will have been incurred within five years of the balance sheet date.
Provision has been made in respect of sales contracts entered into for the sale of goods in the normal course of business where  
the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contracts exceed the economic benefits expected to be received from  
the contracts. Provision is made immediately when it becomes apparent that expected costs will exceed the expected benefits of  
the contract. It is expected that the majority of these costs will be incurred within one year of the balance sheet date.
Employee related
Employee related provisions arise from legal obligations, some of which are for asbestos-related claims.
Asbestos-related claims
Certain of the Group’s US-based subsidiaries are co-defendants in lawsuits pending in the United States in which plaintiffs are claiming 
damages arising from alleged exposure to products previously manufactured which contained asbestos. The Group has comprehensive 
insurance cover for these cases with all claims directly managed by the Group’s insurers who also meet all associated defence costs.  
The insurers and their legal advisers agree and execute the defence strategy between them and there are no related cash flows to or 
from the Group. We expect this to continue for the foreseeable future as long as the litigation arises. 150 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
22. Provisions (continued)
Employee related (continued)
Asbestos-related claims (continued)
At the end of 2014, there are 1,503 asbestos-related claims outstanding in the US (2013: 1,129). In light of the recent increase in claims, a 
review was completed to assess the adequacy of the Group’s insurance policies to meet future settlement and defence costs. As a result 
of this review we have estimated settlement and defence costs for existing and projected claims received in the next five years and 
recorded a provision of £28m with an equivalent receivable for insurance proceeds (note 17).
This provision represents the Directors best estimate of the future liability at this time although given the lack of consistent claims and 
settlement history, these estimates and the period over which they are assessed will continue to be refined.
Due to the inherent uncertainty associated with estimating future costs in respect of asbestos-related diseases, there can be no 
guarantee that the assumptions used to estimate the provision will result in an accurate prediction of the actual costs that my be incurred. 
However, we do not expect there to be a net financial exposure to the Group given the comprehensive insurance cover in place.
In the UK, there are 26 (2013: 26) outstanding asbestos-related claims which are not the subject of insurance cover. The Group provides 
for both based on management’s best estimate of the likely costs given past experience of the volume and cost of similar claims brought 
against the Group. It is expected that these costs will be incurred in the period up to 2025.
Exceptional rationalisation
As part of the Group-wide efficiency review announced in November 2014 the Group has provided £30.1m, of which £8.2m was utilised 
in the year. The provision is based on expected costs for the closure of small manufacturing facilities, consolidation of service centres, 
workforce reductions and the exit from certain lower margin activities. The majority of the provision will be utilised in the next year,  
with the remainder utilised within the next 24 months. 
Other
Other provisions relate to an environmental clean-up programme in the United States for a company acquired in 1992, the discontinued 
operations and indemnity provision, and various other legal claims and exposures across the Group. The environmental provision is based 
on management’s current best estimate of the expected costs under the programme. It is expected that these costs will be incurred in 
the period up to 2019. The discontinued operations warranty and indemnity provision was reduced in the year (note 8) leaving a closing 
balance of £0.3m (2013: £1.3m).
23. Deferred tax
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Deferred income tax assets
Post-employment benefits 21.4 15.7
Decelerated depreciation for tax purposes 10.2 13.8
Intangible assets 5.4 –
Untaxed reserves 60.8 47 .0
Offset against liabilities (75.0) (59.3)
Deferred income tax assets 22.8 17.2
Deferred income tax liabilities
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes (48.0) (49.4)
Overseas tax on unremitted earnings (24.1) (24.3)
Intangible assets (165.4) (148.0)
Other temporary differences – (3.1)
Offset against assets 75.0 59.3
Deferred income tax liabilities (162.5) (165.5)
Net deferred income tax liability (139.7) (148.3) Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
151 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the period was as follows.
Post 
employment 
benefits 
£m
Accelerated 
depreciation 
for tax 
purposes 
£m
Overseas 
tax on 
unremitted 
earnings 
£m
Intangible 
assets 
£m
Untaxed 
reserves 
& other 
temporary 
differences 
£m
Total 
£m
At 28 December 2012 23.0 (28.6) (24.1) (154.3) 51 .9 (132.1)
Acquisitions – (0.1) – (5.8) 0.2 (5.7)
(Charged) credited to the income statement (note 7) (1 .2) (7 .9) (2.0) 9.7 (6.0) (7 .4)
Credited (charged) to equity (6.1) – – – 0.8 (5.3)
Exchange adjustment – 1.1 1.8 2.5 (3.2) 2.2
At 3 January 2014 15.7 (35.5) (24.3) (147 .9) 43.7 (148.3)
Prior year adjustments – 0.2 – – (0.2) –
Acquisitions – – – (11.3) 10.3 (1.0)
Credited (charged) to the income statement (note 7) 0.2 (1.6) (0.2) 8.2 3.9 10.5
Credited to equity 5.1 – – – 0.9 6.0
Exchange adjustment 0.4 (0.9) 0.4 (9.0) 2.2 (6.9)
At 2 January 2015 21.4 (37 .8) (24.1) (160.0) 60.8 (139.7)
Untaxed reserves primarily relate to temporarily disallowed inventory/debtor provisions and accruals/provisions for liabilities where the  
tax allowance is deferred until the cash expense occurs.
Deferred tax asset balances for unused tax losses of £5.8m (2013: £4.9m) have not been recognised on the grounds that there is 
insufficient evidence that these assets will be recoverable. These assets will be recovered when future tax charges are sufficient to 
absorb these tax benefits. Deferred tax asset balances for capital losses in the UK amounting to £5.8m (2013: £5.8m) have not been 
recognised but would be available in the event of future capital gains being incurred by the Group.
Temporary differences associated with Group investments
A deferred tax liability of £24.1m (2013: £24.3m) has been recognised in respect of taxes on the unremitted earnings of the South American 
and Canadian subsidiaries. As at 2 January 2015, this is the only recognised deferred tax liability in respect of taxes on unremitted earnings 
as the Group does not foresee a distribution of unremitted earnings from other subsidiaries or joint ventures which would result in a reversal 
of deferred tax. The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, for which a deferred tax liability 
has not been recognised, aggregate to £1,607.0m (2013: £1,513.2m).
There are no income tax consequences attaching to the payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders.
24. Pensions & other post-employment benefit plans
The Group has four main defined benefit pension plans in the UK and North America. All defined benefit plans are closed to new 
members. The most significant of the defined benefit plans are the two funded UK plans.
UK Plans
The Group has two funded defined benefit plans (the Main Plan and the Executive Plan) and an unfunded retirement benefit plan for 
retired executive directors. The Group operates a defined contribution plan for new hires. Contributions to the defined contribution 
arrangements are in addition to those set out below and are charged directly to the income statement. 
For the defined benefit plans, benefits are related to service and final salary. Contributory salary in respect of the Main Plan is subject  
to capped increases, with the cap being in line with RPI inflation up to a maximum of 5% per annum. Following a consultation process 
which ended in August 2013, the Main Plan will close to future accrual of benefits effective from 30 June 2015 and an exceptional 
curtailment gain of £2.7m was recognised in the previous period.
The weighted average duration of the expected benefit payments from the Main Plan is around 16 years and from the Executive Plan  
is around 12 years.
The current funding target for the UK plans is to maintain assets equal to the value of the accrued benefits based on projected salaries 
where relevant (subject to the cap above for the Main Plan). The Main Plan holds insurance policies in respect of a significant proportion 
of deferred and retired pensioners.
The regulatory framework in the UK requires the Trustees and Group to agree upon the assumptions underlying the funding target,  
and then to agree upon the necessary contributions required to recover any deficit at the valuation date. There is a risk to the Group  
that adverse experience could lead to a requirement for the Group to make considerable contributions to recover any deficit. This risk  
is significantly reduced for the Main Plan through the insurance policies held by the Plan. 152 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
24. Pensions & other post-employment benefit plans (continued)
North American Plans
The Group also sponsors two funded defined benefit pension plans in the United States and Canada and certain unfunded post-employment 
healthcare benefits for senior employees in the United States.
These plans combined make up 4% of the Group’s pension and other post-employment benefit plan commitments and 2% of the Group’s 
total associated assets. The weighted average duration of these plans is around 12 years.
Assumptions
The significant actuarial assumptions used for accounting purposes reflect prevailing market conditions in each of the relevant countries 
in which the Group operates and are as follows.
UK  
pensions
North American 
pensions
North American 
post-retirement 
healthcare
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Significant actuarial assumptions
Discount rate (% pa) 3.5 4.4 3.9 4.7 3.9 4.7
Retail Prices inflation assumption (% pa) 3.0 3.4 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Post-retirement mortality (life expectancies in years)
Current pensioners at 65 – male 22.1 22.0 21.7 20.0 21.7 19.6
Current pensioners at 65 – female 24.6 24.5 23.9 21 .9 23.9 21 .5
Future pensioners at 65 – male 23.9 23.8 23.3 21 .5 23.4 21 .1
Future pensioners at 65 – female 26.5 26.5 25.5 22.7 25.6 22.4
Other related actuarial assumptions
Rate of increases for pensions in payment (% pa)
Pre 6 April 2006 service 2.9 3.3 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Post 5 April 2006 service 2.0 2.2 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Consumer Prices inflation assumption (% pa) 2.0 2.4 1.9 2.0 2.0 2.3
Rate of increase in healthcare costs n/a n/a n/a n/a * *
* 7.7% per annum decreasing to 4.5% per annum and remaining static at that level from 2028 onwards.
The assumptions used to determine end-of-year benefit obligations are also used to calculate the following period’s cost. For North 
America, weighted average assumptions are shown where applicable.
The post-retirement mortality assumptions allow for expected increases in longevity. The ‘current’ disclosures above relate to assumptions 
based on longevity (in years) following retirement at the balance sheet date, with ‘future’ being that relating to a member retiring in 2035  
(in 20 years time). Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
153 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
The assets and liabilities of the plans are as follows.
Total
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Plan assets at fair value
Equities (quoted) 165.9 156.3
Diversified Growth Funds (primarily quoted) 42.3 38.4
Corporate bonds (quoted) 77 .9 63.6
Government bonds (quoted) 86.0 67 .9
Insurance policies (unquoted) 357 .7 346.2
Cash (quoted) 12.1 8.6
Fair value of plan assets 741.9 681 .0
Present value of funded obligations (827 .0) (744.0)
Net funded obligations (85.1) (63.0)
Present value of unfunded obligations (9.2) (7 .4)
Net liability (94.3) (70.4)
Plan in surplus 4.1 1.4
Plan in deficit (98.4) (71 .8)
In 2013 the Plan in surplus was presented net against the Plan in deficit based on the size of the balance and the overall impact on the 
Group Consolidated Balance Sheet. Given the increase in the Plan surplus over 2014, separate disclosure has now been made in both  
the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the Segmental Information (note 3).
The government bonds held are primarily index-linked, with around only 7% of the total government bonds being fixed interest. The pension 
plans have not directly invested in any of the Group’s own financial instruments, or in properties or other assets used by the Group.
In the UK, where the majority of the Group’s pension assets are held, the investment strategy is to hold equities and other return seeking 
assets such as diversified growth funds and a mixture of bonds to meet the assessed value of the benefits promised for the current 
active member employees and some deferred pensioners. For the remaining deferred pensioners and the bulk of pensioners currently 
receiving their benefit, the liabilities are backed by insurance policies and suitable bonds.
The change in net liabilities recognised in the balance sheet is comprised as follows.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Opening net liabilities (70.4) (90.4)
Expense charged to profit and loss (4.9) (3.4)
Amount recognised in statement of comprehensive income (31.1) 8.0
Employer contributions 13.0 15.4
Currency adjustment (0.9) –
Closing net liabilities (94.3) (70.4) 154 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
24. Pensions & other post-employment benefit plans (continued)
Assumptions (continued)
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement and in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the 
period are analysed as follows.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement
Current service cost (2.1) (2.2)
Administrative expenses (0.7) (0.4)
Past service settlement credit 0.5 –
Past service curtailment gain 0.2 2.7
Included in operating profit (2.1) 0.1
Interest on net pension liability (2.8) (3.5)
Total expense charged to profit & loss (4.9) (3.4)
Recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Actual return on plan assets 84.6 49.5
Less: interest on plan assets (29.6) (27 .5)
55.0 22.0
Other actuarial losses due to
Changes in financial assumptions (79.1) (14.0)
Changes in demographic assumptions (5.8) –
Experience on benefit obligations (1.2) –
Actuarial (losses) gains recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (31.1) 8.0
Current service cost and administration expenses are recognised in operating costs and net interest on net pension liability is recognised 
in other finance costs. The curtailment gain as a result of the Main Plan closing to future accrual with effect from 30 June 2015 was 
recognised as an exceptional item in 2013. Deficit reduction measures in two small North American plans resulted in a settlement  
credit of £0.5m and a curtailment gain of £0.2m in 2014.
Pension contributions are determined with the advice of independent qualified actuaries on the basis of regular valuations using the projected 
unit method. The Group made special contributions of £10.6m in 2014 (2013: £12.1m) in addition to the Group’s regular contributions. 
The most recent actuarial funding valuation of the Main Plan was as at 31 December 2011 when the funding shortfall was £81.4m.  
The deficit recovery plan agreed with the Trustees at that time was for the Company to make recovery contributions of £8.0m per annum 
up to 2020, subject to reassessment at future triennial valuations. The next funding valuation of the Main Plan, as at 31 December 2014, 
is currently on-going.
The Executive Plan actuarial valuation at 31 December 2013 included a funding shortfall of £10.6m with agreed recovery contributions  
of £2.4m per annum to 31 December 2017, also subject to reassessment at future triennial valuations.
The Group has taken legal advice regarding its UK arrangements to confirm the accounting treatment under IFRIC14 with regard to 
recognition of a current surplus and also recognition of a minimum funding requirement. This confirmed that there is no requirement to 
adjust the balance sheet and that recognition of a current surplus is appropriate on the basis that the Group has an unconditional right  
to a refund of a current (or projected future) surplus at some point in the future. For the same reason, there is no requirement for the 
Group to adjust the balance sheet to recognise the future agreed deficit recovery contributions. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
155 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Sensitivity Analysis
Changes in key assumptions can have a significant effect on the reported retirement benefit obligation and the income statement 
expense for 2015. The effects of changes in those assumptions are set out in the table below.
Increase 
2014 
£m
Decrease 
2014 
£m
Increase 
2013 
£m
Decrease 
2013 
£m
Discount rate
Effect on defined benefit obligation of a 1.0% change 121.4 (147 .0) 106.0 (128.1)
Effect on net liability of a 1.0% change 87 .0 (108.6) 73.4 (91 .7)
RPI inflation (and associated assumptions)
Effect on defined benefit obligation of a 1.0% change (77 .4) 72.8 (71 .4) 71 .2
Effect on net liability of a 1.0% change (54.4) 49.9 (53.1) 47 .6
Life expectancy
Effect on defined benefit obligation of a 1 year change (22.9) 22.9 (20.5) 20.5
Effect on net liability of a 1 year change (12.2) 12.2 (10.1) 10.1
The impact on the net liability is significantly reduced as a result of the insurance policies held. In the absence of such policies, the impact 
on the net liability would be much closer to the significantly higher impact on the defined benefit obligation shown in the table.
These sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in the defined benefit obligation and net liability in isolation and assume 
no other changes in market conditions at the accounting date. In practice, for example, a change in discount rate is unlikely to occur 
without any movement in the value of the invested (non-insurance policy) assets held by the plans.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are analysed as follows.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Opening defined benefit obligations (751.4) (739.9)
Current service cost (2.1) (2.2)
Past service curtailment gain 0.2 2.7
Interest on benefit obligations (32.4) (31 .0)
Benefits paid 34.6 32.6
Actuarial losses due to
Changes in financial assumptions (79.1) (14.0)
Changes in demographic assumptions (5.8) –
Experience on benefit obligations (1.2) –
Gains on curtailments and settlements 2.9 –
Exchange rate adjustment (1.9) 0.4
Closing defined benefit obligations (836.2) (751 .4)
The past service curtailment gain of £2.7m in the prior period arose as a result of the decision taken, following consultation, to close the 
Main Plan to the future accrual of benefits with effect from 30 June 2015 onwards. This decision was announced to members in August 
2013, at which point the curtailment gain was recognised under IAS 19 (R). 156 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
24. Pensions & other post-employment benefit plans (continued)
Sensitivity Analysis (continued)
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are analysed as follows.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Opening plan assets 681.0 649.5
Interest on plan assets 29.6 27 .5
Employer contributions 13.0 15.4
Administrative expenses (0.7) (0.4)
Benefits paid (34.6) (32.6)
Actuarial return on plan assets less interest on plan assets 55.0 22.0
Assets distributed on settlements (2.4) –
Exchange rate adjustment 1.0 (0.4)
Closing plan assets 741.9 681 .0
25. Share capital & reserves
2014 
Number  
Million
2013 
Number  
Million
Issued & fully paid share capital
At the beginning of the period 213.9 213.6
Issued during the period in respect of LTIP awards 0.2 0.3
At the end of the period 214.1 213.9
Treasury shares
At the beginning of the period 0.7 1.1
Issued during the period in respect of LTIP awards – (0.4)
At the end of the period 0.7 0.7
The Company has one class of ordinary share with a par value of 12.5p which carries no rights to fixed income.
As at 2 January 2015, 68,590 shares (2013: 90,827 shares) were held by the Kleinwort EBT with a market value of £1.3m (2013: £1.9m).
As at 2 January 2015, 220,952 shares (2013: 168,764) were held by the Appleby EBT for the strategic and matching elements of the 
deferred bonus and 83,850 shares (2013: 82,667) for the deferred element. These shares have a market value of £5.7m (2013: £5.3m).
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve was created by a repurchase and cancellation of own shares during the 53 weeks ended 1 January 1999.
Foreign currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements  
of foreign operations and the Group’s hedge of its net investment in foreign operations. 
Hedge accounting reserve
This reserve records the portion of the gains or losses on hedging instruments used as cash flow hedges that are determined to be 
effective. Net gains (losses) transferred from equity during the period are included in the following line items in the Consolidated Income 
Statement and Consolidated Balance Sheet.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Revenue – 0.3
Cost of sales (0.5) (0.4)
Interest – 0.4
Inventory (0.4) (0.5)
(0.9) (0.2) Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
157 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
26. Additional cash flow information
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Continuing operations
Net cash generated from operations
Operating profit 192.5 490.3
Exceptional items 52.4 (70.5)
Share of results of joint ventures (10.0) (8.4)
Depreciation of property, plant & equipment 61.1 59.1
Amortisation of intangible assets 44.9 46.7
Impairment of intangible assets 160.0 –
Gains on disposal of property, plant & equipment (1.4) (1 .3)
Funding of pension & post-retirement costs (0.4) (0.5)
Employee share schemes 4.4 8.7
Net foreign exchange including derivative financial instruments 1.4 4.1
Decrease in provisions (1.9) (13.4)
Cash generated from operations before working capital cash flows 503.0 514.8
(Increase) decrease in inventories (45.5) 1.6
(Increase) in trade & other receivables and construction contracts (86.4) (37 .1)
Increase (decrease) in trade & other payables and construction contracts 50.2 (5.4)
Cash generated from operations 421.3 473.9
Additional pension contributions paid (10.6) (12.1)
Exceptional cash items (10.6) –
Income tax paid (94.1) (71 .9)
Net cash generated from operating activities 306.0 389.9
Exceptional items are detailed in note 5. 
The employee-related provision and associated insurance asset in relation to US asbestos-related claims disclosed in note 22 will not 
result in any cash flows either to or from the Group and therefore they have been excluded from the table above.
The following tables summarise the cash flows arising on acquisitions.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Acquisitions of subsidiaries 
Current period acquisitions (see below) (132.7) (200.9)
Prior period acquisitions contingent consideration paid (5.0) (0.3)
(137 .7) (201 .2)
Acquisition of subsidiaries – cash paid (140.7) (207 .4)
Cash & cash equivalents acquired 8.0 6.5
Acquisition of subsidiaries – current period acquisitions (132.7) (200.9)
Settlement of external debt of subsidiary on acquisition – (1 .3)
Total cash outflow on acquisition of subsidiaries – current year (note 13) (132.7) (202.2)
Prior period acquisitions contingent consideration paid (5.0) (0.3)
Total cash outflow relating to acquisitions (137 .7) (202.5)
Disposals of subsidiaries
Prior period disposals – (0.3)
The settlement of the external debt of Weir Mathena on acquisition in 2013 was classified as a financing cash flow in accordance with 
IAS 7.  158 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
26. Additional cash flow information (continued)
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Reconciliation of net increase (decrease) in cash & cash equivalents to movement in net debt
Net increase (decrease) in cash & cash equivalents from continuing operations 97 .2 (307 .3)
Net (increase) decrease in debt (166.5) 260.7
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows (69.3) (46.6)
Lease inceptions (0.4) (0.1)
Loans acquired – (1 .5)
Foreign currency translation differences (44.0) (9.9)
Change in net debt during the period (113.7) (58.1)
Net debt at the beginning of the period (747 .0) (688.9)
Net debt at the end of the period (860.7) (747 .0)
Net debt comprises the following
Cash & short-term deposits (note 19) 178.7 79.1
Current interest-bearing loans & borrowings (note 20) (166.1) (26.5)
Non-current interest-bearing loans & borrowings (note 20) (873.3) (799.6)
(860.7) (747 .0)
27. Commitments & legal claims
Operating lease commitments
The Group has entered into commercial leases for land and buildings, motor vehicles and plant & equipment. Land and building leases 
have an average term of between two and ten years, motor vehicle leases have an average term of between two and four years and plant 
& equipment leases have an average term of between three and five years. Certain leases have terms of renewal, at the option of the 
lessee, but there are no purchase options or escalation clauses. Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases 
are shown in the table below.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Less than one year 32.0 24.1
After one year but no more than five years 70.6 57 .1
More than five years 39.1 19.0
141.7 100.2
Finance lease commitments
The Group has finance leases for buildings and plant & equipment. Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with 
the present value of the net minimum lease payments are shown in the table below.
Minimum 
payments 
2014 
£m
Present 
value of 
payments 
2014 
£m
Minimum 
payments 
2013 
£m
Present value 
of payments 
2013 
£m
Less than one year 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2
After one year but not more than five years 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.3
Total minimum lease payments 0.3 0.6
Less amounts representing finance charges – (0.1)
Present value of minimum lease payments 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.5
The weighted average outstanding lease term is 3.64 years (2013: 4.04 years). For the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015, the weighted 
average effective borrowing rate was 4.60% (2013: 5.33%).
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
Capital commitments
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Outstanding capital commitments contracted but not provided for – property, plant & equipment 19.6 11.0
Outstanding capital commitments contracted but not provided for – intangible assets 3.5 –
The Group’s share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures amounted to £0.4m (2013: £0.5m). Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
159 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Legal claims
The company and certain subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the normal course  
of business.
A claim has been made by Philippines Gold Processing & Refining Corporation against Weir Services Australia Pty Limited (WSA),  
a subsidiary of the Company, in arbitration proceedings in respect of two contracts relating to the refurbishment and installation of a mill 
undertaken by WSA in 2007-2008 and 2008-2009, respectively. The amount claimed, which totals approximately £58m plus interest, 
seeks damages for the cost of repair and subsequent replacement of the mill together with business interruption loss at the processing 
plant. The original value of the contracts was around £1m. WSA is contesting the claim on multiple grounds. The claim is being vigorously 
defended although the outcome remains uncertain. The arbitration process is expected to conclude by the end of 2015.
The Directors are of the view that the outcome of legal proceedings in 2014 in relation to the UN Oil for Food programme are such that  
a contingent liability no longer exists in relation to this matter.
To the extent not already provided for, the Directors do not anticipate that the outcome of these proceedings and claims, either individually 
or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Group’s financial position.
28. Equity settled share-based payments
LTIP
There are three types of award which may be made under the LTIP to senior executives: performance shares, matching shares and 
investment shares. Details of each award are outlined in the Remuneration report on pages 91 to 108.
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average share prices (WASP) of shares awarded under the LTIP.
2014 
Number 
Million
2014 
WASP
2013 
Number 
Million
2013 
WASP
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 1.5 £15.44 1.7 £14.57
Awarded during the period 0.6 £26.20 0.4 £24.11
Exercised during the period (0.3) £16.13 (0.6) £7 .57
Forfeited during the period (0.3) £16.78 – –
Outstanding at the end of the period 1.5 £23.43 1.5 £15.44
An amount of £3.1m (2013: £7.4m) has been charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of the number of awards which 
are expected to be made at the end of the vesting period. This comprises an amount of £1.5m (2013: £2.4m) in respect of parent 
company employees and £1.6m (2013: £5.0m) in respect of employees of subsidiaries.
Certain subsidiary companies made a cash contribution to the parent company of £4.9m (2013: £3.2m) in the period in respect of their 
employees’ LTIP awards.
The remaining contractual lives of the outstanding LTIP awards at the end of the period are as follows.
Year of award
2014 
Number 
Million
2014 
Remaining 
contractual life
2013 
Number 
Million
2013 
Remaining 
contractual 
life
2011 – – 0.6 3 months
2012 0.5 3 months 0.5 15 months
2013 0.4 15 months 0.4 27 months
2014 0.6 27 months – –
The fair value of the conditional awards under the LTIP have been estimated using the Monte Carlo simulation model. The following table 
gives the assumptions made during the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015 and the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 in the calculation of the 
fair value of awards made in those years.
2014 2013
Weighted average expected volatility (%) 34.88 39.91
Weighted average expected life (years) 3.00 3.00
Weighted average risk free rate (%) 1.22 0.37
Weighted average share price (£) 26.20 24.11
Weighted average fair value (£) 23.62 20.24
The expected life of the awards is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.  
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is volatility indicative of future trends which may also not 
necessarily be the actual outcome. Market related performance conditions have been taken into account in the calculation of fair values. 160 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
28. Equity settled share-based payments (continued)
Deferred Bonus Plan
There are three types of award which were made under the Deferred Bonus Plan: shares purchased on the employee’s behalf as part  
of the annual bonus, matching shares and strategic shares for senior executives.
The following table illustrates the number of shares awarded under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
2014 
Number 
Million
2013 
Number 
Million
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 0.2 0.1
Awarded during the period – 0.1
Outstanding at the end of the period 0.2 0.2
An amount of £1.3m (2013: £1.3m) has been charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of the number of awards which 
are expected to be made at the end of the vesting period.
29. Related party disclosure
The following table provides the total amount of significant transactions which have been entered into with related parties for the relevant 
financial year and outstanding balances at the period end.
Related party
Sales to 
related 
parties – 
goods 
£m
Sales to 
related 
parties – 
services 
£m
Purchases 
from related 
parties – 
goods 
£m
Purchases 
from related 
parties – 
services 
£m
Amounts 
owed to 
related 
parties 
£m
Joint ventures 2014 26.7 0.5 8.2 0.5 –
2013 5.6 0.5 2.7 1.7 –
Group pension plans 2014 – – – – 1.8
2013 – – – – 2.3
Contributions to the Group pension plans are disclosed in note 24.
Terms & conditions of transactions with related parties
Sales to and from related parties are made at normal market prices. Outstanding balances at the period end are unsecured and settlement 
occurs in cash. There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party balances. For 2014, the Group has not raised  
any provision for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties as the payment history has been excellent (2013: £nil). This 
assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the 
related party operates. 
Compensation of key management personnel
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Short-term employee benefits 6.3 4.6
Share-based payments 4.0 3.2
Post-employment benefits 0.2 –
10.5 7.8
Emoluments paid to the Directors of The Weir Group plc
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Remuneration 2.9 2.0
Gains made on the exercise of Long Term Incentive Plan awards 1.9 2.8
4.8 4.8
Key management comprises the Board and the Group Executive. Further details of the Directors’ remuneration are disclosed in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
161 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
30. Financial assets & liabilities
Financial risk management objectives & policies
The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are those relating to foreign currency, liquidity and credit risk. Foreign  
currency transactional risk arises when operating subsidiaries enter into transactions denominated in currencies other than their  
functional currencies. Translational risk arises on the translation of overseas earnings and investments into Sterling for consolidated 
reporting purposes. Credit risk is the risk that a customer or counterparty fails to meet an obligation under a contract and liquidity risk  
is the risk that the Group will be unable to meet its liabilities as they fall due. In addition, the Group is subject to a degree of interest rate 
risk on its borrowings. The Group uses financial assets and liabilities, including derivatives, to hedge certain foreign exchange and interest 
rate risks as set out below.
Foreign exchange risk policy
Foreign currency transactional and translational risk could result in volatility in reported consolidated earnings and net assets.
In respect of transactional foreign currency risk, the Group maintains a policy that all operating units eliminate exposures on material 
committed transactions, usually by undertaking forward foreign currency contracts through the Group’s treasury function. In addition,  
it is Group policy that those companies where a significant concentration of foreign exchange risk has been identified may also apply 
hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39. Therefore, some of the Group’s forward foreign currency contracts form part of an effective 
cash flow hedge. Exchange rate fluctuations in respect of the forward foreign currency contracts which form part of a cash flow hedge 
will have an impact on shareholders’ equity. Exchange rate fluctuations in respect of the other forward foreign currency contracts will 
have an impact on profit or loss. It is Group policy not to engage in any speculative transaction of any kind.
In respect of translational risk, the Group has a policy to partially hedge United States Dollar (US$), Australian Dollar (AUD) and South 
African Rand (ZAR) net assets exposure. This is achieved through designating an element of foreign currency borrowings, forward foreign 
currency contracts and cross currency swaps as net investment hedges against the Group’s investments. The Group does not hedge the 
translational exposure arising from profit and loss items.
Liquidity risk policy
Liquidity risk could impact negatively on the Group’s reputation, borrowing costs or ultimately its ability to continue as a going concern. 
Liquidity risk is managed by monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and ensuring that sufficient committed facilities are in place to 
meet possible downside scenarios. The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through 
the use of bank overdrafts, bank loans and fixed rate notes. Further details of the Group’s borrowing facilities are disclosed in note 20.
During the year, the Group obtained public credit ratings from Moody’s (Baa1) and Standard & Poor’s (BBB+) to expand the range  
of financing options available.
Credit risk policy
Credit risk could have a negative impact on reported earnings and cash and consequently the liquidity of the Group.
The Group is exposed to credit risk to the extent of non-payment by either its customers or the counterparties of its financial instruments. 
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables with risk spread over a large number of countries and customers, 
with no significant concentration of risk. Where appropriate, the Group endeavours to minimise risk by the use of trade finance instruments 
such as letters of credit and insurance. Credit worthiness checks are also undertaken with external credit rating agencies before entering 
into contracts with new customers and credit limits are set as appropriate and adhered to. As shown in note 17, the trade receivables 
presented in the balance sheet are net of allowance for doubtful debts. An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identifiable 
loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of cash flows. The Group’s exposure to the 
credit risk of financial institutions is limited by the adherence to counterparty limits, and by only trading with counterparties that have an 
investment grade credit rating or better at contract inception, based upon ratings provided by the major agencies. Exposures to those 
counterparties are regularly reviewed and, when the market view of a counterparty’s credit quality changes, adjusted as considered 
appropriate. Accordingly in normal market conditions, the probability of material loss due to non-performance by counterparties is 
considered to be low.
Interest rate risk policy
The Group’s borrowings are in a combination of fixed and variable rates of interest. Interest rate risk is regularly monitored to ensure that 
the mix of variable and fixed rate borrowing is appropriate for the Group in the short to medium-term. Details of changes to the Group’s 
loans and facilities has been included in note 20.
Net investment in foreign operations
As at 2 January 2015, US Dollar fixed rate notes of US$435.9m (2013: US$1,160.0m) and US Dollar variable rate loans of US$70.0m  
(2013: US$70.0m), both included in interest-bearing loans and borrowings, cross currency swaps of US$89.4m and AUD151.0m (2013: 
US$89.4m) and net forward foreign currency liability contracts of US$170.4m and ZAR345.0m (2013: US$170.4m) have been designated 
as a hedge of the Group’s exposure to translational foreign exchange risk on its net investments in Weir SPM, Weir Warman, Weir 
Seaboard, Weir Novatech, Weir Mathena, Weir Minerals Australia, Weir Multiflo, Weir Heavy Bay Foundry and Weir Warman Africa. Gains 
or losses on the retranslation of the borrowings and contingent consideration and the fair value of the cross currency swaps and forward 
foreign currency contracts are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investments in these subsidiaries. 162 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
30. Financial assets & liabilities (continued)
Carrying amounts & fair values
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial instruments that are reported  
in the financial statements.
Fair Value measurement using
Carrying 
amount 
2014 
£m
Fair value 
2014 
£m
Level 1 
Quoted 
prices 
in active 
markets 
£m
Level 2 
Significant 
observable 
inputs 
£m
Level 3 
Significant  
unobservable  
inputs 
£m
Financial assets
Derivative financial instruments recognised at fair value through profit or loss 10.0 10.0 – 10.0 –
Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 4.0 4.0 – 4.0 –
Trade & other receivables excluding statutory assets & prepayments
*
607 .3 607 .3
Cash & short-term deposits
*
178.7 178.7
800.0 800.0
Financial liabilities
Derivative financial instruments recognised at fair value through profit or loss 6.1 6.1 – 6.1 –
Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 8.3 8.3 – 8.3 –
Contingent consideration 34.6 34.6 – – 34.6
Amortised cost
Fixed rate borrowings 808.5 784.9 – 784.9 –
Floating rate borrowings 218.5 218.5 – 218.5 –
Obligations under finance leases 0.3 0.3 – 0.3 –
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings
*
12.1 12.1
Trade & other payables excluding statutory liabilities & deferred income
*
489.1 489.1
1,577 .5 1,553.9
Fair Value measurement using
Carrying 
amount 
2013 
£m
Fair value 
2013 
£m
Level 1 
Quoted 
prices 
in active 
markets 
£m
Level 2 
Significant 
observable 
inputs 
£m
Level 3 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs 
£m
Financial assets
Derivative financial instruments recognised at fair value through profit or loss 10.4 10.4 – 10.4 –
Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 1.8 1.8 – 1.8 –
Trade & other receivables excluding statutory assets & prepayments
*
467 .1 467 .1
Cash & short-term deposits
*
79.1 79.1
558.4 558.4
 
Financial liabilities
Derivative financial instruments recognised at fair value through profit or loss 9.4 9.4 – 9.4 –
Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 0.8 0.8 – 0.8 –
Contingent consideration 27 .7 27 .7 – – 27 .7
Amortised cost
Fixed rate borrowings 759.0 716.2 – 716.2 –
Floating rate borrowings 56.1 56.1 – 56.1 –
Obligations under finance leases 0.5 0.5 – 0.5 –
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings
*
10.5 10.5
Trade & other payables excluding statutory liabilities & deferred income
*
395.8 395.8
1,259.8 1,217 .0
*  The fair value of cash and short-term deposits, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables approximates their carrying amount due to the short-term maturities  
of these instruments. As such disclosure of the fair value hierarchy for these items is not required. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
163 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade 
credit ratings. The derivative financial instruments are valued using valuation techniques with market observable inputs including spot and 
forward foreign exchange rates, interest rate curves, counterparty and own credit risk. The fair value of cross currency swaps is calculated 
as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on spot foreign exchange rates and counterparty and own credit risk. The 
fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on spot and 
forward foreign exchange rates.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique:
Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
Level 2:  other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly  
or indirectly;
Level 3:  techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data. 
At 2 January 2015 and 3 January 2014 the Group has classified contingent consideration as level 3. A reconciliation of the movements  
in the contingent consideration fair value has been included in note 13.
During the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015 and the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014, there were no transfers between level 1 and level 2 
fair value measurements and no transfers into or out of level 3 fair value measurements. 
The fair value of borrowings and obligations under finance leases is estimated by discounting future cash flows using rates currently 
available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities. The basis for the calculation of the fair value of contingent 
consideration is outlined in detail in note 13.
Derivative financial instruments
Set out in the table below is a summary of the types of derivative financial instruments included within each balance sheet category.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Included in non-current assets
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 0.2 0.6
Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 3.3 0.1
Other forward foreign currency contracts – 0.4
3.5 1.1
Included in current assets
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 0.5 0.7
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges – 0.4
Other forward foreign currency contracts 10.0 10.0
10.5 11.1
Included in current liabilities
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges (2.3) (0.1)
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges (2.4) (0.2)
Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges (0.7) –
Other forward foreign currency contracts (5.9) (9.3)
(11.3) (9.6)
Included in non-current liabilities
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges (0.2) (0.2)
Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges (2.7) (0.3)
Other forward foreign currency contracts (0.2) (0.1)
(3.1) (0.6)
 
Net derivative financial (liabilities) assets (0.4) 2.0 164 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
30. Financial assets & liabilities (continued)
Liquidity & credit risk
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is represented by the carrying value of each financial asset, including 
derivative financial instruments. The liabilities which could impact liquidity risk are best represented by the carrying value and maturity 
profile of each financial liability, including derivative financial instruments. The following tables include the undiscounted cash flows of 
financial assets and liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to receive or pay these financial assets or 
liabilities and include both interest and principal cash flows. In respect of derivative financial instruments the net credit/liquidity risk  
is best represented by the net inflows (outflows) shown below together with the Group’s headroom under the borrowing facilities as 
disclosed in note 20.
52 weeks ended 2 January 2015
Less than  
1 year 
£m
1 to 2 years 
£m
2 to 5 years 
£m
More than  
5 years 
£m
Total 
£m
Trade & other receivables excluding statutory assets & prepayments 585.0 4.0 13.1 7.1 609.2
Cash & short-term deposits 178.7 – – – 178.7
Cash flows relating to non-derivative financial assets 763.7 4.0 13.1 7.1 787 .9
Trade & other payables excluding statutory liabilities & deferred income (498.2) (2.8) (22.7) – (523.7)
Obligations under finance leases (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) – (0.3)
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings (12.1) – – – (12.1)
Bank loans (84.5) (2.7) (140.4) – (227 .6)
Fixed rate notes (102.8) (32.2) (307 .6) (566.2) (1,008.8)
Cash flows relating to non-derivative financial liabilities (697 .7) (37 .8) (470.8) (566.2) (1,772.5)
 
Net cash flows relating to non-derivative financial assets (liabilities) 66.0 (33.8) (457 .7) (559.1) (984.6)
53 weeks ended 3 January 2014
Less than  
1 year 
£m
1 to 2 years 
£m
2 to 5 years 
£m
More than  
5 years 
£m
Total 
£m
Trade & other receivables excluding statutory assets & prepayments 467 .1 – – – 467 .1
Cash & short-term deposits 79.1 – – – 79.1
Cash flows relating to non-derivative financial assets 546.2 – – – 546.2
Trade & other payables excluding statutory liabilities & deferred income (401 .1) (4.4) – (27 .7) (433.2)
Obligations under finance leases (0.2) (0.1) (0.3) – (0.6)
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings (10.5) – – – (10.5)
Bank loans (16.7) (1 .0) (42.8) – (60.5)
Fixed rate notes (33.1) (97 .0) (171 .7) (678.0) (979.8)
Cash flows relating to non-derivative financial liabilities (461 .6) (102.5) (214.8) (705.7) (1,484.6)
 
Net cash flows relating to non-derivative financial assets (liabilities) 84.6 (102.5) (214.8) (705.7) (938.4)
52 weeks ended 2 January 2015
Less than  
1 year 
£m
1 to 2 years 
£m
2 to 5 years 
£m
More than  
5 years 
£m
Total 
£m
Cross currency swaps – outflow (20.1) (7 .1) (131.3) – (158.5)
Cross currency swaps – inflow 17.8 5.5 131.1 – 154.4
Cross currency swaps – net outflow (2.3) (1.6) (0.2) – (4.1)
Forward foreign currency contracts – outflow (615.7) (18.1) (5.7) – (639.5)
Forward foreign currency contracts – inflow 615.6 17.9 5.7 – 639.2
Forward foreign currency contracts – net outflow (0.1) (0.2) – – (0.3)
Derivative financial instruments – net outflow (635.8) (25.2) (137 .0) – (798.0)
Derivative financial instruments – net inflow 633.4 23.4 136.8 – 793.6
Derivative financial instruments – net outflow (2.4) (1.8) (0.2) – (4.4)
Effect of discounting 4.0
Net derivative financial liabilities (0.4) Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
165 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
53 weeks ended 3 January 2014
Less than  
1 year 
£m
1 to 2 years 
£m
2 to 5 years 
£m
More than  
5 years 
£m
Total 
£m
Cross currency swaps – outflow (2.8) (14.5) (48.4) – (65.7)
Cross currency swaps – inflow 2.9 14.6 48.8 – 66.3
Cross currency swaps – net inflow 0.1 0.1 0.4 – 0.6
Forward foreign currency contracts – outflow (642.1) (18.4) (16.7) – (677 .2)
Forward foreign currency contracts – inflow 644.2 18.9 17.0 – 680.1
Forward foreign currency contracts – net inflow 2.1 0.5 0.3 – 2.9
Derivative financial instruments – outflow (644.9) (32.9) (65.1) – (742.9)
Derivative financial instruments – inflow 647 .1 33.5 65.8 – 746.4
Derivative financial instruments – net inflow 2.2 0.6 0.7 – 3.5
Effect of discounting (1 .5)
Net derivative financial assets 2.0
Interest rate risk & maturity profile
The following tables set out the carrying amount, by maturity, of the Group’s financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk 
and the Group’s notional value of derivative financial instruments, by maturity, exposed to interest rate risk. 
52 weeks ended 2 January 2015
Less than  
1 year 
£m
1 to 2 years 
£m
2 to 5 years 
£m
More than  
5 years 
£m
Total 
£m
Fixed rate debt
Fixed rate notes (70.6) – (225.0) (512.9) (808.5)
Obligations under finance leases (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) – (0.3)
(70.7) (0.1) (225.1) (512.9) (808.8)
Fixed rate derivatives
Notional cross currency swaps US Dollar leg (12.7) – (45.5) – (58.2)
Notional cross currency swaps Australian Dollar leg – – (79.7) – (79.7)
Notional cross currency swaps Sterling leg 12.0 – 126.1 – 138.1
(0.7) – 0.9 – 0.2
Net fixed rate financial instruments (71.4) (0.1) (224.2) (512.9) (808.6)
Floating rate net debt
Cash & short-term deposits 178.7 – – – 178.7
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings (12.1) – – – (12.1)
Bank loans (83.3) (1.4) (133.8) – (218.5)
83.3 (1.4) (133.8) – (51.9)
Net floating rate financial instruments 83.3 (1.4) (133.8) – (51.9) 166 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
30. Financial assets & liabilities (continued)
Interest rate risk & maturity profile (continued)
53 weeks ended 3 January 2014
Less than  
1 year 
£m
1 to 2 years 
£m
2 to 5 years 
£m
More than  
5 years 
£m
Total 
£m
Fixed rate debt
Fixed rate notes – (66.8) (85.5) (606.7) (759.0)
Obligations under finance leases (0.2) (0.1) (0.2) – (0.5)
(0.2) (66.9) (85.7) (606.7) (759.5)
Fixed rate derivatives
Notional cross currency swaps US Dollar leg – (11 .9) (42.6) – (54.5)
Notional cross currency swaps Sterling leg – 12.0 43.0 – 55.0
– 0.1 0.4 – 0.5
 
Net fixed rate financial instruments (0.2) (66.8) (85.3) (606.7) (759.0)
Floating rate net debt
Cash & short-term deposits 79.1 – – – 79.1
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings (10.5) – – – (10.5)
Bank loans (15.8) (0.4) (39.9) – (56.1)
52.8 (0.4) (39.9) – 12.5
Net floating rate financial instruments 52.8 (0.4) (39.9) – 12.5
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument. Interest on financial instruments 
classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included  
in the above tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, 
of the Group’s profit before tax and equity through the impact on floating rate borrowings and cross currency swaps in respect of each 
currency to which the Group has a significant exposure to interest rate risk.
Increase in 
basis points
Effect on 
profit before 
tax (loss) 
gain 
£m 
Effect on 
equity (loss) 
£m
2014
UK Sterling + 100 (1.6) –
US Dollar + 100 – (0.4)
Australian Dollar + 100 0.1 (0.2)
2013
UK Sterling + 100 (0.1) –
US Dollar + 100 – (0.7)
Australian Dollar + 100 – –
A decrease of 100 basis points would have an equal and opposite effect. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
167 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Effect of hedge & derivative financial instruments included in the income statement & equity
The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to hedge currency risk associated with expected future sales or purchases for which 
the Group has firm commitments and on its net investments in foreign operations. The terms of the forward foreign currency contracts 
are negotiated to match the terms of the commitments. During the period six subsidiaries within the Group have applied cash flow  
hedge accounting to these forward foreign currency transactions. In addition the Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to hedge 
translation currency risk associated with its net investments in foreign operations. During the period the Group had eight relationships 
where net investment hedge accounting was applied to these forward foreign currency transactions. All other forward foreign currency 
contracts, while representing commercial hedges, are not subject to cash flow or net investment hedge accounting with all fair value 
movements being recognised in the income statement.
The net carrying amount, maturity dates and the amounts recognised for the period in profit or loss and equity for each derivative 
financial instrument are set out below.
52 weeks ended 2 January 2015
Net carrying 
amount 
£m Maturity dates
Gain (loss) 
recognised 
in profit or 
loss 
£m
Loss 
recognised 
in equity 
£m
Loss 
recognised 
in inventory 
£m
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges (1.8) 2014 to 2017 (0.5) (3.2) (0.4)
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges (2.4) 2014 – (6.1) –
Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges (0.1) 2014 to 2018 – – –
Other forward foreign currency contracts at fair value through profit or loss 3.9 2014 to 2017 12.6 – –
(0.4) 12.1 (9.3) (0.4)
53 weeks ended 3 January 2014
Net carrying 
amount 
£m Maturity dates
(Loss) gain 
recognised  
in profit or 
loss 
£m
Gain 
recognised  
in equity 
£m
Loss 
recognised  
in inventory 
£m
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 1.0 2014 to 2017 0.3 0.3 (0.5)
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 0.2 2014 0.3 5.3 –
Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges (0.2) 2015 to 2018 (0.1) 0.3 –
Other forward foreign currency contracts at fair value through profit or loss 1.0 2014 to 2017 (10.6) – –
2.0 (10.1) 5.9 (0.5)
The net £nil (2013: £0.2m gain) recognised in profit or loss in respect of cross currency swaps and forward foreign currency contracts 
designated as net investment hedges reflects the benefit of the US Dollar/Sterling interest rate differential. The Group’s forward foreign 
currency contracts subject to cash flow hedge accounting which were deemed to be ineffective during the period resulted in a net charge 
to the income statement of £nil (2013: £nil).
Foreign exchange risk
The Group considers the most significant foreign exchange risk relates to the Australian Dollar, Euro and United States Dollar. The following 
table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in these foreign currency exchange rates with all other variables held 
constant. The sensitivity analysis shows the effect on profit or loss in respect of financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currency, including payables, receivables, borrowings and forward foreign currency contracts but excluding all financial assets and liabilities 
qualified as either cash flow or net investment hedges. The sensitivity analysis also shows the effect on equity in respect of financial assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currency qualifying as either cash flow or net investment hedges including forward foreign currency 
contracts, borrowings and cross currency swaps. The sensitivity analysis below has been presented to demonstrate the impact of a 25% 
strengthening of the relevant functional currency against the currencies shown below and therefore give an indication of the transactional 
foreign exposure that exists at a subsidiary level across the Group.
Increase in 
currency 
rate
Effect on 
profit gain 
(loss) 
£m
Effect on 
equity (loss) 
£m
2014
Australian Dollar +25% 0.4 15.9
Euro +25% 2.6 0.6
US Dollar +25% (4.5) 99.7
2013
Australian Dollar +25% 0.7 –
Euro +25% 3.3 1.6
US Dollar +25% (3.7) 180.6 168 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
30. Financial assets & liabilities (continued)
Foreign exchange risk (continued)
As noted above, the Group does not hedge translational exposure arising from profit and loss items. The Group’s operating profit from 
continuing operations before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation was denominated in the following currencies.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
US Dollar 262.3 241 .3
Australian Dollar 41.1 46.2
Euro 26.5 44.5
Canadian Dollar 42.3 42.6
United Arab Emirates Dirham 16.6 14.3
Chilean Peso 27 .8 33.8
Russian Rouble 10.6 8.3
United Kingdom pound (5.4) 0.2
Other 28.0 35.3
Operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 449.8 466.5
31. Capital management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains robust capital ratios in order to support its 
business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust  
the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.  
The Group monitors capital using the following indicators.
Net debt to EBITDA cover
Net debt to EBITDA comprises net debt divided by operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items, depreciation, 
intangibles amortisation and impairment. The Group considers that the ratio of net debt to EBITDA is the key metric from a capital 
management perspective and seeks to maintain the ratio below two times.
2014 2013
Net debt (£m) 860.7 747 .0
Operating profit (£m) 192.5 490.3
Exceptional items included in operating profit (note 5) (£m) 52.4 (70.5)
Depreciation, intangibles amortisation & impairment (£m) 266.0 105.8
EBITDA (£m) 510.9 525.6
Net debt to EBITDA cover (ratio) 1.7 1.4
Interest cover
Interest cover comprises operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation divided by net 
finance costs (excluding exceptional items and other finance costs).
2014 2013
Operating profit before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation (£m) 449.8 466.5
Net finance costs (excluding exceptional items and other finance costs) (£m) 38.5 44.9
Interest cover (ratio) 11.7 10.4 Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
169 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Gearing ratio
Gearing comprises net debt divided by total equity. Net debt comprises cash and short-term deposits and interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings (note 26).
2014 2013
Net debt (£m) 860.7 747 .0
Total equity (£m) 1,482.2 1,486.7
Gearing Ratio (%) 58.1 50.2
The Group’s banking arrangements also require the calculation of net debt to EBITDA (not greater than 3.5) and interest cover (not less 
than 3.5) as part of the bi-annual financial covenant certifications. For the purposes of the covenants required by the Group’s lenders,  
the net debt is to be converted at the exchange rate used in the preparation of the Group’s income statement and cash flows, ie. average 
rate. In addition, profits of businesses acquired in the financial year have to be included as if the acquisitions occurred at the start of the 
financial year. The covenant calculations for the purposes of the Group’s lenders are shown below.
Net debt to EBITDA cover – lender covenants basis
2014 2013
Net debt at average exchange rates (£m) 819.8 775.9
Operating profit
*
 (£m) 204.5 491 .4
Exceptional item included in operating profit (note 5) (£m) 52.4 (70.5)
Depreciation, intangibles amortisation & impairment
*
 (£m) 267 .2 105.8
EBITDA
*
 (£m) 524.1 526.7
Net debt to EBITDA cover (ratio) 1.6 1.5
Interest cover – lender covenants basis
2014 2013
Operating profit before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation
*
 (£m) 461.9 467 .6
Net finance costs (excluding exceptional items and other finance costs) (£m) 38.5 44.9
Interest cover (ratio) 12.0 10.4
* Adjusted for current year acquisitions.
32. Exchange rates
The principal exchange rates applied in the preparation of these financial statements were as follows.
2014 2013
Average rate (per £)
US Dollar 1.65 1 .56
Australian Dollar 1.83 1 .61
Euro 1.24 1.18
Canadian Dollar 1.82 1 .61
United Arab Emirates Dirham 6.01 5.74
Chilean Peso 940.16 771 .29
Russian Rouble 63.32 49.70
Closing rate (per £)
US Dollar 1.54 1 .64
Australian Dollar 1.89 1 .83
Euro 1.28 1 .21
Canadian Dollar 1.80 1.74
United Arab Emirates Dirham 5.64 6.03
Chilean Peso 942.64 869.82
Russian Rouble 90.99 54.53 170 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Company Balance Sheet 
At 2 January 2015
Notes
2 January 
2015 
£m
3 January 
2014 
£m
Non-current assets
Tangible assets 3 0.3 1.8
Intangible assets 4 0.1 3.8
Investments 5 2,689.4 2,239.7
Derivative financial instruments 11 3.7 1.2
Total non-current assets 2,693.5 2,246.5
 
Current assets
Debtors 6 122.8 95.8
Derivative financial instruments 11 19.2 13.4
Cash at bank & in hand 22.9 12.8
Total current assets 164.9 122.0
Creditors falling due within one year
Creditors 7 983.7 726.5
Derivative financial instruments 11 18.7 16.7
Total current liabilities 1,002.4 743.2
Net current liabilities 837 .5 621 .2
Total assets less current liabilities 1,856.0 1,625.3
Creditors falling due after more than one year
Loans 8 1,177 .6 1,093.6
Derivative financial instruments 11 3.1 1.4
Total creditors falling due after more than one year 1,180.7 1,095.0
Provisions 9 1.1 2.1
 
Net assets excluding retirement benefits 674.2 528.2
 
Retirement benefits 10 1.1 1.1
 
Net assets including retirement benefits 673.1 527 .1
 
Capital & reserves
Share capital 12 26.8 26.7
Share premium 13 38.0 38.0
Treasury shares 13 (5.8) (5.8)
Capital redemption reserve 13 0.5 0.5
Special reserve 13 1.8 1.8
Profit & loss account 13 611.8 465.9
Total equity 673.1 527 .1
Approved by the Board of Directors on 25 February 2015.
Keith Cochrane    Jon Stanton
Director     Director  Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
171 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
1. Accounting policies
The accounting policies which follow have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements.
Basis of preparation 
The Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom accounting standards.
Change of GAAP
For the period ending 1 January 2016, the Company intends to adopt FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’.
Foreign currency translation
The presentational and functional currency of the Company is Sterling. Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into 
the Company’s functional currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date. Currency translation differences are recognised 
in the profit and loss account except when hedge accounting is applied.
Tangible assets
Tangible assets are stated at cost and the cost is depreciated over the estimated useful life by equal annual instalments at rates of 7.5% 
for office equipment and 25% for computer equipment.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets are stated at cost and the cost is amortised over the estimated useful life by equal annual instalments at the rate of 25%.
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are held at historical cost less a provision for impairment.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where 
transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more,  
tax, with the exception that deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than  
not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences 
reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Post-employment benefits
The Company and other UK subsidiaries of the Group participate in multi-employer defined benefit pension plans which are set up under 
separate trusts. These plans are operated on a basis that does not enable individual companies to identify their share of the underlying 
assets and liabilities and, in accordance with FRS 17, the Company accounts for its contributions to the plans as if they are defined 
contribution plans.
In addition, the Company has unfunded unapproved pension promises. Contributions are made to the plans on the advice of an independent 
qualified actuary. Pension plan liabilities are measured using the projected unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on a high 
quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability. Any increase in the present value of the liabilities of the Company’s 
unfunded unapproved pension promises expected to arise from employee service in the period is charged against operating profit. Actuarial 
gains and losses are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Contributions to defined contribution pension plans are charged to the profit and loss account when they become payable.
Share-based payments
Equity settled share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Group’s Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) and as a 
consequence of occasional one-off conditional awards made to senior executives. The last equity settled grant under the Executive 
Bonus Scheme (‘EBS’) was during 2013, with no award being made in the current year.
The fair value of the LTIP at the date of the grant is calculated using appropriate option pricing models and the cost is recognised on  
a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period 
due to failure to satisfy service or performance conditions. The changes to the LTIP which took effect in 2014 are summarised in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 91.
The previously granted equity settled incentives under the EBS were determined as a percentage of the annual bonus and were matched by the 
Group with a share award that would vest on the third anniversary of the grant date provided the individual continued to hold the original bonus 
shares awarded and continued to be employed by the company at the date of vesting. In addition the EBS included a strategic bonus shares 
element for a limited number of senior employees. The fair value of the matching and strategic elements of the EBS was determined at the  
date of grant of the bonus and the cost is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. The Group recognises a compensation  
cost in respect of this plan that is based on the fair value of the awards granted. The fair value was determined at the date of grant and is not 
subsequently re-measured unless the conditions on which the award was granted are modified.  172 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
1. Accounting policies (continued)
Financial assets & liabilities
The Company’s principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise bank overdrafts, short-term borrowings, loans 
and fixed rate notes, cash and short-term deposits.
A financial asset is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. Where an existing financial 
liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially 
modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a de-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability,  
such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments
The Company uses derivative financial instruments, principally forward foreign currency contracts, to reduce its exposure to exchange 
rate movements. The Company does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date. The fair 
value of forward foreign currency contracts is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on spot and forward 
foreign exchange rates. The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated 
future cash flows based on interest rate curves and spot foreign exchange rates. Changes in their fair values have been recognised in the 
profit and loss account, except where hedge accounting is used, provided the conditions specified by FRS 26 are met. Hedge accounting is 
applied in respect of hedge relationships where it is both permissible under FRS 26 and practical to do so. When hedge accounting is used, 
the relevant hedging relationships will be classified as a cash flow hedge or fair value hedge.
To the extent that the hedge is effective, changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument will be recognised directly in equity rather 
than in the profit and loss account. When the hedged item is recognised in the financial statements, the accumulated gains and losses 
recognised in equity will be either recycled to the profit and loss account or, if the hedged item results in a non-financial asset, will be 
recognised as adjustments to its initial carrying amount.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for 
hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until 
the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in 
equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29 and has not disclosed information required by that standard in relation to 
derivative financial instruments as the Group’s consolidated financial statements, in which the Company is included, provide equivalent 
disclosures for the Group under IFRS 7.
Treasury shares
The Weir Group PLC shares held by the Company are classified in shareholders’ equity as treasury shares and are recognised at cost. 
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and 
the original cost being taken directly to revenue reserves. No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, 
sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
2. Profit attributable to the Company
The profit dealt with in the accounts of the Company was £243.5m (2013: £24.3m). In accordance with the concession granted under section 
408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company has not been separately presented in these financial statements.
Dividends paid & proposed 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Declared & paid during the period
Equity dividends on ordinary shares
Final dividend for 2013: 33.2p (2012: 30.0p) 70.7 63.8
Interim dividend for 2014: 15.0p (2013: 8.8p) 32.0 18.8
102.7 82.6
 
Proposed for approval by shareholders at the annual general meeting
Final dividend for 2014: 29.0p (2013: 33.2p) 61.9 70.8
The proposed dividend is based on the number of shares in issue, excluding treasury shares held, at the date the financial statements 
were approved and authorised for issue. The final dividend may differ due to increases or decreases in the number of shares in issue 
between the date of approval of the report and financial statements and the record date for the final dividend.
Directors
Details of directors remuneration, benefits and LTIP awards are included in the Remuneration report on pages 91 to 108, and in note 29  
to the Group financial statements. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
173 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Auditors remuneration
The total fees payable by the Company to Ernst & Young LLP (EY) for work performed in respect of the audit of the Company were 
£15,000 (2013: £14,000). Fees paid to EY for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in these accounts as the Group’s 
consolidated financial statements, in which the Company is included, are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
3. Tangible assets
Office & 
computer 
equipment 
£m
Cost
At 3 January 2014 2.7
Additions 0.1
Group transfers (1.4)
At 2 January 2015 1.4
Aggregate depreciation
At 3 January 2014 0.9
Charge for year 0.4
Group transfers (0.2)
At 2 January 2015 1.1
Net book value at 3 January 2014 1.8
Net book value at 2 January 2015 0.3
4. Intangible assets
Purchased 
Software 
£m
Development 
Costs 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 3 January 2014 3.7 1.0 4.7
Additions 2.5 – 2.5
Group transfers (5.4) (1.0) (6.4)
At 2 January 2015 0.8 – 0.8
Aggregate amortisation
At 3 January 2014 0.9 – 0.9
Group transfers (0.2) – (0.2)
At 2 January 2015 0.7 – 0.7
Net book value at 3 January 2014 2.8 1.0 3.8
Net book value at 2 January 2015 0.1 – 0.1 174 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
5. Fixed asset investments
Subsidiaries 
Shares 
£m
Loans 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 3 January 2014 772.9 1,472.4 2,245.3
Additions 294.1 155.6 449.7
At 2 January 2015 1,067 .0 1,628.0 2,695.0
Impairment
At 2 January 2015 and at 3 January 2014 0.2 5.4 5.6
Net book value at 3 January 2014 772.7 1,467 .0 2,239.7
Net book value at 2 January 2015 1,066.8 1,622.6 2,689.4
The principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of the Company are listed on page 183.
6. Debtors
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Amounts recoverable within one year
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 116.7 91 .2
Deferred tax recoverable (note 14) 1.9 1.5
Other debtors 3.6 2.4
Prepayments & accrued income 0.6 0.7
122.8 95.8
7. Creditors
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings 288.0 144.0
Loans from subsidiaries 609.7 509.3
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 53.2 49.6
Tax payable 5.5 0.9
Other taxes & social security costs 1.4 1.4
Other creditors 3.2 4.6
Accruals & deferred income 22.7 16.7
983.7 726.5 Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
175 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
8. Loans
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Amounts due are repayable as follows
Less than one year
– bank loans 83.3 15.8
– fixed rate notes 70.6 –
– loans from subsidiaries 609.6 509.3
More than one year but not more than two years
– bank loans – 0.4
– fixed rate notes – 66.9
– loans from subsidiaries 20.1 15.1
More than two years but not more than five years
– bank loans 135.2 39.9
– fixed rate notes 224.3 85.7
– loans from subsidiaries 284.4 279.2
More than five years
– fixed rate notes 513.6 606.4
1,941.1 1,618.7
Less current instalments due on
– bank loans (83.3) (15.8)
– fixed rate notes (70.6) –
– loans from subsidiaries (609.6) (509.3)
1,177 .6 1,093.6
The loans from subsidiaries with a maturity date greater than two years and less than five years are repayable in 2019 and have an 
interest rate of 6.23%. These loans are not secured. 
Details of the interest and repayment terms of the bank loans and fixed rate notes can be found in note 20 to the Group financial statements.
9. Provisions
Subsidiaries 
Shares 
£m
Discontinued 
operations 
warranty & 
indemnity 
£m
Total 
£m
At 3 January 2014 1.1 1.0 2.1
Released – unutilised – (1.0) (1.0)
At 2 January 2015 1.1 – 1.1
Subsidiaries
As at 2 January 2015, a provision of £1.1m (2013: £1.1m) has been made against the deficiency of underlying net assets in certain subsidiaries.
Discontinued operations warranty & indemnity
The discontinued operations warranty and indemnity provision was released in full in June 2014, on expiration of the related tax  
warranty periods. 176 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
10. Retirement benefits
The net pension liability in respect of the Company unapproved plan is reflected on the Company’s balance sheet. The liabilities of the 
Company unapproved plan are shown below.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Present value of plan liabilities (1.4) (1 .4)
Related deferred tax asset (note 14) 0.3 0.3
Net pension liability (1.1) (1 .1)
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Recognised in the profit & loss account
Interest cost on plan liabilities 0.1 0.1
Other finance costs 0.1 0.1
The major assumptions used by the actuary for the Company unapproved plan were as follows.
2014 
%
2013 
%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.9 3.3
Discount rate 3.5 4.4
Inflation assumption 3.0 3.4
The mortality assumptions used as follows.
2014 
Years
2013 
Years
Post-retirement mortality
Current pensioners at 65 – male 22.1 22.0
Current pensioners at 65 – female 24.6 24.5
Future pensioners at 65 – male 23.9 23.8
Future pensioners at 65 – female 26.5 26.5
The post-retirement mortality assumptions allow for expected increases in longevity. The ‘current’ disclosures above relate to assumptions 
based on longevity (in years) following retirement at the balance sheet date, with ‘future’ being that relating to an employee retiring in 2035 
(in 20 years time).
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are analysed as follows.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Opening defined benefit obligations 1.4 1.4
Interest cost 0.1 0.1
Employer contributions 0.1 –
Benefits paid (0.1) (0.1)
Actuarial losses (0.1) –
Closing defined benefit obligations 1.4 1.4
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are analysed as follows.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Opening plan assets – –
Employer contributions 0.1 0.1
Benefits paid (0.1) (0.1)
Closing plan assets – – Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
177 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
History of experience gains and losses
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligation (1.4) (1 .4) (1 .4) (1 .4) (1 .3)
Deficit in the plans (1.4) (1 .4) (1 .4) (1 .4) (1 .3)
Changes in assumptions underlying plan liabilities (0.1) – – (0.1) (0.2)
In addition, the Company also participates in the defined benefit plan arrangements within The Weir Group Pension & Retirement Savings 
Scheme (Main Plan) and The Weir Group 1972 Pensions and Life Assurance Plan for Senior Executives (Executive Plan). These defined 
benefit plans are funded multi-employer plans which are operated by The Weir Group PLC and which are run on a basis that does not 
enable individual companies to identify their share of the underlying assets and liabilities. In accordance with FRS 17, the Company 
accounts for its contributions to these plans as if they were defined contribution plans. While assets and liabilities in respect of these 
plans are not reflected on the Company’s balance sheet, details of these are set out below.
Pension contributions are determined with the advice of independent qualified actuaries on the basis of regular valuations using the projected 
unit method. The Group made special contributions of £10.6m in 2014 (2013: £12.1m) in addition to the Group’s regular contributions. 
The most recent actuarial funding valuation of the Main Plan was as at 31 December 2011, when the funding shortfall was £81.4m. The 
deficit recovery plan agreed with the Trustees at that time was for the Company to make recovery contributions of £8.0m per annum up 
to 2020, subject to reassessment at future triennial valuations. The next funding valuation of the Main Plan, as at 31 December 2014,  
is currently on-going.
The Executive Plan actuarial valuation at 31 December 2013 included a funding shortfall of £10.6m with agreed recovery contributions  
of £2.4m per annum to 31 December 2017, also subject to reassessment at future triennial valuations.
Plan assets are stated at their market values at the respective balance sheet dates and overall expected rates of return are established  
by applying published brokers forecasts to each category of plan assets and allowing for plan expenses. The actual return on plan assets 
in the year was a gain of £83.2m (2013: £46.7m). 
The assets and liabilities of the plans and the long-term expected rates of return are as follows.
2014 
%
2014 
£m
2013 
%
2013 
£m
Equities 6.2 200.0 7.4 185.2
Bonds 2.8 156.9 3.9 124.6
Insurance policy 3.5 357 .7 4.4 346.2
Other 0.9 11.7 1.3 8.1
Fair value of plan assets 726.3 664.1
Present value of plan liabilities (805.0) (723.6)
Net deficit in the plans (78.7) (59.5)
Amount not recognised due to asset limit (4.1) –
Net liability (82.8) (59.5) 178 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
10. Retirement benefits (continued)
History of experience gains and losses (continued)
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Recognised in the profit & loss account
Current service cost 2.0 2.1
Past service curtailment gain – (2.7)
2.0 (0.6)
Expected return on plan assets (33.9) (29.6)
Restriction to expected return on assets (asset limit) 0.5 –
Interest cost on plan liabilities 31.1 29.8
Other finance costs (2.3) 0.2
Taken to the statement of total recognised gains & losses
Actual return on plan assets 83.2 46.7
Less: expected return on plan assets (33.9) (29.6)
49.3 17.1
Other actuarial losses (81.6) (16.6)
Total actuarial (losses) gain on the net deficit (32.3) 0.5
Adjustment to statement of total recognised gains & losses (asset limit) (3.6) –
Actuarial (losses) gains recognised in the statement of total recognised gains & losses (35.9) 0.5
The curtailment gain of £2.7m in the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 arose as a result of a decision taken, following consultation,  
to close the Main Plan to the future accrual benefits with effect from 30 June 2015. This decision was announced to members in  
August 2013, at which point the curtailment gain was recognised under FRS 17. 
The major assumptions used by the actuary were as follows.
2014 
%
2013 
%
Rate of increase in salaries 3.0 3.3
Rate of increase in pensions in payment
Pre 6 April 2006 service 2.9 3.3
Post 6 April 2006 service 2.0 2.2
Discount rate 3.5 4.4
Inflation assumption 3.0 3.4
Consumer Prices Inflation assumption 2.0 2.4
The mortality assumptions used were as follows.
2014 
Years
2013 
Years
Post-retirement mortality
Current pensioners at 65 – male 22.1 22.0
Current pensioners at 65 – female 24.6 24.5
Future pensioners at 65 – male 23.9 23.8
Future pensioners at 65 – female 26.5 26.5
The post-retirement mortality assumptions allow for expected increases in longevity. The ‘current’ disclosures above relate to assumptions 
based on longevity (in years) following retirement at the balance sheet date, with ‘future’ being that relating to an employee retiring in 2035 
(in 20 years time). Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
179 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are analysed as follows.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Opening defined benefit obligations 723.6 708.5
Current service cost 2.0 2.1
Past service curtailment gain – (2.7)
Interest cost 31.1 29.8
Benefits paid (33.3) (30.7)
Actuarial losses 81.6 16.6
Closing defined benefit obligations 805.0 723.6
Changes in fair value of plan assets are analysed as follows.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Opening plan assets 664.1 634.0
Expected return on plan assets 33.9 29.6
Employer contributions 12.3 14.1
Benefits paid (33.3) (30.7)
Actuarial gains 49.3 17.1
Closing plan assets 726.3 664.1
History of experience gains and losses
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Fair value of plan assets 726.3 664.1 634.0 591 .7 580.6
Present value of defined benefit obligations (805.0) (723.6) (708.5) (660.9) (632.6)
Deficit in the plans (78.7) (59.5) (74.5) (69.2) (52.0)
 
Experience adjustments arising on plan obligations (1.2) – 14.5 0.9 (2.8)
Changes in assumptions underlying plan obligations (80.4) (16.6) (59.8) (42.5) (22.3)
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 49.3 17.1 33.1 (0.5) 24.0
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the statement of recognised gains and losses is £300.5m (2013: £264.6m). 180 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
11. Derivative financial instruments
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Non-current assets
Cross currency swaps 3.3 0.1
Forward foreign currency contracts 0.4 1.1
3.7 1.2
 
Current assets
Forward foreign currency contracts 19.2 13.4
19.2 13.4
Creditors falling due within one year
Cross currency swaps 0.7 –
Forward foreign currency contracts 18.0 16.7
18.7 16.7
Creditors falling due after more than one year
Cross currency swaps 2.7 1.1
Forward foreign currency contracts 0.4 0.3
3.1 1.4
The figures in the above table are inclusive of derivative financial instruments where the counterparty is a subsidiary of The Weir Group PLC.
12. Share capital
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Allotted, called up & fully paid
Ordinary shares of 12.5p each 26.8 26.7
2014 
Number  
Million
2013 
Number  
Million
Shares allotted
Issued during the period in respect of LTIP awards 0.2 0.3
Treasury shares
At the beginning of the period 0.7 1.1
Issued during the period in respect of LTIP awards – (0.4)
At the end of the period 0.7 0.7
Equity settled share-based payments
LTIP awards outstanding at the end of the period 1.5 1.5
Further details of the equity settled share-based payments and the associated cost for the period can be found in note 28 to the Group 
financial statements. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
181 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
13. Reserves
Share  
Premium  
£m
Treasury  
Shares 
£m
Capital  
Redemption 
Reserve 
£m
Special  
Reserve 
£m
Profit & 
Loss 
Account 
£m
At 28 December 2012 38.0 (5.6) 0.5 1.8 515.9
Profit for the period – – – – 24.3
Dividends – – – – (82.6)
Cost of share-based payment inclusive of tax credits – – – – 9.5
Purchase of shares – (1 .4) – – –
Exercise of LTIP awards – 1.2 – – (1 .2)
At 3 January 2014 38.0 (5.8) 0.5 1.8 465.9
Profit for the period – – – – 243.5
Dividends – – – – (102.7)
Cost of share-based payment inclusive of tax credits – – – – 5.2
Exercise of LTIP awards – – – – (0.1)
At 2 January 2015 38.0 (5.8) 0.5 1.8 611.8
14. Deferred tax asset
£m
At 3 January 2014 1.8
Included in profit for the period (0.5)
Credit for the period included in equity 0.9
At 2 January 2015 2.2
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Included in debtors (note 6) 1.9 1.5
Included in retirement benefits (note 10) 0.3 0.3
2.2 1.8
Other timing differences 1.9 1.5
Retirement benefits 0.3 0.3
2.2 1.8
15. Contingent liabilities & legal claims
Guarantees
The Company has given guarantees in relation to the bank and other borrowings of certain subsidiary companies. The net funds of the 
companies party to these facilities as at 2 January 2015 amounted to £203.0m (2013: £134.1m).
Legal claims
The company and certain subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the normal course  
of business.
A claim has been made by Philippines Gold Processing & Refining Corporation against Weir Services Australia Pty Limited (WSA),  
a subsidiary of the Company, in arbitration proceedings in respect of two contracts relating to the refurbishment and installation of a mill 
undertaken by WSA in 2007-2008 and 2008-2009, respectively. The amount claimed, which totals approximately £58m plus interest, 
seeks damages for the cost of repair and subsequent replacement of the mill together with business interruption loss at the processing 
plant. The original value of the contracts was around £1m. WSA is contesting the claim on multiple grounds. The claim is being vigorously 
defended although the outcome remains uncertain. The arbitration process is expected to conclude by the end of 2015.
The Directors are of the view that the outcome of legal proceedings in 2014 in relation to the UN Oil for Food programme are such that  
a contingent liability no longer exists in relation to this matter.
To the extent not already provided for, the Directors do not anticipate that the outcome of these proceedings and claims, either individually 
or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Group’s financial position. 182 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
16. Related party disclosures
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8 from disclosing transactions with related parties that are wholly owned  
by a subsidiary of The Weir Group PLC. The following table provides the total amount of transactions which have been entered into with 
non-wholly owned related parties for the relevant financial year and outstanding balances at the period end.
Related party
Management  
charge 
£m
Amounts  
due by 
£m
Weir Minerals (India) Private Ltd 2014 – –
2013 0.2 0.3
Ynfiniti Engineering Services SL 2014 0.2 0.2
2013 0.3 0.3
Weir International Co. Ltd 2014 0.1 0.1
2013 – –
Vulca SA 2014 0.1 0.1
2013 – –
17. Financial risk management objectives and policies
The description of the Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies is provided in note 30 to the Group financial statements.
These financial risk management objectives and policies also apply to the Company.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
183 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Principal Companies of the Group 
The principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of the Group are as follows.
 
Name
Country of  
registration or 
incorporation
% equity 
interest 
2014
 
Subsidiaries
American Hydro Corporation USA 100
EnviroTech Pumpsystems, Inc. USA 100
Gema Industrigummi AB Sweden 100
Linatex Rubber Products Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100
Mathena Inc. USA 100
Mesa Manufacturing, Inc. USA 100
Seaboard International Inc. USA 100
Shengli Oilfield Weir Highland Pump Company Ltd China 60
SPM Flow Control, Inc. USA 100
SPM Flow Control Ltd Canada 100
Vulco SA Chile 99
Weir Canada Inc. Canada 100
Weir do Brasil Ltda Brazil 100
Weir Engineering Services Ltd Scotland 100
Weir Floway, Inc. USA 100
Weir Gabbioneta SrL Italy 100
Weir India Private Ltd India 100
Weir International Co. Ltd South Korea 60
Weir Minerals Africa (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100
Weir Minerals Australia Ltd Australia 100
Weir Minerals Europe Ltd England 100
Weir Minerals Netherlands BV Netherlands 100
Novatech, LLC USA 100
Weir Power & Industrial France SAS France 100
Weir Slurry Group Inc. USA 100
Weir Solutions FZE Dubai 100
Weir SOS Ltd The Bahamas 100
Weir Valves & Controls UK Ltd* England 100
Weir Valves & Controls USA Inc. USA 100
Weir Valves & Controls (Suzhou) Co. Ltd China 100
Ynfiniti Engineering Services SL Spain 77
Joint ventures
Weir Arabian Metals Company Saudi Arabia 49
Wesco LLC UAE 49
* Companies whose shares are owned directly by The Weir Group PLC.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under section 410(2) of the Companies Act 2006 by providing information only in relation to subsidiary undertakings whose 
results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affected the financial statements.
Equivalent information as set out above for all the companies and joint ventures of the Group as at 2 January 2015 is available on the Company’s website at www.weir.co.uk.  
A complete list of subsidiary and associated undertakings is also attached to the annual return of The Weir Group PLC filed at Companies House, correct as at the date stated.
On 15 October 2014, the Group completed the acquisition of the Trio Engineered Products group, a Chinese-American manufacturer. The contribution to the Group results post-
acquisition is not considered to have been significant in the period and therefore the entities acquired have not been included above, although will be considered for inclusion in 2015. 184 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Group products
Some of the key product trade marks owned by the Principal Companies are set out below, most of which are registered in one or more countries:
WARMAN is a trade mark of Weir Minerals Australia Ltd and Weir Group African IP Ltd; ASPIR, CAVEX, HAZLETON and MULTIFLO are trade marks 
of Weir Minerals Australia Ltd; LEWIS and LEWIS PUMPS are trade marks of Envirotech Pumpsystems Inc.; GEHO is a trade mark of Weir Minerals 
Netherlands BV; FLOWAY is a trade mark of Weir Floway Inc.; VULCO is a trade mark of Vulco SA; ISOGATE is a trade mark of Weir do Brasil Ltda.; 
LINATEX is a trade mark of Linatex Ltd; ENDURON is a trade mark of Weir Minerals Europe Ltd; TRIO is a trade mark of Trio China Ltd and Trio 
Engineered Products, Inc.; KHD is a trade mark used under licence by companies forming part of The Weir Group; SPM and MESA are trade marks  
of S.P .M. Flow Control, Inc.; SEABOARD is a trade mark of Seaboard International, Inc.; NOVATECH is a trade mark of Novatech, LLC; GABBIONETA 
is a trade mark of Weir Gabbioneta Srl; BEGEMANN is a trade mark of Weir Minerals Netherlands BV; MATHENA is a trade mark of Mathena, Inc.; 
ALLEN STEAM TURBINES is a trade mark of Weir Engineering Services Ltd; AMERICAN HYDRO is a trade mark of American Hydro Corporation; 
ATWOOD & MORRILL and TRICENTRIC are trade marks of Weir Valves & Controls USA, Inc; BDK is a trade mark of Weir India Pvt Ltd; BATLEY, 
BATLEY VALVE, BLAKEBOROUGH, HOPKINSONS and MAC VALVE are trade marks of Weir Valves and Controls UK Ltd; SARASIN-RSBD and 
SEBIM are trade marks of Weir Power & Industrial France SAS; ROTO-JET is a trade mark of Envirotech PumpSystems, Inc.; WEMCO is a trade mark 
used under licence by companies forming part of the Group; WEIR is a trade mark of Weir Engineering Services Ltd.
Principal Companies of the Group continued Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
185 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Shareholder Information
Shareholder enquiries
The Company’s registrars are:
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol, BS99 6ZZ
Website: www.investorcentre.co.uk
Telephone: 0870 707 1402
Shareholder enquiries relating to shareholding, dividend payments, change of address, loss of share certificate, etc. should be addressed 
to Computershare.
Investor Centre
Investor Centre is a free, secure share management website provided by Computershare. This service allows you to view your  
share portfolio and see the latest market price of your shares, check your dividend payment and tax information, change your address, 
update payment instructions and receive your shareholder communications online. To take advantage of this service, please log in at 
www.investorcentre.co.uk and enter the name of the company in which you hold shares, your Shareholder Reference Number (‘SRN’), 
your postcode (or country if outside the UK or Channel Islands) and security code (provided on screen). For security purposes, Computershare 
will send a unique activation code to your registered address. Your SRN can be found on your share certificate or dividend tax voucher. 
Dividends
2015 final dividend
The directors have recommended a final dividend of 29.0 pence per share, for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015. Payment of this 
dividend is subject to approval at the 2015 Annual General Meeting. Key dates relating to this dividend are given below:
Annual General Meeting   29 April 2015
Ex dividend date    30 April 2015
Record date    1 May 2015
Final day for receipt of DRIP elections  7 May 2015
Payment date    29 May 2015
Dividend payments
You can choose to receive your dividend in a number of ways. Dividends will automatically be paid to you by cheque and sent to your 
registered address unless you have chosen one of the options below:
 – Direct payment to your bank
 Cash dividends can be paid directly to a UK bank or building society account. This is more convenient and helps reduce the risk of 
cheques becoming lost or delayed in the post. To switch to this method of payment you can apply online at www.investorcentre.co.uk 
or download a dividend mandate form from the FAQ section of the Company’s website (weir.co.uk), under ‘Shareholder Information’  
in the ‘Investor’ section. Alternatively, you can contact Computershare, who will also be able to assist with any questions you may 
have. A Consolidated Tax Voucher (‘CTV’) detailing all payments made throughout the tax year will then be sent you once a year  
either electronically or to your registered address. In 2015, the CTV will be dispatched with the November 2015 dividend payment  
and contain the tax and payment information for dividends paid during the 2015/2016 tax year.
 – Dividend Reinvestment Plan (‘DRIP’)
 The Company offers shareholders the opportunity to join the Computershare regulated DRIP to use their dividend to purchase further 
Weir Group shares. Instead of receiving cash, shareholders receive as many whole shares as can be bought with their dividend, taking 
into account related purchase costs. Any residual cash will be carried forward and added to their next dividend. If you wish to participate 
in the DRIP, you can apply online at www.investorcentre.co.uk or alternatively, you can complete a DRIP mandate form obtainable from 
Computershare.
 – Global Payment Service
 If you live overseas, Computershare offers a Global Payment Service which is available in certain countries. This may make it possible 
to receive dividends direct into your bank account in your local currency. Please note that a payment charge would be deducted from 
each individual payment before conversion into your local currency. This service can be set up at www.investorcentre.co.uk or by 
contacting Computershare.
Capital gains tax
For the purpose of capital gains tax, the market value of an ordinary share of The Weir Group PLC as at 31 March 1982 was 29.75p.  
This market value has been adjusted to take account of the sub-division of the share capital whereby each ordinary share of 25p was 
sub-divided into two ordinary shares of 12.5p each on 28 June 1993. Rights issues of ordinary shares took place in April 1987 at 157p  
per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every seven ordinary shares held, in July 1990 at 250p per share on the basis of one 
new ordinary share for every five ordinary shares held and in September 1994 at 252p per share on the basis of one new ordinary share 
for every four ordinary shares held. 186 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Communications
Annual and Interim Reports
The Weir Group publishes an Annual and Interim Report every year. The Annual Report is sent to all shareholders who have elected to 
receive a hard copy through the post as a printed document unless the shareholder has chosen to receive e-communications (see below). 
The Interim Report is published on the Company’s website and a printed copy is available from the Company Secretary on request.
E-communications
The Company offers shareholders the opportunity to access shareholder documents, such as Annual Reports and Notices of the  
AGM, via e-communications rather than receiving printed documents in the post. To sign up for e-communications, please register  
at www.investorcentre.co.uk. In order to do this, you will need your SRN which can be found on your share certificate or on your  
dividend tax voucher. Once registered, you will need to change your mailing preference to e-communications and provide your email 
address. We will then be able to notify you by email as soon as shareholder documents are available on the Company’s website.
Company website
Shareholders are encouraged to visit the Company’s corporate website (weir.co.uk), which contains a wealth of information about the 
Weir Group. The website includes information about the markets in which we operate, our strategy and business performance, recent 
news from the Group and product information. The Investor section is a key source of information for shareholders, containing details on 
the share price, our financial results, shareholder meetings and dividends, as well as a ‘Frequently asked questions’ section. Current and 
past Annual and Interim Reports are also available to view and download.
Share dealing services
Computershare provides Weir Group shareholders with a quick and easy way to buy or sell Weir Group shares on the London Stock 
Exchange. Internet share dealing commission is 1%, subject to a minimum charge of £30. In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%,  
is payable on purchases. There is no need to open a trading account in order to deal. Real time dealing is available during market  
hours (08:00 to 16:30 Monday to Friday excluding bank holidays). In addition, there is a convenient facility to place your order outside of 
market hours. Up to 90 day limit orders are available for sales. To access the service, log on to www-uk.computershare.com/Investor/
ShareDealing.asp. Shareholders should have their SRN available. The SRN appears on share certificates and tax dividend vouchers. 
Please note that, at present, this service is only available to shareholders in certain jurisdictions. Please refer to the Computershare 
website for an up-to-date list of these countries.
Telephone share dealing commission is 1%, plus £35. In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases. You can contact 
Computershare on 0870 703 0084. Shareholders should have their SRN ready when making the call. The SRN appears on share certificates 
and tax dividend vouchers. Detailed terms and conditions are available on request by telephoning 0870 707 1402. Please note this service is, 
at present, only available to shareholders resident in certain jurisdictions. Please refer to the Computershare website for an up-to-date list of 
these countries.
These services are offered on an execution only basis and subject to the applicable terms and conditions. Computershare Investor 
Services PLC is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
This is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold shares in The Weir Group PLC. Shareholders who are unsure of what action to take 
should obtain independent financial advice. Share values may go down as well as up which may result in a shareholder receiving less  
than he/she originally invested.
Voting
Information on how you can vote electronically can be obtained through our registrars by visiting www.investorcentre.co.uk/eproxy.
Shareholder alerts
Unsolicited investment advice and fraud
Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning 
investment matters. Share scams are often run from ‘boiler rooms’ where fraudsters cold-call investors offering them worthless, 
overpriced or even non-existent shares.
These callers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and their activities have resulted in considerable losses for some investors. 
Whilst usually by telephone, the high-pressure sales tactics can also come by email, post, word of mouth or at a seminar. Shareholders 
are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, sell your shares at a premium or offers of free 
company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
 – Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and take a note of any other details they provide, such as  
a telephone number or address.
 – Check that the caller is properly authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) by visiting www.fca.org.uk. 
 – Report any approach from such organisations to the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.fca.org.uk/scams,  
where you can also find out about the latest investment scams. You can also call the Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
 – If calls persist, hang up.
Please note that if you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme.
Shareholder Information continued Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
187 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Glossary
AGM Annual General Meeting
Appleby EBT EBT Employee benefit trust (Appleby Trust (Jersey) Ltd)
Board The Board of Directors of The Weir Group PLC
bps Basis points
capex Capital expenditure
Company The Weir Group PLC
Director A Director of The Weir Group PLC
EBIT Earnings before interest and tax
EBITA Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation
EHS Environment, health and safety
emerging markets Asia-Pacific, South America, Africa and the Middle East
EPS Earnings per share
Excellence Committees Weir Group Management Committees ensuring best practice
free cash flow Net cash flow generated from continuing operations excluding the cash impact in relation  
to acquisitions, disposals and net proceeds from/repayments of borrowings
Group The Company together with its subsidiaries
HR Human resources
IAS International Accounting Standards
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
Independent auditors Ernst & Young LLP
Input Orders received from customers
ISO International Organisation for Standardisation
Kleinwort EBT Employee benefit trust (Kleinwort Benson (Guernsey) Trustees Ltd)
like for like On a consistent basis, excluding the impact of acquisitions
LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan
mill circuit The various stages of extracting and processing ore
NPBTA Normalised profit before tax and amortisation
operating margin Operating profit including our share of results of joint ventures divided by revenue
ordinary shares The ordinary shares in the capital of the Company of 12.5p each
PBTA Profit before tax and amortisation
Registrar Computershare Investor Services plc
R&D Research and development
ROCE Return on capital employed
RPI UK Retail Prices Index
subsidiary An entity that is controlled, either directly or indirectly, by the Company
TIR Total Incident Rate (medical treatment of any kind required by employees divided by 200,000 
hours worked)
TSR Total Shareholder Return comprising dividends paid on ordinary shares and the increase  
or decrease in the market price of ordinary shares
UK GAAP United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice
WTI West Texas Intermediate 188 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Financial Calendar
Annual General Meeting
29 April 2015
Ex-dividend date for final dividend
30 April 2015
Record date for final dividend
1 May 2015
Shareholders on the register at this date will receive the dividend.
Final day for receipt of DRIP elections
7 May 2015
Final dividend paid
29 May 2015
Cautionary Statement
This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements with respect to the 
financial condition, operations and performance of the Group. By their nature, 
these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances 
can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated. 
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available  
at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes 
no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Nothing in this 
Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Registered Office and Company Number
20 Waterloo Street
Glasgow G2 6DB
Scotland
Registered in Scotland
Company Number 2934 Printed on an FSC-recognised paper, produced from well-managed 
forests. This publication was printed with vegetable oil-based inks by 
an FSC-recognised printer that holds an ISO 14001 certification. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
The Weir Group PLC
20 Waterloo Street
Glasgow G2 6DB, Scotland
T: +44 (0)141 637 7111
F: +44 (0)141 221 9789
E: investor-relations@weir.co.uk
weir.co.uk
