 W alker Greenbank PLC
W alker Greenbank PLC Annual Report & Accounts 201 5
PROVIDING 
LUXURY
WORLDWIDE
Annual Report & Accounts.
2015 WALKER GREENBANK PLC 
IS AN INTERNATIONAL 
LUXURY INTERIOR 
FURNISHINGS GROUP . 1
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
HIGHLIGHTS
£83.4m
2014: £78.4m  
+6.3%
Group revenue
£3.26m
2014: £5.95m  
-45.2%
Cash inflow from  
operating activities
£8. 13m
2014: £7.33m  
+10.9%
Group adjusted PBT*
11.64p
2014: 11.30p  
+3.0%
EPS
+ 10.0 %
2014: 9.6%  
+40bps
Group adjusted 
operating margin
2.31 p
2014: 1.85p  
+24.9%
Dividend per share
• Sales up 6.3% to £83.4 million (2014: £78.4 million) 
with UK Brands sales up 10.3% driven by increasing 
consumer confidence.
• Unadjusted profit before tax up 15.2% at £6.33 million 
(2014: £5.50 million).
• Adjusted profit before tax* up 10.9% at £8.13 million 
(2014: £7.33 million).
• Successful launch of the international contemporary 
Anthology brand in March 2014, with the brand’s sales 
exceeding expectations.
• Continued investment in the Company including further 
digital capacity, relaunched brands websites, a new 
warehouse facility and showroom extensions in New York 
and London.
• Adjusted earnings per share** up 3.0% at 11.64p per share 
(2014: 11.30p per share).
• Final dividend up 24.8% to 1.96p per share (2014: 1.57p 
per share), giving a total dividend up 24.9% at 2.31p per 
share (2014: 1.85p per share).
* Adjusted profit before tax excludes accounting charges relating to share-based incentives and defined 
benefit charge. 
**  Adjusted earnings per share excludes the accounting charges relating to share-based incentives and 
defined benefit charge and the deferred tax credit arising from the share-based incentives.
Strategic Report
1 Highlights
2 At a Glance
4 Chairman’s Statement
6 Chief Executive’s Review
8 Business Model and Strategy
10 Principal Risks
12 From Concept to Creation
22 Chief Financial Officer’s Review
25 Key Performance Indicators
26 Business Units Overview 
Governance
36 Board of Directors
38 Report of the Directors
39 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
40 Directors’ Remuneration Report
44 Corporate Governance Statement 
46 Audit Committee Report 
Financial Statements
48 Independent Auditors’ Report on Consolidated 
Financial Statements
50 Consolidated Income Statement
51 Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
52 Consolidated Balance Sheet
53 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
54 Consolidated Statement of  
Changes in Equity
55 Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements
88 Independent Auditors’ Report on Company 
Financial Statements
90 Company Balance Sheet
91 Notes to the Financial Statements
99 Five Year Record
100 Shareholder Information
IBC Corporate Advisers 2
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
AT A
GLANCE
FROM CONCEPT TO CREATION
DESIGN
Walker Greenbank Brands offer stylish solutions  
for consumers, designers and contract interiors,  
covering a wide range of tastes from traditional to 
ultra contemporary. 
• Complementary range of brands in the areas of the 
market with the best mix of volumes and margins
• Continued growth in the best margin segments  
through brand extension
• Sizeable market: scope for significant further growth
Contemporary
Mass Market
Traditional
Premium
 
Go to page 26 for more information about all of our brands 3
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
BRITISH MANUFACTURING 
AND LOGISTICS
LICENSING
MARKETING
SALES CHANNELS
+600
The Group has more than 600 employees.
Vertically integrated high quality 
British manufacturing
 
Go to page 14 for more information
Our iconic designs are adored globally
 
Go to page 18 for more information
Industry benchmark marketing 
 
Go to page 16 for more information
We have a diverse global customer base
 
Go to page 20 for more information 4
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
2015 2.31p 
2014 1.85p 
2013 1.48p 
2012 1.20p 
Dividend per share pence 
CHAIRMAN’S
STATEMENT
I am pleased to report that the Group continues to 
make good progress and has delivered another 
significant increase in profitability and dividend 
payments, reflecting our continued focus 
on developing our product offering, market 
penetration, manufacturing capability and 
international expansion.
Terry Stannard
Non-executive Chairman
2.31p
Top Image: The Amazilia collection from Harlequin.
Bottom Image: Sanderson’s Vintage 2 collection. 5
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Overview
I am pleased to report that the 
Group continues to make good progress 
and has delivered another significant 
increase in profitability and dividend 
payments, reflecting our continued focus 
on developing our product offering, market 
penetration, manufacturing capability and 
international expansion.
We continue to deliver our strategy through 
further investment in product development, 
sales and marketing and manufacturing. 
During the year we invested in additional 
digital printers at both of our manufacturing 
sites to meet demand and to allow continued 
innovation in our printing techniques. We 
also opened a second warehouse in Milton 
Keynes for our wallcoverings storage and 
distribution. The major extension and 
refurbishment of our flagship New York 
showroom was officially opened in October 
2014 and has helped to drive US sales in the 
latter part of the year. 
Total Brand sales were up 6.4% during the 
year at £64.7 million. The UK, our largest 
market, delivered a strong sales performance, 
up 10.3% at £38.5 million, reflecting strong 
retail sales and a continuing resurgence of 
the contract market.
Our overseas Brand sales were up 1.5% 
in reportable currency, 5.1 % in constant 
currency, impacted by the strength of 
sterling. Sales in Western Europe, the 
Group’s second biggest market, were up 
4.8% in reportable currency, 11.4% in 
constant currency, driven by strong sales 
growth in most regions. In the US, our  
third largest market, sales grew 0.7% in 
reportable currency, 5.1 % in constant 
currency. Sales were impacted by the six 
month closure of the New York showroom; 
since the reopening, and with an improving 
economic environment, we achieved strong 
double-digit growth in the last quarter of 
the financial year. 
Brand sales in the Middle East grew by 
20.1 % in constant currency aided by the 
opening of the Dubai showroom in Q3 2013. 
Sales in the Rest of the World grew 1.0% 
in constant currency held back by market 
conditions in Japan as a result of the 
increase in consumption tax and the 
impact of sterling. 
Licensing income of £2.1 million was down 
2.4% in reportable currency, up 3.6% in 
constant currency, reflecting the weakness 
of the yen and a strong comparator last 
year following the 150
th
 anniversary of 
Morris & Co. We are pursuing the extension 
of our product offering through new licensing 
arrangements and recently appointed a 
dedicated Licence Director. We remain 
confident about the future potential for  
this important strategic contributor to  
our growth.
Our UK manufacturing base is a key asset 
that differentiates us from others in our 
industry and puts us at the forefront of 
innovation in printing techniques. Our 
continuing investment in new digital printers 
has helped us grow our manufacturing sales 
and profits on what was a record year last 
year. We are particularly pleased by the 
8.1 % growth in UK manufacturing sales to 
external customers, a large proportion of 
which is driven by digital printing.
We have progressed our digital sales and 
marketing strategy by launching updated 
industry-leading websites for each of  
our brands and by the launch of a  
new functional website, Style Library  
(www.stylelibrary.com), which showcases  
all of the Group’s products. These websites 
have B2B and B2C e-commerce capabilities 
and, during the second half of the year, we 
launched our B2B e-commerce platform 
with our customers in the US.
Financials
Total sales increased 6.3% to £83.4 million 
(2014: £78.4 million). The operating profit 
before an accounting charge relating to  
the Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) rose 
11.0% to £8.34 million (2014: £7.51 million). 
The profit from operations was up 12.1 %  
to £7.34 million (2014: £6.54 million).  
The interest charge has increased from 
£180,000 to £208,000 due to higher 
average borrowings. The defined benefit 
pension charge has reduced from £868,000 
to £798,000 driven by a reduction in the 
service cost.
Profit before tax excluding the LTIP 
accounting charge and the net defined 
benefit charge was £8.13 million (2014: 
£7.33 million), an increase of 10.9%. The 
profit before tax after the two non-cash 
charges was £6.33 million (2014: £5.50 
million). The profit after tax was £5.11 
million (2014: £5.04 million) and basic 
adjusted earnings per share were up 3.0% 
after removing the LTIP accounting charge, 
net defined benefit charge and the deferred 
tax credit arising from the LTIP.
The cash inflow from operating activities was 
£3.26 million (2014: £5.95 million), reflecting 
strong operating profits and also significant 
investment in product. The Group has 
continued to invest in the period with capital 
expenditure of £3.25 million (2014: £4.74 
million). 
Dividend
During the year, the Group has paid a final 
dividend for the year to 31 January 2014 of 
1.57p per share and an interim dividend of 
0.35p per share. The Directors recommend 
the payment of a final dividend of 1.96p per 
share (2014: 1.57p) which will be payable on 
7 August 2015 to shareholders on the register 
on 17 July 2015. This brings the total dividend 
for the year to 2.31p per share (2014: 1.85p) 
an increase of 24.9% which reflects 
Directors’ confidence in the future prospects 
and financial strength of the Group. 
People
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
all of our management and employees for 
their contribution to another successful year. 
Outlook
The current financial year has started well. 
In the first 10 weeks our total Brands sales 
are up 7.9% in reportable currency, 8.6% in 
constant currency compared with the same 
period last year with sales in the UK, our 
largest market up, 8.1 %. Overseas Brand 
sales are up 7.6% in reportable currency, 
9.5% in constant currency. Manufacturing 
has continued to performed well.
We are excited by our new product launches, 
including the third collection from the 
Anthology brand and by Zoffany’s spring 
launch which will be its biggest launch in six 
years. We look forward with confidence to 
the year ahead.
 
Terry Stannard
Non-executive Chairman
1 May 2015 6
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
2015
2014
2013
2012
Revenue £million 
83 
78 
76 
74 
2015
2014
2013
2012
Adjusted operating margin %** 
10.0 
9.6 
8.7 
8.1 
2015
2014
2013
2012
Adjusted earnings per share pence* 
11.64 
11.30 
9.41 
8.21 
CHIEF
EXECUTIVE’S
REVIEW
I am pleased to report that the Group continues to 
make strong growth in both sales and profits and 
to further implement its strategy.
John Sach
Group Chief Executive
I am pleased to report that the Group 
continues to make strong growth in both 
sales and profits and to further implement 
its strategy, which comprises:
• International expansion 
• Market penetration 
• Lifestyle product extension 
• British manufacturing capability 
• Acquisitions 
Additional information on the Group’s 
strategy is given in the Strategic Report on 
page 8. Further analysis of the key factors 
impacting revenue and operating profit of 
our Brands and Manufacturing divisions has 
been included in pages 26 to 35 which, 
when taken with the information provided 
below form the Chief Executive’s Review.
The Brands
This segment incorporates global trading 
from our internationally recognised brands 
and includes our overseas subsidiaries in the 
US and France.
In order to fully leverage our global 
brand assets we have recently made some 
important organisational changes including 
the creation and appointment of three new 
senior operational roles: Design Director 
Brands, Marketing Director Brands, and 
Licensing Director Brands. These 
appointments will play a critical role in 
further developing and delivering our 
strategic ambitions by bringing together  
the management of the Brands.
Total Brands sales increased by 6.4% 
compared with last year to £64.7 million as 
a result of continued investment in design, 
marketing and distribution, and from new 
product launches. This has led to a 12.1 % 
increase in operating profits to £7.4 million.
In the UK, Brands sales increased 10.3% 
to £38.5 million driven by the recovery of 
the UK economy and consumer confidence, 
together with a resurgence in the 
contracts division. 
Despite challenging market conditions, 
Western Europe Brand sales have increased 
4.8% in reportable currency, 11.4% in 
constant currency, to £7.0 million with most 
regions performing strongly, particularly 
Southern Ireland. Other highlights include 
sales in the Middle East, up 20.1 % in 
constant currency, to £1.0 million and 
growth in Australasia, up 14.2% in constant 
currency, to £1.1 million. 
* Adjusted earnings per share excludes the accounting 
charges relating to share-based incentives and 
defined benefit charge and the deferred tax credit 
arising from the share-based incentives.
** Adjusted for accounting charges relating to share-based 
incentives and defined benefit charge. 7
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Sales in the US increased by 0.7% in 
reportable currency, 5.1 % in constant 
currency. Sales in this important market 
were adversely affected by the total 
refurbishment and extension of our New 
York showroom. However, since it reopened 
with a major launch event in October of last 
year we have seen an improving trend in 
sales. We see the US as an extremely 
important opportunity for the Group.
Global licensing income is a key part of our 
strategy and an important income stream 
for the Group. Income was down 2.4% in 
reportable currency, up 3.6% to £2.1m in 
constant currency. Income has been 
impacted by the weakness of the Japanese 
yen and exceptionally strong comparators 
last year following the 150
th
 anniversary of 
Morris & Co.
Harlequin incorporating Scion 
& Anthology
Harlequin has grown its worldwide sales 
11.1 % in reportable currency over the same 
period last year to £29.0 million and remains 
the UK’s leading mid-market contemporary 
brand. Sales in the UK have increased 9.1 % 
driven by the success of its spring 2014 
launch, Jardin Bohème, and the 2014 
Momentum collections. In the US, Harlequin 
has seen significant growth, up 10.7% in 
reportable currency, 14.9% in constant 
currency and sales in Western Europe have 
grown 21.6% year-on-year in reportable 
currency, 29.0% in constant currency, 
despite challenging market conditions. 
The Scion brand launched in February 2012 
continues to grow well. Its third collection, 
Spirit and Soul, launched in the first half of 
the year has been its strongest yet. This 
cutting edge brand is accessibly priced 
making it a success with young, aspirational 
and fashion-aware customers. Anthology 
was launched in April 2014 with two 
contemporary wallpaper collections, 
designed specifically for overseas markets 
though also available in the UK. Anthology 
sales have exceeded expectations and a 
third collection was launched in March 2015. 
It is intended to launch a range of 
Anthology fabrics in the current year to 
complement the wallpapers. A significant 
proportion of the sales of both Scion and 
Anthology were produced in our factories 
and therefore benefit from strong margins. 
During the year Harlequin moved to a 
substantially larger showroom in Chelsea 
Harbour, giving it much needed space to 
display its products.
Arthur Sanderson & Sons incorporating 
the Morris & Co brand
Sanderson sales were up 3.4% compared 
with the same period last year at £21.7 
million in reportable currency. The UK 
has been the driver of this growth with an 
increase of 13.7%. Sales in the US are down 
9.7% in reportable currency, down 4.7% in 
constant currency, sales in Western Europe 
are down 1.8% in reportable currency, up 
4.1 % in constant currency. Sales in the Far 
East are down 26.5% in reportable currency, 
down 26% in constant currency, as a result 
of major stock orders and a one-off special 
production last year not being repeated and 
the increase in consumption tax in Japan.
Zoffany
Zoffany is positioned at the upper end of 
the premium market. Total sales have grown 
by 4.5% compared with the same period 
last year to £11.2 million in reportable 
currency driven by sales of more recent 
collections. Sales in the UK have grown 
7.2% in reportable currency. Sales in the  
US are up 5.5% in reportable currency, up 
10.1 % in constant currency, sales in Western 
Europe are down 11.8% in reportable 
currency, down 6.3% in constant currency.
Warehouse
The transfer of wallpaper storage and 
distribution to a new additional distribution 
centre of 40,000 Sq. ft. was completed in 
May 2014 and has enabled us to continue 
delivering on our strategy through enhanced 
service levels. 
Manufacturing
Manufacturing has delivered another strong 
performance with both sales and profitability 
increasing to record levels. Total sales grew 
9.1 % to £35.1 million leading to an increase 
in profits of 19.5% to £3.7 million. 
Anstey
Anstey, our wallpaper printing business, had 
a very successful year with sales growing by 
9.1 % to £18.3 million. Third party sales in 
the UK were up 3.0% and third party export 
sales were down 3.6%. Internal sales to our 
own group brands grew by 17.6% as a result 
of a stronger launch of new wallpaper 
collections from the Brands this year.
During the year Anstey invested in a fourth 
digital printer and correlated digital 
sampling machine to provide additional 
capacity to meet demand. Investment  
has also been made in dedicated finishing 
equipment for digital product to create a 
market leading fully finished service. These 
investments have contributed to Anstey’s 
growth by enhancing capacity, capability 
and efficiency.
Standfast
Standfast, our fabric printing factory, has 
seen an increase in annual sales of 9.0% 
to £16.7 million. Third party sales in the UK 
grew by 13.2% with sales to our own Group 
brands increasing 7.7%.
Standfast continues to invest in digital 
printing and an additional fast-run printer 
was commissioned during the second half 
of the year together with an extension to  
its digital room to allow for future growth. 
Digital print sales have increased 50% 
year-on-year and now represent 32% of 
total revenue.
Summary
We continue to grow our brands both in the 
UK and internationally through continuing 
investment in design, marketing and 
distribution, and new product launches such 
as Scion’s third collection Spirit and Soul. 
Sales have also been boosted by the very 
successful launch of our international brand 
Anthology and a strong performance by our 
contracts division.
We are committed to invest in our British 
wallpaper and fabric printing factories to 
further enhance their innovative, added 
value techniques that we are able to offer 
customers. We have successfully launched 
our new industry-leading websites for  
our Brands, opened our new additional 
warehouse, completed the extension and 
redesign of our flagship showroom in New 
York, moved Harlequin into a substantially 
larger showroom in Chelsea Harbour and 
made some key senior appointments.
We will continue to focus on delivering 
against our strategy and the Board remains 
confident of our future growth prospects.
 
John Sach
Group Chief Executive
1 May 2015 8
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
BUSINESS MODEL
AND STRATEGY
The Company employs more than 600 people and has 
showrooms in London, New York, Paris and Dubai along with 
partnership showrooms in Moscow and in Shenzhen. Its UK 
manufacturing base, which includes a wallpaper factory in 
Loughborough and a fabric printing factory in Lancaster, 
manufactures product both for the Company and for other 
wallpaper and fabric brands. Continued investment in 
manufacturing has allowed the Company to offer a wide 
range of printing techniques.
The strategy comprises five pillars:
INTERNATIONAL EXPANSION
To focus on the distribution and marketing of our 
brands in the important US, European and Asia Pacific 
markets where we see significant potential to grow 
our existing market share and to invest in the exciting 
growth opportunities in other international markets.
MARKET PENETRATION
To continue to develop our brands in the UK and 
internationally through the development of new 
product categories and extension of market positions.
LIFESTYLE PRODUCT EXTENSION
To profit from the global recognition of the Group’s 
heritage brands, Sanderson and Morris & Co, and the 
contemporary design excellence of the Harlequin and 
Scion brands, by broadening the product range and 
exploiting the considerable licensing opportunities. 
BRITISH MANUFACTURING CAPABILITY
To continue to promote our British manufacturing 
capability through investment in innovative printing 
techniques and market leading facilities that 
provide quality, added value products to our 
customers worldwide.
ACQUISITION
To actively evaluate acquisition opportunities that 
fit synergistically with our current brand portfolio 
with the objective of further advancing our 
earnings growth.
The Directors present their Strategic Report  
on the Group for the year ended 31 January 2015.
Business review and future developments
A review of the Group’s activities and the strategy and 
information regarding the future development of the 
business are given in the Chief Executive’s Review on page 
6, which when taken with the Chairman’s Statement, 
the Chief Financial Officer’s Review and the information 
provided above, together form the Directors’ Strategic 
Report for the year ended 31 January 2015.
Walker Greenbank PLC is a luxury interior 
furnishings company that designs, manufactures 
and markets wallpapers and fabrics together 
with a wide range of ancillary interior products. 
The Company’s brand portfolio – comprising 
Sanderson, Morris & Co, Harlequin, Zoffany, 
Scion and Anthology – spans heritage and 
contemporary design and its products are sold 
in more than 85 countries worldwide. The 
Company derives significant licensing income 
from the use of its designs in lifestyle products 
such as bed linen, rugs and tableware. 9
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
DESIGN
Market leading brands that span archive heritage and contemporary 
design creatively developed by talented, award winning in-house designers
 
Go to page 12 for more information
CAPITAL INVESTMENT
INNOVATION
BRITISH MANUFACTURING & LOGISTICS
Vertically integrated high quality British manufacturing with a wide range  
of techniques and significant investment in innovation
 
Go to page 14 for more information
MARKETING
Industry benchmark marketing through significant investment in sampling 
books, worldwide showrooms, advertising and digital
 
Go to page 16 for more information
LICENSING
Our iconic designs are adored globally and, through our partners, 
are available across an extensive range of lifestyle products
 
Go to page 18 for more information
SALES CHANNELS
We have a diverse global customer base covering designers, retailers, distributors 
and commercial contracts with whom we have developed deep relationships
 
Go to page 20 for more information
Walker Greenbank PLC sets out to be a business with truly global  
reach, the most admired in its sector and the benchmark company for 
innovation, design, quality and service. Our purpose is to create beautiful, 
elegant and inspirational interiors and with a British manufacturing 
base, we are able to differentiate ourselves from our major competitors. 
In a changing marketplace we are adapting our product and business 
model to be in a position to make the most of new opportunities. 10
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
PRINCIPAL
RISKS
The Group has put in place an on going process  
to identify, monitor and manage the risks it faces.  
Risks are ranked according to their potential financial 
impact and probability. The Board regularly reviews 
the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee on behalf of the 
Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the 
internal controls and risk management and 
no significant failings in control were found. 
There are general business risks faced by the 
Group that are comparable to those faced 
by most other businesses. General business 
risks include:
Marketplace – changes in the economic 
environment, weakening of the Eurozone 
and changes in consumer discretionary 
spending.
Financial – availability of bank borrowing 
and costs of borrowing, taxation and 
pension fund liability.
Operational – market penetration, 
international expansion and information 
security (IT systems and cyber risk).
In addition there are a number of more 
specific risks which are more relevant to 
Walker Greenbank and the industry in which 
we operate. These risks are the principal risks 
and uncertainties facing the Group that are 
material to our strategy.
Employees
The Group is a responsible employer, 
compliant with all relevant human resources 
and health and safety regulations. The Group 
keeps its employees informed on matters 
affecting them and on the progress of the 
Group by way of informal meetings and 
consultation with employees’ representatives. 
All Group businesses apply the principles  
of equal opportunity in recruitment, career 
progression and remuneration. Disabled 
persons are given full and fair consideration 
for employment where an appropriate 
vacancy occurs, having regard to their 
particular aptitudes and abilities. Whenever 
possible, arrangements are made for the 
continuing employment of persons who 
have become disabled during service and 
for appropriate training of all disabled 
employees, who are given equal 
consideration with all other employees  
in promotion and career development.
Environment
Both factories have environmental policies 
and actively seek to reduce their impact  
on the environment through responsible 
sourcing of raw materials, responsible waste 
handling and recycling where economically 
viable, and emissions monitoring in 
accordance with Environmental permits.
Third party suppliers to the Brands are 
issued a set of quality and operational 
standards to which they are expected to 
adhere, which includes their confirmation 
that they conduct their business within all 
applicable laws with regard to human 
rights, pay, working conditions and health 
and safety.
This report was approved by the Board of 
Directors on 1 May 2015 and signed on its 
behalf by 
 
John Sach
Group Chief Executive 11
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
RISK MITIGATION
MARKET PLACE
TRADING ENVIRONMENT
The Group operates in major international 
markets which have experienced headwinds 
and there is still some uncertainty around 
the economic outlook for some markets. 
Given that our products may be viewed as 
discretionary, there is a risk that these are 
impacted by consumer confidence. 
The Group continues to focus on strong cost control to try to ensure that it remains well positioned 
to deal with an uncertain environment.
Focus on product diversification through licensing opportunities as well as geographic expansion 
strengthen our product offering. 
COMPE T I T ION
The Group operates in markets that are 
highly competitive.
The Group has sought to differentiate itself through high quality luxury products and continues  
to develop new product categories and extension of market positions.
We have continued to invest in our British manufacturing sites through innovative printing 
techniques and market leading factories to provide quality, added value products.
There is focus on product extension through global recognition of the Group’s heritage brands  
and the contemporary design excellence, broadening the product range and exploring worldwide 
licencing opportunities. 
The Group’s focus is on international expansion through the distribution and marketing of our 
brands in the important US, European and Asia Pacific markets.
FINANCIAL
FOREIGN EXCHANGE
A large proportion of the Group’s activities 
and earnings are denominated in US dollars 
and Euros giving rise to foreign currency 
exposure. 
The Group hedges a portion of revenue and earnings to minimise any exposure to foreign 
exchange losses. 
OPER AT IONAL
RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION 
OF KEY EMPLOYEES
The Group is reliant upon a number of key 
employees to design, manufacture and sell 
its products.
The Group’s employees are its key asset. The depth of their experience is a real benefit to the 
business. In recognition of this the Group has developed programmes to help attract and retain 
employees and encourage personal development across all levels.
REPUTATION RISK
The Group prides itself on the high quality 
of its product range. 
There is ongoing emphasis on high quality control throughout the various stages, right from 
manufacturing through to delivery of the finished product and customer satisfaction. The Group 
has recently initiated investment focused around customer market research which will help to 
identify further areas of improvement. 
There is regular monitoring at the monthly Board meetings of the Group’s image and reputation. 
ACQUISITION RISK
Acquiring the wrong company or at the 
wrong price would impact our financial 
return and any benefits from the acquisition 
as well as causing disruption to other 
business activities. 
Management actively evaluate acquisition opportunities that fit synergistically with our 
brand portfolio. We have a rigorous pre acquisition due diligence process which seeks to 
evaluate each opportunity. 
Close monitoring of the integration of any acquisition would take place to ensure planned revenue 
and cost synergies are realised to enable further earnings growth.
Sound project discipline would be implemented in the event of an acquisition and would be 
resourced by dedicated and appropriately qualified personnel to ensure minimum disruption to  
our core business activities. 
MAJOR INCIDENT OR DISASTER 
SUCH AS A FIRE
An incident affecting one or more of the 
Group’s key locations could significantly 
impact its operations. 
Business continuity and disaster recovery plans are regularly reviewed to ensure that any 
interruption to the Group’s core business operations is effectively managed.
Business continuity plans are in place to manage the impact of such an event and the Group’s 
insurance cover mitigates the financial consequences.
The segregation of the Group’s central warehousing facility through an additional warehouse  
has helped to mitigate risk. 12
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
FROM CONCEPT TO CREATION
DESIGN 13
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
DESIGN ARCHIVES
With three separate full time design studios and 
the flexibility to work with freelance designers 
where appropriate, we are able to keep setting  
the trends year after year.
We invest heavily in all aspects of design and operate three 
fully autonomous design studios for our brands; one for 
Harlequin, Scion and Anthology, one for Sanderson and 
Morris & Co and one for Zoffany. Key to the success of our 
brands studios is an in house design team of 15 diversely 
talented designers, each bringing their own talents, 
personalities and handwriting to the design process. Their 
skillsets cover every aspect of design from painting original 
artwork to expertise in CAD.
Our studios are at the heart of everything we do, creating 
inspiring design concepts for each spring and autumn selling 
season and developing them into beautifully presented 
collections of fabrics and wallpapers. In addition to these 
core activities, our studios work closely with all of our 
licensing partners worldwide in order to ensure the best 
possible interpretation of our designs for different product 
categories and markets.
Alongside our studios we have the Sanderson and Morris & 
Co Archive, without doubt one of the world’s most valuable 
archives for fabrics and wallcoverings. This extraordinary 
‘design library’ is a constant source of inspiration for all of our 
brands and brings unique authenticity to much of what we 
produce for classic Sanderson and Morris & Co collections. 
 
During 2014 our brands have received industry recognition 
and won seven awards:
• Anthology: Muuuz International Awards (France) – Best 
Wallcoverings
• Harlequin: House Beautiful – Best Wallcoverings – Silver
• Scion: House Beautiful – Best Breakthrough Business Silver
• Scion : House Beautiful – Best Fabric – Gold
• Scion: Homes & Gardens – Best Fabric under £35
• Sanderson: World of Interiors (Paris Deco Off) – Best 
Fabric Collection – Vintage II
• Morris & Co: Homes & Gardens – Best in Show (London 
Design Week) – Morris & Co Archive III 
 
 Lino cuts created to produce 
the artwork for ‘Rosehip’ 
and ‘Grapevine’ designs in 
the Morris & Co. Archive III 
collection.
52
New collections launched during 
the year.
  
Alison Gee, Head Designer for Morris & 
Co. painting out ‘The Brook’ from the 
Archive III collection. 14
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
FROM CONCEPT TO CREATION
BRITISH MANUFACTURING AND LOGISTICS 15
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
2015 5.4 
2014 3.6 
2013 1.7 
2012 1.0
Digital printed fabric sales £m 
INDUSTRY LEADER
We continue to promote our British manufacturing 
capability through investment in innovative 
printing techniques and market-leading facilities 
that provide quality, added-value products to our 
customers worldwide.
The Group’s manufacturing businesses continue 
to invest in technology, efficiency and the 
development of a highly-skilled and flexible 
workforce to secure genuine competitive 
advantage.
We manufacture for the industry with 
approximately 50% of our total production  
being for the Brands direct competitors.
£9m
Capital investment in both factories 
in the last five years.
 
 Production set up of a 
wallpaper digital printer.
 
Manual inspection 
stage of rotary/
gravure hybrid 
machine. 16
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
FROM CONCEPT TO CREATION
MARKETING 17
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
INNOVATION 
MARKETING
Our marketing activities cover a very broad 
spectrum, from complex photographic shoots on 
location and graphic design, through PR and the 
production of advertising/press materials, pattern 
books, leaflets and merchandising fixtures. 
 
Morris & 
Co. Archive 
Wallpapers III 
pattern book.
 
Walker Greenbank 
showroom, Dubai.
62
Different pattern books 
launched during the 
year to support our  
new collections.
In addition to these more traditional activities, our 
marketing teams include stylists who create stunning 
showroom displays, both in our own and in our partner 
showrooms around the world. With the continuing 
development of both existing and new showrooms this ability 
to present a coherent brand image is increasingly important.
More recently, our marketing teams have been enhanced to 
reflect the growing importance of digital media. We have 
invested heavily in new brand websites and a new website 
concept, Style Library (www.stylelibrary.com) – where 
designers can search for products across all of our brands on 
a single site.
Our leading market position in the UK is reflected in our 
‘share of voice’ in all of the top consumer magazine titles, 
both in advertising spend and ever increasing PR exposure. 
Building upon this model we have employed professional PR 
partners in the USA and France to great effect and we are 
rapidly engaging with PR opportunities globally through our 
local business partners. The strength of our design concepts 
and industry-leading imagery is facilitating rapid progress in 
exposure in foreign press worldwide.
We engaged in professional customer research in late 2014 
and are looking to extend this programme to include 
consumer research in 2015.
We participate in many exhibitions around the world each 
year and increasingly contribute directly to stand design 
and display where our partners are hosting the event. 
 
Digital media campaign, 
Harlequin Pinterest page. 18
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
FROM CONCEPT TO CREATION
LICENSING 19
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
EXPANDING 
OUR REACH
The Brands have increased their focus on licensing 
opportunities in the past year, building on existing 
relationships and forming new partnerships both 
in the UK and international markets.
We have an extensive range of products, from bedding and 
ceramics to handbags and umbrellas. 
Alongside new developments with all of our major existing 
partners, 2015 will see extensions to the ceramics offers 
from Portmeirion for Sanderson and Make International for 
Scion and the introduction of Harlequin ceramics through a 
new licensing partnership with Churchill China.
Further partnerships are under discussion to launch  
Pure radios and with an international footwear brand  
to use iconic Sanderson designs.
Beyond conventional licensing partnerships we are 
increasingly extending the reach of our brands through 
other product categories such as cushions and blinds.
 
 D ig i ta l l y p r in t e d 
Amazilia rug from 
Harlequin.
+3.6 %
Licensing income was up 3.6% in 
constant currency during the year.
 
 S a n der s on b e d l i n en ,  
Clementine design. 20
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
FROM CONCEPT TO CREATION
SALES CHANNELS 21
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Brand revenue by export market % 
1
2
3
4
5
6 7
1. Europe 45.8%
2. USA 29.2%
3. Far East 12.2%
4. Australia 4.5% 
5. Middle East 4.2%
6. South America 1.5%
7. Rest of the World 2.6%
COMMERCIAL
We have a diverse global customer base that 
provides a broad and ever-widening range of 
routes to market.
In the UK we work directly with national retailers such as 
John Lewis and Brewers and also independent retailers  
and interior designers. Separately, we work through our 
specialised contract sales team with contract specifiers, 
hotels, restaurants, healthcare and the cruise ship industry.
We sell in 85 international markets. We operate through 
wholly-owned subsidiaries in the USA and France and our 
own sales operations in Holland and Dubai. Elsewhere 
around the world we work either through agents or 
distributors based in the local markets. Increasingly we are 
focused on contract sales opportunities in foreign markets, 
having witnessed significant sales growth through 2014.
Looking to the future we will extend the international reach 
of our new Style Library website, and by working closely  
with our partners we envisage this becoming an essential 
and innovative ingredient in the sales mix over the next  
few years.
 
 
Harlequin showroom, 
London.
85
We sell in 85 international markets.
 
 Walker Greenbank contract 
specified product in a Junior 
Suite, The Dorchester.
 
 
Style Library website 
home page.
www.stylelibrary.com  22
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
CHIEF
FINANCIAL
OFFICER’S
REVIEW
Final dividend up 24.8 % to 1.96p per share, giving 
a total dividend up 24.9% at 2.31p per share.
Mike Gant
Chief Financial Officer
Income Statement
The Chairman’s Statement and Chief 
Executive’s Review provide an analysis of 
the key factors impacting the revenue  
and operating profit. In addition to  
the information on our Brands and 
Manufacturing divisions included in these 
reports, the Group has included in note 4  
of this Report further information on our 
segments. This is the basis on which the 
Group presents its operating results to the 
Board of Directors, which is considered to  
be the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(‘CODM’) for the purposes of IFRS 8. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’)
There has been a new award of shares during 
the year under the Long-Term Incentive Plan 
(‘LTIP’) with vesting conditions based on 
Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) with an 
adjusted profit before tax floor and half 
based on Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’) growth. 
There has been a charge of £1,005,000 
(2014: £970,000) in the Income Statement 
relating to LTIP awards. The charge in the 
year is higher than last year driven by an 
increase in the share price compared with  
the prior year and the associated National 
Insurance element.
Interest
The net interest charge for the year was 
£208,000 (2014: £180,000) including 
amortisation of capitalised debt issue costs 
reflecting slightly higher borrowings as a 
result of investment in working capital. 
Net defined benefit pension
The Group operates two defined benefit 
schemes in the UK for its employees. These 
comprise the Walker Greenbank Pension Plan 
and the Abaris Holdings Limited Pension 
Scheme which are both closed to new 
members and to future service accrual from 
30 June 2002 and 1 July 2005 respectively. 23
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
The charge during the year was £798,000 
(2014: £868,000). The decrease reflects a 
reduction in service cost.
Current taxation
There was a corporation tax charge of 
£596,000 (2014: £21,000) arising from the 
brought forward UK corporation tax losses 
within the main UK entity, Abaris Holdings 
Limited, becoming fully utilised and 
withholding tax suffered on overseas  
licence income. 
Deferred taxation
There was a deferred tax charge of 
£628,000 (2014: £430,000) as the brought 
forward UK corporation tax losses within 
the main UK entity, Abaris Holdings Limited, 
have become fully utilised as at end of 
January 2015, giving rise to a deferred 
tax charge. 
The Group also continues to recognise the 
deferred tax asset arising from the pension 
deficit and LTIP. 
Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’)
The basic EPS was 8.60p (2014: 8.63p). The 
Group also reports an adjusted EPS which 
removes the impact of the LTIP accounting 
charge, net defined benefit pension charge 
and the deferred tax credit arising from LTIP 
(in the prior year comparative) as these can 
fluctuate due to external factors outside  
of the control of the Group. A better 
understanding of the underlying 
performance of the business is given after 
adjusting for these items. The adjusted 
basic EPS was 11.64p (2014: 11.30p).
Operating cash flow and net debt
The Group generated net cash inflow 
from operating activities during the 
year of £3,255,000 (2014: £5,945,000) 
reflecting strong operating profits and 
continued investment in product and 
marketing materials.
 
Capital expenditure was £3,230,000 
(2014: £4,735,000) and includes investment 
in additional digital printers at Anstey and 
Standfast and the extension of our New 
York showroom. The depreciation and 
amortisation charge during the period 
was £2,349,000 (2014: £2,217,000). 
The Group made additional payments to 
the Pension schemes of £1,240,000 (2014: 
£1,138,000) to reduce the deficit, part of  
the ongoing planned reduction, along with 
£425,000 (2014: £535,000) of pension fund 
scheme expenses. 
 
Income tax of £1,584,000 (2014: £936,000) 
that arose on the vesting of an LTIP award 
was paid during the year.
The Group had net funds at the year end of 
£2,000 (2014: £1,490,000). There is average 
debt during the year due to the timing and 
seasonality of revenues and investment 
in product. The average monthly net 
debt reduced by £15,000 to £4,156,000 
(2014: £4,171,000).
 
The Group utilises facilities provided by 
Barclays Bank Plc. There is a term property 
facility of £1,000,000 (2014: £1,395,000) at 
the year end expiring in July 2017. There is 
also a receivables facility linked to the level 
of Trade Receivables which allows the Group 
to more effectively manage seasonal 
fluctuations in working capital. This facility 
was renewed on 31 January 2013 for a 
further three-year term expiring in January 
2016 and will be renewed over the next few 
months. There is a three year committed 
facility of £2.5 million secured against 
inventories. There were no borrowings 
at the end of the year for the receivables 
facility and committed facility. Under these 
facilities there was borrowing headroom of 
£11,582,000 (2014: £13,092,000). The total 
facilities have a current limit of £16.50 
million (2014: £16.50 million).
 
All of the Group bank facilities remain 
secured by first fixed and floating charges 
over the Group’s assets.
Pension deficit
The pension deficit has increased this 
year. The increase in liabilities is a result of 
a lower discount rate being applied due to a 
reduction in the bond rates, which is greater 
than the increase in the return on scheme 
assets. The significant improvement in the 
return on scheme assets is driven by strong 
performance of index linked gilts. The impact 
of these factors is shown as follows:
2015 
£000
Deficit at beginning of the year (9,208)
Scheme expenses (425)
Interest cost (2,552)
Expected return on plan assets 2,179
Contributions 1,665
Return on scheme assets 8,081
Actuarial losses from the change 
in discount factor (10,092)
Gross deficit at the end of the year (10,352)
Dividends
During the year, the Group has paid a final 
dividend for the year to 31 January 2014 of 
1.57p per share and an interim dividend of 
0.35p per share. The Directors recommend 
the payment of a final dividend of 1.96p per 
share (2014: 1.57p) which will be payable  
on 7 August 2015 to shareholders on the 
register on 17 July 2015. This brings the total 
dividend for the year to 2.31p per share 
(2014: 1.85p), an increase of 24.9%. 24
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Credit risk
The Group no longer seeks credit 
insurance as this is not a commercial 
solution to reducing credit risk. The Board 
reviews the internal credit limits of all major 
customers and reviews the credit risk 
regularly. The aging profile of trade debtors 
shows that payments from customers are 
close to terms however, there have been 
specific expenses during the year. The 
current economic environment still presents 
a level of risk and in addition to specific 
provisioning against individual receivables, 
a provision has been required of £223,000 
(2014: £289,000) which is a collective 
assessment of the risk against non 
specific receivables. 
 
Mike Gant
Chief Financial Officer
1 May 2015
Going concern
The Directors are confident, after having 
made appropriate enquiries, that the Group 
and Company have adequate resources to 
continue trading for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
Foreign currency risk
All foreign currencies are bought and sold 
centrally on behalf of the Group. Regular 
reviews take place of the foreign currency 
cash flows and unmatched exposures are 
covered by forward contracts wherever 
economically practical. Working capital 
exposures are hedged using currency swaps.
 
The Group does not trade in financial 
instruments and hedges are used for highly 
probable future cash flows and to hedge 
working capital exposures. There is a 
hedging liability of £195,000 (2014: 
£153,000 asset) at the end of the year in 
relation to US dollar forward contracts.
 
There is no liability (2014: £nil) arising from 
US dollar and euro swaps used to hedge 
working capital exposures. 
CHIEF FINANCIAL 
OFFICER’S REVIEW 
CONTINUED 25
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
2015 6.3% 
2014 3.6% 
2013 2.3% 
2012 7.6% 
Revenue growth
2015 10.0% 
2014 9.6% 
2013
2012
Adjusted operating margin* 
8.7% 
8.1 % 
2015
2014 (5.6)% 
2013
2012
Year end gearing
 (4.8)% 
2.9% 
 0.0% 
2015 15.3% 
2014 15.6% 
2013
2012
Average gearing
19.6% 
28.9% 
2015 11.64p 
2014 11.30p 
2013
2012
Basic adjusted earnings per share (pence)**
9.41p 
8.21p 
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS  
(‘KPIs’)
The KPIs for the business 
are primarily financial. 
Growth in the total current year revenue as a percentage of the 
previous year’s revenue.
Year end net debt/(funds) divided by total equity.
Operating profit adjusted for the accounting charge relating to the 
share-based incentive plan, expressed as a percentage of revenue.
Average net debt for the year divided by total equity.
Underlying earnings adjusted for accounting charges relating to the 
share-based incentives and defined benefit charges, less tax at the 
effective rate, divided by the weighted average number of shares in 
issue during the year.
* Adjusted for accounting charges relating to share-based incentives and defined 
benefit charge.
** Adjusted earnings per share excludes the accounting charges relating to share-based 
incentives and defined benefit charge and the deferred tax credit arising from the 
share-based incentives. 26
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
BUSINESS UNITS  
OVERVIEW
BRANDS
The Brands segment incorporates  
global trading from our internationally 
recognised brands including our overseas 
subsidiaries in the US and France.
T otal Brands sales increased by 6.4 % 
compared with last year to £64.7 million 
as a result of continued investment in 
design, marketing and distribution, and 
from new product launches. This has led 
to a 1 2. 1 % increase in operating profits  
to £7 .4 million.
£64.7 m
Total Brands sales increased by 6.4% during the 
year to £64.7 million. 27
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Founded in 1 860, Sanderson is the oldest surviving brand in its field. 
Granted the Royal Warrant in 1 923, Sanderson is one of the most renowned 
brands in interiors worldwide, offering classic, inspirational products often 
based on documents from its extensive archive. 
It is aimed at the mid to premium end of 
the worldwide interior furnishings market. 
Sanderson is known for its lasting quality, 
timeless style and quintessentially 
English designs.
In establishing a Sanderson range for 
all aspects of interior decoration, our 
core fabric and wallpaper sales have been 
complemented by a comprehensive range 
of accessories created under our exclusive 
licensing programme. Our product 
range includes:
• Wallpaper
• Fabric
• Bedlinen
• Paint
• Tableware
• Toiletries
• Rugs 28
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
The Morris & Co. business has a history that dates back to 1861, 
when the acclaimed designer William Morris founded his first company. 
Its unique ‘ Arts & Crafts’ heritage is preserved in the modern 
interpretation of its high quality fabrics and wallcoverings. 
The past few years have witnessed a 
resurgence of interest in all things Morris 
following the 150
th
 anniversary celebrations 
of 2011, and in particular the huge success 
enjoyed by the Archive Collections launched 
in 2011 and the Archive II collections that 
followed in 2013. 
Building on this, 2015 will see the launch 
of the Archive III collection that will again 
include digital printing on new fabric 
qualities. The Forest print, inspired by 
William Morris’ tapestries, has been hugely 
successful and we see potential for many 
other exciting new developments for this 
iconic brand. 29
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Zoffany is a luxury brand with elegance and heritage at its core, offering 
products of the highest quality including wallpaper, fabrics, trimmings, 
paint and furniture. Operating at the premium end of the interiors market 
the dedicated design studio creates products that are used by leading 
interior designers and architects all over the world.
Zoffany’s best selling collections epitomise 
the appeal that the brand has among interior 
designers, who cater for city dwellers and 
country home owners alike, wherever a touch 
of refinement and elegance is required.
The Zoffany designers are true craftsmen: 
all creations are painted and developed  
by hand in the studio before going into 
production. Early pioneers of digital printing 
and foil-printed wallcoverings, they are 
constantly researching and developing 
new and innovative techniques to produce 
designs infused with modern style.  30
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Harlequin supplies high quality, design-led collections to the mid to 
premium end of the worldwide interior furnishings market and has 
enjoyed significant growth over the last 10 years as the product profile has 
expanded to appeal to a greater breadth of consumers and designers. 
Alongside its core products, the brand 
has continued to develop and extend its 
successful licensing partnerships in bedlinen, 
towels and rugs and in 2015 will launch a 
cereamic collection with Churchill China.
Keen to keep at the forefront of design, the 
Harlequin studio experiments with visionary 
ideas, innovative techniques, fashion-
forward colour palettes and original  
finishes. As a result, Harlequin continues  
to strengthen its market-leading portfolio  
of fabrics and wallcoverings. 31
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Launched to great acclaim in spring 2012, Scion’s refreshing and 
innovative approach to furnishings design met with instant approval 
among trend-savvy, fashion aware consumers and designers. 
The cutting edge, accessibly priced and 
forward looking fabrics and wallpapers also 
resonated with the broader interiors market, 
leading to the establishment of instant 
licensing arrangements for bedlinen, towels, 
rugs, giftware and ceramics. 
With the launch of the fourth collection 
Levande in spring 2015, Scion has already 
become established as a brand leader in 
contemporary interior design. 32
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Launched in April 2014, Anthology has been conceived and developed 
as an international brand that will focus intensely on the market for  
top end contemporary wallcoverings, with equal appeal for both the 
residential and contract markets. 
The Anthology collections mark the first 
time that Walker Greenbank has designed 
product specifically aimed at the tastes of 
international markets. 
Many of the designs are printed on 
the custom-built hybrid rotary/gravure 
machine installed last year at the 
Company’s wallpaper printing factory 
in Loughborough. The combination of 
gravure and rotary techniques has allowed 
the creation of subtle, complex and 
distinctive textures.
Collections 01 and 02 have already gained 
widespread distribution throughout the UK 
as their versatile and sophisticated designs 
have universal appeal. An exciting new 
development in late 2015 will be the 
launch of the first Anthology Fabric 
Collection which will complement the 
existing wallpapers and link through 
to Anthology 04 in early 2016. 33
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
BUSINESS UNITS  
OVERVIEW
£35.1 M
Manufacturing sales increased by 9.1 % during the 
year to £35.1 million.
Manufacturing has delivered 
another strong performance,  
with both sales and profitability 
increasing to record levels. T otal 
sales grew 9. 1 % to £35. 1 million 
leading to an increase in profits  
of 1 9.5 % to £3.7 million. 
MANUFACTURING 34
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Anstey Wallpaper Company is the world’s leading specialist commission 
printer of wallcoverings. The business operates at the premium end of 
the market, offering a unique combination of gravure, rotary, flexo, 
surface print and hand screen printing methods.
As well as producing for the Walker Greenbank brands it 
also produces for many third party customers in the UK and 
overseas. Anstey continues to invest in innovative techniques, 
including a scatter machine to produce exciting new texture 
effects and most recently in wide-width digital printing. 35
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Standfast & Barracks has a heritage stretching back almost 90 years 
and is acknowledged as a worldwide leader in its field, using a variety of 
conventional rotary and flatbed screen printing techniques to produce 
beautiful prints for many of the world’s finest design-led home 
furnishings and apparel brands. 
A programme of investments in the latest CAD and printing 
technology has positioned Standfast at the forefront of the 
digital revolution in fabric printing with a rapidly expanding 
customer base around the world. 36
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
Terry Stannard
Non-executive Chairman
John Sach
Group Chief Executive Officer
Caroline Geary
Company Secretary
TERMS OF APPOINTMENT
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP
Terry joined the Board as a Non-executive 
Director in September 2007 and became 
Non-executive Chairman on 31 January 
2009. He has particular expertise in 
international brand-based businesses. From 
a marketing background he went on to run 
businesses in Asia Pacific and Europe at 
United Biscuits plc, was a divisional CEO  
at Hillsdown Holdings plc and CEO at 
Terranova Foods plc and Uniq plc. Since 
2001, he has held a wide range of non-
executive Chair and director appointments 
at both quoted and unquoted businesses. 
Audit Committee
Remuneration Committee
Nominations Committee
John is a Chartered Management 
Accountant who joined the Group in 1994 
as Group Financial Controller and was 
appointed to the Board as Group Finance 
Director in 1999. He was appointed Group 
Chief Executive Officer in May 2004.
Nominations Committee
Caroline joined the group in 2000. 
She is a Chartered Secretary, and 
was appointed Company Secretary 
in 2012. 37
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
David Smallridge 
Managing Director – Brands
Mike Gant 
Chief Financial Officer
Fiona Goldsmith
Non-executive Director
David has an MA from Oxford University 
and broad experience as a managing 
director in a variety of consumer product 
businesses since 1986. He joined the group 
in 2002 and was appointed to the Board in 
December 2004 following his appointment 
as Managing Director of the Group’s six 
main fabric and wallcovering brands, 
Harlequin, Sanderson, Morris & Co., 
Zoffany, Scion and Anthology.
Mike is a Chartered Management 
Accountant with an MBA from Nottingham 
Business School who joined the Board in 
2014. He brings a breadth of international, 
financial and brand experience to the 
Company from his previous roles at Bass plc, 
Marstons plc, Geest plc, Constellation 
Brands inc, and Britvic plc.
Fiona joined the Board as a Non-executive 
Director in December 2008. She is a 
Chartered Accountant who started her 
career with KPMG, where for nine years she 
focused on the retail and leisure sectors in 
various roles. She then moved to First Choice 
Holidays plc, where she became European 
Finance Director. From 2004 until October 
2008 she was Finance Director of Land 
Securities Trillium, a division of Land 
Securities Group plc.
Audit Committee
Remuneration Committee
Nominations Committee 38
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the 
audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary 
undertakings (‘the Group’) for the year ended 31 January 2015. 
Group Result
The profit before taxation amounted to £6,329,000 (2014: 
£5,495,000), and profit after tax of £5,105,000 (2014: £5,044,000).
Dividend
The Directors recommend payment of a final ordinary dividend of 
1.96p per share, amounting to £1,153,750 (excluding dividends on 
shares held by the employee benefit trust) which will be recognised 
in the financial statements for the following year (2014: 1.57p per 
share). Subject to shareholders’ approval at the Annual General 
Meeting (‘AGM’) the final dividend is expected to be paid on 
7 August 2015 to shareholders on the register at 17 July 2015.
An interim dividend of 0.35p per share was paid during the year.
Going concern
The Directors are confident, after having made appropriate enquiries, 
that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue 
trading for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Business review and future developments
A review of the principal activities during the year and likely 
developments of the business is contained in the Strategic Report.
Financial risk management
Detail of the Group’s financial risk management objectives and 
policies, are contained in the Strategic Report and in note 2 to the 
financial statements.
Research and development
The Group continues to invest in its products to retain and enhance its 
market position. Details of the Group’s expenditure on collection design 
development costs are set out in note 14 of the financial statements.
Directors
The Board of Directors who served during the year ended 
31 January 2015 and up to the date of reporting was as follows: 
T Stannard Non-executive Chairman
F Goldsmith Non-executive Director
J Sach Chief Executive Officer
A Dix Finance Director – resigned 30 April 2014
D Smallridge Managing Director (Brands)
M Gant Chief Financial Officer – appointed 3 March 2014
Details of the Directors’ Service Contracts are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 40–43, together  
with detail of their interests in ordinary shares of the Company. 
Biographical details are set out on page 36.
Directors’ interests in material contracts
None of the Directors had any material interest in any contract 
during the year which was significant to the business of the Group.
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance
The Group maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
Pensions
The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution 
schemes in the UK and overseas for all qualifying employees. 
Further information on the schemes and details of the valuations 
are given in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
Political donations
The Group has not made any political donations (2014: nil). 
Annual General Meeting
At the forthcoming, AGM F Goldsmith and J Sach will retire by 
rotation and being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
The AGM will be held on 17 June 2015. The Notice of Meeting will 
be separately distributed to shareholders.
Share Capital
The Company’s issued capital consists of 59,762,559 ordinary 
shares with a nominal value of 1p each, with each share carrying 
the right to one vote and the right to distributions from dividends or 
on winding up of the Company. There are no restrictions on the 
transfer of securities.
Directors’ authority to issue and purchase shares
At the AGM in 2013, the Directors were authorised to allot ordinary 
shares up to a nominal value of £194,720 and were further 
authorised to make market purchases of up to 5,900,616 of the 
Company’s ordinary shares. No purchases of Company shares were 
made during the year. Details of shares allotted during the year are 
shown in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 7 April 2015 the Company is aware of the following substantial 
shareholdings in its ordinary share capital. The percentages are 
calculated from the 59,762,559 ordinary 1p shares allotted, called and 
fully paid up. Comparatives at 24 April 2014 are shown.
Schroder Investment Management 14.59% (2014: 17.07%), 
Investec Wealth & Investment 12.78% (2014: 10.29%), Octopus 
Investments 7.64% (2014: 3.35%), Blackrock Investment 
Management 6.67% (2014: 8.17%), Rathbones 3.13% (2014: 
2.36%), Revera Asset Management 3.09% (2014: 3.02%), Royal 
London Asset Management 3.06% (2014: 3.10%).
Independent auditors
A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors 
of the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 39
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
the Strategic Report, the Report of the Directors, the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required 
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union, and have elected to prepare the parent Company 
financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards 
and applicable law). Under Company law the Directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the 
Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. 
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to:
 
(i) select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
(ii) make judgments and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
(iii) state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group 
and parent Company financial statements respectively;
(iv) prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that 
the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for 
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors confirm that: 
So far as each of the Directors in office at the date of this report is 
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Group’s 
auditors are unaware. Relevant information is defined as information 
needed by the Group’s auditors in connection with preparing their 
report. Each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have 
taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the board
 
Caroline Geary
Company Secretary
1 May 2015
Registered Office
Chalfont House
Oxford Road
Denham UB9 4DX
Registered number 61880
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES 40
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Introduction
As a company listed on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM), 
the Company is not required to comply with the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report requirements set out in Schedule 8 of the 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) Regulations 2008 as amended in August 2013 (the 
‘Regulations’). However, whilst the Company is not required to 
comply with the Regulations, the Company has used them as 
guidance and voluntarily presents selected disclosures in this report, 
where relevant and appropriate.
Remuneration Committee
The members of the Remuneration Committee during the financial 
year were T Stannard (Non-executive Chairman) and F Goldsmith 
(Non-executive Director). T Stannard is Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. There have been no changes in the 
composition or chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee 
during the year. The Chief Executive Officer is invited to attend 
meetings of the Committee but no Director is involved in any 
decisions relating to their own remuneration.
None of the Committee has any personal financial interest 
(other than as shareholders), conflicts of interests arising from cross 
directorships, or day-to-day involvement in running the business. 
The Committee is responsible for setting the framework and policy 
for the remuneration of the Executive Directors and designated 
senior managers. It determines specific elements of their 
remuneration, their contractual terms and, where necessary, 
compensation arrangements.
The Committee keeps itself informed of all relevant developments 
and best practice in the field of remuneration and seeks advice from 
external advisers when it considers it is appropriate. New Bridge 
Street was retained during the financial year to provide independent 
advice to the Committee where required. 
Remuneration policy
The Group’s remuneration policy is designed to ensure that the 
remuneration packages attract, motivate and retain directors and 
senior managers of high calibre and to reward them for enhancing 
value to shareholders. The Company’s policy is that a substantial 
proportion of the total potential remuneration of the Executive 
Directors should be performance-related and aligned to performance 
measures that benefit all shareholders and promotes the long-term 
success of the Company. The performance measurement of the 
Executive Directors and the determination of their annual 
remuneration package, including performance targets, are 
undertaken by the Remuneration Committee. There are four main 
elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors and 
other senior management: 
• basic annual salary and benefits;
• annual bonus payments;
• long-term incentives; and
• pension arrangements.
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors comprises only 
Directors’ fees and is determined by the Executive Directors.
Basic salary and benefits in kind
Salary is normally reviewed annually in February, or when 
responsibilities change. In deciding the appropriate levels, the 
Committee takes into account factors which it considers necessary 
including Group and individual performance, market levels of, and 
trends in, executive remuneration and relative pay levels within 
the Group.
In addition to basic salary, each Executive Director is provided with 
health care benefits. 
Annual performance related bonus
Each Executive Director’s remuneration package includes a 
performance-related bonus. 
The maximum bonus potential was 100% of basic salary for the 
year ended 31 January 2015. Payouts are based on sliding scale 
profit targets and performance against individual objectives.  
Details of the bonus awards for 2014/15 are set out on page 41.
Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’)
The Company operates the 2006 Walker Greenbank Long-term 
Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) as its primary senior executive incentive 
arrangement. The LTIP seeks to motivate and retain Executive 
Directors and other senior management within the Group, to enable 
them to potentially benefit from delivering above market Total 
Shareholder Returns (‘TSR’) and earnings growth. The key terms of 
the LTIP are as follows: 
• the LTIP has a maximum annual limit of 150% of basic salary;
• awards are normally granted in May each year. In 2014 the 
highest grant equated to a maximum of 150% of basic salary; 
• awards are normally structured as nil cost options; 
• awards only vest (i.e. become exercisable) subject to continued 
service and to the extent that relevant performance conditions 
are met.
The 2015 grant will again be a three year measurement with the 
performance conditions based on a combination of TSR and EPS 
growth. This combination rewards both earnings growth and 
relative stock market performance and is consistent with market 
practice in the FTSE AllShare. 
A summary of the performance conditions attaching to outstanding 
awards can be found on pages 42 and 43. To the extent that these 
performance conditions are not met at the end of the vesting 
period, the options will lapse. 
It is intended to request shareholder approval of a new 10-year 
Incentive Plan (‘Plan’) at the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) in 
2015, in preparation for grant of awards in 2016. It is intended the 
new Plan will be based on similar lines to the 2006 arrangement. A 
summary of the key terms of the new Plan will be included within the 
circular sent to shareholders as part of the AGM Notice. 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT  41
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Dilution
All equity-based awards are subject to an overall limit on the number of new shares issued of 10% within any ten year period. The current 
dilution against this limit is 1.28%. 
Pensions
J Sach is a member of the defined benefit section of the Walker Greenbank Pension Plan and the Abaris Holdings Pension Scheme. Both 
schemes were closed to new entrants from April 1997 and April 1998 respectively. Both schemes were closed to future accrual of benefits 
on 30 June 2002 and 30 June 2005 respectively.
 
J Sach, D Smallridge and M Gant are members of a Group Flexible Retirement Plan sponsored by the Group. For the purposes of determining 
employer contributions to that scheme, annual performance related bonuses are not included in the pensionable pay of the Executive Directors. 
Directors’ contracts
It is the Company’s policy that Executive Directors should have contracts with an indefinite term providing for a maximum of one year’s notice.
In the event of early termination, the Executive Directors’ contracts provide for compensation of an amount equal to the gross salary and 
benefits that they would have received during the balance of the notice period, plus any bonus, once declared, to which they would have 
become entitled had contractual notice been given.
Termination payments
A Dix resigned effective 30 April 2014 and detail of the compensation he received is shown below.
Non-executive Directors
All Non-executive Directors have service contracts with an indefinite term subject to a six-month notice provision. Their remuneration is 
determined by the Board taking into account their duties and the level of fees paid to Non-executive Directors of similar companies. The 
Non-executive Directors do not participate in the Company’s bonus, long-term incentive schemes and no pension contributions are made 
in respect of them.
Directors’ detailed emoluments
Year to 31 January 2015
Salary 
£000s
Annual 
bonus 
£000s
LTIP
 Awards 
£000s
Benefits in 
kind 
£000s
Pension 
contribution 
£000s
Compensation 
for loss of 
office
£000s
2015
Total 
£000s
Executive Directors
J Sach 253 177 1,091 1 38 – 1,560
M Gant (from 03.03.14) 174 133 – 1 26 – 334
D Smallridge 181 117 865 1 27 – 1,191
A Dix (up to 30.04.14) 36 – 625 1 11 76 749
Non-executive Directors
T Stannard 68 – – – – – 68
F Goldsmith 31 – – – – – 31
743 427 2,581 4 102 76 3,933
Year to 31 January 2014
Salary 
£000s
Annual 
bonus 
£000s
LTIP 
Awards 
£000s
Benefits
 in kind 
£000s
Pension 
contribution 
£000s
Compensation 
for loss of 
office
£000s
2014
 Total 
£000s
Executive Directors
J Sach 245 194 666 1 37 – 1,143
D Smallridge 176 133 485 1 26 – 821
A Dix 144 58 286 1 14 – 503
Non-executive Directors
T Stannard 66 – – – – – 66
F Goldsmith 30 – – – – – 30
661 385 1,437 3 77 – 2,563
The majority of the annual bonus payable was linked to achievement of Operating Profit with a sliding scale starting at the budget level set 
for the financial year. A small percentage was based on achievement of personal performance objectives. 42
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Directors’ pension entitlements
Accrued annual pension benefits for J Sach at the year end were £13,862 (2014: £13,153).
Directors’ share interests
The interests of the Directors and their families in the shares of the Company at the beginning and end of the financial year were as follows: 
1p Ordinary 
Shares 
31 January 
2015
 Number
1p Ordinary 
Shares 
31 January 
2014 
Number 
T Stannard 70,000 70,000
F Goldsmith 45,000 45,000
J Sach 1,757,865 1,600,365
D Smallridge 1,133,165 993,972
M Gant – –
There have been no changes in the interests set out above between 31 January 2015 and 1 May 2015.
Directors’ LTIP awards
Date 
of grant
Share 
price 
at grant
Maximum 
awards at 
1 February 
2014
Granted 
in year
Exercised 
in year
Lapsed
 in year
Maximum 
awards at 
31 January 
2015
J Sach 19/05/2011 49.0p 589,623 – 589,623 – –
18/05/2012 71.5p 416,199 – – – 416,199
16/05/2013 111.5p 274,897 – – – 274,897
28/05/2014 187.0p – 168,827 – – 168,827
1,280,719 168,827 589,623 – 859,923
D Smallridge 19/05/2011 49.0p 467,347 – 467,347 – –
18/05/2012 71.5p 329,888 – – – 329,888
16/05/2013 111.5p 196,938 – – – 196,938
28/05/2014 187.0p – 120,949 – – 120,949
994,173 120,949 467,347 – 647,775
M Gant 28/05/2014 187.0p – 152,406 – – 152,406
The 2011 LTIP awards vested on 19 May 2014 as a result of the Company being ranked first in a TSR comparator group of companies 
operating in the household sector and the profit before tax* underpin of £6.0m for the year ended 31 January 2014 being exceeded. 
The share price on the vesting date was 185.0p. 
The 2012, 2013 and 2014 LTIP awards will vest subject to continued service and the extent to which relevant performance conditions 
are achieved. 
The primary performance condition for the 2012 award above is based on relative TSR against a comparator group of companies operating in 
the household sector, with partial vesting for a median TSR increasing on a sliding scale to full vesting for a top ranking TSR. In addition to the 
relative TSR target, a profit before tax* underpin of £6.5m applies in relation to the financial year ending 31 January 2015. 
* Adjusted profit before tax excludes accounting charges relating to share-based incentives and defined benefit charge.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 43
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
The performance conditions for the 2013 and 2014 awards are 
based both on compound growth in EPS and relative TSR against 
a comparator group of AIM companies, with a profit before tax* 
underpin of £6.75 million for the year ended 31 January 2016 and 
£7.425m for the year ended 31 January 2017.
For both the 2013 and 2014 awards, the comparator group chosen 
was the AIM companies ranked 101 to 200 by market capitalisation 
as at the day preceding the respective date of grant, and the 
relevant TSR measurement is on a sliding scale, with no vesting  
until the Company reaches at least median position within the 
comparator group. 
The share price reached a high of 215.5p and a low of 158.5p during 
the financial year ended 31 January 2015. The average share price 
during the financial year was 190.2p. The share price on 1 February 
2014 was 163.5p and on 30 January 2015 it was 200.0p.
Total Shareholder Return index for the ﬁve ﬁnancial 
years ending 31 January 2015 
 
Jan 10 Jul 10 Jan 11 Jul 11 Jan 12 Jul 12 Jan 13 Jul 13 Jan 14 Jul 14 Jan 15
Walker Greenbank AIM 
1,200
%
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
Approval
This report was approved by the Directors and signed by order 
of the Board. 
 
Caroline Geary
Company Secretary
1 May 2015 44
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
As a company listed on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) 
the Company is not required to issue a Corporate Governance 
Statement of Compliance with the principles and provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’) however the Company 
voluntarily presents disclosures that reflect the extent of the 
Company’s application of the Code. 
Chairman’s Statement
The Board supports the principles and aims of the Code. Good 
governance reduces risk and adds value to our business. Delivering 
growth and long-term shareholder value with effective and efficient 
decision making is of high importance to the Board. 
The Board
The Company is supervised by the Board of Directors. The Board 
comprises three Executive and two Non-executive Directors. There 
is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman, who is 
responsible for the effective leadership and smooth running of the 
Board, and the Chief Executive Officer who, with the other Executive 
Directors, is responsible for the running of the Company.
The Directors
The Board of Directors who served during the year ended 
31 January 2015 and their attendance at meetings is shown in the 
adjacent table.
During the year, A Dix resigned his position, effective 30 April 2014, 
and M Gant was appointed to the Board effective 3 March 2014.
Biographical details of the current Board are given on page 36.
Board Programme
The Board meets at least nine times each year in accordance with 
its scheduled meeting calendar and the attendance by each Board 
member at scheduled meetings is shown in the adjacent table.
The role of the Board
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Company. 
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board. It is 
responsible for overall Group strategy; approval of major capital 
expenditure projects; approval of the annual and interim results; 
annual budgets; dividend policy; and Board structure. It monitors 
the exposure to key business risks and reviews the strategic direction 
of all trading subsidiaries, their annual budgets, their performance 
in relation to those budgets and their capital expenditure.
All Directors receive regular and timely information on the Group’s 
operational and financial performance. Relevant information is 
circulated to the Directors in advance of meetings. The business 
reports monthly on its performance against its agreed budget, and 
the Board reviews the monthly update on performance and any 
significant variances are reviewed at each meeting.
Senior executives below Board level attend board meetings where 
appropriate to present business updates.
Board Meetings throughout the year are held at the company’s 
various sites giving, in particular the Non-executive Directors, access 
to the manufacturing sites to gain a greater understanding of the 
Group’s activities.
Independent advice
All Directors are able to take independent professional advice in the 
furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at the Company’s expense. 
In addition the directors have direct access to the advice and 
services of the Company Secretary.
Board Committees
The Board has Remuneration, Audit and Nomination committees, 
each of which has written terms of reference which are available on 
the Company’s website. The Company Secretary acts as secretary 
to the committees. The Board is satisfied that the committees 
discharged their responsibilities appropriately.
Attendance at scheduled meetings of the Board 
and its committees
Board
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
T Stannard 9 1 4 3
F Goldsmith 9 1 4 3
J Sach 9 1 – –
D Smallridge 9 – – –
M Gant 8 – – –
A Dix 2 – – –
The Board scheduled nine meetings during the year and additional 
meetings were convened to deal with specific matters and approval 
of the financial results.
Independent Directors
The Board considers, after careful review, that the Non-executive 
Directors bring an independent judgment to bear. All Non-executive 
Directors have contracts which contain six month notice clauses. 
These are available for inspection at the Company’s registered 
office and at the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’). All Directors 
retire by rotation at regular intervals in accordance with the 
Company’s Articles of Association and the principles of the Code. 
The Non-executive Directors continue to retire for re-election at 
least every third year and their other time commitments are 
reviewed regularly. Further details of each of the independent 
Directors are set out on page 36.
All Directors undergo a performance evaluation before being 
proposed for re-election to ensure their performance continues 
to be effective, that where appropriate they maintain their 
independence and that they are demonstrating continued 
commitment to the role.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 45
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by T Stannard, Non-
executive Chairman and comprises F Goldsmith, the other Non-
executive Director and J Sach, the Chief Executive.
It makes recommendations to the Board on all new Board 
appointments. The Company’s Articles of Association stipulate that 
one third of the Directors or the nearest whole number below one 
third shall retire each year. The Company requires all Directors to 
submit themselves for re-election at least every three years. 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by T Stannard and 
comprises himself and F Goldsmith. The Remuneration Committee 
is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in relation 
to all aspects of remuneration for Executive Directors and 
designated senior managers. The Remuneration Committee 
believes that the presence of the Chief Executive is important when 
determining the remuneration of the other Executive Directors.
In framing its policy the Remuneration Committee takes into 
account any factors which it deems necessary, including industry 
standard executive remuneration, differentials between executive 
and employee remuneration and differentials between executives. 
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is determined by 
the Executive Directors.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by F Goldsmith and comprises 
herself and T Stannard. Although all the Committee members 
are considered to be appropriately experienced to fulfil their role, 
F Goldsmith is considered as having significant, recent and relevant 
experience in line with the Code. Further details of the work of the 
Committee is contained in the Audit Committee Chairman’s report 
on page 46.
Internal control
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Group’s 
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
The Board keeps its risk control procedures under constant review 
particularly with regard to the need to embed internal control and 
risk management procedures further into the operations of business, 
both in the UK and overseas, and to deal with areas of improvement 
which come to management’s and the Board’s attention.
As might be expected in a group of this size, a key control procedure 
is the day-to-day supervision of the business by the Executive 
Directors, supported by the senior managers with responsibility for 
key operations.
The Executive Directors are involved in the budget setting 
process, regularly monitor key performance indicators and review 
management accounts on a monthly basis, noting and investigating 
any major variances. All significant capital expenditure decisions are 
approved by the Board as a whole.
Risk management process
The Group’s significant risks, together with the relevant control and 
monitoring procedures, are subject to regular review to enable the 
Board to assess the effectiveness of the system of internal control. 
During the course of its reviews the Board has not identified nor 
been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined 
to be significant other than disclosed in the Strategic Report and the 
Report of the Directors.
The Group’s system of internal control is designed to manage rather 
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and 
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. The Group’s systems are designed 
to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability of financial 
information, ensuring proper control over income and expenditure, 
assets and liabilities.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, 
but because of the size and nature of its operations does not 
consider it necessary at the current time.
Relations with shareholders
The Group encourages two way communications with both its 
institutional and private investors and responds in a timely fashion 
to all queries received. 
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer have 
regular dialogue with individual institutional investors in order to 
develop an understanding of their views. Presentations are made to 
analysts, investors and prospective investors covering the annual 
and interim results.
The company website (www.walkergreenbank.com) has an 
Investors section giving private investors direct access to business 
information and company reports. There is also an enquiries 
mailbox facility.
All shareholders receive notice of the Annual General Meeting 
at which all Committee chairs will be available for questions. 46
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
The objective of the Committee is to provide oversight and 
governance to the Group’s financial reports, its internal controls 
and processes in place, its risk management systems and the 
appointment and relationship with the external auditor.
Responsibilities
• Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, 
reviewing any significant reporting issues and judgements 
they contain.
• Advise on the clarity of disclosure and information contained 
in the Annual Report and Accounts.
• Ensure compliance with applicable accounting standards and 
review the consistency of methodology applied.
• Review the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control 
and risk management systems.
• Oversee the relationship with the external auditor, reviewing 
performance and advising the board on their appointment 
and remuneration.
• Ensure appropriate arrangements in place for individuals to 
raise concerns regarding breach of conduct and legal and 
regulatory compliance.
Membership
The Committee is comprised solely of independent Directors, being 
myself the Chairman, and the other Non-executive Director Terry 
Stannard. The Board is satisfied that I have significant, recent and 
relevant experience in line with the Code.
Terms of reference
Updated terms of reference were adopted by the Board in 2012. 
These are available on the website.
Meetings
The Committee meets three times per year; in April and September, 
being the appropriate time to review the Annual Report and Accounts 
and the interim report respectively, and also in January to review 
the previous year and plan for the year ahead. At the meetings the 
findings of the external audit are discussed, and the effectiveness of 
the Company’s system of internal controls and risk management 
is reviewed.
Each meeting is attended by the Committee’s members as well 
as, by invitation, the executive directors and the external auditor. 
A record of the meeting attendance by Committee members is set 
out on page 44. 
During the year, the Audit Committee held a private meeting with 
the external auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’), without 
management being present, in order to receive feedback from 
them. The Committee Chairman also met with PwC separately 
on several occasions.
The Committee supports the Board in carrying out its responsibilities 
in relation to financial reporting, risk management and assessing 
internal controls. The need for an internal audit department is also 
examined on a continuing basis. The Committee also manages the 
relationship with the external auditor.
The Committee undertook the following activities during the course 
of the year: 
Financial reporting
The Committee reviews the half year and annual financial 
statements and matters raised by management and the auditors.
• The accounting policies used are consistent both year on year 
and across the Group (other than as disclosed in note 1 of the 
financial statements).
• The methods used to account for significant transactions 
are appropriate.
• The financial statements give a true and fair view and the 
disclosures made are balanced and understandable.
• Appropriate estimates and judgements have been used, taking 
into account the views of the external auditor.
• The appropriate accounting standards have been applied.
Internal controls and risk management
There is an ongoing process to identify, evaluate and manage the 
risks faced by the Group.
The Committee reviews this risk management process annually, 
and the process is continually being developed and improved. Each 
business unit reports monthly on key risks identified and measures 
that are being taken to mitigate the risk. The Strategic Report 
includes further detail as to the business risks identified and actions 
being taken. 
The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board has reviewed the 
effectiveness of the internal controls and risk management and 
no significant failings in control have been found.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
Fiona Goldsmith
Audit Committee Chairman 47
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
External audit
The Committee considers a number of areas when reviewing the 
external auditor appointment, namely their performance in 
discharging the audit, the scope of the audit and terms of 
engagement, their independence and objectivity, and their 
reappointment and remuneration.
The Committee reviews the objectivity and independence of 
the auditors when considering reappointment. The external 
auditor reports to the Committee on actions taken to comply with 
professional and regulatory requirements and is required to rotate 
the lead audit partner every five years. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) provide a range of other 
services which include tax compliance and advisory services. 
To ensure auditor objectivity and independence, the Committee has 
adopted a policy on the engagement of external auditors for the 
provision of non-audit services, which include financial limits above 
which the Audit Committee must approve. The policy is available on 
the website.
Any non-audit fees above £15,000 per engagement must be 
approved by the chairman of the Audit Committee before the work 
commences. Details of fees paid to PwC during the year are 
disclosed in note 7 of the financial statements.
The Committee has confirmed it is satisfied with the independence, 
objectivity and effectiveness of PwC and has recommended to the 
Board that the auditors be reappointed, and there will be a resolution 
to this effect at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
 
Fiona Goldsmith
Audit Committee Chairman
1 May 2015 48
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Report on the group financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Walker Greenbank PLC’s group financial statements 
(the ‘financial statements’):
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 
31 January 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year 
then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the 
European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited
Walker Greenbank PLC’s financial statements comprise:
• the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 January 2015;
• the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended;
• the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended;
• the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year 
then ended; and
• the notes to the financial statements, which include a 
summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union.
In applying the financial reporting framework, the Directors have 
made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of 
significant accounting estimates. In making such estimates, they 
have made assumptions and considered future events.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Other matters on which we are required to report 
by exception
Adequacy of information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion, we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to 
report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 39, the Directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only 
for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. 
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is 
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing. 49
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
What an audit of financial statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland).  
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by 
the Directors; and 
• the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the 
Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming 
our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the 
financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other 
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide 
a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit 
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent Company 
financial statements of Walker Greenbank PLC for the year ended 
31 January 2015.
John Minards (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
St Albans
1 May 2015
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the Walker Greenbank PLC website is the responsibility 
of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of 
these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes 
that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented 
on the website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 50
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 
YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2015
Note
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Revenue 4 83,373 78,434
Profit from operations 4–7 7,335 6,543
Net defined benefit pension charge 8 (798) (868)
Finance costs 9 (208) (180)
Total finance costs (1,006) (1,048)
Profit before tax 6,329 5,495
Tax expense 12 (1,224) (451)
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 5,105 5,044
Earnings per share – Basic 13 8.60p 8.63p
Earnings per share – Diluted 13 8.28p 8.14p
Adjusted earnings per share – Basic 13 11.64p 11.30p
Adjusted earnings per share – Diluted 13 11.20p 10.66p
All of the activities of the Group are continuing operations.
The notes on pages 55 to 87 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
  51
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT 
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2015
Note
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Profit for the year 5,105 5,044
Other Comprehensive Income/(Expense):
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension schemes 23 (2,011) (1,775)
Increase/(reduction) of deferred tax asset relating to pension scheme liability 228 (53)
Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (1,783) (1,828)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Currency translation (losses)/gains (276) 99
Cash flow hedge (losses)/gains (348) 90
Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (624) 189
Other comprehensive expense for the year, net of tax (2,407) (1,639)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to the owners of the parent 2,698 3,405
The notes on pages 55 to 87 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 52
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AT 31 JANUARY 2015
Note
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
(Restated)
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 14 7,158 7,289
Property, plant and equipment 15 12,714 11,690
Deferred income tax assets 16 1,591 2,163
21,463 21,142
Current assets
Inventories 17 22,004 19,706
Trade and other receivables 18 14,130 12,606
Derivative financial asset 19 – 153
Cash and cash equivalents 20 971 2,830
37,105 35,295
Total assets 58,568 56,437
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (20,115) (19,035)
Derivative financial liability 19 (195) –
Borrowings 22 (400) (400)
(20,710) (19,435)
Net current assets 16,395 15,860
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 22 (569) (942)
Retirement benefit obligation 23 (10,352) (9,208)
(10,921) (10,150)
Total liabilities (31,631) (29,585)
Net assets 26,937 26,852
Equity
Share capital 25 598 590
Share premium account 457 457
Foreign currency translation reserve (365) (89)
Accumulated losses (14,065) (14,766)
Other reserves 40,312 40,660
Total equity attributable to owners of the parent 26,937 26,852
The financial statements on pages 50 to 87 were approved by the Board of Directors on 1 May 2015 and signed on its behalf by
 
John Sach
Director
Registered number: 61880
 
Mike Gant
Director  53
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2015
Note
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 28 3,468 6,165
Interest paid (181) (152)
Debt issue costs – (50)
Income tax paid (32) (18)
Net cash generated from operating activities 3,255 5,945
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of intangible fixed assets 14 (420) (1,049)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 15 (2,830) (3,704)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 20 18
Net cash used in investing activities (3,230) (4,735)
Cash flows from financing activities
EBT purchase of shares 25 (348) –
Allotment of share capital 25 8 –
Repayment of borrowings 29 (400) (400)
Dividends paid to Company’s shareholders (1,144) (900)
Net cash used in financing activities (1,884) (1,300)
Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts (1,859) (90)
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 2,830 2,920
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of year 29 971 2,830
The notes on pages 55 to 87 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 54
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2015
Attributable to owners of the parent
Other reserves
Share 
capital 
£000 
(note 25)
Share 
premium 
account 
£000
Accumulated 
losses 
£000
Capital
 reserve 
£000 
(note 26)
Merger
 reserve 
£000
Hedge 
reserve 
£000 
(note 19)
Foreign 
currency
translation
reserve
£000
Total 
equity 
£000
Balance at 1 February 2013 590 457 (17,247) 43,457 (2,950) 63 (188) 24,182
Profit for the year – – 5,044 – – – – 5,044
Other comprehensive Income:
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension 
schemes (note 23) – – (1,775) – – – – (1,775)
Deferred tax relating to pension scheme liability – – (53) – – – – (53)
Currency translation differences – – – – – – 99 99
Cash flow hedging reserve – released to Income 
Statement – – – – – 67 – 67
Cash flow hedging reserve – recognised in equity 
during the year – – – – – 23 – 23
Total comprehensive income – – 3,216 – – 90 99 3,405
Transactions with owners, recognised directly 
in equity:
Dividends – – (900) – – – – (900)
Long-term incentive plan charge – – 467 – – – – 467
Long-term incentive plan vesting – – (936) – – – – (936)
Deferred tax arising on long-term incentive plan – – 634 – – – – 634
Balance at 31 January 2014 590 457 (14,766) 43,457 (2,950) 153 (89) 26,852
Attributable to owners of the parent
Other reserves
Share 
capital 
£000 
(note 25)
Share 
premium 
account 
£000
Accumulated 
losses 
£000
Capital 
reserve 
£000 
(note 26)
Merger 
reserve 
£000
Hedge 
reserve
 £000 
(note 19)
Foreign 
currency
translation
reserve
£000
Total equity 
£000
Balance at 1 February 2014 590 457 (14,766) 43,457 (2,950) 153 (89) 26,852
Profit for the year – – 5,105 – – – – 5,105
Other comprehensive Income:
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension 
schemes (note 23) – – (2,011) – – – – (2,011)
Deferred tax relating to pension scheme liability – – 228 – – – – 228
Currency translation differences – – – – – – (276) (276)
Cash flow hedging reserve – released to 
Income Statement – – – – – (153) – (153)
Cash flow hedging reserve – recognised in equity 
during the year – – – – – (195) – (195)
Total comprehensive income – – 3,322 – – (348) (276) 2,698
Transactions with owners, recognised directly 
in equity:
Dividends – – (1,144) – – – – (1,144)
Purchase of treasury shares – – (348) – – – – (348)
Allotment of share capital 8 – – – – – – 8
Long-term incentive plan charge – – 629 – – – – 629
Long-term incentive plan vesting – – (1,584) – – – – (1,584)
Deferred tax arising on long-term incentive plan – – (174) – – – – (174)
Balance at 31 January 2015 598 457 (14,065) 43,457 (2,950) (195) (365) 26,937 55
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
1. Accounting policies and general information
General information
Walker Greenbank PLC (‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries (together the ‘Group’) is a luxury interior furnishings group whose brands 
include Sanderson, Morris & Co, Harlequin, Zoffany, Scion and Anthology. The brands are targeted at the mid to upper end of the premium 
market. They have worldwide distribution including prestigious showrooms at Chelsea Harbour, London and the D&D building, Manhattan, 
New York. Half of the brand’s turnover is sourced in-house from the Group’s own specialist manufacturing facilities of Standfast & Barracks, 
the fabric printing business situated in Lancaster, and Anstey Wallpaper Company situated in Loughborough. The manufacturing 
businesses produce for other interior furnishing businesses both in the UK and throughout the world. The company is a public limited 
company which is listed on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange and is registered and domiciled in the UK.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by 
the European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU) and IFRS Interpretations Committee (‘IFRS IC’) interpretations and the Companies Act 
2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost 
convention, as modified by the valuation of derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit and loss, and with the accounting 
policies set out below which have been consistently applied to all periods presented unless otherwise indicated. 
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its banking facilities which are due to expire within 12 months and 
will be renewed over the next few months. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading 
performance show that the Group will be able to operate within the level of its current facilities as disclosed in note 22.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Therefore the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
In preparing these financial statements the Group has applied the IFRSs adopted by the European Union and the IFRS IC interpretations 
where the effective date is relevant to the financial year commencing on 1 February 2014 or ending 31 January 2015. 
Since the Group’s previous annual financial statements for the year ended 31 January 2014 the following pronouncements are now 
effective and have been adopted by the Group:
• Amendments to IFRS 12 and IAS 27 for investment entities – effective periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014
• IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’ – effective periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014
• IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’ – effective periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014
• IAS 27 (revised 2011), ‘Separate financial statements’ – effective periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014
• IAS 28 (revised 2011), ‘Associates and joint ventures’ – effective periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014
• Amendment to IAS 32,‘Financial instruments: Presentation’ on offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities – effective periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2014
• IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’ on recoverable amount disclosures effective periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014
There has been no material effect on the Group’s financial statements following the introduction of the above.
The Group has not applied the following new standards, amendments and interpretations for which adoption is not mandatory for the year 
ending 31 January 2015 and/or which have not yet been endorsed by the EU. With the exception of IFRS 15 where the Group is continuing 
to assess the materiality of the impact of this new standard, the Group has concluded its evaluation of the impact of these 
pronouncements but at this stage does not expect there to be any material impact on the financial statements.
• Amendment to IAS 19, ‘Employee benefits’, on defined benefit plans effective periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014
• IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ – classification and measurement – effective periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018
• IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ – effective periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017
• Amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 41 Agriculture Bearer Plants – effective periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2016
In addition, a number of exposure drafts of new or amended standards and interpretations have been announced by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB). This includes an exposure draft on leases. Until final details of this and other exposure drafts have 
been concluded by the IASB the Group is not able to evaluate the potential impact on the Group of these pronouncements. 56
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
1. Accounting policies and general information continued
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires 
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of 
judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed 
in note 3.
The financial statements of the Company as an entity continue to be prepared under United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice and are presented separately from the consolidated financial statements (pages 90 to 98).
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial information incorporates the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings made up 
to 31 January each year. Subsidiaries are entities where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally 
accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently 
exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Income Statement from the effective date on which 
control is transferred to or from the Group, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring accounting policies used into line with those 
used by the Group.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the fair 
values, at the date of exchange, of the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group, in exchange 
for control of the acquiree. Any acquisition costs are expensed as incurred. The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed 
in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets (or disposal groups) 
that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 ‘Non Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’, which are 
recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset in accordance with the policy described below.
All inter-company transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation. Profits and losses resulting from inter-company transactions 
that are recognised in assets, such as inventory, are eliminated in full. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides 
evidence of an impairment of the assets transferred.
The Employee Benefit Trust (‘EBT’) controlled by the Group is also included by consolidation. Until shares held by the EBT vest 
unconditionally in and are transferred to employees, the consideration paid for those shares is deducted from consolidated equity. No gain 
or loss is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of shares, including transfers to 
and from treasury shares. Dividends receivable on shares held by the EBT are excluded from the Income Statement, and are excluded from 
amounts recognised as dividends payable by the Group. 
Foreign currencies
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position are expressed in sterling, which is the functional 
currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
Transactions in foreign currencies, which are those other than the functional currency of the Company, are recorded at the rate ruling at 
the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated at the rate ruling at the Balance 
Sheet date. All unhedged exchange differences are recognised in the Income Statement for the period and classified as other operating 
income or charges.
The assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas subsidiaries on consolidation are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the Balance 
Sheet date. The income and expenses are translated at the weighted average rate during the period. Differences on translation are recognised 
in a separate foreign currency translation reserve within equity. On disposal of an overseas subsidiary, the cumulative exchange differences for 
that subsidiary are recognised in the Income Statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
CONTINUED 57
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
1. Accounting policies and general information continued
Intangible Assets – Goodwill
Goodwill arising on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the fair value of the consideration for the acquisition, which 
includes the amount of any non-controlling interest recognised, over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the acquired entity’s 
identifiable assets and liabilities and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree at the date of acquisition. 
Goodwill is not amortised, but reviewed for impairment annually, any impairment is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income 
Statement and is not subsequently reversed. If a significant event occurs that may affect the carrying value of goodwill, an impairment 
review will be carried out. No such events have occurred in the current or previous financial year. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating 
units for the purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to those cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the 
business combination in which the goodwill arose. The measurement basis for goodwill is cost less accumulated impairment.
On disposal of a subsidiary or cash generating unit, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss 
on disposal.
Intangible Assets – Archive 
The Arthur Sanderson and William Morris archive comprises an historical record of unique designs that can be used at any point going 
forward and is regularly used to generate a significant royalty income in the business. The archive is valued at historical cost. The Directors 
believe that the archive has an indefinite useful life and is therefore not subject to amortisation. The carrying value of this asset is reviewed 
annually and provision made for any impairment in the carrying value if required. If a significant event occurs that may affect the carrying 
value of the archive, an impairment review will be carried out. No such events have occurred in the current or previous financial year. The 
measurement basis used for the Archive is cost less accumulated impairment.
Intangible Assets – Software 
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised at the cost incurred to bring the asset into use, including where relevant directly 
attributable internal costs incurred in preparing the software for operation. The costs are amortised to their estimated residual value over their 
estimated useful life which range from three to 10 years on a straight line basis. Software amortisation commences when the asset goes into 
operational use by the business. The measurement basis used for software is cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Intangible Assets – Collection design
Research expenditure is recognised as an expense as incurred. Costs incurred on development projects relating to the design of new 
collections are recognised as intangible assets when the following criteria are fulfilled:
• It is technically feasible to complete the new collection so that it will be available for use or sale.
• Management intends to complete the new collection and use it or sell it.
• There is an ability to use or sell the new collection.
• It can be demonstrated how the new collection will generate probable future economic benefits.
• Adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the new collection are available. 
• The expenditure attributable to the new collection during its development can be reliably measured.
Any costs relating to design of new collections that do not meet these criteria are recognised as an expense as incurred. Any such costs 
recognised as an expense in previous periods are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period. Capitalised collection design costs are 
recognised as intangible assets and are amortised to their estimated residual value which is 25% of their historical cost, on a straight line 
basis over the life of the asset, and are tested for impairment if any impairment trigger events are identified in accordance with IAS 36. 
The measurement basis used for Collection design is cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. Historical 
cost comprises the purchase price and costs directly incurred in bringing the asset into use. The assets’ residual values and useful lives are 
reviewed annually and adjusted if appropriate, at each Balance Sheet date. 58
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
1. Accounting policies and general information continued
Depreciation is charged on a straight line basis on the original costs (excluding freehold land) after deduction of any estimated residual value. 
The principal annual rates are:
Freehold buildings
Leasehold improvements
Plant, equipment and vehicles 
Computer hardware
2%
Over the length of the lease
Between 5% and 33%
33%
Government grants received for property, plant and equipment are included within other payables and deferred revenue and released to 
the Income Statement over the life of the asset. 
Impairment of non-financial assets
Intangible assets with finite useful lives and property, plant and equipment are tested for impairments if events or changes in circumstances 
(assessed at each reporting date) indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. When an impairment test is conducted, the 
recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of the value in use (net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant 
cash generating unit), or the fair value less cost to sell.
Goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment at least annually. 
If a cash generating unit is impaired, provision is made to reduce the carrying amount of the related assets to their estimated recoverable 
amount. Impairment losses are allocated firstly against goodwill, and secondly on a pro rata basis against intangible and other assets.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffer impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials, on a first-in, first-out basis, and direct 
labour, plus attributable production overheads based on a normal level of activity. Net realisable value is based on estimated selling prices 
less anticipated costs of disposal. Provision is made for any slow moving and obsolete inventory.
Marketing materials
Marketing materials consist of patterning books and other saleable marketing assets used to support the sale of the Group’s products. 
They are recognised at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials plus costs of production. 
Net realisable value is based on estimated recoveries from customers and distributors for those pattern books expected to be sold, less the 
anticipated cost of disposal. 
As books are sold or otherwise utilised and are no longer within the control of the Group, their cost is charged to the Income Statement as 
an expense. An impairment allowance is made for any slow moving and obsolete marketing materials including those expected to be given 
away free of charge. The Group’s policy is to classify marketing materials on the Balance Sheet within trade and other receivables.
Non saleable marketing materials are expensed to the Income Statement once the collection that these marketing materials relate to has 
been launched. Any subsequent costs or development expenditure are expensed as incurred.
Financial assets and liabilities – measurement basis
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the date on which the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the 
instrument giving rise to the asset or liability. Financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs and 
is continually reviewed for impairment going forward. Any impairment of a financial asset is charged to the Income Statement when 
incurred. Financial assets are derecognised when the Group’s rights to cash inflows from the asset expire; financial liabilities are 
derecognised when the contractual obligations are discharged, cancelled or expire.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
CONTINUED 59
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
1. Accounting policies and general information continued
Non-derivative financial assets are classified according to the purpose for which the asset was acquired. The Group’s financial assets are 
classified as either:
• ‘trade and other receivables’ – these are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in 
an active market. They arise when the Group provides goods directly to a customer, or advances money, with no intention of trading the 
loan or receivable. Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are included in the Balance Sheet at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method less any amounts written off to reflect impairment, with changes in the carrying amount recognised in the 
Income Statement within administration expenses. 
• ‘cash and cash equivalents’ – these comprise deposits with an original maturity of three months or less with banks and financial 
institutions, bank balances, bank overdrafts with the right of offset and cash in hand.
A provision for impairment of trade and other receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to 
collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the receivable, probability that 
the receivable will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, default or delinquency in payments, and the unavailability of credit insurance 
at commercial rates for receivables are considered indicators that the trade receivable may be impaired. The amount of the provision is the 
difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the net present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective 
interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of a provision account, and the amount of the loss is recognised 
in the Income Statement within administration expenses. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the provision 
account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against administration expenses in 
the Income Statement.
The Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as ‘Other liabilities’. Other liabilities are financial liabilities with fixed or 
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They arise when the Group receives goods or services directly from a 
payable or supplier, or borrows money, with no intention of trading the liability. This category includes:
• ‘trade and other payables’ – these are typically non-interest bearing and following initial recognition are included in the Balance Sheet 
at amortised cost;
• ‘bank loans and overdrafts’ – these are initially recorded at fair value based on proceeds received net of issue costs. Finance charges 
are accounted for on an accruals basis and charged to the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method; and
• ‘borrowings’ – these are recorded initially at the fair value, net of direct issue costs, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost. 
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement, or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals 
basis in the Income Statement, using the effective interest method, and are included within the carrying amount of the instrument to 
the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Borrowing costs are capitalised as an increase to the carrying value of software or property, plant and equipment on major projects where 
their impact is material. 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting – measurement basis 
The Group’s activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in exchange rates, and the Group uses forward exchange rate contracts 
and swap exchange rate contracts to manage these exposures. The use of derivative financial instruments is governed by the Group’s 
policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on the use of derivative financial instruments.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items. The Group also 
documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions 
are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of 
derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity. 
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement within ‘Other operating income/
(expense)’. Amounts accumulated in equity are released to the Income Statement when the hedged item affects the Income Statement, 
and are also classified in the Income Statement within ‘Other operating income/(expense)’. 
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39 are classified as ‘financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit 
or loss’. They are initially recognised at fair value, with fair value being remeasured at each reporting date. The fair value of the derivative is 
based on market price of comparable instruments at the Balance Sheet date. Changes in fair value are included in the Income Statement 
within finance costs.  60
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
1. Accounting policies and general information continued
The Group has no embedded derivatives that are not closely related to the host instrument.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents represent only liquid assets with original maturity of 90 days or less. Cash and cash equivalents include cash in 
hand, deposits held at call with banks and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts that cannot be offset against other cash balances are shown 
within borrowings in current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
For the purposes of the Cash Flow Statement it is the Group’s policy to classify interest income and expense, and other finance costs, within 
‘cash flows from operating activities’. 
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases where the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
Group. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets used by the Group which have been funded through finance leases are capitalised in property, plant and equipment and the 
resulting lease obligations are included in liabilities. The assets are capitalised at the leases commencement, at the lower of fair value of 
the leased assets and the present value of the minimum lease payments. The assets are depreciated over their useful lives and the interest 
element of the rental obligations is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement over the period of the lease, and represents a constant 
proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. Rent free periods 
receivable on entering an operating lease are released on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Employee benefits – pension obligations 
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. 
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the funding of benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with full actuarial 
valuations being carried out triennially.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Balance Sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as 
adjusted for unrecognised service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of the scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is 
limited to past service cost, plus present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by qualified independent actuaries using the Projected Unit Credit Method. 
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the future cash outflows using interest rates of high 
quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability. 
Scheme expenses met by the Group, expected returns on plan assets, and interest on pension scheme liabilities are classified within 
‘Net defined benefit pension charge’ within the Income Statement as the scheme is now closed to future accruals. 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full in the period 
in which they occur. They are recognised outside the Income Statement and presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. 
Past service costs are recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise are amortised on a 
straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
Employee benefits – share based payments under long-term incentive plans (‘LTIP’)
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees which must be measured at fair value and recognised as an 
expense in the Income Statement with a corresponding increase in equity. 
The fair values of these payments are measured at the date of grant, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards 
are granted. The fair value is recognised over the period during which employees become conditionally entitled to the awards, subject to 
the Group’s estimate of the number of awards which will lapse, either due to employees leaving the Group prior to vesting or due to 
non-market based performance conditions not being met. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
CONTINUED 61
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
1. Accounting policies and general information continued
The total amount recognised in the Income Statement as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards that vest. 
National insurance contributions related to the awards are recognised as an expense in the Income Statement with a corresponding 
liability on the Balance Sheet.
Employee benefits – short-term bonus plans
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created 
a constructive obligation. 
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares are shown in equity as a deduction, 
net of tax, from the proceeds. Dividend distribution is set by the board on a regular basis so long as sufficient funds are available.
Treasury shares
Consideration paid including any directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes) on the purchase of the Company’s equity 
share capital (treasury shares) is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are cancelled or 
reissued. Where such shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction 
costs and the related income tax effects is included in equity attributable to the Company’s equity shareholders. The EBT is treated as an 
agent of the Group and as such EBT transactions are treated as being those of the Group.
Revenue
The Group revenue is measured at fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts recoverable by the Group 
for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes. Revenue comprises:
• Sale of goods – sales of goods are recognised when the Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of 
ownership, which is usually at the point of delivery of the goods.
• Royalty revenue – royalties are received from licence holders under the terms of various agreements, and are recognised on an accruals 
basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreement.
Deposits received from customers in advance of the delivery of goods or services are recognised as deferred revenue. Amounts receivable 
from customers representing the recovery of expenses incurred by the Group for design and set-up costs, delivery, and marketing materials 
are not considered to be revenue, and are credited to the relevant expense within the Income Statement.
Exceptional items
Items that are both material and whose nature is sufficient to warrant separate disclosure and identification are disclosed within the 
financial statements and classified within their relevant category in the Income Statement. 
Taxation including deferred tax
The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax and deferred tax charges or credits. 
Current tax is based on the taxable profit for the year. Taxable profits differs from the net profit as reported in the Income Statement 
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never 
taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the Balance Sheet date. Current tax includes withholding taxes from sales and licensing income in overseas territories. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance 
sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be 
utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other 
than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
IAS 12 ‘Income taxes’ requires that the measurement of deferred tax should have regard to the tax consequences that would follow from 
the manner of expected recovery or settlement at the Balance Sheet date of the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. In calculating 
its deferred tax liability the Group’s policy is to regard the depreciable amount of the carrying value of its property, plant and equipment to 
be recovered through continuing use in the business, unless included within assets held for resale, where the policy is to regard the carrying 
amount as being recoverable through sale. 62
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
1. Accounting policies and general information continued
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the Group is able 
to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which 
case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. Deferred tax relating to retirement benefit obligations is also recognised in equity where 
the tax relief arises from contributions paid to fund deficits arising in previous periods that were recognised in equity. 
Segmental reporting
The Group is a designer, manufacturer and distributor of furnishings, fabrics and wallpaper and manages its operations as two reportable 
segments which are brands and manufacturing. 
Reportable segments consist of one or more operating segments. Aggregation of operating segments into reportable segments occurs 
when aggregation criteria, as laid down in IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ are satisfied, including similar economic characteristics or when 
operating segments are less than the quantitative limits as laid down in IFRS 8. After applying aggregation, segmental information is 
disclosed in a manner consistent with the internal reporting to the chief operating decision maker (‘CODM’). 
The Group considers its CODM to be the Board of Directors, who are responsible for the allocation of resources and assessing performance 
of the operating segments. 
Interest received
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
2. Financial risk management 
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk), credit risk 
and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to 
minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge 
certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out at Board level under policies approved by the Board of Directors. Executive Directors identify, evaluate and 
where appropriate hedge financial risks in close cooperation with the Group’s operating units. 
Foreign exchange risk
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect 
to the US dollar and the euro. Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are 
denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency.
The Group’s policy is, where possible, to allow the Group’s entities to settle liabilities in their functional currency with the cash generated 
from their operations in that currency. Where the Group’s entities have liabilities denominated in a currency other than their functional 
currency (and have insufficient reserves of that currency to settle them) cash already denominated in that currency will, where possible 
be transferred from elsewhere in the Group.
To manage the foreign exchange risk arising on future transactions, it is the Group’s policy to enter into forward currency contracts to 
hedge the exposure.
For the year ended 31 January 2015, the average sterling to US dollar translation rate applied by the Group including the impact of 
hedging contracts was £1: US$1.58. If the rate had been £1: US$1.48 with all other variables held constant, profit before tax would have 
been higher by £264,000. If the rate had been £1: US$1.68 with all other variables held constant, profit before tax would have been lower 
by £233,000. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
CONTINUED 63
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
2. Financial risk management continued
For the year ended 31 January 2015, the average sterling to euro translation rate applied by the Group including the impact of hedging 
contracts was £1: €1.25. If the rate had been £1: €1.15 with all other variables held constant, profit before tax would have been lower by 
£349,000. If the rate had been £1: €1.35 with all other variables held constant, profit before tax would have been higher by £297,000.
The sensitivities tested above reflect movements in the foreign currency exchange rates over the financial year. The sensitivity of 
movements in other currencies is not considered material to the performance of the Group. 
Interest rate risk
As the Group has no significant interest bearing assets its revenue and cash generated from operations are substantially independent of 
changes in market interest rates. 
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. 
The Group’s borrowings at variable rate are denominated in either UK pounds or euros. The Group regularly analyses its interest rate 
exposure calculating the impact on profit and loss of a defined interest rate shift. Based on the calculations the board considers refinancing, 
renewal of existing positions, alternative financing and hedging. The Group has not felt there has been a requirement during the current or 
previous financial year to enter into any of these options.
On 31 January 2013, the Receivables facility was renewed with Barclays Bank PLC and a new Committed facility was agreed as a 
replacement to the Inventory facility, signed on 15 January 2013. Variable interest rates were negotiated on all the loans. The Board 
continues to monitor the interest rates monthly.
For the year ended 31 January 2015, had the benchmark interest rate levels been 0.5% higher/(lower) than the actual experience, with all 
other variables held constant, the profit before tax of the Group would have been (lower)/higher by £34,000 due to the change in interest 
rate expense on variable rate borrowings. The 0.5% sensitivity is deemed a reasonable sensitivity analysis based on expected movements 
in the base rate for the next financial year.
 
Credit risk
Credit risk arises from the Group’s trade receivables, cash held with banks, and derivative financial instruments. It is the risk that 
the counterparty fails to discharge its obligation in respect of the instrument. Cash at bank and derivative financial instruments are 
predominantly held with the Group’s major relationship bank, Barclays Bank PLC, and the Group considers this credit risk to be minimal.
The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single company or group of companies within trade receivables, as the 
nature of the Group’s operations mean that trade receivables consist of a large number of customers spread across diverse industries and 
geographical areas. 
Prior to accepting new customers an independent credit check is obtained. Based on this information individual credit limits and payment 
terms are established. If no independent credit ratings are available, customers are asked to pay on a proforma basis until creditworthiness 
can be established. The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored. Credit limits may only be exceeded with the authorisation from key 
management, this is dependent on the amount expected to exceed the limit and the Group’s trading history with that customer.
There is no difference between the carrying amount and the maximum credit risk exposure.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk arises from the Group’s management of working capital and the finance charges and principal repayments on its debt 
instruments. It is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations as they fall due. The maturity profile 
of the Group’s debt and other financial liabilities is disclosed in note 22.
During the year the Group had facilities with Barclays Bank PLC. A significant element of the facility is linked to working capital, which 
allows the Group to manage its cash more effectively during the seasonal fluctuations in working capital associated with the industry. 
This element of the facility was renewed in January 2013. 64
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
2. Financial risk management continued
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s cash and loan facility utilisation on a monthly basis. The Group ensures that it has 
adequate facilities available to cover both its short-term and medium-term commitments. In addition, the Group’s liquidity management 
policy is to project cash flows in major currencies and consider the level of liquid assets necessary to meet these liabilities as they fall due.
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are:
• to safeguard the entities ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other 
stakeholders, and
• to provide an adequate return for shareholders by pricing products and services commensurately with the level of risk.
The Group sets the amount of capital in proportion to risk. The Group manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light 
of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, 
the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, buy back issued 
shares, or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of the average net debt to adjusted capital ratio (or ‘gearing ratio’). The ratio is calculated as 
average net debt divided by adjusted capital. Average net debt is calculated as the total debt less cash and cash equivalents during the 
year. Adjusted capital comprises all components of equity (i.e. share capital, share premium, retained earnings, and other reserves) other 
than amounts recognised in equity relating to cash flow hedges and forward currency contracts.
During the year to 31 January 2015, the Group’s strategy, which was unchanged from the previous year, was to reduce the average gearing 
ratio. The average gearing ratios for 2015 and 2014 were as follows:
Year ended 31 January
2015
£000’s
2014
£000’s
Average net debt 4,156 4,171
Total equity 26,937 26,852
Less: amounts recognised directly in equity relating to currency contracts 195 (153)
Adjusted capital 27,132 26,699
Average net debt to adjusted capital ratio 15.3% 15.6%
Year end net funds/debt to adjusted capital ratio (0.0)% (5.6)%
The Group considers the average net debt to adjusted capital ratio to be appropriate at this time, but it will continue to reduce the pension 
deficit by cash generated from operations and will also invest within the Group through capital expenditure and working capital.
The gearing ratio at the year end is lower than the average gearing ratio as the level of trade receivables is lower at the year end than the 
average during the year due to the seasonal nature of trading in the months of December and January.
Fair value estimation
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the Balance Sheet date 
provided by relationship banks. Under the revisions to IFRS 7 these amounts are classified within level two of the fair value hierarchy. 
The carrying value less impairment provision of trade receivables and payables and cash and cash equivalents are assumed to approximate 
their fair values. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
CONTINUED 65
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
3. Critical accounting estimates and assumptions
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning future events. The resulting accounting estimates will seldom precisely equal 
the related actual results. The Group applies its best endeavours in setting accounting estimates, and uses historical experience and other 
factors, including input from experienced and specialist management. Estimates and assumptions are periodically re-evaluated and the 
resulting accounting balances updated as new information including actual outcomes become apparent. 
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below. 
a) Retirement benefit obligations
The Group recognises its obligations to employee retirement benefits. The quantification of these obligations is subject to significant 
estimates and assumptions regarding life expectancy, discount and inflation rates, wage and salary changes, the rate of increase in 
pension payments, and the market values of equities, bonds and other pension assets. In making these assumptions the Group takes 
advice from a qualified actuary about which assumptions reflect the nature of the Group’s obligations to employee retirement benefits. 
The assumptions are regularly reviewed to ensure their appropriateness. 
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year. This is the interest rate that should be used to determine 
the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle pension obligations. In determining the appropriate 
discount rate, the Group considers the interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the 
benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability. Details of the estimates 
and assumptions applied, and carrying amounts of retirement benefit obligations and pension assets, are set out in note 23.
b) Impairment of non-financial assets
The Group tests annually whether goodwill or its indefinite life intangible asset has suffered any impairment, in accordance with its 
accounting policy. Other intangibles and property, plant and equipment are reviewed whenever impairment triggers are apparent. The 
recoverable amounts of cash generating units have been determined based on value in use (‘VIU’) calculations. These calculations require 
use of estimates of future sales, margins, and other operating and administration expenses, and of discount rates. Further disclosures 
relating to the estimates and assumptions applied, and carrying amounts of the non-financial assets, are set out in note 14 and 15.
The Group makes provision for impairment in the carrying amount of its inventories and marketing materials. The nature of the Group’s 
products are exposed to changes in taste and attitudes from time to time, which can affect the demand for those products. The Group has 
skilled and experienced management who utilise historical sales information, and exercise their judgement, in making estimates about the 
extent of provisions necessary based on the realisable value of inventory and expected future benefit to the Group of marketing materials 
taking into account the estimated price and volume of future sales or usage, less the further costs of sale and holding costs. Further 
disclosures relating to the effect on the Income Statement of the establishment and reversal of such provisions against inventory are 
included in note 7. Details of the carrying amount of inventories are disclosed in note 17 and of marketing materials in note 18. The 
carrying values of the non-financial assets are not considered to be sensitive due to the nature of the assets. 
c) Deferred tax recognition
The Group considers it appropriate to recognise at the Balance Sheet date deferred tax assets resulting from historical trading losses and other 
temporary differences including pension deficits and the impact of awards under the Long-term incentive plan The amount of deferred tax 
recognised is based on estimates of the timing and amount of future taxable profits of companies within the Group, which in turn relies upon 
estimates of future operating profits and the occurrence, timing and tax treatment of significant items of income and expenditure including 
contributions to pension schemes and the vesting of LTIP payment awards. Further disclosures relating to the effect on the Income Statement 
of the recognition of deferred tax assets are included in note 12 and the amount of deferred tax asset recognised and other relevant 
disclosures are included in note 16. The Group considers the sensitivity on Deferred tax recognition to be based on profits generated by the 
Group and tax rates set by the government. There has been no material impact on sensitivity in the current or previous financial year.
d) Long-term incentive plan payment awards
The Group has granted awards to Executive Directors and senior management which include vesting conditions relating to the future 
financial performance of the Group as measured by adjusted profit before tax (‘PBT’) and the relative performance of the Group’s Total 
shareholder return (‘TSR’) against comparator companies. The fair value of the awards granted is charged against the Income Statement 
over the vesting period; the amount of that charge including the national insurance component of the charge, is dependent upon the 
Group’s estimates of how many awards will ultimately vest, which is linked directly to its estimates regarding future PBT and TSR 
achievement. Further disclosures relating to performance targets are included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 43 
and in note 25.  66
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
4. Segmental analysis
The Group is a designer, manufacturer and distributor of luxury interior furnishings, fabrics and wallpaper. The reportable segments of the 
Group are aggregated as follows:
• Brands – comprising the design, marketing, sales and distribution, and licensing activities of Sanderson, Morris & Co, Harlequin, Zoffany, 
Anthology and Scion brands operated from the UK and its foreign subsidiaries in the US and France.
• Manufacturing – comprising the wallcovering and printed fabric manufacturing businesses operated by Anstey and Standfast respectively.
This is the basis on which the Group presents its operating results to the board of directors, which is considered to be the Chief Operating 
Decision Maker (‘CODM’) for the purposes of IFRS 8. Additional revenue-only data is also reported to the CODM and is disclosed on the basis 
explained below. Other group-wide activities and expenses, predominantly related to corporate head office costs, defined benefit pension 
costs, long-term incentive plan expenses, taxation and eliminations of intersegment items, are presented within ‘Eliminations and unallocated’.
a) Principal measures of profit and loss – Income Statement segmental information
Year ended 31 January 2015
Brands 
£000
Manufacturing 
£000
Eliminations 
and 
unallocated 
£000
Total 
£000
UK Revenue 38,468 15,802 – 54,270
International Revenue 24,151 2,871 – 27,022
Licence Revenue 2,081 – – 2,081
Revenue – External 64,700 18,673 – 83,373
Revenue – Internal – 16,401 (16,401) –
Total Revenue 64,700 35,074 (16,401) 83,373
Profit/(loss) from operations 7,387 3,658 (3,710) 7,335
Net borrowing costs – – (208) (208)
Net pension charge – – (798) (798)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 7,387 3,658 (4,716) 6,329
Tax charge – – (1,224) (1,224)
Profit/(loss) for the year 7,387 3,658 (5,940) 5,105
 
Year ended 31 January 2014
Brands 
£000
Manufacturing 
£000
Eliminations 
and 
unallocated 
£000
Total
 £000
UK Revenue 34,874 14,619 – 49,493
International Revenue 23,797 3,011 – 26,808
Licence Revenue 2,133 – – 2,133
Revenue – External 60,804 17,630 – 78,434
Revenue – Internal – 14,525 (14,525) –
Total Revenue 60,804 32,155 (14,525) 78,434
Profit/(loss) from operations 6,590 3,062 (3,109) 6,543
Net borrowing costs – – (180) (180)
Net pension charge – – (868) (868)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 6,590 3,062 (4,157) 5,495
Tax charge – – (451) (451)
Profit/(loss) for the year 6,590 3,062 (4,608) 5,044
The segmental Income Statement disclosures are measured in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies as set out in note 1.
Inter-segment revenue earned by Manufacturing from sales to Brands is determined on normal commercial trading terms as if Brands were 
any other third party customer.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
CONTINUED 67
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
4. Segmental analysis continued
All defined benefit pension costs, and long-term incentive plan expenses, are recognised for internal reporting to the CODM as part 
of group-wide activities and are included within ‘Eliminations and unallocated’ above. Other costs, such as group insurance, rent and 
auditors’ remuneration which are incurred on a group-wide basis are recharged by the head office to segments on a reasonable and 
consistent basis for all periods presented, and are included within segment results above. 
b) Additional segmental revenue information
The segmental revenues of the Group are reported to the CODM in more detail. One of the analysis presented is revenue by export market 
in the brands.
Brands revenue by export market:
2015
 £000
2014 
£000
Western Europe 7,038 6,713
Scandinavia 1,762 1,805
Eastern Europe 2,256 2,209
Europe Total 11,056 10,727
Middle East 1,026 858
Far East 2,957 3,354
US 7,041 6,993
South America 361 342
Australasia 1,083 948
Other 627 575
24,151 23,797
Revenue of the Brands reportable segment – revenue from operations in all territories where the sale is sourced from the Brands operations, 
together with contract and licence revenue:
Brand Revenue Analysis:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Harlequin, incorporating Anthology & Scion 28,982 26,101
Sanderson, incorporating Morris & Co 21,698 20,984
Zoffany 11,223 10,742
Other brands 716 844
Licensing 2,081 2,133
64,700 60,804
Revenue of the Manufacturing reportable segment – including revenues from internal sales to the Group’s Brands:
Manufacturing Revenue Analysis:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Standfast 16,744 15,358
Anstey 18,330 16,797
35,074 32,155 68
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
4. Segmental analysis continued
c) Other Income Statement segmental information
The following additional items are included in the measures of profit and loss reported to the CODM and are included within (a) above:
Year ended 31 January 2015
Brands 
£000
Manufacturing 
£000
Eliminations 
and 
unallocated 
£000
Total 
£000
Depreciation 796 988 14 1,798
Amortisation 526 25 – 551
Impairment losses – trade receivables 4 16 – 20
Reversal of impairment losses – trade receivables (89) – – (89)
Impairment losses – inventory 607 301 – 908
Reversal of impairment of inventory – (32) – (32)
LTIP payment charges – – 1,005 1,005
Year ended 31 January 2014
Brands 
£000
Manufacturing 
£000
Eliminations 
and 
unallocated 
£000
Total
 £000
Depreciation 915 839 20 1,774
Amortisation 398 45 – 443
Impairment losses – trade receivables 182 2 – 184
Reversal of prior year impairment losses – trade receivables (11) (22) – (33)
Impairment losses – inventory 1,146 54 – 1,200
Reversal of impairment of inventory – (19) – (19)
LTIP payment charges – – 970 970
d) Principal measures of assets and liabilities – Balance Sheet segmental information
Segment assets consist primarily of goodwill, intangible assets, property plant and equipment, trade and other receivables including inter 
segment receivables, and inventories. Segment liabilities consist primarily of trade and other payables including inter segment payables. 
Unallocated assets and liabilities consist primarily of cash, deferred tax assets, borrowings, derivative financial instruments, and retirement 
benefit obligations and elimination of inter segment balances. Segment assets and liabilities and unallocated assets and liabilities are 
measured in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies as set out in note 1.
Year ended 31 January 2015
Brands 
£000
Manufacturing 
£000
Eliminations 
and 
unallocated 
£000
Total 
£000
Assets 37,402 17,536 3,630 58,568
Liabilities (15,688) (6,450) (9,493) (31,631)
Total net assets/(liabilities) 21,714 11,086 (5,863) 26,937
Capital expenditure – Intangible assets 411 9 – 420
Capital expenditure – Property, plant and equipment 1,854 973 3 2,830
Year ended 31 January 2014
Brands 
£000
Manufacturing 
£000
Eliminations 
and 
unallocated 
£000
Total 
£000
Assets 38,269 20,456 (2,288) 56,437
Liabilities (18,442) (5,860) (5,283) (29,585)
Total net assets/(liabilities) 19,827 14,596 (7,571) 26,852
Capital expenditure – Intangible assets 1,033 16 – 1,049
Capital expenditure – Property, plant and equipment 994 2,708 2 3,704
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
CONTINUED 69
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
4. Segmental analysis continued
e) Additional entity-wide disclosures
Revenue by geographical location of customers:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
United Kingdom 55,450 50,190
Continental Europe 12,206 11,589
United States of America 8,494 8,854
Rest of the World 7,223 7,801
83,373 78,434
No single customer of the Group accounts for 10% or more of total revenue.
Non-current assets by geographical territory:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
United Kingdom 19,050 18,558
Continental Europe 206 232
United States of America 616 189
19,872 18,979
Non-current assets included above comprise intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. 
5. Exceptional items
Items that are both material and whose nature is sufficient to warrant separate disclosure and identification are disclosed within the 
financial statements and classified within their relevant Income Statement category.
In the current year and prior year, there are no exceptional items. 
6. (a) Analysis of operating profit by function of expense
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Revenue 83,373 78,434
Cost of sales (32,674) (30,347)
Gross profit 50,699 48,087
Net operating expenses:
Distribution and selling costs (14,035) (12,747)
Administration expenses (28,331) (27,677)
LTIP accounting charge (1,005) (970)
Other operating income/(expense) 7 (150)
Net operating expenses (43,364) (41,544)
Profit from operations 7,335 6,543
(b) Analysis of revenue by category:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Sale of goods 81,292 76,301
Licence royalty income 2,081 2,133
83,373 78,434 70
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
6. (c) Analysis of expense by nature continued
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress (1,014) (2,053)
Raw materials and consumables used 26,588 25,689
Employee benefit expense 24,260 22,515
Depreciation and amortisation charges 2,349 2,217
Transportation expenses 4,436 3,244
Advertising costs 1,301 1,220
Other selling costs 6,042 6,765
Establishment costs 4,656 4,253
Operating lease payments 2,134 1,881
Repairs and maintenance 1,178 1,117
Other expenses 4,108 5,043
Total cost of sales, distribution and selling costs, administration expenses and LTIP accounting charge 76,038 71,891
7. Group profit from operations
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Group profit from operations is stated after charging/(crediting):
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,798 1,774
Amortisation of intangibles 551 443
Cost of inventories recognised as expense in cost of sales 22,202 23,978
Impairment of inventories 908 1,200
Reversal of impairment of inventories (32) (19)
Impairment of trade receivables 20 184
Reversal of impairment of trade receivables (89) (33)
Net foreign exchange (gains) / losses (16) 117
Operating lease rentals:
 – Hire of motor vehicles and plant and machinery 482 434
 – Land and buildings 1,652 1,447
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Auditors’ remuneration:
Fees payable to Company’s auditors for the audit of parent Company and consolidated financial statements 55 55
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for other services: Audit of Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 91 87
Other accounting services 11 46
Taxation services 14 –
171 188
8. Net defined benefit pension charge
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Expected return on pension scheme assets 2,179 2,212
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (2,552) (2,545)
Scheme expenses met by Group (425) (535)
Net charge (note 23) (798) (868)
9. Finance Costs
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Interest expense:
Interest payable on bank borrowings (181) (158)
Amortisation of issue costs of bank loans (27) (22)
Total finance costs (208) (180)
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
CONTINUED 71
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
10. Emoluments of Directors
Salary 
£000
Bonus 
£000
LTIP 
£000
Benefits 
£000
Sub-total 
Aggregate 
emoluments 
£000
Pension 
£000
 
Compensation 
for loss of 
office 
£000
2015 
Total 
£000
2014 
Total 
£000
Executive Directors:
John Sach 253 177 1,091 1 1,522 38 – 1,560 1,143
David Smallridge 181 117 865 1 1,164 27 – 1,191 821
Mike Gant (appointed 3 March 2014) 174 133 – 1 308 26 – 334 –
Alan Dix (resigned 30 April 2014) 36 – 625 1 662 11 76 749 503
Non-executive Directors:
Terry Stannard 68 – – – 68 – – 68 66
Fiona Goldsmith 31 – – – 31 – – 31 30
743 427 2,581 4 3,755 102 76 3,933 2,563
In both years, retirement benefits were accruing to one Director under a defined benefit scheme, who is the highest paid Director. Accrued 
annual pension benefits at the year end were £13,862 (2014: £13,153). Benefits are accruing under defined contribution schemes for three 
Directors (2014: three Directors).
Further information on the remuneration of the Directors is included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report set out on pages 40 to 43. 
11. Employee Information 
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Wages and salaries 19,894 18,807
Social security costs 2,118 2,007
Other pension costs 1,243 575
LTIP awards, including NIC thereon 1,005 970
Employee benefit expense 24,260 22,359
The average monthly number of employees (including Directors) during the year
2015 
Number
2014 
Number
Brands, including warehousing 275 231
Manufacturing 323 311
Overseas 26 30
Corporate and administration 16 20
640 592
Compensation of key management personnel
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Short term employee benefits (including short term incentives) 3,366 3,283
Post-employment benefits (including pension costs) 181 150
LTIP awards 1,005 970
4,552 4,403
The Group regards its key management personnel to be its Directors and senior management having authority and responsibility for 
planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, either directly or indirectly. LTIP awards reflect the charge in the Income 
Statement and do not reflect the market value of shares expected to vest.  72
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
12. Tax expense
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Current tax:
  – UK, current tax 582 –
  – overseas, current tax 14 21
Corporation tax 596 21
Deferred tax:
  – current year 669 415
  – adjustments in respect of prior years – (1)
  – effect of change in corporation tax rate to 20% (2014: 20%) (41) 16
Deferred tax 628 430
Tax charge for the year 1,224 451
Reconciliation of tax charge for the year
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 6,329 5,495
Tax on profit on ordinary activities at 21.32% (2014: 23%) 1,349 1,263
Non-deductible expenditure 21 48
Parent and overseas losses and temporary timing differences not recognised (105) (497)
Future deductions for LTIP payments – (276)
Adjustments in respect of prior years – (1)
Effect of movements of Deferred tax assets provided at 20% realised at the corporation tax rate of 21.32% (2014: 23%) (41) (86)
Tax charge for year 1,224 451
Factors affecting current and future tax charges
No overseas taxation is anticipated to become payable within the immediate future due to the availability of gross tax losses of 
approximately £1.5 million (2014: £1.9 million). 
Legislation has now been substantively enacted to reduce the main corporation tax rate to 20% from 1 April 2015.
The deferred tax balance at 31 January 2015 included within these financial statements has been calculated at a rate of 20%, being the 
rate enacted in the Finance Act (2013), as this is the rate at which the majority of the balances are expected to unwind.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
CONTINUED 73
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
13. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (‘EPS’) is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average 
number of shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held in the Employee Benefit Trust (‘EBT’) and those held in treasury 
(note 25), which are treated as cancelled. The adjusted basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the adjusted earnings by the 
weighted average number of shares. As a consequence of the improved profitability of the Group, PBT performance criteria within LTIPs 6, 
7 and 8 are now being met and as a consequence these LTIP awards are now dilutive. 
2015 2014
Earnings 
£000
Weighted 
average 
number of 
shares 
(000s)
Per Share 
Amount 
Pence
Earnings 
£000
Weighted 
average 
number of 
shares 
(000s)
Per Share 
Amount 
Pence
Basic earnings per share 5,105 59,335 8.60 5,044 58,466 8.63
Effect of dilutive securities
Shares under LTIP 2,360 3,476
Diluted earnings per share 5,105 61,695 8.28 5,044 61,942 8.14
Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share:
Add back LTIP accounting charge 1,005 970
Add back Net defined benefit pension accounting charge 798 868
Less Deferred tax arising on LTIP – (276)
Adjusted basic earnings per share 6,908 59,335 11.64 6,606 58,466 11.30
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 6,908 61,695 11.20 6,606 61,942 10.66
On 22 May 2014, 1,849,663 shares vested under the Company’s Long-term Incentive Plan of which 997,008 shares were issued from the 
Walker Greenbank PLC Employee Benefit Trust. Following these transactions Walker Greenbank’s issued ordinary share capital with voting 
rights consists of 59,762,559 (2014: 59,006,162) ordinary shares of which no (2014: nil) ordinary shares are held in treasury and a further 
188,272 (2014: 240,611) ordinary shares are held by the Walker Greenbank PLC EBT with a cost of £347,362 (2014: £49,427). Shares held in 
treasury or by the EBT are treated as cancelled when calculating EPS.
On 20 May 2013, 1,839,250 shares vested under the Company’s Long-Term Incentive Plan and these were issued from the Walker 
Greenbank PLC Employee Benefit Trust. 
The market value of shares held by the EBT at 31 January 2015 was £376,544 (2014: £392,196). The total number of shares held in the EBT 
at the year end represented 0.3% (2014: 0.4%) of the issued shares. 74
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
14. Intangible assets
Goodwill 
£000
Arthur 
Sanderson 
and William 
Morris Archive 
£000
Collection 
design 
£000
Software 
£000
Total 
£000
Cost
1 February 2013 1,400 4,300 1,744 1,525 8,969
Additions – – 362 687 1,049
Disposals – – – – –
31 January 2014 1,400 4,300 2,106 2,212 10,018
Additions – – 370 50 420
Disposals – – – – –
31 January 2015 1,400 4,300 2,476 2,262 10,438
Accumulated amortisation
1 February 2013 841 – 1,082 363 2,286
Charge – – 261 182 443
Disposals – – – – –
31 January 2014 841 – 1,343 545 2,729
Charge – – 291 260 551
Disposals – – – – –
31 January 2015 841 – 1,634 805 3,280
Net book amount
31 January 2015 559 4,300 842 1,457 7,158
31 January 2014 559 4,300 763 1,667 7,289
31 January 2013 559 4,300 662 1,162 6,683
The Arthur Sanderson and William Morris Archive was purchased as part of the acquisition of Arthur Sanderson & Sons on 29 August 2003. 
It comprises an historical record of unique designs that are used to generate royalty income in the business. 
The total amortisation expense of £551,000 (2014: £443,000) is included in administration expenses £526,000 (2014: £398,000) and 
distribution and selling costs £25,000 (2014: £45,000). 
Impairment tests for Goodwill and Arthur Sanderson and William Morris Archive 
The carrying value of Goodwill at the year end of £559,000 (2014: £559,000) is attributable to the manufacturing segment. The carrying 
value of the Archive at the year end of £4,300,000 (2014: £4,300,000) is attributable to the Brands. 
The Group tests Goodwill and the Archive for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications that they might be impaired. 
There was no impairment charge recognised in the year (2014: £nil). 
In assessing whether an impairment of goodwill is required the carrying value of the cash generating unit (‘CGU’) or group of CGUs is 
compared with its recoverable amount. The recoverable amounts for each CGU and collectively for groups of CGUs that make up the 
segments of the Group’s business have been based on the value in use (‘VIU’). 
The Group estimates the VIU using a discounted cash flow model (‘DCF’), where the projected cash flows for separate or collective groups 
of CGUs are discounted using a pre-tax rate of 10.32% (2014: 6.57%). The discount rate used is the same across all segments.
The Group has used formally approved budgets for the first two years (2014: two years) of its VIU calculation, with extrapolation beyond 
the last explicit year using an assumption of growth for future years ranging from 1 % to 2% (2014: 1 % to 2%) depending upon the CGU 
being tested. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
CONTINUED 75
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
14. Intangible assets continued
The cash flows used in the calculation of the VIU are derived from past experience and are based on operating profit forecasts, which in 
turn rely upon assumptions relating to sales growth, margins and operating and administration expenses. The cash flows have not included 
the benefits arising from any future asset enhancement expenditure, as this is not permitted by IAS 36. The VIU calculations therefore 
exclude significant benefits anticipated from future capital expenditure. The growth rates included within the assumptions supporting the 
VIU calculations do not therefore represent the Group’s anticipated total forecast growth, but rather only the growth deriving from capital 
expenditure completed at the Balance Sheet date.
The recoverable amount of the Archive intangible asset is estimated based on VIU, and comprises estimated future cash flows from royalty 
income relating to the Archive. A discount rate of 10.32% (2014: 6.57%) is applied.
The Group does not consider it reasonably probable that any significant changes to the key assumptions will arise that would result in 
impairment of either Goodwill or the Archive as at 31 January 2015. 
15. Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildings 
£000
Plant, 
equipment 
and vehicles 
£000
Computer 
hardware 
£000
Total 
£000
Cost:
1 February 2013 5,420 20,934 1,628 27,982
Additions 14 3,664 26 3,704
Disposals – (547) – (547)
Currency movements – (34) – (34)
31 January 2014 5,434 24,017 1,654 31,105
Additions – 2,737 93 2,830
Disposals – (16) – (16)
Currency movements – 15 (5) 10
31 January 2015 5,434 26,753 1,742 33,929
Accumulated depreciation:
1 February 2013 1,507 15,334 1,333 18,174
Charge 93 1,546 135 1,774
Disposals – (512) – (512)
Currency movements – (21) – (21)
31 January 2014 1,600 16,347 1,468 19,415
Charge 97 1,589 112 1,798
Disposals – (13) – (13)
Currency movements – 9 6 15
31 January 2015 1,697 17,932 1,586 21,215
Net book amount:
31 January 2015 3,737 8,821 156 12,714
31 January 2014 3,834 7,670 186 11,690
31 January 2013 3,913 5,600 295 9,808
The total depreciation expense of £1,798,000 (2014: £1,774,000) is included in administration expenses £1,744,000 (2014: £1,768,000) 
and distribution and selling costs £54,000 (2014: £6,000).  76
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
15. Property, plant and equipment continued
The net book amount of land and buildings comprises: 
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Freehold land 450 450
Freehold buildings 3,287 3,384
Net book amount 3,737 3,834
Land and buildings are stated at historical cost.
All of the Groups banking facilities remain secured by a fixed and floating charge over the carrying value of assets (land and buildings) 
of £3,737,000 (2014: £3,834,000).
16. Deferred income tax assets
A deferred tax asset of £1,591,000 (2014: £2,163,000) is recognised in respect of tax losses, future deductions for LTIP payments and other 
temporary differences.
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Taxable temporary differences on property, plant and equipment (1,091) (933)
Taxable temporary differences on intangible assets (182) (168)
Other temporary differences 45 93
Temporary differences on LTIP payments 749 909
Unutilised tax losses – 420
(479) 321
Retirement benefit obligations 2,070 1,842
1,591 2,163
The movements in the deferred tax asset on retirement benefit obligations are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
At the Balance Sheet date the Group has gross unused UK tax losses of £2.8 million (2014: £6.3 million) available for offset against 
future profits. 
The March 2013 UK Budget Announcement included further proposals to reduce the main rate of corporation tax to 20% from 1 April 
2015. These changes were substantively enacted on 2 July 2013 and are therefore reflected in the deferred tax balances in these 
financial statements.
Potential deferred tax assets at 31 January 2015 of £579,000 (2014: £856,000) relating to UK tax losses and deductible temporary 
differences have not been recognised as it is not considered probable that recovery of the potential deferred tax asset will arise under 
existing tax legislation. These are summarised in the table below and comprise the following: 
• No deferred tax has been recognised on £2.8 million (2014: £4.2 million) of gross UK losses as these are not readily available for offset 
against the Group’s future profits under existing tax legislation and therefore the realisation of these losses is not considered probable. 
• In addition, there are gross tax losses in Overseas subsidiaries of £1,489,000 (2014: £1,908,000) which are available for offset against 
future taxable profits by those subsidiaries. However, the realisation of these losses is not considered probable in the foreseeable future. 
• Other deductible temporary differences which predominantly arise on LTIP payment reserves.
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Unutilised tax losses – UK 569 846
Unutilised tax losses – Overseas 298 663
Other deductible temporary differences – UK 10 10
877 1,519
There are also unutilised capital tax losses at 31 January 2015 of £2,485,000 (2014: £2,485,000) but no deferred tax asset has been 
recognised as it is not considered probable that these losses will be utilised. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
CONTINUED 77
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
17. Inventories
2015 
£000
2014 
£000 
(Restated)
Raw materials 2,091 1,982
Work in progress 1,777 1,825
Finished goods 18,136 15,899
22,004 19,706
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to £22,202,000 (2014: £23,978,000). 
The value of inventories providing security under the Barclays Bank PLC facility, if it were to be fully drawn, was £5,408,000 
(2014: £4,697,000). This facility was not utilised at either year end.
Restatement
Certain assets have been reclassified from trade and other receivables to inventories to better reflect the nature of these items. The financial 
effect is to increase inventories by £1,278,000 as at 31 January 2014 and to decrease marketing materials by the same amount. 
18. Trade and other receivables
Current
2015 
£000
2014 
£000 
(Restated)
Trade receivables 10,292 9,891
Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables (371) (563)
Net trade receivables 9,921 9,328
Other receivables 767 611
Marketing materials 1,482 969
Prepayments 1,960 1,698
14,130 12,606
The value of trade receivables providing funding under the Barclays facility was £8,080,000 (2014: £7,704,000).
As stated in note 17, the marketing materials as at 31 January 2014 have been decreased by £1,278,000. 
There is no material difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the trade and other receivables.
Credit quality of financial assets
(i) Neither past due nor impaired
Included in the Group’s trade receivable balances are receivables with a carrying value of £6,078,000 (2014: £6,299,000) which are neither 
past due nor impaired at the reporting date. The nature of the Group’s business means that it has a long-standing relationship with the 
majority of its customers, who either have no experience of historical default or only temporary late payments with full recovery of 
balances due. 
For the Group’s cash at bank, and the receivable component of derivative financial instruments, the counterparty to the financial 
instruments is a major UK bank, and the Group does not consider there to be any significant credit risk from holding these financial assets.  78
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
18. Trade and other receivables continued
(ii) Past due – not individually impaired
Included in the Group’s trade receivable balances are receivables with a carrying value of £3,841,000 (2014: £3,305,000) which are past 
due at the reporting date for which the Group does not consider the need to create a specific impairment provision against individually 
identified receivable. The table below shows the aging analysis of the receivables:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
1 – 30 days past due 2,385 2,111
31 – 60 days past due 1,204 1,023
61 – 90 days past due 209 169
91+ days past due 43 2
3,841 3,305
The Directors believe however, that in the current economic environment there is objective evidence of credit deterioration and an 
impairment of £223,000 (2014: £289,000) representing a collective assessment of risk against receivables that are yet to be specifically 
identified. Due to the nature of the Group’s products, there is a limited amount of inventory left in the possession of customers that could 
act as collateral under terms of trade. As the value of this inventory is immaterial, it has not been disclosed in the financial statements. 
(iii) Past due – individually impaired
As at 31 January 2015, trade receivables of £373,000 (2014: £287 ,000) were individually determined to be impaired and provided for. 
The amount of the provision was £148,000 (2014: £274,000). The main factors used to assess the impairment of trade receivables is the age of 
the balance and circumstances of the individual customer. It has been assessed that a proportion of the receivables is expected to be recovered. 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Sterling 8,984 8,402
Dollars 103 31
Euros 1,477 1,427
Other 124 79
10,688 9,939
The Group considers that any exposure to concentrations of credit risk will be impacted principally by underlying economic conditions in 
the principal geographical territories in which the Group operates. As at the Balance Sheet date the carrying value of trade receivables by 
geographical territory of the customer was:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
United Kingdom 6,952 6,228
Continental Europe 1,577 1,774
United States of America 181 296
Rest of the World 1,211 1,030
9,921 9,328
Provisions for impairment
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
At 1 February (563) (535)
Provision for receivables impaired (20) (184)
Receivables written off in the year as uncollectible 123 124
Unused amounts reversed 89 32
At 31 January (371) (563)
The creation and release of provisions for impaired trade receivables have been included within distribution and selling costs in the 
Income Statement.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
CONTINUED 79
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
19. Derivative financial instruments
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges – (liability)/asset (195) 153
Forward foreign exchange contracts
The Group’s US based subsidiary, Walker Greenbank Inc., sells products to local customers with sales invoiced in US dollars. As the Group’s 
presentation currency is sterling it is exposed to changes in the reported sterling value of these sales. The Group considers that it is highly 
probable that future sales of this nature will continue to arise over at least the next 12 months. 
During the year the Company has entered into monthly forward foreign exchange contracts up to February 2016, with a third party, to buy 
sterling and sell dollars. The Group has designated these contracts as cash flow hedges of the foreign currency risk arising from the highly 
probable future forecast sales transactions. As at the reporting date the fair value of the forward foreign contracts relating to the benefit 
on these anticipated future transactions is a liability of £195,000 (2014: asset of £153,000). 
The amounts deferred in equity will be released into the Income Statement in the period or periods during which the hedged forecast 
transactions impact the Income Statement, which is expected to be within 15 months of the Balance Sheet date.
The Brands make more purchases from the Eurozone than sales made to the Eurozone. As the Group’s presentation currency is sterling it is 
exposed to changes in the reported sterling value of the purchases. The Group considers that the level of this exposure will reduce over the 
next 12 months. As at the reporting date there were no euro forward foreign currency contracts. 
Swap foreign exchange contracts
The Group uses swap contracts to manage its working capital exchange risk from both the foreign subsidiaries and the balances on 
receivables, payables and cash held in foreign currency. These swap contracts are designated as Fair Value through the Income Statement.
The use of swaps are reviewed monthly and renewed when necessary.
The USD swap contract held at the Balance Sheet date was closed on 27 February 2015 and at the year end had a fair value liability of £Nil 
(2014: fair value liability of £Nil). The Euro swap contracts held at the Balance Sheet date were closed on 27 February 2015 and at the year 
end had a fair value asset of £Nil (2014: fair value asset of £Nil). 
20. Cash and cash equivalents
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Cash at bank and in hand 971 2,830
There is a set off arrangement for bank accounts held with the UK clearing bank, and accordingly the amounts stated above represent the 
net of accounts in funds and in overdraft.
In the prior year, of the above balance, £666,000 (USD $900,000) was held as security under a letter of credit by Wells Fargo in relation to 
the New York showroom refit to the benefit of the party undertaking the building work.
21. Trade and other payables
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Trade payables 12,087 11,881
Corporation tax 566 –
Other taxes and social security 1,363 1,878
Other payables and deferred revenue 595 419
Accruals 5,504 4,857
20,115 19,035 80
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
22. Borrowings
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Current:
Term loan 400 400
400 400
Non-Current:
Term loan 600 995
Committed facility (31) (53)
569 942
Total borrowings 969 1,342
In January 2013, the Group agreed terms to renew the Receivables facilities from Barclays Bank PLC for a three-year period and to cancel 
the existing Inventory facility and replace it with a new £2.5 million Committed facility for a three-year period. The total facilities from 
Barclays Bank PLC comprises: a variable rate Term Loan secured on the Group’s freehold property which is being repaid on a ten-year 
profile, a Committed facility whose availability is determined by the level of finished goods held by the Brands and a Receivables Financing 
Agreement which provides three year variable rate floating loans secured on the eligible trade receivables at any point in time (the working 
capital facilities). The working capital facilities may be drawn down in either sterling or euro. 
The total Barclays Bank PLC facilities are capped at £16.5 million (2014: £16.5 million); the utilisation of the facilities at the year end was 
£969,000 (2014: £1,342,000). The term loan bears interest at variable rates based on a margin above the Bank of England base rate. The 
working capital facilities bear finance costs in the form of discount charges which are calculated periodically and vary at margins above the 
base rate published by the Bank of England (for sterling loans) or the European Central Bank (for Euro loans). The Committed Facility bears 
interest at a variable rate based on a margin above the Bank of England base rate.
Under the Barclays Bank PLC facilities, the Group is subject to a financial covenant which applies to the term loan, being interest cover. 
The receivables financing agreement require compliance with a number of operational covenants. Any non-compliance with covenants 
could, if not remedied or waived, constitute an event of default with respect to any such arrangements. The Group has reported to Barclays 
Bank PLC that it was in full compliance with its financial and operational covenants throughout each of the periods presented. 
The fair value of current borrowings equal their carrying amount, as the impact of discounting is not significant. The carrying amounts 
and fair value of the non-current borrowings are as follows:
 Carrying amount Fair value
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Term loan 600 995 603 1,000
Committed facility (31) (53) – –
569 942 603 1,000
The fair values are based on cash flows discounted using a weighted average rate based on the borrowing rate of 1.75% (2014: 1.75%). 
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period to contractual 
maturity at the Balance Sheet date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. The maturity profile 
of undiscounted cash flows on variable interest rate borrowings has assumed interest rates as at the Balance Sheet date.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
CONTINUED 81
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
22. Borrowings continued
31 January 2015
Less than 
1 year 
£000
Between 
1 to 2 years 
£000
Between 
2 to 5 years
 £000
Over 
5 years
 £000
Borrowings 400 614 – –
Trade and other payables 18,186 – – –
18,586 614 – –
31 January 2014
Less than 
1 year 
£000
Between
 1 to 2 years 
£000
Between 
2 to 5 years 
£000
Over 
5 years 
£000
Borrowings 400 821 211 –
Trade and other payables 17,157 – – –
17,557 821 211 –
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Sterling 969 1,342
23. Retirement benefit obligation
Defined contribution schemes
The Group contributes to the defined contribution section of the Abaris Holdings Limited Pension Scheme and to a Group Personal Pension 
Plan which is also a defined contribution scheme. Contributions are charged to the Income Statement as incurred and amounted to 
£445,000 (2014: £454,000). Active members of the schemes are also able to make contributions. 
Defined benefit schemes
Walker Greenbank PLC operates two defined benefit schemes in the UK which both offer pensions in retirement and death benefits 
to members: the Walker Greenbank Pension Plan and the Abaris Holdings Limited Pension Scheme. Pension benefits are related to the 
members’ final salary at retirement and their length of service. The schemes are closed to new members and to future accrual of benefits. 
This disclosure excludes any defined contribution assets and liabilities.
The Group’s contributions to the schemes for the year beginning 1 February 2015 are expected to be £1,723,000.
Full actuarial valuations of the schemes were carried out as at 5 April 2012 and have been updated to 31 January 2015 by a qualified 
independent actuary. The major assumptions used by the actuary were (in nominal terms) as follows:
2015 2014
Discount rate 3.15% 4.45%
Inflation assumption (RPI) 2.65% 3.30%
Inflation assumption (CPI) 1.65% 2.40%
Rate of increase in salaries 2.65% 3.30%
Rate of increase to pensions in payment, that increase in line with RPI subject to a maximum of 5% pa 2.60% 3.10%
Rate of increase to pensions (in excess of GMP) in deferment 1.65% 2.40%
The mortality assumptions imply the expected future lifetime from age 65 as follows:
2015 2014
Non-pensioner male currently 45 23.8 23.7
Pensioner male currently 65 22.4 22.3
Non-pensioner female currently 45 26.4 26.3
Pensioner female currently 65 24.9 24.8 82
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
23. Retirement benefit obligation continued
The fair value of the assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short term and may be subject to significant change before they 
are realised, and the present value of the schemes’ liabilities, which are derived from cash flow projections over long periods and thus 
inherently uncertain, were:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Equities, absolute return and property 25,750 22,117
Fixed interest gilts 10,608 1,637
Fixed interest bonds 5,950 5,387
Index-linked gilts 13,916 17,138
Insured annuities 1,246 1,227
Cash and other 1,144 1,629
Fair value of scheme assets 58,614 49,135
The actual return on assets over the year was a gain of £10,260,000 (2014: gain of £632,000).
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Present value of funded obligations (68,966) (58,343)
Fair value of scheme assets 58,614 49,135
Deficit in funded scheme (10,352) (9,208)
Net liability in balance sheet 10,352 9,208
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of the present value of the defined benefit obligation
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Benefit obligation at beginning of year 58,343 57,493
Interest cost 2,552 2,545
Net re-measurement losses – financial 10,092 547
Net re-measurement gains – demographic – (352)
Benefits paid (2,021) (1,890)
Benefit obligation at end of year 68,966 58,343
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of the fair value of plan assets
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 49,135 49,255
Interest income on scheme assets 2,179 2,212
Return on assets, excluding interest income 8,081 (1,580)
Contributions by employers 1,665 1,673
Benefits paid (2,021) (1,890)
Scheme administrative cost (425) (535)
Fair value of scheme assets at end of year 58,614 49,135
Re-measurements of the net defined benefit liability/(asset) to be shown in the Statement of Comprehensive Income
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Net re-measurement – financial 10,092 547
Net re-measurement – demographic – (352)
Return on assets, excluding interest income (8,081) 1,580
Total re-measurements of the net defined benefit liability 2,011 1,775
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
CONTINUED 83
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
23. Retirement benefit obligation continued
Sensitivity analysis
The table below shows the impact on the defined benefit obligation of changing each of the most significant assumptions in isolation. 
The figures in the table as at 31 January 2015 have been calculated using the same valuation method that was used to calculate the 
defined benefit obligation above. The figures in the table as at 31 January 2014 have been calculated by applying the same percentage 
increase or decrease as at 31 January 2015.
Impact on scheme liabilities 
2015 (£m)
Impact on scheme liabilities 
2014 (£m)
Change in assumption Increase Decrease Increase Decrease
Discount rate 0.25% movement (3.0) 3.2 (2.3) 2.5
Rate of inflation (RPI)* 0.25% movement 1.6 (1.6) 1.2 (1.2)
Rate of inflation (CPI)* 0.25% movement 0.7 (0.7) 0.5 (0.5)
Assumed life expectancy 1 year movement 2.8 (2.8) 1.8 (1.9)
Extrapolation of the sensitivity analysis beyond the ranges shown may not be appropriate.
* With corresponding changes to the salary and pension increase assumptions.
History of schemes’ assets, obligations and experience adjustments
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
Present value of defined benefit obligation (68,966) (58,343) (57,493) (54,433) (47,044)
Fair value of scheme’s assets 58,614 49,135 49,255 47,338 40,302
Deficit in the schemes (10,352) (9,208) (8,238) (7,095) (6,742)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities (10,092) (195) (3,036) (6,864) (1,559)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets 8,081 (1,580) 1,013 5,460 1,718
24. Financial instruments by category 
The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below:
31 January 2015
Loans and 
receivables 
£000
Assets 
at fair value 
£000
Derivatives 
used for 
hedging 
£000
Total 
£000
Assets as per Balance Sheet
Trade and other receivables 10,688 – – 10,688
Cash and cash equivalents 971 – – 971
Total 11,659 – – 11,659
31 January 2015
Liabilities 
at fair value 
£000
Other 
financial 
liabilities 
£000
Derivatives 
used for 
hedging 
£000
Total 
£000
Liabilities as per Balance Sheet
Derivative financial instruments – – 195 195
Borrowings – 969 – 969
Trade and other payables – 18,186 – 18,186
Total – 19,155 195 19,350 84
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
24. Financial instruments by category continued
31 January 2014
Loans and 
receivables 
£000
Assets at fair 
value 
£000
Derivatives 
used for 
hedging 
£000
Total 
£000
Assets as per Balance Sheet
Derivative financial instruments – – 153 153
Trade and other receivables 9,939 – – 9,939
Cash and cash equivalents 2,830 – – 2,830
Total 12,769 – 153 12,922
31 January 2014
Liabilities 
at fair value 
£000
Other financial 
liabilities 
£000
Derivatives 
used for 
hedging 
£000
Total 
£000
Liabilities as per Balance Sheet
Borrowings – 1,342 – 1,342
Trade and other payables – 17,157 – 17,157
Total – 18,499 – 18,499
25. Share Capital
Ordinary shares of 1p each:
Number 
of shares £
Authorised share capital:
1 February 2013, 31 January 2014 and 31 January 2015 85,000,000 850,000
Allotted and fully paid:
31 January 2015 59,762,559 597,626
1 February 2013 and 31 January 2014 59,006,162 590,062
All holders of ordinary shares have the right to vote at general meetings of the Company and to distributions from dividends or on winding 
up of the Company. 
On 19 May 2014, 756,397 shares of 1p each were allotted at par value. On 22 May 2014, 1,849,663 shares vested under the Company’s 
Long-term Incentive Plan of which 997,008 shares were issued from the Walker Greenbank PLC Employee Benefit Trust. 
Following these transactions Walker Greenbank’s issued ordinary share capital with voting rights consists of 59,762,559 (2014: 59,006,162) 
ordinary shares of which no (2014: nil) ordinary shares are held in treasury and a further 188,272 (2014: 240,611) ordinary shares are held 
by the Walker Greenbank PLC EBT with a cost of £347,362 (2014: £49,427). Shares held in treasury or by the EBT are treated as cancelled 
when calculating EPS.
 
On 20 May 2013, 1,839,250 shares vested under the Company’s Long-Term Incentive Plan and these were issued from the Walker 
Greenbank PLC Employee Benefit Trust.
The market value of shares held by the EBT at 31 January 2015 was £376,544 (2014: £392,196). The total number of shares held in the EBT 
at the year end represented 0.3% (2014: 0.4%) of the issued shares.
The shares held by the EBT and the treasury shares are held for the purpose of satisfying awards under long-term incentive plans to 
Executive Directors and senior management. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
CONTINUED 85
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
25. Share Capital continued
Long-term Incentive Plans (‘LTIPs’)
The Group operates a Long-term Incentive Plan. There have been eight awards under this plan, in which Executive Directors and senior 
management of the Group participate. The first award vested during 2009, the second vested during 2011, the third, fourth, fifth and sixth 
vesting in subsequent years. The LTIP has previously been approved by the shareholders at an Annual General Meeting. 
Awards under the scheme are granted in the form of nil-priced share options, and are to be satisfied either using market-purchased shares 
or by the issuing of new shares. The awards vest in full or in part dependent on the satisfaction of specified performance targets at the end 
of the vesting period applying to each plan. The number of awards that vest is dependent upon both the adjusted profit before tax (‘PBT’) 
achieved for the relevant year or the Group’s Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) during the vesting period within a comparator group. Details 
are set out below:
Award Six Award Seven Award Seven Award Eight Award Eight
Grant date of awards 18 May 2012 16 May 2013 16 May 2013 28 May 2014 28 May 2014
Grant date fair value of award 
(pence per award) 36.76 77.73 107.14 108.4 181.04
Vesting date of awards 18 May 2015 16 May 2016 16 May 2016 28 May 2017 28 May 2017
Maximum number of awards 1,500,842 514,915 514,915 344,091 344,091
Vesting condition based on TSR with PBT floor TSR with PBT floor EPS growth TSR with PBT floor EPS growth
Relevant date for determination of 
vesting conditions
TSR as at  
18 May 2015
TSR as at  
13 May 2016
EPS for year ending 
31 January 2016
TSR as at  
26 May 2017
EPS for year ending 
31 January 2017
PBT for year ending 
31 January 2015
PBT for year ending 
31 January 2016
PBT for year ending 
31 January 2017
Further details of vesting conditions are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 43.
Award Six includes vesting conditions that are market based, and allowance for these are included within the fair value at grant date. 
Award Seven and Eight have half the award based on vesting conditions that are market based and half based on the growth in adjusted 
EPS. The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year (Award Eight) that related to market based vesting conditions was 
determined using the Monte-Carlo valuation model at 108.40p per option. The significant inputs into the model were weighted average 
share price of 186.5p at the grant date, exercise price shown above, dividend yield of 0.99%, an expected option life of three years, and 
an annual risk-free interest rate of 1.02%. The volatility measured at the standard deviation of continuously compounded share returns is 
based on statistical analysis of daily share prices over the last three years. The fair value of the options granted based on vesting conditions 
of growth in EPS was determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model was 181.04p. Refer to note 11 for the total expense recognised in 
the Income Statement for share options granted to Directors and employees.
Movements in the number of awards outstanding, assuming maximum achievement of vesting conditions are as follows:
2015 
Number
2014 
Number
At 1 February 4,370,336 5,467,505
Granted 688,182 1,029,831
Exercised (1,849,663) (1,839,250)
Lapsed (351,751) (287,750)
At 31 January 2,857,104 4,370,336
26. Capital reserve
Capital reserve represents: £000
Share premium of companies acquired under merger accounting principles 1,276
Capital reserve arising on consolidation 293
Capital redemption reserve on capital restructurings 41,888
At 31 January 2015 and 2014 43,457 86
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
27. Dividends
During the year, the Group has paid a final dividend for the year to 31 January 2014 of 1.57p and an interim dividend of 0.35p (£209,000) 
for the year to 31 January 2015 (2014: 0.28p, £165,000).
The Group will continue to invest in the future growth of the business and to continue to pay dividends.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 1.96p per share (2014: 1.57p per share) which will be payable on 7 August 
2015 to shareholders on the register at 17 July 2015, giving a cost of £1,153,750 (2014: £923,000). This brings the total dividend for the 
year to 2.31p (2014: 1.85p).
28. Cash generated from operations 
2015 
£000
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
(Restated)
2014 
£000
Profit before tax: 6,329 5,495
Defined benefit pension charge 798 868
Net borrowing costs 208 180
Depreciation 1,798 1,774
Amortisation 551 443
(Gain)/Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (17) 15
Charge for long-term incentive plan recognised in equity 629 467
Long-term incentive plan vesting (1,584) (936)
Unrealised foreign exchange (gains)/ losses included in operating profit (271) 114
Defined benefit pension cash contributions (1,665) (1,673)
Changes in working capital
Increase in inventories (2,298) (2,232)
Increase in trade and other receivables (1,524) (445)
Increase in trade and other payables 514 2,095
(2,861) 670
Cash generated from operations 3,468 6,165
29. Analysis of net funds
1 February 
2014
£000
Cash flow
£000
Current 
portion of 
term facilities
£000
Other 
non-cash 
changes
£000
31 January 
2015
£000
Cash and cash equivalent 2,830 (1,859) – – 971
Borrowings due within one year (400) 400 (400) – (400)
Borrowings due after one year (942) – 400 (27) (569)
(1,342) 400 – (27) (969)
Net funds 1,488 (1,459) – (27) 2
Other non-cash changes are capitalisation and amortisation of the issue costs relating to the borrowings.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
CONTINUED 87
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
30. Commitments
a) Capital commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the Balance Sheet date but not yet incurred is as follows:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Property, plant and equipment 74 700
b) Lease Commitments
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain office properties. Land and building leases are negotiated 
for an average of 14 years and rentals are fixed for an average of five years. Other leases are negotiated for an average term of three years 
and rentals are fixed for an average of three years. 
Total commitments due under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 
Land and 
buildings 
2015
 £000
Other 
2015
 £000
Land and 
buildings 
2014
 £000
Other
 2014
 £000
Within one year 1,857 399 1,490 318
Between one and five years 5,844 633 5,942 364
Over five years 4,080 62 7,213 –
11,781 1,094 14,645 682
Other leases include hire of plant, machinery and motor vehicles.
31. Principal subsidiary undertakings
The principal Group operating companies that traded during the year, and are wholly owned, and which are included in these consolidated 
financial statements are as follows:
Abaris Holdings Limited – registered in England and Wales
Walker Greenbank Inc* – incorporated in the USA
Arthur Sanderson & Sons Inc* – incorporated in the USA
Arthur Sanderson & Sons SARL* – incorporated in France
* Shares held by subsidiary company.
For a full list of subsidiary companies, please contact the Company Secretary at the Group’s registered address.
Investments in Group companies are ordinary shares.
The principal activities of the Group including all subsidiaries are design, manufacture, marketing and distribution of wallcoverings, 
furnishing fabrics and associated products for the consumer market. 88
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Report on the parent Company financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Walker Greenbank PLC’s parent Company financial 
statements (the ‘financial statements’):
• give a true and fair view of the state of the parent Company’s 
affairs as at 31 January 2015;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited
Walker Greenbank PLC’s financial statements comprise:
• the Company balance sheet as at 31 January 2015; and
• the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary 
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
In applying the financial reporting framework, the Directors have 
made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect 
of significant accounting estimates. In making such estimates, they 
have made assumptions and considered future events.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Other matters on which we are required to report 
by exception
Adequacy of accounting records and information and 
explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the financial statements are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 39, the Directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only 
for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. 
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is 
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing. 89
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
What an audit of financial statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent 
Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the Directors; and 
• the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ 
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, 
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other 
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide 
a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit 
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the group financial statements 
of Walker Greenbank PLC for the year ended 31 January 2015.
John Minards (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
St Albans
1 May 2015
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the Walker Greenbank PLC website is the responsibility 
of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of 
these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes 
that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented 
on the website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 90
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
AT 31 JANUARY 2015
Note
2015
£000
2014
£000
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 4 13 23
Investments 5 44,301 44,061
44,314 44,084
Current assets and liabilities 
Debtors 6 14,017 13,818
Cash at bank and in hand – –
14,017 13,818
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 (7,407) (6,365)
Net current assets 6,610 7,453
Total assets less current liabilities 50,924 51,537
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 9 (569) (942)
Net assets 50,355 50,595
Capital and reserves
Called up Share capital 11 598 590
Share premium account 12 457 457
Profit and loss account 12 7,412 7,660
Capital reserves 12 41,888 41,888
Total shareholders’ funds 50,355 50,595
The financial statements on pages 90 to 98 were approved by the Board of Directors on 1 May 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
 
John Sach
Director
Registered number: 61880
 
Mike Gant
Director  91
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Accounting policies
Accounting convention
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention. They have been prepared 
in accordance with applicable accounting standards and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, with the Companies 
Act 2006, and with the accounting policies set out below which have been consistently applied to all periods presented unless 
otherwise indicated. 
Going Concern
The Company meets its day to day working capital requirements through its banking facilities. The Company’s forecasts and projections, 
taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance show that the Company will be able to operate within the level of its 
current facilities as disclosed in note 9.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Therefore the Company continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
Profit and loss account
No Profit and loss account is presented for Walker Greenbank PLC (‘the Company’) as it has applied the exemption provided by Section 408 
of the Companies Act 2006. 
A profit of £2,370,000 (2014: £2,188,000) has been dealt with in the financial statements of the Company.
Consolidation
These financial statements present information relating to the entity Walker Greenbank PLC, and are not consolidated. The consolidated 
financial statements of Walker Greenbank PLC and its subsidiaries (‘the Group’) of which the Company is the parent are separately 
presented within the Annual Report and Accounts and are prepared in accordance with IFRS. 
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and 
the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. Depreciation is charged on tangible fixed assets on 
a straight-line basis on the original cost after deduction of any estimated residual value. The principal annual rates are:
Plant, equipment and vehicles Between 5% and 33%
Computer assets   Between 12.5% and 33% 
Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are recorded at cost plus incidental expenses less any provision for impairment. Impairment reviews 
are performed by the Directors when there has been an indication of potential impairment.
Impairment of tangible fixed assets and investments
Tangible fixed assets and investments are subject to review for impairment in accordance with FRS 11. Where impairment triggers are 
identified the recoverable amount of the relevant asset, or group of assets within a cash generating unit, is determined, being the higher of 
value in use and net realisable value. If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount an impairment loss is calculated. 
Any impairment is recognised in the Profit and loss account in the year in which it occurs. Where impairments have been identified in prior 
years and recoverable amount was based on value in use, an updated discounted cash flow is prepared annually to assess whether the 
previous impairment in value has reversed. When all conditions are met, the impairment is reversed and recognised in the profit and loss 
account in the year in which the reversal occurs.
Financial instruments
The Company is listed on the Alternative Investment Market regulated by The London Stock Exchange. It is not required to adopt FRS 26 
‘Financial Instruments: Measurement’ or FRS 29 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ in these financial statements, and has not elected to 
voluntarily do so. 
The Company continues to adopt the amortised cost basis of accounting for financial instruments, and has not elected to voluntarily apply 
fair value measurements of financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments.  92
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
1. Accounting policies continued
Foreign currencies
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the Balance Sheet date. 
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates ruling at the date of transaction. All differences are taken to the profit and 
loss account.
Further disclosure of the Group’s financial risk management policies is included in note 2 of the consolidated financial statements of the 
Group which are separately presented from this Company’s financial statements. 
Employee share ownership plan (‘ESOP’)
Where the Company’s issued share capital is acquired by an ESOP trust sponsored by the Company the cost of acquisition is deducted from 
the Profit and loss reserve in accordance with UITF Abstract 38. 
Employee benefits – share based payments under long-term incentive plans (‘LTIPs’)
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees of the Group which are measured at fair value and are 
recognised as an expense in the Profit and loss account with a corresponding increase in equity. 
The fair values of these payments are measured at the dates of grant, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards 
are granted. The fair value is recognised over the period during which employees become conditionally entitled to the awards, subject to the 
Group’s estimate of the number of awards which will lapse, either due to employees leaving the Group prior to vesting or due to non-market 
based performance conditions not being met. The total amount recognised in the Profit and loss account as an expense is adjusted to reflect 
the actual number of awards that vest.
National insurance contributions, related to the awards are recognised as an expense in the Profit and loss account with a corresponding 
liability being recorded on the Balance Sheet.
The Company has applied the amendment to FRS 20 ‘Share based payments – Group and treasury shares’. This is consistent with the 
requirements of UITF 44 which the Company adopted in previous years.
Under these requirements a portion of the fair value of awards granted to employees providing services to the Company’s subsidiary 
companies are recognised as an additional investment in those subsidiaries, and not as an expense of the Company with a corresponding 
credit to equity. 
Employee benefits – pensions
The Walker Greenbank Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes for the benefit of its employees. 
Further details of these schemes are included in note 23 of the consolidated financial statements of the Group. 
Defined benefit pension schemes are accounted for within the separate financial statements of the Company’s trading subsidiary, 
Abaris Holdings Limited. The Company recognises contributions to defined contribution schemes in respect of its employees as expenses 
when incurred. 
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares are shown in equity as a deduction, 
net of tax, from the proceeds. Dividend distribution is set by the board on a regular basis so long as sufficient funds are available.
Treasury shares
Consideration paid including any directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes) on the purchase of the Company’s equity 
share capital (treasury shares) is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are cancelled or 
reissued. The EBT is treated as an agent of the Company and as such EBT transactions are treated as being those of the Company. 
Where such shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and 
the related income tax effects, and is included in equity attributable to the Company’s equity shareholders. 93
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
1. Accounting policies continued
Deferred taxation
Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the Balance Sheet date and that give 
rise to an obligation to pay more tax or a right to pay less tax in the future. Deferred tax is calculated using the average rates that are expected 
to apply when the timing differences reverse, based on tax rates that have been substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date. 
No provision has been made for any liability arising from the distribution of past earnings of subsidiary undertakings. 
Deferred tax assets are only recognised when it is more likely than not that they will be recovered in the foreseeable future. 
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases where the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
Company. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets used by the Company which have been funded through finance leases are capitalised in tangible fixed assets and the resulting lease 
obligations are included in liabilities. The assets are capitalised at the leases commencement, at the lower of fair value of the leased assets 
and the present value of the minimum lease payments. The assets are depreciated over their useful lives and the interest element of the 
rental obligations is charged to the Profit and loss account over the period of the lease, and represents a constant proportion of the balance 
of capital repayments outstanding.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period of the lease. Rent free periods 
receivable on entering an operating lease are released on a straight line basis to the next break point in the lease. 
Cash flow statement and related party transactions
The Company has applied the exemption available in FRS 8 and has decided not to disclose transactions with wholly owned 
subsidiary undertakings.
In addition, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement on the basis that it is consolidated 
into a group which produces a consolidated cash flow statement and whose accounts are publicly available.
For details of other related party transactions see note 16.
2. Auditors’ remuneration 
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Audit fee – fees payable to the Company auditor for the audit of the parent Company and the consolidation of the 
Group financial statements 55 55
3. Emoluments of Directors
Salary 
£000
Bonus 
£000
LTIP 
£000
Benefits 
£000
Sub-total 
Aggregate 
emoluments 
£000
Pension 
£000
Compensation 
for loss of 
office 
£000
2015 
Total
 £000
2014 
Total 
£000
Executive Directors:
John Sach 253 177 1,091 1 1,522 38 – 1,560 1,143
David Smallridge 181 117 865 1 1,164 27 – 1,191 821
Mike Gant (appointed 3 March 2014) 174 133 – 1 308 26 – 334 –
Alan Dix (resigned 30 April 2014) 36 – 625 1 662 11 76 749 503
Non-executive Directors:
Terry Stannard 68 – – – 68 – – 68 66
Fiona Goldsmith 31 – – – 31 – – 31 30
743 427 2,581 4 3,755 102 76 3,933 2,563 94
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
3. Emoluments of Directors continued
In both years, retirement benefits were accruing to one Director under a defined benefit scheme, who is the highest paid Director. Accrued 
annual pension benefits at the year end were £13,862 (2014: £13,153). Benefits are accruing under defined contribution schemes for three 
Directors (2014: three Directors). 
Benefits are accruing under defined contribution schemes for three Directors (2014: three Directors).
Further information on the remuneration of the Directors is included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report which is included on pages 40 
to 43 of the Group’s Annual Report and Financial Statements.
4. Tangible fixed assets
Plant, 
equipment 
and vehicles
£000
Computer 
assets
£000
Total
£000
Cost
31 January 2014 90 31 121
Additions – 3 3
31 January 2015 90 34 124
Depreciation
31 January 2014 73 25 98
Charge 10 3 13
31 January 2015 83 28 111
Net book amount
31 January 2015 7 6 13
31 January 2014 17 6 23
5. Investments
Shares in subsidiary undertakings
2015
£000
2014
£000
Cost:
As at 1 February 45,099 44,926
Additions 240 173
As at 31 January 45,339 45,099
Provision for impairment:
Beginning of year and end of year (1,038) (1,038)
Net book amount at 31 January 2015 and 2014 44,301 44,061
Additions in both years relate to the application of the Company’s accounting policy on share based payments under FRS 20.
Walker Greenbank PLC is registered and domiciled in the United Kingdom. It is the parent Company of the Walker Greenbank Group. 
The principal operating companies that traded during the year, all of which are wholly owned, are as follows:
Abaris Holdings Limited – registered in England and Wales
Walker Greenbank Inc* – incorporated in the USA
Arthur Sanderson & Sons SARL* – incorporated in France
* Indicates that the shares are held by a subsidiary company.
Investments in group companies are ordinary shares.
The principal activities of the Group and its subsidiaries are design, manufacture, marketing and distribution of wallcoverings, furnishing 
fabrics and associated products for the consumer market. 95
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
5. Investments continued
The carrying value of the investment in Abaris Holdings Limited is reviewed annually by reference to its value in use to the Company. 
The value in use was calculated using future expected cash flow projections, discounted at 10.32% (2014: 6.57%) on a pre tax basis, and is 
not intended to reflect a realisable value on disposal. The Directors believe that the value of the investment is supported by their underlying 
net assets.
A full list of subsidiaries will be included with the next Annual Return of the Company.
6. Debtors 
2015
£000
2014
£000
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 12,403 12,605
Other taxes and social security 666 47
Other debtors 948 1,166
14,017 13,818
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings are non-interest bearing and are unsecured. These loans are repayable on demand by the 
Company should payment be required, but full settlement within the next twelve months is unlikely to be sought.
7. Disclosure of fair value of derivative financial instruments
2015
£000
2014
£000
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges – (liability)/asset (195) 153
Forward foreign exchange contracts
The Group’s US based subsidiary, Walker Greenbank Inc., sells products to local customers with sales invoiced in US dollars. As the Group’s 
presentation currency is sterling it is exposed to changes in the reported sterling value of these sales. The Group considers that it is highly 
probable that future sales of this nature will continue to arise over at least the next 12 months. 
During the year the Company has entered into monthly forward foreign exchange contracts up to February 2016, with a third party, to buy 
sterling and sell dollars. The Group has designated these contracts as cash flow hedges of the foreign currency risk arising from the highly 
probable future forecast sales transactions. As at the reporting date the fair value of the forward foreign contracts relating to the benefit 
on these anticipated future transactions is a liability of £195,000 (2014: asset of £153,000). 
The Brands make more purchases from the Eurozone than sales made to the Eurozone. As the Group’s presentation currency is sterling it is 
exposed to changes in the reported sterling value of the purchases. The Group considers that the level of this exposure will reduce over the 
next 12 months. As at the reporting date there were no euro forward foreign currency contracts. 
Swap foreign exchange contracts
The Group uses swap contracts to manage its working capital exchange risk from both the foreign subsidiaries and the balances on 
debtors, creditors and cash held in foreign currency. 
The use of swaps are reviewed monthly and renewed when necessary.
The US dollar swap contract held at the Balance Sheet date was closed on 27 February 2015 and at the year end had a fair value liability of 
£Nil (2014: fair value liability of £Nil). The Euro swap contracts held at the Balance Sheet date were closed on 27 February 2015 and at the 
year end had a fair value asset of £Nil (2014: fair value asset of £Nil). 96
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
8. Creditors: due within one year
2015
£000
2014
£000
Bank term loans (note 9) 400 400
Bank overdrafts 1,538 792
Trade creditors 126 187
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 4,410 4,410
Other creditors 100 68
Accruals 833 508
7,407 6,365
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings are non-interest bearing and are unsecured. These loans are payable on demand by the 
Company should payment be required, but full settlement within the next twelve months is unlikely to be sought. 
9. Creditors: due after more than one year
2015
£000
2014
£000
Bank term loan 569 942
Interest is charged at 1.25 % (2014: 1.25%) over base rate.
Repayment of total borrowings
2015
£000
2014
£000
Over five years – –
Between two and five years – 542
Between one and two years 569 400
After more than one year 569 942
Within one year (note 8) 400 400
969 1,342
The Company has facilities from Barclays Bank PLC which comprises a variable rate term loan secured on the Group’s freehold property of 
£4.0 million which is being repaid on a 10 year profile. The Company arranged a new £2.5 million Committed facility on 15 January 2013 
for a period of three years. This facility replaced the Inventory facility that was in place at the end of the previous year. The availability of 
the facility is dependent upon the level of Brand finished goods. 
Under the Barclays Bank PLC facilities, the Group is subject to a financial covenant which applies to the term loan, being interest cover.
Any non-compliance with the covenant could, if not remedied or waived, constitute an event of default with respect to any 
such arrangements. 
The Group has reported to Barclays Bank PLC that it was in full compliance with its financial and operational covenants throughout each 
of the periods presented. 
There is a set off arrangement for Group bank accounts held with Barclays Bank PLC.  97
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
10. Deferred taxation
Potential deferred tax assets at 31 January 2015 of £580,000 (2014: £857,000) relating to tax losses and deductible temporary differences 
have not been recognised as it is not considered probable that recovery will arise.
2015
£000
2014
£000
Tax losses 570 846
Other timing differences 10 11
580 857
There are also unutilised capital tax losses of £4,885,000 (2014: £4,885,000) but no deferred tax asset has been recognised as it is not 
considered probable that these losses will be utilised.
11. Share capital
Ordinary shares of 1p each:
Number 
of shares £
Authorised share capital:
1 February 2014 and 31 January 2015 85,000,000 850,000
Allotted and fully paid:
31 January 2015 59,762,559 597,626
1 February 2013 and 31 January 2014 59,006,162 590,062
On 19 May 2014, 756,397 shares of 1p each were allotted at par value. On 22 May 2014, 1,849,663 shares vested under the Company’s 
Long-term Incentive Plan of which 997,008 shares were issued from the Walker Greenbank PLC Employee Benefit Trust. 
Following these transactions Walker Greenbank’s issued ordinary share capital with voting rights consists of 59,762,559 (2014: 59,006,162) 
ordinary shares of which no (2014: nil) ordinary shares are held in treasury and a further 188,272 (2014: 240,611) ordinary shares are held 
by the Walker Greenbank PLC EBT with a cost of £347,362 (2014: £49,427). Shares held in treasury or by the EBT are treated as cancelled 
when calculating EPS.
 
On 20 May 2013, 1,003,305 shares vested under the Company’s Long-Term Incentive Plan and these were issued from the Walker 
Greenbank PLC Employee Benefit Trust.
The market value of shares held by the EBT at 31 January 2015 was £376,544 (2014: £392,196). 
The shares held by the EBT and the treasury shares are held for the purpose of satisfying awards under long-term incentive plans to 
Executive Directors and senior management. 
Long-term Incentive Plans (‘LTIPs’)
The Group operates a Long-term Incentive Plan. There have been seven awards under this plan, in which Executive Directors and senior 
management of the Group participate. The LTIP has previously been approved by the shareholders at an Annual General Meeting. Further 
details are included in note 25 of the consolidated financial statements of the Group which are separately included within this Annual 
Report and Financial Statements.  98
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
12. Shareholders’ funds and reserve movements
Share capital 
£000
Share 
premium 
account
£000
Profit and loss 
account
£000
Capital reserve
£000
Total
£000
1 February 2013 590 457 6,206 41,888 49,141
Reserve for long-term incentive plans – – 166 – 166
Profit for the year – – 2,188 – 2,188
Dividends paid – – (900) – (900)
31 January 2014 590 457 7,660 41,888 50,595
Reserve for long-term incentive plans – – (1,126) – (1,126)
Profit for the year – – 2,370 – 2,370
Purchase of treasury shares – – (348) – (348)
Allotment of share capital 8 – – – 8
Dividends paid – – (1,144) – (1,144)
31 January 2015 598 457 7,412 41,888 50,355
 
Capital reserve represents: £000
Capital redemption reserve arising on capital reconstructions 41,888
13. Operating lease commitments
Annual commitments due under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Land and 
Buildings
2015
£000
Other 
2015
£000
Land and 
Buildings
2014
£000
Other
2014
£000
Operating leases which expire:
Within one year 11 – – –
Between one and five years – – 61 –
Over five years 420 – 420 –
431 – 481 –
14. Contingent liability
The Company is party to a cross guarantee relating to the borrowings of its subsidiary Abaris Holdings Limited under the funding 
arrangement with Barclays Bank PLC.
15. Post balance sheet event
The Directors have recommended the payment of a final dividend of 1.96p per share (2014: 1.57p per share), a total of £1,153,750 
(2014: £923,000). The shares held in Treasury or by the Employee Benefit Trust are excluded from receiving dividends in accordance 
with UK GAAP.
16. Related party transactions
The Company made contributions to the Walker Greenbank Group Personal Pension Plan of £115,000 for the year ended 31 January 2015 
(2014: £89,000). 99
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
FIVE YEAR RECORD
2011
£000
2012
£000
2013
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
Revenue 68,778 74,014 75,725 78,434 83,373
Overseas revenue by location of customer 22,456 25,441 27,192 28,244 27,923
Profit from operations 4,972 5,555 5,831 6,543 7,335
Profit from operations before exceptional items and discontinued operations 4,472 5,555 5,831 6,543 7,335
EBITDA* 6,210 7,001 7,175 8,903 9,684
Profit before income tax 4,462 4,894 4,934 5,495 6,329
Capital expenditure 2,636 2,538 3,119 4,753 3,250
Earnings per ordinary share 5.36p 6.76p 6.89p 8.63p 8.60p
Average number of employees 550 582 587 592 640
Dividends paid in year 368 570 711 900 1,144
Shareholders’ funds 21,393 23,052 24,182 26,852 26,937
Dividend per share
– Final (prior year end) – paid 0.50p 0.80p 1.00p 1.25p 1.57p
– Interim (current year end) – paid 0.15p 0.20p 0.23p 0.28p 0.35p
– Final (current year end) – proposed – – – – 1.96p
* EBITDA is based on profit from operations before exceptional items. 10 0
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
SHAREHOLDER INFORMA TION
Financial Calendar
Annual General Meeting 17 June 2015
Announcement of half-year results October 2015
Walker Greenbank PLC
Chalfont House
Oxford Road
Denham
UB9 4DX
T: 0845 126 5582
F: 0845 126 5583 
www.walkergreenbank.com  Stockbroker and Nomad
Investec Bank Plc
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
Independent Auditors
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
10 Bricket Road
St Albans, Herts AL1 3JX
Tax Advisers
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
10 Bricket Road
St Albans, Herts AL1 3JX
Public Relations
Buchanan Communications Ltd
107 Cheapside
London EC2V 6DN
Solicitors
DLA Piper
Noble Street
London EC2V 7EE
Registrars
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Bankers
Barclays Commercial Bank
Ashton House
497 Silbury Boulevard
Milton Keynes MK9 2LD
CORPORATE ADVISERS W alker Greenbank PLC
W alker Greenbank PLC Annual Report & Accounts 201 5
www.walkergreenbank.com
Chalfont House 
Oxford Road 
Denham UB9 4DX
United Kingdom
T el: 0845 126 5582
Fax: 0845 126 5583
