 Volution Group plc Annual Report 2015
Volution Group plc is a leading 
supplier of ventilation products 
to the residential and commercial 
construction market in the UK 
and northern Europe
Volution Group plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report
01 Highlights
02 At a Glance
04 Chairman’s Statement
06 Chief Executive Officer’s Review
08 Our Business Model
10 Innovation in Action
12 Brands in Action
14 Scale in Action
16 People in Action
18 Technology Highlight
20 Our Strategy
22 Key Performance Indicators
24 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
28 Corporate Social Responsibility
30 Operational Review
32 Financial Review
Governance Report
36 Board of Directors
38 Introduction to Governance
39 Corporate Governance
45 Nomination Committee Report
47 Audit Committee Report
53 Directors’ Remuneration Report
69 Directors’ Report
72 Directors’ Responsibility 
Statement
Financial Statements
73 Independent Auditor’s Report
79 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income
80 Consolidated Statement 
of Financial Position
81 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
82 Consolidated Statement 
of Cash Flows
83 Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
121 Parent Company Statement 
of Financial Position
122 Parent Company Statement 
of Changes in Equity
123 Parent Company Statement 
of Cash Flows 
124 Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements
Additional Information
131 Glossary of Technical Terms
132 Shareholder Information
Volution Group plc is a leading supplier of ventilation products 
to the residential and commercial construction market in the 
UK and northern Europe.
We aim for our products to enhance customers’ experience of ventilation 
by reducing energy, improving design and making them easier to use.
Find out more online 
www.volutiongroupplc.com Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 01
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Highlights
Highlights
Financial
 > Results ahead of our expectations despite significant 
currency headwinds. 
 > Revenue growth of 7.9% (12.4% at constant currency) 
comprised of: 
 > organic revenue growth of 1.0% (4.9% at constant 
currency); and
 > inorganic revenue growth of 6.9% (7.5% at constant 
currency) mainly as a result of the full year effect of the 
acquisition of inVENTer in April 2014.
 > Ventilation Group revenue growth was 10.0% (14.9% at constant 
currency) including UK Residential New Build growth of 17.7%.
 > OEM (Torin-Sifan) revenue fell slightly due to a difficult end 
market for boiler spares during the mild winter.
 > Adjusted operating profit increased by 10.9% to £29.4 million 
(18.8% at constant currency) a margin of 22.6% of revenues 
(2014: 22.0%). 
 > The Group’s reported profit before tax of £15.5 million (2014: loss 
of £15.5 million) improved significantly, helped by lower finance 
costs of £2.0 million (2014: £21.2 million) and lower exceptional 
items of £0.7 million (2014: £7.8 million).
 > Continued strong cash generation reduced year-end net debt 
to £21.2 million (2014: £42.9 million).
 > Final dividend proposed of 2.25 pence per share.
Strategic
 > Acquisition of Brüggemann Energiekonzepte GmbH based 
in Germany, for £1.6 million, completed in April 2015.
 > Integration of inVENTer completed and a number of new 
sales agent appointments in Germany are gaining traction 
with sales. Integration of Brüggemann is progressing. 
 > OEM (Torin-Sifan) electrically commutated direct current  
(EC/DC) motorised impeller manufacturing site commissioned 
and operational in October 2014.
 > New Group bank facility of £90 million, reducing gross debt 
and financing costs as well as providing more flexibility for 
potential acquisitions.
Strategic development after financial year end
 > Acquisition of Ventilair Group International BVBA based 
in Belgium and the Netherlands, for £11.6 million, completed 
on 5 August 2015 (not consolidated into the Volution Group plc 
financial statements for this financial year).
The Group uses alternative performance measures to track and assess the underlying performance of the business. These 
measures include adjusted EBITDA, adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted operating cash flow. 
Notes
1.  Details of adjusted EBITDA, adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax can be found in note 10 
to the consolidated financial statements.
2.  Details of earnings per share can be found in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.
3.  Adjusted operating cash flow is defined as adjusted EBITDA plus or minus movements in operating working 
capital, less net investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (including cash held in escrow).
4.  Net debt is defined as interest-bearing loans and borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
5.  Interim dividend of 1.05 pence per share paid on 14 May 2015 and proposed final dividend for 2014/15 
of 2.25 pence per share.
6.  For a definition of all adjusted measures see the glossary of terms in note 36 to the consolidated financial statements.
Reported profit before tax 
£m
£15.5m
Adjusted EBITDA
1
 
£m
£32.1m
Basic and diluted EPS
2
 
p
5.9p
Adjusted operating profit
1
 
£m
£29.4m
Adjusted operating 
cash flow
3
 £m
£27.6m
Adjusted operating margin 
%
22.6%
Net debt
4
 
£m
£21.2m
26.5
2014
22.8
2014
28.5
2014
22.0
2014
42.9
2014
22.2
2013
20.9
2013
23.8
2013
21.7
2013
172.7
2013
29.4
2015
27.6
2015
32.1
2015
22.6
2015
21.2
5.9
2015
Revenue 
£m
£130.2m
120.7
2014
102.3
2013
130.2
2015
Dividend per share
5
 
p
3.30p
nil
2014
nil
2013
3.30
2015
2014
(4.2)
(2.3)
2013
(15.5)
15.5
2015
(14.0)
Strategic Report
2015 2014 2013 Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 02
Strategic Report
At a Glance
Volution Group plc is a leading supplier of ventilation products 
to the residential and commercial construction market in the 
UK and northern Europe. We operate through two divisions: 
the Ventilation Group and OEM (Torin-Sifan).
Ventilation Group segment
The Ventilation Group consists of seven key brands, 
Vent-Axia, Manrose, Fresh, PAX, inVENTer, Brüggemann 
and, from 5 August 2015, Ventilair, focused primarily on 
the UK, Swedish, Norwegian, German, Belgian and Dutch 
ventilation markets. 
We are a market leader in the UK residential ventilation products 
market, the Swedish residential refurbishment ventilation products 
market and the German decentralised heat recovery residential 
ventilation systems market. With the addition of Ventilair Group, 
we also are now a leading operator in the Belgian residential 
centralised heat recovery market with a growing position in 
ventilation solutions for the commercial market.
OEM (Torin-Sifan) segment
Torin-Sifan is a leading supplier of motors, motorised impellers, 
fans and blowers for the European heating, ventilation and 
air conditioning (HVAC) industry. The majority of Torin-Sifan’s 
products are sold in the residential and commercial heating 
and ventilation products markets.
% of Volution Group revenue (by location)
% of Ventilation Group revenue (by location)
 85.6%
 83.9%
Ventilation Group
2015
2014
 48.2%
 50.9%
UK residential
2015
2014
 14.5%
 16.2%
UK commercial
2015
2014
 7.5%
 7.0%
UK overseas
2015
2014
 20.0%
 22.4%
Nordics
2015
2014
 9.8%
3.5%
Germany
2015
2014
14.4%
16.1%
OEM (Torin-Sifan)
2015
2014 Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 03
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Our recent history
The Volution Group was formed in 
December 2002 through the buy-out 
from Smiths Group plc of its air movement 
and cable management divisions.
Our Business Model
> page 8
Our Strategy
> page 20
Brands
Scale
People Innovation
Our business model
We have four key differentiators that are our pivotal 
focus: Brands, Innovation, Scale and People.
Our strategy
Our strategy continues to focus on three key pillars:
Organic growth in our core markets
Growth through a disciplined and 
value-adding acquisition strategy
Further develop Torin-Sifan’s range and 
build customer preference and loyalty
Find out more online
> www.volutiongroupplc.com
 > Cable management division sold
 > Manrose Manufacturing acquired
 > AAC Capital and Management Team 
acquires Volution Holdings
 > Ronnie George joins Volution Holdings 
as Managing Director
 > TowerBrook acquires Volution Holdings
 > Fresh AB acquired
 > PAX AB acquired
 > Assets and business of Öko-Haustechnik 
inVENTer GmbH acquired
 > Volution Group plc is formed and 
listed on the London Stock Exchange
 > Torin-Sifan opens new EC Manufacturing 
and Technology Centre in Swindon
 > Brüggemann Energiekonzepte 
GmbH acquired 
 > Ventilair Group International BVBA acquired
2015
2012
2013
2014
2008
2006
2007 Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 04
Strategic Report
Chairman’s Statement
Peter Hill, CBE
Dear Shareholder,
Welcome to the Volution Group plc Annual Report 2015, where 
we look back on another year of growth for the Group, building 
momentum for the future.
Our strategy remains unchanged. Organic growth combined 
with selective, value-adding acquisitions has supported the 
achievement of another year of strong growth in revenues 
and profitability. You can find further details on the Group’s 
three strategic pillars on pages 20 to 21.
Results
We are reporting a strong set of results for the financial year 
ended 31 July 2015 despite foreign exchange impact, reflecting 
growth, both organically* and through acquisitions, with Group 
revenue increasing by 7.9% to £130.2 million. Adjusted operating 
profit was £29.4 million, representing 22.6% of revenue and a 
£4.1 million improvement compared to the prior year pro-forma 
adjusted operating profit. The basic and diluted earnings per share 
for the year was 5.9 pence (2014: loss of 14.0 pence). Our adjusted 
earnings per share was 11.0 pence, a significant 25.0% increase 
over the pro-forma adjusted earnings per share for the prior year 
of 8.8 pence. Cash generation was strong with adjusted operating 
cash flow of £27.6 million (2014: £22.8 million). Our growth this 
year also benefited from the first full year of trading from our 
acquisition of inVENTer in Germany in April 2014. More difficult 
trading conditions were experienced in our OEM (Torin-Sifan) 
Summary
 > Successful first full financial year 
as a premium listed company
 > Strong set of results 
 > Performance in 2015 delivered 
strong momentum
*  Organic growth is a like-for-like measure of business performance (also calculated 
at constant currency to eliminate translation effects on consolidation). It includes 
the growth of recent acquisitions over the like-for-like performance of the acquired 
business in the corresponding period, irrespective of ownership, expressed as 
a percentage of prior year reported revenue. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 05
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
division with a warm winter reducing demand for some of our 
boiler spares products which resulted in a flat year-on-year 
performance in that division. 
In February 2015, the Group refinanced its bank debt and now has 
in place a £90 million revolving credit facility, maturing in April 2019. 
This new facility is provided under standard Loan Market Association 
terms and replaces the Group’s old facilities. The new facility is 
provided at a lower margin than the old facilities and the covenant 
headroom has improved. At 31 July 2015 the consolidated leverage 
ratio was 0.66%; therefore, the margin should drop to 1.00% from 
1.25%. The refinancing allows the Group to invest organically 
and in strategic acquisitions, strengthening our offering and 
geographical footprint. 
Acquisitions
During the year, Volution made good progress in its strategy 
of making selective value-adding acquisitions. The acquisition 
of Brüggemann Energiekonzepte GmbH, based in Germany, 
was completed in April 2015. Immediately after our financial year 
end (5 August 2015) the acquisition of Ventilair Group International 
BVBA, based in Belgium and the Netherlands, was completed 
and is therefore not consolidated into the Group’s financial 
statements for the year ended 31 July 2015. Both acquisitions 
were funded from the Group’s existing cash and banking facilities. 
As a Board, we evaluate each acquisition opportunity very carefully 
to ensure that it meets our strategic objectives as well as the 
financial hurdles set for investment. More details can be found 
in the Chief Executive Officer’s Review and in the Financial Review. 
Both of these acquisitions are on track to deliver revenue and 
profit growth for the Group and have been earnings enhancing. 
We very much welcome the employees of both these 
companies into the Volution Group.
Dividends
In line with our proposed dividend policy we paid our maiden interim 
dividend of 1.05 pence per share in May 2015. On the basis of our 
strong results, the Board has recommended a final dividend of 
2.25 pence per share, giving a total dividend for the financial year 
of 3.30 pence per share (2014: £nil per share). Subject to approval 
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 15 December 2015, 
the final dividend will be paid on 18 December 2015 to shareholders 
on the register at 27 November 2015.
Health, safety and environment
The Group remains committed to continuous improvement in 
health, safety and environmental matters. We remain diligent 
in monitoring and improving our processes and activities which 
have an impact on our customers, people and the environment. 
I recommend that you read the Corporate Social Responsibility 
section on pages 28 to 29 for further details.
Governance
The Group is committed to high levels of corporate governance, 
in line with its status as a company with a premium listing on the 
main market of the London Stock Exchange. During this first full 
year as a listed company, the Board and its Committees have 
settled into a pattern of business in line with the financial cycle. 
I can also confirm that, as promised in last year’s Annual Report 
and Accounts, the first Board and Committee performance 
evaluations have been undertaken. I recommend that you 
read the Corporate Governance Report on pages 38 to 44 
for further details. 
People
Volution’s success is dependent on the positive interaction 
between the Group’s employees, customers, suppliers and 
other stakeholders. We have an outstanding and committed 
group of employees and, on behalf of the Board, I would like 
to thank everyone for their hard work, commitment and 
contribution towards the Group’s performance making this 
another successful year. 
There have been no changes to the Group’s remuneration policy 
which was approved at the Annual General Meeting in 2014, details 
of which are contained in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 53 to 68. In that report you will also see that our Executive 
Directors have received a salary increase of 1% with effect from 
1 August 2015 which is in line with the average pay increase 
awarded to our employees in the UK. The interests of our 
Executive Directors and the Senior Management T eam remain 
completely aligned to those of our shareholders, with a significant 
portion of their remuneration being tied to performance targets, 
together with their significant shareholdings.
Outlook
Our strong performance during the year has built momentum for 
the future. We have executed on our strategy with good organic 
growth and completed two earnings enhancing acquisitions (one 
just after the financial year end), increasing our footprint across 
continental Europe. With a clear strategy and our experienced 
management team, we remain confident that the business is well 
positioned for further growth, and we expect to make continued 
progress in the coming year.
Peter Hill, CBE
Chairman
16 October 2015
Our strong performance 
during the year has built 
momentum for the future.
Peter Hill, CBE
Chairman Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 06
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Ronnie George
Overview
Our first full financial year as a listed company has been a successful 
one and I am pleased to report on a year of strong results. Volution 
has also made good progress in its strategy of making selective 
value-adding acquisitions. T wo acquisitions were made, Brüggemann 
Energiekonzepte GmbH based in Germany, completed in April 2015, 
and Ventilair Group International BVBA, based in Belgium and 
the Netherlands, completed in August 2015, both funded from 
the Group’s existing cash and banking facilities.
The integration of inVENTer in Germany was completed during 
the year with cross-selling of some heat recovery products from the 
Nordic ventilation business already underway. In the UK, at T orin-Sifan, 
significant investment was made in new product development and 
a new production facility was acquired. We also saw good organic 
growth (on a constant currency basis), especially in the important 
area of higher-value ventilation systems used in new residential 
dwellings and quieter, more efficient ventilation used for residential 
repair, maintenance and improvement (RMI) applications.
We have made good progress in product development, with 
a new range of application software (app) controlled, intermittent 
extractor fans and more energy-efficient heat recovery products 
which will be launched later in the 2015 calendar year.
Ventilation Group segment
Our Ventilation Group’s performance was very strong with a 10.0% 
increase in revenue on prior year (14.9% at constant currency). 
Organic growth was 1.9% (6.0% at constant currency). Inorganic 
growth of 8.1% (8.9% at constant currency) came substantially 
from Germany with the full year effect of inVENTer, acquired in 
April 2014, and the acquisition of Brüggemann in April 2015.
Sales in our UK Residential New Build sector were £17.2 million 
(2014: £14.6 million), growth of 17.7% (2014: 11.2%) with some 
niche areas such as retirement dwelling completions growing at 
Summary
 > First full financial year as a listed 
company, delivering both organic 
and inorganic revenue growth in 
line with our strategy
 > Another year of strong financial results 
despite foreign exchange impact, 
underpinned by an expansion of our 
adjusted operating profit margin to 22.6% 
and excellent cash generation
 > Considerable benefit from the now fully 
integrated Nordic ventilation business 
which delivered constant currency 
sales growth of 12.5% and significant 
operational synergies since the 
acquisition of PAX AB in August 2013
 > Two acquisitions completed, one during 
the year and the second on 5 August 2015 
just after the financial year end
 > Significant investment in new products 
and the commencement of production 
in the new Torin-Sifan facility at 
Westmead, Swindon Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 07
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
above market rates. As well as this growth in completions we are 
seeing a greater penetration of central heat recovery ventilation 
systems as the method of ventilation in many new homes. An ongoing 
product development pipeline in this market sector means that 
we will bring several new products to market later this calendar 
year. The new Kinetic Advance, launched to the UK sales team 
in June 2015, is expected to deliver the highest level of efficiency 
available in the UK Building Energy Performance Assessment. 
The UK Residential RMI market was soft with private refurbishment 
experiencing good growth offset by a continuing decline in public 
refurbishment, a more difficult market due to local authority austerity 
measures and cutbacks. This resulted in revenue in this sector of 
£36.6 million (2014: £37.0 million) a decline of 1.1% (2014: growth 
of 2.8%). New product launches in the public refurbishment market 
are taking hold and with further new products being launched later 
on in calendar year 2015, we expect to see a turnaround in sales 
in this market as we aim to capture greater market share. Our focus 
on the quiet, energy-efficient solutions for the private market 
continues to be well received with particular success of our 
national radio advertising campaign in July 2015.
UK Commercial sales were down 1.3% in the year at £16.2 million 
(2014: £16.4 million) having delivered good growth in the prior year. 
Our exposure is primarily to the RMI market which has performed 
less well than for new applications. The energy-efficient kitchen axial 
fan grew very well and a range of quieter, more energy-efficient 
commercial box fans will be launched early in 2016.
UK Export sales were £8.4 million (2014: £7.1 million), strong growth 
of 17.5% (2014: 2.0%), despite the strength of Sterling against 
the Euro (25.2% growth at constant currency) with the growth 
coming substantially from increased sales of heat recovery systems.
Sales in the Nordics sector were £22.2 million (2014: £22.7 million), 
a decline of 2.0%; however, at constant currency, growth was 12.5%. 
Sales of the market-leading, low-energy and near-silent ventilation 
products continued to grow during the year and in May 2015, at 
Elfack, the largest trade show of the year for the Swedish electrical 
products industry, we launched the new Calima fan, the first 
app-controlled extractor fan on the market. Organic growth in the 
Nordic region was very pleasing, especially in Norway where the 
combined Fresh and PAX sales team is working very efficiently 
with a much more comprehensive offer and improved service 
for the market.
Sales in the Germany sector were £10.9 million (three months of 
2014: £3.5 million). Whilst the German market has had its challenges, 
we have improved our position, including acquiring Brüggemann, a 
distribution channel in northern Germany, and by investing in new 
agents to provide a more comprehensive coverage in that market. 
OEM (Torin-Sifan)  segment
Our OEM (T orin-Sifan) segment’ s revenue in the year was £18.7 million 
(2014: £19.4 million), a decline of 3.6% (down 0.6% at constant 
currency), mainly as a consequence of lower sales of spare parts 
for non-condensing boilers due to a mild winter. There is a correlation 
between mild winters and lower sales of these replacement parts. 
The sales of gas boiler combustion motors therefore declined 
compared to the prior year although an improved performance 
was noted in the second half of the year.
Sales of electrically commutated direct current (EC/DC) motorised 
impellers continue to grow as this area is supported by the market 
growth, both in the UK and in continental Europe, for central system 
ventilation where these motors provide the air movement capabilities. 
Three strategic pillars 
Our strategy continues to focus on three key pillars:
 > organic growth in our core markets (which now extend 
through Ventilair Group to Belgium and the Netherlands);
 > growth through a disciplined and value-adding acquisition 
strategy; and
 > further develop Torin-Sifan’s range, build customer preference 
and loyalty.
Our core markets now extend to Belgium and the Netherlands 
with the acquisition of the Ventilair Group. These markets, as well 
as the original core markets for Volution, continue to benefit from 
the favourable regulatory backdrop that focuses on carbon reduction 
from buildings (in particular new buildings) as well as the need to 
improve energy efficiency. 
The European market remains highly fragmented and we continue 
to pursue acquisition opportunities. Our track record over the last 
three years, since the acquisition of Fresh AB in October 2012, 
has been to add several new markets to the Group’s reach and 
to improve substantially, the financial returns of these companies. 
Our centrally inspired and led, but locally managed, Research and 
Development function is now achieving new economies of scale 
when developing new capabilities, the most recent example being 
the software app controls, which, once fully completed, will provide 
controls to new products sold in the UK, Nordics and Germany. 
Over the last two years we have made a significant investment 
at Torin-Sifan in new product development and a new production 
facility to capitalise on the growth in demand for electronically 
commutated (EC) motors used in various residential and commercial 
ventilation products. The new EC production facility is now fully 
commissioned and operational and the product development 
of the new range of high performance air movement products 
is nearing completion. These new products will be launched 
in the first half of the 2016 financial year. 
People
In anticipation of our future growth plans and to provide the best 
possible foundation for our talented management team, it is our 
intention to launch the second Management Development 
Programme at the beginning of 2016.
I would like to acknowledge, thank and recognise all our committed 
employees for underpinning the success of the Group. Our employees, 
along with the management team, have made our first full year 
as a listed company a great success. I am extremely grateful to 
our employees for the considerable hard work and dedication 
to providing great customer service and satisfaction and also the 
way in which newly acquired Volution companies are integrated 
and made to feel welcome as part of the larger Group.
Ronnie George
Chief Executive Officer
16 October 2015 Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 08
Strategic Report
Our Business Model
How do we create value? 
The Volution Group is committed to building on the strength of our successful 
business model. We continuously develop the four key differentiators that are 
central to our success: Innovation, Brands, Scale and People.
Our key differentiators 
Innovation continues to be at the centre of our 
thinking and runs deep in the DNA of our organisation.
We aim to continuously improve the experience 
of our products and services throughout the supply 
chain and bring new and exciting products and 
ideas to market.
Innovation in Action
> page 10
Innovation
400
new products launched in 2014/15
We remain committed to a multichannel, multibrand 
strategy to create value propositions which are unique 
and difficult to replicate.
By using our Group product portfolio we open up 
new opportunities within our markets ensuring that 
we maximise sales potential in all geographies in 
which we operate. 
Brands in Action
> page 12
Brands
14
brands across eight operating companies Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 09
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
We believe that our employees drive our organisation 
and both individually and together help build the 
long-term success of the business. 
We will strive to create an environment where we 
recognise and develop talent within the organisation, 
helping our people realise their potential.
We operate in twelve manufacturing and office 
locations in Europe, located in the UK, the Nordics, 
Germany and the Benelux countries, with capacity 
to increase production for our growing demand.
With further investment in our Group R&D facility 
and upgrades to our testing laboratory in 2015, 
we continue to ensure we have the capacity 
to support our growing sales channels.
Scale in Action
> page 14
People in Action
> page 16
Scale People
1,036
employees
566,000
square feet of manufacturing facilities Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 10
Strategic Report
Innovation in Action
Our ability to develop enhanced products, providing more attractive 
solutions for customers, is at the core of our business model. 
We strive to deliver high levels of customer retention through 
a systematic approach to new product development. 
Highlights
 > Launch of Calima in the Nordics, the 
world’s first app-controlled bathroom fan
 > Further enhancement of the Silent Fan 
range for private RMI applications 
in the UK
 > Launch of Kinetic Advance, the most 
efficient fully integrated MVHR unit 
available on the national calculation 
method database in the UK
 > Development and testing of the Torin-Sifan 
electrically commutated three-phase motor 
Innovation Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 11
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Developments
This year we have concentrated on how the end user can have 
an enhanced relationship with our products. As a result of our 
research we have decided to focus on three areas:
 > interaction;
 > integration; and
 > invisibility.
Interaction – how people use our products
In a fast moving world where we are surrounded by technology, 
our expectations change. We now have more control over our 
lives than ever before and expect customisation and personalisation 
in everything we experience. In 2015, we have been applying these 
principles across our business and have launched our most 
highly customisable products yet.
Calima, launched in the Nordics in May 2015, is the world’s 
first app-controlled extractor fan, designed to enable the end 
user to completely manage the function and operation of the fan. 
The Kinetic Advance is a next-generation heat recovery device 
and on this unit our app can help installers adjust speed remotely 
from the unit with one hand therefore dramatically improving the 
ease of commissioning. Additionally, the home owner will be able 
to schedule the device, select speeds, adjust comfort settings 
and receive alerts all remotely from/to their smart device. 
Integration – across the product range
We have created a Group-wide development platform through 
a common app enabling us to integrate products from the 
Group through any of our sales channels. 
In 2015, we launched the first products that can connect via 
Bluetooth or Wi-Fi onto this shared app platform, enabling easily 
interchangeable products across our Group companies. 
We have built the platform with intuitive controls with shared 
visuals across displays. This includes both integrated screens 
within products and through the app on mobile devices. 
End users and installers will have clear, simple and consistent 
experiences, no matter which of our products they are using. 
This platform will enable us to easily move products between 
our brands and countries, maximising our sales channels.
Invisibility – unobtrusive design
We continue to focus on making our products more discreet 
in both aesthetics and operational noise. This applies across 
our portfolio of products and companies. We continue to improve 
the aesthetic options for customers, making sure that they can 
buy a fan that is sympathetic to their interior design. During the 
year we also launched some of the quietest products that we 
have ever made, reducing the risk of nuisance noise even further.
Torin-Sifan
The development and testing of the electrically commutated 
three-phase motorised impeller continued. During the year we worked 
with customers to carry out the development and testing regimes 
required to get the new motor adopted into their products. 
The Kinetic Advance is a 
next-generation heat recovery 
device. It is the most efficient 
product available in the UK and 
incorporates the most sophisticated 
control platform available. We believe 
that it will create new ways for 
customers to interact with and 
be aware of the ventilation in 
their home.
Ronnie George
Chief Executive Officer Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 12
Strategic Report
Brands in Action
The ability to create targeted propositions for different customer groups through 
the use of our brands is what differentiates our strategy. The use of our Group 
companies and product portfolios to create unique opportunities that are 
difficult to replicate without scale is a key strength of our organisation. 
Highlights
 > Multichannel brand strategy development 
in Germany
 > Extension of the designer fan range 
in the UK
 > Group-wide MVHR range development
Brands
inVENTer iV12 Smart  Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 13
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Developments
The integration of our recent acquisitions has been proceeding 
as planned. In 2015, we launched a number of new initiatives 
across the Group ensuring that we maximise our potential. 
Multichannel development in Germany
Through the acquisition of both Brüggemann and the GLT brand 
via the Ventilair Group, together with inVENTer, we now have three 
brands all trading across different channels in Germany. This scale 
and focus of activity across different routes to market will provide 
a wider opportunity for market share gain. With the decentralised 
MVHR product category, this will enable us to maximise our sales 
potential by utilising different sales channels. 
Designer fans in the UK 
Following on from the launch of the iQ fan in the UK in 2014, 2015 
has seen the launch of the Calima fan in the Nordics through PAX. 
This product formed the basis of our app development and will soon 
be rolled out in the UK. With the addition of the new Silent Fan 
to the Group, and a new discreet continuous running fan through 
Manrose, we now offer improved aesthetics across our sales 
channels and across a wide spectrum of price points.
The acquisition of Ventilair Group will enable us to control our sales 
and marketing plans more cohesively than before. The newest 
addition to the Kinetic family, the Kinetic Advance, positions us 
strongly for the markets of continental Europe.
Group-wide MVHR launch
The Kinetic Advance is the first of the new generation of MVHR 
products. It is the first to operate through the new Group app 
and has been developed with absolute focus on energy efficiency. 
Optimisation of the air paths through the unit, plus the inclusion 
of the most efficient motors available, ensures it uses less energy 
to produce airflow than any similar product available. In addition, 
it comes with a host of value-added features including filtration 
up to F7, pre and post heaters for applications in colder climates, 
innovative methods of summer bypass and frost protection; 
plus it’s the quietest MVHR unit we have ever launched. 
In the UK it is the best performing ventilation unit in the 
national calculation method, making it extremely compelling 
for new-build developers.
All of this has been delivered with the easiest to use commissioning 
method we have ever developed, which will be rolled out across 
the range.
This product will also be rolled out through our international sales 
channels including through the newly acquired Ventilair Group. 
Our multichannel, multibrand strategy and desire to elevate 
our customers’ relationship with our products enable us to create 
unique and value-added solutions across our sales channels.
Lee Nurse
Group Marketing Director, Ventilation Group
Manrose Quiet Conceal Fan Fresh Intellivent 2.0 PAX Calima  Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 14
Strategic Report
Scale in Action
Continued growth in the Group provides new and exciting opportunities. 
The growing sales channels provide increased sales volumes through 
our manufacturing sites and improvements in scale. Recent investments 
continue to secure supply and ensure we maximise our opportunities.
Highlights
 > Commissioned and finalised new Group 
laboratory facility
 > Extended our manufacturing and warehouse 
footprint by 77,000 square feet
 > Extended the Group product portfolio 
to 15,000 stock keeping units (SKUs)
Scale
Our acquisitive strategy continues to increase 
our opportunity for operational improvements 
through scale. Our ability to quickly incorporate 
acquisitions into the Group and realise the 
synergies fast will continue to help drive 
improvements to our earnings.
Paul Davies
Group Operations Director, Ventilation Group Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 15
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Developments
Centralised internal product support
This year, we have upgraded our new product development capability 
and finished the upgrade of our Group laboratory facility.
Our facilities now enable us to test products across the Group, 
including decentralised heat recovery products as well as 
MVHR units for even the coldest climates in Europe. Throughout 
the new product development process, from proving concepts 
to benchmarking competitors, our facilities enable us to continue 
to strive for excellence in everything we do. Our ability to optimise 
designs, seeking out even the smallest of operational improvements, 
enables the Group to lead the way in our core target markets. 
Our laboratory now has the capability to cover in-house Group 
products for all the channels and climates that we can sell through. 
Performance testing covers air flow, acoustics, environmental 
characteristics including heat recovery down to -20 degrees Celsius, 
functional testing and life testing. In addition, we are able to internally 
cover off product safety and CE approvals as well as provide 
support to the production teams across the Group. 
Increasing intercompany co-operation
The acquisition of the Ventilair Group and Brüggemann has increased 
our sales channels and our possibilities for leverage of intra-Group 
trading opportunities. The widening Group portfolio increases the 
opportunity for intercompany trading and bringing Group companies 
together continues to be a focus. Intercompany product transfer 
enables very quick and low risk product introductions as, often, 
little or no developmental work is required. The additional benefits 
arising from increased experience within the Group enable our 
companies to learn from each other. As the scale of our Group 
grows, these opportunities help support introduction of new 
product categories to our existing customers, thus increasing 
our sales opportunities. The additional benefits of the developing 
relationships also mean that wider sales channels become available 
for our product categories. Wider channels help support investment 
which enables the product management teams to make decisions 
that may potentially be too niche if they were only serving one 
company. As an example, in the UK we have launched a whole 
range of designer fans that have been developed across the 
Group, thus building a proposition which is difficult to replicate. 
This will ensure that we can build a retail proposition that is unique 
in the UK, thus helping secure the existing sales channels. 
The scope to add value will continue to be developed.
With the addition of the new companies to the Group, we now 
sell over 15,000 SKUs to 12,000 delivery addresses annually.  Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 16
Strategic Report
People in Action
As we grow, our people continue to provide the key to our success. 
We recognise that the long-term growth and enduring success 
of the Group depends on its ability to attract and retain talented 
and skilled employees. 
Highlights
 > Recognition of the Manrose 
Apprentice Scheme by a leading 
national apprenticeship provider
 > Employee development programme 
in inVENTer
 > Torin-Sifan support for the Go4Set 
programme through the Engineering 
Development Trust 
People
We partner with many businesses 
on their training programmes in 
the UK and it’s wonderful when a 
company shows such dedication by 
investing in both its existing staff and 
also by providing local young people 
with an employment opportunity.
Jenny Hyam
Business Development Manager, 
Key Training Limited Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 17
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Developments
Following the acquisition of Ventilair, we are now a Group employing 
over 1,000 employees across eight companies in nine countries. 
Building a skilled and highly motivated workforce that is connected 
to our core values will continue to support our growth ambitions. 
As we acquire businesses, our team’ s ability to develop and seize 
the opportunities created will be vital to our success. To this aim, 
we periodically review our employee development needs and 
invest in training and support. By investing in their development, 
we allow employees to grow and thrive in a rewarding environment. 
As an organisation, and individually, we all help to build the long-term 
success of the business. We continue to strive to create an environment 
where we recognise and develop talent within the organisation thus 
helping people to realise their potential. Indeed, operational efficiencies 
across the Group are enhanced by building and developing the 
skills, competencies and motivation of all employees.
Each company within the Group is encouraged to implement 
comprehensive employment policies designed to attract, retain 
and motivate high calibre employees and to determine ways 
of applying their knowledge and skills in a manner that best 
contributes towards the long-term success of the business.
We encourage and support the continuing professional development 
and training of all our employees. We invest in a range of development 
activities including a Management Development Programme and 
the National Vocational Qualifications and apprenticeship schemes. 
In 2015, Manrose received an award from Key Training Limited, 
a leading national apprenticeship provider, in recognition of its 
commitment to apprenticeships at both the Reading and 
Slough facilities. Apprenticeships have been run in business 
administration, customer service, office administration and 
warehouse team leadership. The training scheme enables 
employees to improve their skills in relevant areas to their role, 
enhancing their skills and personal development.
T orin-Sifan continues to support the Engineering Development Trust 
through Go4SET. Go4SET links teams of pupils with employers 
and universities to offer a ten-week science, technology, engineering 
and mathematics (STEM) project. As well as encouraging the 
next generation of engineers, this provides an opportunity for 
our staff to develop their mentoring and leadership skills. Strategic Report
Technology Highlight
With most ventilation devices being fixed 
appliances installed by professionals, 
historically, most home owners have little 
involvement with the ventilation solutions 
selected in their homes. This is changing. 
Air quality is high on the agenda and, through 
industry campaigns and regulation, it is only 
going to continue to become a greater 
concern for home owners. 
To ensure that we are ahead of the curve, we are investing 
in a Group-wide platform creating an app that enables any future 
products to have far greater interaction with the end users of our 
products. During 2015, we launched the first two products that 
enable adjustment and control remotely from a mobile device after 
they have been installed. This platform is also shared across the 
Group, enabling products to move between our businesses easily.
The first was the Calima fan in the Nordics. It has Bluetooth 
connectivity and customers can select and adjust the speed for 
each integral sensor individually, create programmed schedules, 
and select how they want the fan to run. For example, you may 
want the fan to run at a low speed via the integral light sensor but 
run on full speed via the humidity sensor for when the whole family 
is showering in the morning. With customisable, infinitely variable 
speeds and individual sensor selection, this is now possible. As a 
home owner, you can decide how your fan works and adjust it after 
it has been installed simply by downloading the app. The app also 
includes a schedule function enabling you to programme periods 
where you don’t want the fan to run. This may be ideal for ensuite 
bathrooms where you don’t want a fan to be running at night. 
The Kinetic Advance takes this logic one step further and enables 
end users to see maintenance schedules and other configurable 
settings. Additionally, the app provides easy and quick, one-handed 
speed selection during commissioning, so is ideal for installers 
rather than traditional controls built onboard the unit. This will 
substantially reduce the installation time, as often these products 
are installed in lofts or remote locations, making traditional 
methods time consuming. 
Personalisation of air 
movement in your home
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 18 Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 19
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
During 2015 we have continued to grow in 
the new-build residential space. That has led 
to us winning a number of prestigious project 
orders through the Vent-Axia brand. With the 
ongoing regulatory pressures, indoor air quality 
requirements and impressive acoustic 
characteristics, many projects continue to have 
the Sentinel Kinetic range of heat recovery 
devices specified. 
The Sentinel Kinetic is a pioneering mechanical ventilation with 
heat recovery (MVHR) system designed for new-build properties. 
A whole house, multi-room ducted solution, this MVHR system 
combines supply and extract ventilation in one unit. Warm, moist 
air is extracted from “wet” rooms through ducting and passed 
through the heat exchanger before being exhausted to the outside. 
Fresh incoming air is preheated via the integral heat exchanger 
which recovers more than 91% of the heat energy that would 
otherwise be wasted. With comfort key for occupants, the system 
also features a “summer bypass” to prevent warm air being 
re-introduced in summer months and an integral humidity sensor 
to control air humidity levels. 
Below are two projects announced in 2015 representing good 
examples of the Group’s ability to manage large scale projects 
through the new-build team.
MVHR – Elephant & Castle 
London, UK
Volution’s Vent-Axia division is supplying Sentinel 
Kinetic BH ventilation units for the 284 studio, one, 
two and three-bedroom homes in the new One The 
Elephant development in Elephant & Castle, London. 
Comprising an elegant 37-storey tower and four-storey 
pavilion building, One The Elephant will become a 
new focal point for the heart of Elephant & Castle.
MVHR – Enderby Wharf 
London, UK
Volution’s Vent-Axia division is supplying Sentinel 
Kinetic BH ventilation units for part of the first 
phase of 197 homes in the new Enderby Wharf 
development, a mix of one, two and three-bedroom 
apartments and duplexes on a site stretching 
across 200 metres of river front with west-facing 
views towards Canary Wharf and the City.
Case study Case study
 These projects both aim to blend new standards for sustainable, practical and 
contemporary London living. Heat recovery ventilation is an essential factor for 
energy-efficient developments, reducing excessive moisture in the air, combating 
condensation and providing good indoor air quality and comfort for occupiers.
Ronnie George
Chief Executive Officer Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 20
Strategic Report
Our Strategy
The three strategic pillars
We will continue to build on our core strengths and strong industry track record to gain 
further market share in each of our core geographical markets. We intend to achieve our 
goals through a combination of organic growth and selective acquisitions. To achieve this, 
we have identified three key strategic pillars.
Continue to grow through a focused sales strategy for each of 
our core market sectors. Focus on opportunities arising from 
increasingly favourable regulatory environments and continue to 
build public awareness to create upselling opportunities to increase 
margins. Continue to develop new products and deliver benefits from 
recently acquired businesses, and drive cross-selling initiatives.
Organic growth in our core markets
Actions
 > Drive demand growth in our core markets benefiting from 
regulation and educated end users
 > Bespoke sales and marketing strategy to address each 
market sector
 > Provide innovative products to address evolving market 
demand and generate upselling opportunities
Actions
 > Make acquisitions to establish leading positions 
in new markets
 > Deliver revenue and cost synergies from acquisitions
 > Increase cross-selling and export growth
Achievements during the year
 > Continued growth in our value-added product lines 
including Lo-Carbon 
 > Launch of the Kinetic Advance
 > Launch of Calima into the Nordics
Achievements during the year
 > Acquisition of Brüggemann and the Ventilair Group
1
 > Delivery of operating efficiencies in inVENTer
 > Launch of PAX Eos in Germany and decentralised 
MVHR in Sweden
Future focus
 > Range development maximising the opportunities 
created by the Energy Related Product Directive
 > Sharing experience across Group companies 
to continuously improve sales planning
 > Introduce a new range of central heat recovery systems
Future focus
 > Integration of Ventilair Group and any future acquisitions
 > Launch Kinetic Advance through the Ventilair Group 
sales channels
 > Focus on decentralised systems in the Nordics
We will continue to seek to acquire and integrate select businesses, 
primarily, but not exclusively, related to the residential ventilation 
market. Our focus will be principally on opportunities in the UK 
and Europe where there are clear synergistic benefits available.
Growth through a disciplined and 
value-adding acquisition strategy Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 21
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Actions
 > Develop a technically superior residential motorised 
impeller product
 > Expand new product development function and enhance 
responsiveness to customers
Achievements during the year
 > Customer application testing started
 > Development of the R&D team 
Future focus
 >  Start supplying the new motor platform to internal and 
external customers
 > Widen the integration of the new platform into customers’ 
bespoke applications
In the context of a favourable legislation-led shift towards 
more technologically advanced, more energy-efficient 
and quieter EC/DC motorised impellers.
Further develop Torin-Sifan’s range and 
build customer preference and loyalty
1.  The acquisition of Ventilair Group International BVBA was 
completed on 5 August 2015 and is therefore not consolidated 
into the Volution Group plc financial statements for the year 
ended 31 July 2015.  Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 22
Strategic Report
Key Performance Indicators
Measuring our progress
We have identified a number of financial and non-financial key performance indicators 
(KPIs) that reflect the internal benchmarks we use to measure the success of our business 
and strategy. These will enable investors and other stakeholders to measure our progress.
Financial performance
Non-financial performance
Revenue
1
 £m
Tracks our performance against our strategic aim to grow 
the business
£130.2m
Comments
 > Strong revenue development 
in the year with growth of 7.9% 
(12.4% on a constant 
currency basis)
 > The recent acquisitions of 
Brüggemann (April 2015) and 
inVENT er (April 2014) contributed 
significantly to our growth: 
6.9% (7.5% on a constant 
currency basis)
 > Organic growth on a constant 
currency basis was 4.9%
Strategic initiatives 
measured by this KPI:  
Adjusted operating profit and  
adjusted operating profit margin
1,2
 £m (% of revenue)
Tracks the underlying financial performance of the Group
£29.4m
(22.6%)
Comments
 > Strong growth in underlying 
profitability and margins
Strategic initiatives 
measured by this KPI:  
Employee retention %
To ensure we continue to retain employees, we monitor the 
number of voluntary resignations from our businesses and 
calculate the percentage retention as a function of total 
average full-time equivalent employees
89.0%
(2014: 93.5%)
Comments
 > The high level of staff retention 
continued in 2015
Sales of low-carbon products %
Tracks our success at upselling and the effect of regulations 
on sales of more energy-efficient low-carbon products 
(value of low-carbon product sales expressed as a 
percentage of total sales)
48%
(2014: 43%)
Comments
 > The trend towards higher 
value-added low-carbon 
products continues, supported 
by the acquisitions of inVENTer 
and Brüggemann
Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin
1,2
  
£m (% of revenue)
Tracks the underlying financial performance of the 
Group before depreciation
£32.1m
(24.7%)
Comments
 > Strong growth in underlying 
profitability, margin improved 
significantly in the year
Strategic initiatives 
measured by this KPI:  
Adjusted profit before tax and 
adjusted profit before tax margin
1,2
 £m (% of revenue)
Tracks the underlying financial performance of the Group
£27.5m
(21.1%)
Comments
 > Strong growth in underlying 
profitability and margins
Strategic initiatives 
measured by this KPI:  
87.8
89.3
102.3
120.7
130.2
20.2 (23.1%)
21.6 (24.2%)
23.8 (23.3%)
28.5 (23.6%)
32.1 (24.7%)
18.7 (21.3%)
20.2 (22.6%)
22.2 (21.7%)
26.5 (22.0%)
29.4 (22.6%)
5.1 (5.8%)
6.3 (7.0%)
9.2 (9.0%)
14.0 (11.6%)
27.5 (21.1%)
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Strategic initiatives 
measured by this KPI:  
Strategic initiatives  
measured by this KPI:  Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 23
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Earnings per share (basic and diluted) p
To provide a measure of shareholder value 
5.9p
Comments
 > Improved EPS from improved 
underlying profitability, the 
post-listing capital structure 
and the refinancing of our 
bank facilities in the year
Strategic initiatives 
measured by this KPI:  
5.9
Notes
1. Amounts for 2011 and 2012 have been restated to IFRS.
2.  The Group uses some alternative performance measures to track and 
assess the underlying performance of the business. The Board considers 
that these measures, which exclude exceptional and other unusual items, 
give a more useful indication of the underlying performance of the business. 
These measures include adjusted EBITDA, adjusted operating profit, 
adjusted profit before tax and adjusted operating cash flow. 
3.  Net debt is defined as interest-bearing loans and borrowings, less cash 
and cash equivalents.
4.  For a definition of all adjusted measures and constant currency see the 
glossary of terms in note 36 to the consolidated financial statements.
Adjusted operating cash flow conversion
1,2
 %
Tracks the efficiency of cash generation (important for our 
acquisition strategy), after capital expenditure, at the 
operational level
93%
Comments
 > Good cash generation even 
after higher than normal capital 
expenditure of £5.6 million 
(2014: £4.5 million)
Strategic initiatives 
measured by this KPI:  
Adjusted operating cash flow
2
 £m
Monitors cash generation (important for our acquisition 
strategy), after capital expenditure, at the operational level
£27.6m
Comments
 > Adjusted operating cash flow in 
2015 remained strong despite 
a significant increase in capital 
investment to £5.6 million 
(2014: £4.5 million)
Strategic initiatives 
measured by this KPI:  
18.1
21.2
20.9
22.8
27.6
97
105
94
86
93
Net debt
3
 £m
To ensure we have an efficient capital structure with 
headroom to support organic and inorganic growth
£21.2m
Comments
 > Strong cash generation from 
operations reduced our net 
debt significantly 
 > Leverage (expressed as a 
ratio of net debt
3
 to adjusted 
EBITDA
2
) was 0.7x (2014: 1.5x)
 > Debt fell despite £1.6 million 
spent on acquisitions
Strategic initiatives 
measured by this KPI:  
2015
(14.0)
(2.3)
2013
172.7
42.9
2014 2015
21.2
2013 2014
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
We discuss the KPI performance  
in the Financial Review
> pages 32 to 35
Organic growth in our core markets
Growth through a disciplined and value-adding 
acquisition strategy
Further develop Torin-Sifan’s range and build 
customer preference and loyalty
The three strategic pillars Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 24
Strategic Report
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Our principal risks and uncertainties 
and how we manage them
The key risks and uncertainties shown on pages 24 to 27 are 
those the Board considers to be of greatest significance to the 
Group as it stands today. They have the potential to materially 
and adversely affect the Group’s business and the delivery of 
its strategy. For each risk there is a description of the possible 
impact of the risk on the Group, should it occur, together with 
strategic consequences and the mitigation and control processes 
in place to manage the risk. This list is likely to change over time 
as different risks take on larger or smaller significance. The size, 
complexity and spread of the Group’s businesses, and the 
continually changing environment in which they operate, also 
mean that the list cannot be an exhaustive list of all risks that 
could affect the Group.
The Group has an established system of risk management and 
internal control processes which operate throughout the Group’s 
business. Throughout the year, the Board, along with the Audit 
Committee, critically evaluates and reviews major risks faced by 
the Group and the controls and mitigation plans in place intended 
to manage and reduce their potential impact and ensure that the 
assets and reputation of the Group are protected.
The Group’s risk management and internal control systems can 
only seek to manage, not eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives, as any system can only provide reasonable, 
not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
As set out in the Governance Report on pages 36 to 72, the 
Group has policies and procedures in place to ensure that risks 
are properly identified, evaluated and managed at the appropriate 
level within the business.
Risk Impact Strategic consequence Likelihood Potential impact Change Mitigation
Economic risk
A decline in general economic activity 
and/or a specific decline in activity in the 
construction industry.
Demand for our products serving the 
residential and commercial RMI and 
new-build markets would decline. 
This would result in a reduction 
in revenue and profitability.
 
Our ability to achieve our ambition for 
continuing organic growth would be 
adversely affected. 
Geographic spread from our international acquisition strategy helps to mitigate 
the impact of local fluctuations in economic activity.
New product development, the breadth of our product portfolio and the strength 
and specialisation of our sales forces should allow us to outperform against a 
general decline.
We are heavily exposed to the RMI market which is more resilient to the effects 
of general economic decline.
Our business is not capital intensive and our operational flexibility allows us to 
react quickly to the impact of a decline in volume.
Acquisitions
We may fail to identify suitable acquisition 
targets at an acceptable price or we may 
fail to consummate or properly integrate 
the acquisition.
Revenue and profitability would not grow 
in line with management’s ambitions and 
investor expectations.
Failure to properly integrate a business 
may distract senior management from 
other priorities and adversely affect 
revenue and profitability. 
Financial performance could be impacted 
by failure to integrate acquisitions and 
therefore not secure possible synergies.
Our strategic ambition to grow by 
acquisition may be compromised.
The ventilation industry in Europe is fragmented with many opportunities to court 
acquisition targets.
Senior management has a clear understanding of potential targets in the industry 
and a track record of three acquisitions over the past two years.
Management is experienced in integrating new businesses into the Group.
Innovation
We may fail to innovate commercially or 
technically viable products to maintain and 
develop our product leadership position.
Scarce development resource may be 
misdirected and costs incurred unnecessarily. 
Failure to innovate may result in an ageing 
product portfolio which falls behind that of 
our competition.
 
Our organic growth ambitions depend in 
part upon our ability to innovate new and 
improved products to meet and create 
market needs. In the medium term, failure 
to innovate may result in a decline in sales 
and profitability.
Our product innovation is driven by a deep understanding of the ventilation 
market and its economic and regulatory drivers. The Group starts with a clear 
marketing brief before embarking on product development. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 25
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
The assessment of likelihood and potential impact is subjective and based on the following definitions:
Likelihood of 
risk occurring
Potential impact Assessment of change 
in risk year-on-year
The Board’s assessment 
of whether there has been 
a change in the level of risk 
due to either a change 
in likelihood or a change 
in potential impact.
Unlikely Low Reducing
Possible Medium No change
Likely High Increasing
Risk Impact Strategic consequence Likelihood Potential impact Change Mitigation
Economic risk
A decline in general economic activity 
and/or a specific decline in activity in the 
construction industry.
Demand for our products serving the 
residential and commercial RMI and 
new-build markets would decline. 
This would result in a reduction 
in revenue and profitability.
 
Our ability to achieve our ambition for 
continuing organic growth would be 
adversely affected. 
Geographic spread from our international acquisition strategy helps to mitigate 
the impact of local fluctuations in economic activity.
New product development, the breadth of our product portfolio and the strength 
and specialisation of our sales forces should allow us to outperform against a 
general decline.
We are heavily exposed to the RMI market which is more resilient to the effects 
of general economic decline.
Our business is not capital intensive and our operational flexibility allows us to 
react quickly to the impact of a decline in volume.
Acquisitions
We may fail to identify suitable acquisition 
targets at an acceptable price or we may 
fail to consummate or properly integrate 
the acquisition.
Revenue and profitability would not grow 
in line with management’s ambitions and 
investor expectations.
Failure to properly integrate a business 
may distract senior management from 
other priorities and adversely affect 
revenue and profitability. 
Financial performance could be impacted 
by failure to integrate acquisitions and 
therefore not secure possible synergies.
Our strategic ambition to grow by 
acquisition may be compromised.
The ventilation industry in Europe is fragmented with many opportunities to court 
acquisition targets.
Senior management has a clear understanding of potential targets in the industry 
and a track record of three acquisitions over the past two years.
Management is experienced in integrating new businesses into the Group.
Innovation
We may fail to innovate commercially or 
technically viable products to maintain and 
develop our product leadership position.
Scarce development resource may be 
misdirected and costs incurred unnecessarily. 
Failure to innovate may result in an ageing 
product portfolio which falls behind that of 
our competition.
 
Our organic growth ambitions depend in 
part upon our ability to innovate new and 
improved products to meet and create 
market needs. In the medium term, failure 
to innovate may result in a decline in sales 
and profitability.
Our product innovation is driven by a deep understanding of the ventilation 
market and its economic and regulatory drivers. The Group starts with a clear 
marketing brief before embarking on product development.
Organic growth in our core markets
Growth through a disciplined and value-adding acquisition strategy
Further develop Torin-Sifan’s range and build 
customer preference and loyalty
Strategic consequence Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 26
Strategic Report
Risk Impact Strategic consequence Likelihood Potential impact Change Mitigation
Foreign exchange risk
The exchange rates between currencies 
that we use may move adversely.
The commerciality of transactions 
denominated in currencies other than 
the functional currency of our businesses 
and/or the perceived performance of foreign 
subsidiaries in our Sterling denominated 
Group consolidated financial statements 
may be adversely affected by changes 
in exchange rates.
Our ambition to grow internationally 
through acquisition exposes us to 
increasing levels of translational foreign 
exchange risk.
Significant transactional risks are hedged by using forward currency contracts 
to fix exchange rates for the ensuing financial year.
Revaluation of foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are partially 
hedged by corresponding foreign currency bank debt.
Supply chain and 
raw materials
Raw materials or components may 
become difficult to source because of 
material scarcity or disruption of supply. 
Sales and profitability may be reduced 
during the period of constraint.
Prices for the input material may increase 
and our costs may increase.
 
Organic growth may be reduced.
Our product development efforts may 
be redirected to find alternative materials 
and components.
We establish long-term relationships with key suppliers to promote continuity 
of supply and where possible we have alternative sources identified.
IT systems
We may be adversely affected by a 
breakdown in our IT systems or a failure 
to properly implement any new systems.
Failure of our IT and communication 
systems could affect any or all of our 
business processes and have significant 
impact on our ability to trade, collect cash 
and make payments.
We could temporarily lose sales and market 
share and could potentially damage our 
reputation for customer service.
Disaster recovery and data backup processes are in place, operated diligently 
and tested regularly.
A significant Enterprise Resource Planning system upgrade is underway 
managed by a team of experienced senior employees from the business. 
A disaster failover site is being implemented to cover this upgrade.
We undertake cyber security testing.
Customers
A significant amount of our revenue is 
derived from a small number of customers 
and from our relationships with heating 
and ventilation consultants. We may fail  
to maintain these relationships.
Any deterioration in our relationship with 
a significant customer could have an 
adverse significant effect on our revenue 
from that customer.
 
Our organic growth ambitions would be 
adversely affected. 
We have strong brands, recognised and valued by our end users and this 
gives us continued traction through our distribution channels and with 
consultants and specifiers.
We have a very wide range of ventilation and ancillary products that enhance our 
brand proposition and make us a convenient “one-stop-shop” supplier.
We continue to develop new and existing products to support our product 
portfolio and brand reputation. 
We provide an excellent level of customer service.
Legal and regulatory 
environment
Changes in laws or regulation relating to 
the carbon efficiency of buildings or the 
efficiency of electrical products may change.
The shift towards higher value-added and 
more energy-efficient products may not 
develop as anticipated resulting in lower 
sales and profit growth.
If our products are not compliant and we 
fail to develop new products in a timely 
manner we may lose revenue and market 
share to our competitors.
  
Our organic growth ambitions may be 
adversely affected.
We may need to review our acquisition 
criteria to reflect the dynamics of a new 
regulatory environment.
We may have to redirect our new product 
development activity.
We participate in trade bodies that help to influence the regulatory environment 
in which we operate and as a consequence we are also well placed to 
understand future trends in our industry.
We are active in new product development and have the resources to react 
to and anticipate necessary changes in the specification of our products.
People
Our continuing success depends on 
retaining key personnel and attracting 
skilled individuals.
Skilled and experienced employees may 
decide to leave the Group, potentially 
moving to a competitor. Any aspect of the 
business could be impacted with resultant 
reduction in prospects, sales and profitability.
  
Our competitiveness and growth potential, 
both organic and inorganic, could be 
adversely affected.
Regular employee appraisals allow two-way feedback on performance 
and ambition.
A senior management development programme was initiated in 2013 to 
provide key employees with the skills needed to grow within the business 
and to enhance their contribution to the business. 
The Group aims to reward and incentivise employees competitively.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 27
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Risk Impact Strategic consequence Likelihood Potential impact Change Mitigation
Foreign exchange risk
The exchange rates between currencies 
that we use may move adversely.
The commerciality of transactions 
denominated in currencies other than 
the functional currency of our businesses 
and/or the perceived performance of foreign 
subsidiaries in our Sterling denominated 
Group consolidated financial statements 
may be adversely affected by changes 
in exchange rates.
Our ambition to grow internationally 
through acquisition exposes us to 
increasing levels of translational foreign 
exchange risk.
Significant transactional risks are hedged by using forward currency contracts 
to fix exchange rates for the ensuing financial year.
Revaluation of foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are partially 
hedged by corresponding foreign currency bank debt.
Supply chain and 
raw materials
Raw materials or components may 
become difficult to source because of 
material scarcity or disruption of supply. 
Sales and profitability may be reduced 
during the period of constraint.
Prices for the input material may increase 
and our costs may increase.
 
Organic growth may be reduced.
Our product development efforts may 
be redirected to find alternative materials 
and components.
We establish long-term relationships with key suppliers to promote continuity 
of supply and where possible we have alternative sources identified.
IT systems
We may be adversely affected by a 
breakdown in our IT systems or a failure 
to properly implement any new systems.
Failure of our IT and communication 
systems could affect any or all of our 
business processes and have significant 
impact on our ability to trade, collect cash 
and make payments.
We could temporarily lose sales and market 
share and could potentially damage our 
reputation for customer service.
Disaster recovery and data backup processes are in place, operated diligently 
and tested regularly.
A significant Enterprise Resource Planning system upgrade is underway 
managed by a team of experienced senior employees from the business. 
A disaster failover site is being implemented to cover this upgrade.
We undertake cyber security testing.
Customers
A significant amount of our revenue is 
derived from a small number of customers 
and from our relationships with heating 
and ventilation consultants. We may fail  
to maintain these relationships.
Any deterioration in our relationship with 
a significant customer could have an 
adverse significant effect on our revenue 
from that customer.
 
Our organic growth ambitions would be 
adversely affected. 
We have strong brands, recognised and valued by our end users and this 
gives us continued traction through our distribution channels and with 
consultants and specifiers.
We have a very wide range of ventilation and ancillary products that enhance our 
brand proposition and make us a convenient “one-stop-shop” supplier.
We continue to develop new and existing products to support our product 
portfolio and brand reputation. 
We provide an excellent level of customer service.
Legal and regulatory 
environment
Changes in laws or regulation relating to 
the carbon efficiency of buildings or the 
efficiency of electrical products may change.
The shift towards higher value-added and 
more energy-efficient products may not 
develop as anticipated resulting in lower 
sales and profit growth.
If our products are not compliant and we 
fail to develop new products in a timely 
manner we may lose revenue and market 
share to our competitors.
  
Our organic growth ambitions may be 
adversely affected.
We may need to review our acquisition 
criteria to reflect the dynamics of a new 
regulatory environment.
We may have to redirect our new product 
development activity.
We participate in trade bodies that help to influence the regulatory environment 
in which we operate and as a consequence we are also well placed to 
understand future trends in our industry.
We are active in new product development and have the resources to react 
to and anticipate necessary changes in the specification of our products.
People
Our continuing success depends on 
retaining key personnel and attracting 
skilled individuals.
Skilled and experienced employees may 
decide to leave the Group, potentially 
moving to a competitor. Any aspect of the 
business could be impacted with resultant 
reduction in prospects, sales and profitability.
  
Our competitiveness and growth potential, 
both organic and inorganic, could be 
adversely affected.
Regular employee appraisals allow two-way feedback on performance 
and ambition.
A senior management development programme was initiated in 2013 to 
provide key employees with the skills needed to grow within the business 
and to enhance their contribution to the business. 
The Group aims to reward and incentivise employees competitively. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 28
Strategic Report
Corporate Social Responsibility
Volution Group is founded upon the excellence of its people, products and technology. 
We are committed to operating in a manner that protects human rights, provides real 
opportunities for our employees, protects the environment and makes a positive 
contribution to the community.
Overview
We embrace a culture of continual improvement in all aspects 
of our business. We aim to understand and respond to the needs 
of shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, the communities 
in which we work and the wider public.
As part of our commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility 
we aim to align our business values, purpose and strategy 
with the needs of our stakeholders, whilst embedding such 
responsible and ethical principles into everything we do.
Business and ethics
The Group’s core values and principles and the standards of 
behaviour to which every employee and agent across the Group 
is expected to work, are set out in the Volution Group plc Code 
of Conduct. These values and principles are applied to dealings 
with our customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Group has a zero tolerance approach to all forms of bribery 
and corruption. During the year, our Anti-Bribery and Corruption 
Policy was rewritten and rolled out across the Group, including 
the Board. It applies to all businesses, Directors, employees and 
agents within the Group to ensure compliance with all laws and 
regulations governing bribery and corruption in the countries in 
which the Group operates.
A new “Speak Up” facility was introduced during the year operated 
by an independent external company, where employees can report 
any incidents or inappropriate behaviours in their own language 
by telephone, email or online. The confidentiality of the information 
reported is correctly protected. New web-based anti-bribery and 
corruption training was also launched during the year and is carried 
out by all employees in areas of the business where risk is deemed 
to be highest.
Environment
The Group recognises the impact that our businesses may have 
on the environment and, as a minimum standard, we comply with 
current applicable legislation in the countries in which we operate.
The Group endeavours to limit the impact on the environment 
within which it operates and also protects the environment that 
we all share. Across the Group, energy reducing initiatives will 
continue including using recycled plastics in manufacturing, 
recycling waste paper and cardboard and working with our 
customers to reduce waste on site. Our Lo-Carbon range of 
products will continue to be donated to environmental projects 
to demonstrate innovative energy reduction techniques.
The Group’s product development programme continues to focus 
on low-carbon initiatives, using technology which reduces power 
consumption and recovers, recycles and reuses energy that would 
otherwise be wasted. At all times the Group will produce products 
that are as energy-efficient as possible and will continue to research 
and develop energy-efficient solutions for the marketplace. 
Sales of the Lo-Carbon range of products
> page 22
Health and safety
The Group is committed to achieving and maintaining the highest 
standards in health and safety practice. An open culture towards 
health and safety engages all employees and helps maintain our 
excellent safety record. Each business invests in specialist roles 
and training to support this process. Each employee and contractor 
is given information, instruction and the training necessary to enable 
safe working. All of our employees and contractors recognise that 
it is their legal duty to take reasonable care for their own safety 
and the safety of others in their work area with working safely 
a condition of employment.
All accidents, dangerous incidents and near-miss situations 
are promptly and thoroughly investigated. The details of such 
incidents as well as the remedial and preventative measures taken 
are shared between sites as a means of raising awareness and 
reducing the risk of repetition. 
Diversity
The Group employs a diverse workforce and prides itself in providing 
equal opportunities for all. High value is placed on rewarding 
our people for their commitment, their integrity and their service. 
We aim to ensure that no employee is discriminated against, 
directly or indirectly, on the grounds of colour, race, ethnic and 
national origins, sexual orientation or gender, marital status, disability, 
religion or belief, being part time or on the grounds of age. 
The Board supports the aims, objectives and recommendations 
outlined in Lord Davies’ report “Women on Boards” and recognises 
the need to recruit women on to the Board, to which it is committed 
over time. This commitment will be considered as and when the 
current Board members need to be replaced, given that the Board 
was only appointed on listing in June 2014 and is felt to be of the 
right size. The Company’s policy is also to make appointments 
based on merit and against objective criteria to ensure we appoint 
the best individual for each role. We are committed to developing 
the potential of women throughout the Group. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 29
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
The Group’s split between male and female employees as at 
31 July 2015 is shown below:
Female Male Total
Directors 0 7 7
Senior managers  
(excluding Directors) 2 6 8
Employees 372 649 1,021
Total 374 (36%) 662 (64%) 1,036
Values
We have the following values:
Grow
Our sales and profit, our people, 
our capability, capacity 
and our ambition. Grow our 
value and invest for the future.
Innovate
Our products, services 
and solutions.
Customer service
Strive for quality and excellence in everything we do.
Professional and reliable
With customers, suppliers, colleagues, shareholders 
and all relationships.
Integrity
Environmentally, socially and in our governance.
Commitment
100% every day, everywhere.
Fun
Enjoying what we do, respecting those around us.
Community 
Each company within the Group understands the importance 
of being a contributing member of society and its impact on the 
long-term development and sustainability of the business. Each 
business takes responsibility for managing its relationship with its 
local community. This responsibility involves the positive engagement 
with, and support of, worthwhile projects and programmes as a 
company, as well as the volunteering activities and efforts of its 
employees. Support is given to local initiatives such as manufacturing 
and business forums and talks and training are given to local groups. 
The Group policy on donations and community involvement 
is to support local educational and charitable causes. 
The Group continues to work with the Engineering Development Trust 
to help inspire children and young people to choose a future career 
in science and engineering. In addition, we support initiatives 
creating opportunities for work experience within our Group. 
Human rights
Human rights is not considered to be a material risk for the 
business owing to the fact that the Group’ s activities are substantially 
carried out in developed countries that have strong legislation 
governing human rights. The Group supports human rights 
as set down by:
 > International Labour Organisation standards;
 > United Nations Global Compact (covering the areas of human 
rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption); and
 > United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Whilst the Group does not have a specific human rights policy 
at present, due to its short life as a public company, consideration 
is being given to implementing one in the future.
Greenhouse gas emissions
As the Group is now listed on the London Stock Exchange we are 
required to measure and report our direct and indirect greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013. 
The mandatory requirement is for the disclosure of the scope 1 
and 2 emissions only. These are direct emissions such as heating, 
vehicle fuel and indirect emissions, for example purchased electricity. 
Our total GHG footprint in line with DEFRA’s mandatory reporting 
requirement is shown in the table below.
Emissions data for year ended 31 July 2015
Emissions from
2015 
CO
2
e tonnes
2014 
CO
2
e tonnes
Electricity, gas and other fuels 3,572 3,495
Petrol and diesel vehicle fuels 746 841
Refrigerants 121 106
Total footprint 4,439 4,442
Greenhouse gas emissions 
intensity ratio: CO
2
e tonnes per 
£m of revenue 34.10 36.80
Note that:
 > data collected is in respect of the years ended 31 July 2014 
and 31 July 2015. The conversion factors used are those 
published by DEFRA; and
 > some extrapolation or estimation techniques have been used 
to calculate the Group footprint, specifically regarding the 
calculation of emissions from cooling units.
GROWTH     INNOVATION     SERVICE     RELIABILITY     INTEGRITY     COMMITMENT     FUN     PROFESSIONALISM 
Our 
Company 
Values Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 30
Strategic Report
Operational Review
The Ventilation Group segment
The Ventilation Group has market-leading positions in the UK residential ventilation products 
market, the Swedish residential refurbishment ventilation products market and the German 
decentralised heat recovery residential ventilation systems market. With the addition of 
Ventilair Group, we also are now a leading operator in the Belgium residential centralised heat 
recovery market with a growing position in ventilation solutions for the commercial market.
Highlights for Ventilation Group segment
Revenue 
£111.5 million, 85.6% of Group revenue (£116.4 million 
at constant currency) (2014: £101.3 million, 83.9% of 
Group revenue)
Adjusted operating profit
£28.9 million, 98.3% of Group adjusted operating profit 
(2014: £24.4 million, 92.2% of Group adjusted operating profit)
Employees
800 (2014: 780)
Revenue
Revenue within the Ventilation Group grew very strongly, by 14.9% 
at constant currency, of which 6.0% was organic and 8.9% the 
result of acquisitions. 
 Constant currency
Market sectors
2015 
£000
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Growth
%
Ventilation Group   
UK Residential RMI 36,574 36,574 36,979 (1.1)%
UK Residential New Build 17,180 17,180 14,592 17.7%
UK Commercial 16,188 16,188 16,409 (1.3)%
UK Export 8,374 8,922 7,129 25.2%
Nordics 22,241 25,529 22,702 12.5%
Germany 10,904 11,987 3,493 243.2%
Total Ventilation Group 111,461 116,376 101,304 14.9%
There was particularly strong growth of 17.7% in the UK Residential 
New Build sector, and likewise, exports from the UK of products 
largely for new-build applications grew very strongly by 25.2% at 
constant currency. Overall, our UK Residential RMI sector declined 
by 1.1%; within this, sales of products for the Private sub-sector 
grew well, by 3.3%. A difficult market for the Public sub-sector 
in UK Residential RMI caused the overall decline in this sector. 
New product development and a strengthened sales resource 
dedicated to the Public RMI sub-sector are positioned to bring 
it back to growth.
In the commercial market our exposure is greater in RMI applications 
and the market for new applications is more attractive at present. 
This is an area of focus and there are a number of possible options 
being explored whereby we can more actively participate in 
this market. 
Revenue in the Nordics grew organically by 12.5% at constant 
currency, with particularly strong performance in sales to the 
Swedish professional and wholesale market. 
Germany grew by 243.2% at constant currency as a consequence 
of the full year effect of the acquisition of inVENTer (acquired 
in April 2014) and the acquisition of Brüggemann in April 2015. 
During the year, we have been proactively searching for additional 
agents to provide a more comprehensive coverage of the German 
market. Once we have selected and been introduced to an area, 
there can be a gestation period of up to six months before we see 
any tangible revenues. During the course of 2015, there have 
been several new agent introductions and we are seeing very 
good growth from the agents we have taken on in the last two 
years. As well as the recruitment of new agents there have also 
been some new product introductions and a new single “internal” 
room decentralised heat recovery product from the Nordics 
product portfolio which was launched at the BAU trade fair 
in January 2015 with strong results. Continuing to invest in 
the product portfolio and refining some of our existing solutions 
will InVENTer continued to improve labour efficiency by taking 
advantage of its new consolidated factory building.
Within the Ventilation Group, the 6.0% organic increase in sales 
has been absorbed within our existing capacity headroom and the 
increased operational gearing has supported our improved margins.
A significant change to the UK factory footprint occurred during 
January 2015 when the finished goods stock warehouse at Dudley 
was closed (disposed of in June 2015 resulting in an exceptional 
operating profit of £0.3 million) and relocated to a more modern 
building adjacent to the existing manufacturing site, with operating 
efficiencies being gained. T o support the increased sales volume of 
MVHR units within the UK Residential New Build sector, the assembly 
area at Dudley was internally re-organised to increase output by 30%.
The Crawley site saw a small decline in manufacturing output 
during the year due to the reduction in Public Residential RMI 
sales. Labour efficiencies were maintained through the release 
of temporary labour. As part of the warehouse move at Dudley, 
the storage and distribution of residential ducting products was 
transferred to the Crawley finished goods warehouse. A bespoke 
storage area has been created and the capacity to supply ducting 
kits to sites has been increased in line with sales requirements. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 31
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
OEM (Torin-Sifan) segment
T orin-Sifan is a leading supplier of motors, motorised impellers, fans and blowers for the European 
heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) industry. The majority of Torin-Sifan’s products 
are sold in the residential and commercial heating and ventilation products markets.
Highlights for OEM (Torin-Sifan) segment
Revenue 
£18.7 million, 14.4% of Group revenue (£19.3 million 
at constant currency) (2014: £19.4 million,16.1% of 
Group revenue)
Adjusted operating profit
£2.5 million, 8.5% of Group adjusted operating profit 
(2014: £2.7 million, 10.2% of Group adjusted operating profit)
Employees
226 (2014: 218)
The production of rigid plastic ducting at the Reading site rose 20% 
compared to the previous year, in line with the increase of UK 
Residential New Build sales. Productivity and quality improvements 
allowed the increased volume to be achieved without the addition 
of extra labour within the production area.
The assembly of plastic fan products at the Slough site rose in 
line with the Private Residential RMI sales. Two extra assembly 
lines were added to the factory to ensure ongoing capacity is 
available upon demand.
The sales volume growth within the Nordics region has been 
supported mainly through the factory at Gemla in Sweden where 
there have been major changes to the organisation of the factory 
employees. The changes, including shift work within the mould 
shop, facilitated the increased output as well as creating a structure 
to suit the requirements of the forthcoming Enterprise Resource 
Planning system. The PAX factory re-organised its assembly area 
to create space for the installation of an assembly line to produce 
the new Calima product which was launched in May 2015. 
Revenue
Revenue within the OEM division declined very slightly by 0.6% 
at constant currency.
 Constant currency
Market sectors
2015 
£000
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Growth
%
OEM 18,717 19,293 19,405 (0.6)%
Total OEM 18,717 19,293 19,405 (0.6)%
Torin-Sifan’s operational capability has benefited from significant 
investment in the past twelve months in three specific areas:
 > Production commenced in September 2014 at the new 
Manufacturing and Technology Centre for energy-efficient 
electronically commutated motors (ECM). The facility was 
officially opened in February 2015 by the mayor and local 
MP for Swindon. The majority of Torin-Sifan’s production of 
ECM energy-saving air movement products now takes place 
at the new manufacturing centre of excellence. The layout of 
the facility has permitted the redesign of existing production 
processes in order to optimise production efficiency and 
output for our existing ranges of ECM products. In addition, 
the centre of excellence has room for three more production 
lines to support the manufacture of the latest generation 
ECM platform due for launch in the current financial year. 
The importance of this investment in the new facility has 
been underlined in this year’s trading, with ECM production 
output growing by 8% to record levels and ECM volumes now 
representing 66% of the total production output of the division. 
This reflects the positive influence of legislation and energy 
saving drivers on the demand for high value, high technology 
air movement solutions in Europe.
 > The move of ECM production from Torin-Sifan’s Greenbridge 
facility in Swindon to the new Manufacturing and Technology 
Centre has created space for utilisation as an enlarged and 
improved Warehousing and Logistical Centre. The new storage 
facility increases available pallet spaces by over 100%, generates 
annual cost savings of over £100,000 per annum and facilitates 
improved service levels.
 > Significant financial and human resources have been deployed in 
the final stages of development of the Company’ s next-generation 
platform of ECM technology. The new product will be in production 
in the fourth quarter of 2015 and is already generating significant 
customer interest. The production process is fully established 
at the ECM production facility with state of the art equipment 
installed to optimise productivity and quality. 
The investments made in both the new ECM Manufacturing and 
Technology Centre, the Warehousing and Logistical Centre and 
the new ECM product platform will enhance sales performance 
and efficiency of operations. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 32
Strategic Report
Financial Review
Ian Dew
Revenue
The Group has made good progress during 2015 and 
continues to enjoy strong demand for its ventilation products. 
Group revenue for the year ended 31 July 2015 was £130.2 million 
(2014: £120.7 million), a 7.9% increase (12.4% at constant currency). 
This comprised 1.0% organic growth (4.9% on a constant 
currency basis), with 6.9% the result of acquisitions 
(7.5% at constant currency).
Organic growth came substantially from the 17.7% growth in UK 
Residential New Build sales and the 17.5% (25.2% at constant 
currency) growth in the UK Exports sector. The UK Residential 
RMI sector revenue declined by 1.1%, comprised of growth in 
our private RMI revenue offset by a decline in the more difficult 
public RMI market and initiatives have been put in place to address 
the decline in this market. The UK Commercial sector revenue also 
declined slightly by 1.3%, while sales in our OEM (Torin-Sifan) 
segment declined by 3.6% (a slight decline of 0.6% at constant 
currency) as income from boiler spares fell during the mild winter.
During the year, movements in foreign currency exchange rates 
have had an adverse effect on the reported revenue of our business. 
If we had translated the full year performance of our business 
at our 2014 exchange rates, our reported Group revenues would 
have been £135.7 million or 4.2% higher.
Key highlights
 > Strong revenue growth of 7.9% 
(12.4% at constant currency) 
 > Strong growth in adjusted profit before 
tax of 20.6% and improving margins
 > Brüggemann Energiekonzepte GmbH 
acquired in April 2015
 > Bank debt refinanced in February 2015 
 > Adjusted operating cash inflow of 
£27.6 million (2014: £22.8 million), 
representing a cash conversion, after 
capital expenditure, of 93% (2014: 86%)
 > Closing debt leverage of 0.7x Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 33
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Profitability (prior year adjusted results are also pro-forma)
Our underlying result, as measured by adjusted EBITDA, was 
£32.1 million (2014: £27.3 million), 24.7% of revenues, delivering 
a £4.8 million improvement compared to the prior year pro-forma 
adjusted EBITDA (£6.3 million improvement at constant currency). 
The Group benefited significantly from the full year effect of the 
acquisition of inVENTer in April 2014 and to a lesser extent the 
acquisition of Brüggemann in April 2015. Gross margin performance 
was encouraging with a 130bps increase to 48.5% (2014: 47.2%).
On sales growth of 7.9%, our adjusted profit before tax improved 
by £4.7 million to £27.5 million compared to the prior year pro-forma 
adjusted profit before tax of £22.8 million, growth of 20.6%. The 
growth in our adjusted profit before tax margins was affected by 
improving sales mix and margins in Sweden and UK ventilation. 
This growth was slightly offset by lower sales of higher margin 
boiler spares in our OEM (Torin-Sifan) segment and the recent 
acquisition of inVENTer which, despite its positive contribution 
to Group profitability, is yet to benefit from improved operational 
leverage post acquisition.
The Group’s reported profit before tax in the year was £15.5 million 
compared to a loss of £15.5 million in 2014. The reported profit 
before tax for the period has benefited from:
 > a significant reduction in finance costs to £2.2 million 
(2014: £12.6 million) as a result of the post-listing capital 
structure, lower borrowings and, after refinancing in 
February 2015, lower interest rate margins; 
 > lower amortisation of financing costs written off upon 
refinancing of £nil (2014: £8.6 million); and
 > lower net exceptional costs of £0.7 million (2014: £7.8 million). 
Included in 2014 were the costs incurred as a consequence 
of the IPO of £5.5 million, costs associated with the acquisition 
of Fresh, PAX and inVENTer of £0.9 million, costs associated 
with the fair value adjustments at the time of acquisitions 
of £0.2 million and costs associated with the re-organisation 
of businesses following acquisitions of £1.2 million.
Acquisitions
The Group’s trading benefited in the year from the full year effect 
of the acquisition of inVENTer in Germany, acquired in April 2014, 
and from the acquisition of Brüggemann in Germany, acquired 
in April 2015. 
One acquisition was completed during the year, Brüggemann, 
based in Germany, in April 2015 which was acquired for a total 
cash consideration of €2.3 million (£1.6 million). Brüggemann 
has contributed to revenue and profitability in the year. 
Immediately after our financial year end, on 5 August 2015, we 
acquired Ventilair Group International BVBA, based in Belgium 
with operations in Belgium and the Netherlands, for €16.3 million 
(approximately £11.6 million), on a debt-free, cash-free basis. 
Ventilair will be consolidated in the Group’s results for the first 
time during our financial year ending 31 July 2016. 
Both acquisitions were funded in full from the Group’s existing cash 
and banking facilities.
Trading performance summary
Reported Adjusted 
1
Adjusted 
1
and pro-forma 
2
Year ended 
31 July 2015
Year ended
31 July 2014 Movement
Year ended 
31 July 2015
Year ended
31 July 2014 Movement
Revenue (£m) 130.2 120.7 7.9% 130.2 120.7 7.9%
EBITDA (£m) 31.4 20.7 51.7% 32.1 
1
27.3 
1,2
17.6%
Operating profit (£m) 17.2 5.7 201.8% 29.4 
1
25.3 
1,2
16.2%
Finance costs (£m) (2.2) (21.2) (89.6)% (2.0) (2.5) 
1,2
(20.0)%
Profit/(loss) before tax (£m) 15.5 (15.5) 200.0% 27.5 
1
22.8 
1,2
20.6%
Basic and diluted EPS (p) 5.9 (14.0) 142.1% 11.0 
1
8.8 
1,2,3
25.0%
Total dividend per share (p) 3.30 — 3.30 3.30 — 3.30
Operating cash flow (£m) 27.6 22.8 21.1% 27.6 
1
22.8 
1,2
21.1%
Net debt (£m) 21.2 42.9 (21.7) 21.2 42.9 (21.7)
The reconciliation of the Group’s reported profit before tax to adjusted measures of performance is summarised in the table above and in detail in note 10 
to the consolidated financial statements.
1.  Details of adjusted EBITDA, adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax can be found in note 10. For a definition of all adjusted measures 
see the glossary of terms in note 36. 
2.  To provide a more meaningful comparison of our performance in the current period with that of the prior period we have also presented the prior period 
after making pro-forma adjustments to reflect the higher cost of public ownership and to reflect the lower cost of our current debt structure. 
3.  On 23 June 2014, a share for share exchange converted the entire share capital (after re-organisation) of Windmill Topco Limited to new ordinary shares 
of Volution Group plc. The weighted number of shares has been calculated assuming the share for share exchange took place as from 1 August 2013. 
The pro-forma EPS assumes the same weighted average number of shares in the year to 31 July 2014 as in the year to 31 July 2015 to ensure we are 
showing a consistent comparison. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 34
Strategic Report
Financial Review continued
Exceptional items and adjusted performance measures
Exceptional items, by virtue of their size, incidence or nature, 
are disclosed separately in order to allow a better understanding 
of the underlying trading performance of the Group. During the 
year, exceptional items were £0.7 million (2014: £7.8 million). 
Details of these exceptional items can be found in note 8 
to the consolidated financial statements.
The Board believes that the performance measures – adjusted 
EBITDA, adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before 
tax, stated before deduction of exceptional items – give a 
clearer indication of the underlying performance of the business. 
A reconciliation of these measures of performance to profit 
before tax is detailed in note 10. In addition to exceptional 
items, the following are also excluded from adjusted measures, 
as reconciled in note 10:
 > on acquisition of a business, where appropriate, we obtain an 
independent valuation of identifiable acquired intangible fixed 
assets such as trademarks and customer base and recognise 
these assets in our consolidated statement of financial position; 
we then amortise these acquired assets over their useful lives. 
In the year the amortisation charge of these intangible assets 
was £11.5 million (2014: £13.1 million); 
 > write-off of bank refinancing costs and other finance costs 
during the year was £nil (2014: £8.6 million); and
 > at each reporting period end date, we measure the fair value 
of financial derivatives and recognise any gains or losses 
immediately in finance cost. During the year, we recognised 
a gain of £0.4 million (2014: loss of £0.2 million).
Furthermore, to provide a more meaningful comparison of our 
performance in the current period with that of the prior period, 
we have also presented the prior period after making pro-forma 
adjustments to reflect the higher cost of public ownership and 
to reflect the lower cost of our current debt structure. More 
information on the adjustments can be found in note 10.
Finance revenue and costs
Finance costs of £2.2 million during the year (2014: £21.2 million) 
have reduced significantly, largely as a consequence of the change 
in capital structure on our listing and refinancing in June 2014 
and, in the prior period, the write-off of accumulated third party 
bank financing costs, mentioned above, of £8.6 million. In addition, 
on 13 February 2015, we refinanced our bank debt with resulting 
lower interest rates. Prior to listing in June 2014, the business 
was under private equity ownership and was predominantly 
financed by bank borrowings and senior unsecured debt.
Operating cash flow
The Group continued to be cash generative in the year with 
adjusted operating cash inflow of £27.6 million (2014: £22.8 million). 
This represents a cash conversion, after capital expenditure, 
of 93% (2014: 86%). The Group continues to manage its working 
capital efficiently with operating working capital representing 
12.3% of revenue (2014: 15.3%). In addition, the Group 
continues to invest for the future with net capital expenditure 
increasing to £4.6 million (2014: £4.5 million) including 
investment in new product development, improved IT systems 
and factory relocation. During the year, we rationalised our 
operations in Dudley and disposed of one of our factory units at 
that location for a gross consideration of £0.8 million. The profit 
on disposal of £0.3 million has been reported as an exceptional 
item. See the glossary of terms in note 36 for a definition of adjusted 
operating cash flow and cash conversion. 
Net debt
Year-end net debt was £21.2 million (2014: £42.9 million), made 
up of bank borrowings of £32.8 million (2014: bank borrowings of 
£53.9 million), offset by cash and cash equivalents of £11.6 million 
(2014: £11.0 million). 
Movements in net debt position for the year  
ended 31 July 2015
£m
Opening net debt 1 August 2014 (42.9)
Movements from normal business operations:
– Adjusted operating cash flow 27.6
– Interest paid net of interest received (1.9)
– Income tax paid (3.0)
– Exceptional items (0.1)
 – Dividend paid (2.1)
– FX on foreign currency loans/cash 3.7
– Cost of refinancing (1.0)
Movements from acquisitions:
– Acquisition consideration net of cash acquired (1.5)
Closing net debt 31 July 2015 (21.2) Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 35
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Bank facilities, refinancing and liquidity
On 13 February 2015, the Group refinanced its bank debt. 
The Group now has in place a £90 million revolving credit facility, 
maturing in April 2019, which includes a permitted acquisition 
facility. This new facility is provided under standard Loan Market 
Association terms and replaces the Group’s previous facilities. 
The new facility is provided at a lower interest rate than the facility 
refinanced and the covenant headroom has been improved. 
Before February 2015, the Group’s bank facilities consisted of fully 
drawn term loans of £52.3 million, an unutilised revolving credit 
facility of £13.0 million and an unutilised approved acquisition 
facility of £20.0 million. The term loans were repayable in full 
in February 2019.
As at 31 July 2015, we had £57.2 million of undrawn, committed 
bank facilities and £11.6 million cash and cash equivalents on the 
statement of financial position.
Foreign exchange
The Group is exposed to the impact of changes in the foreign 
currency exchange rates on transactions denominated in currencies 
other than the functional currency of our operating businesses. 
We have significant Euro income in the UK which is partly balanced 
by Euro expenditure. For US Dollars, we have little income but 
significant expenditure. Our policy is to limit our transactional 
foreign exchange risk by purchasing the majority of our forecast 
US Dollar requirements for, and in advance of, the ensuing 
financial year.
We are also exposed to translational currency risk as the Group 
consolidates foreign currency denominated assets, liabilities, 
income and expenditure into Group reporting denominated 
in Sterling. We hedge the translation risk of the net assets in 
Fresh and PAX with £13.4 million borrowings denominated in 
SEK (2014: £17.8 million). We have partially hedged our risk of 
translation of the net assets of inVENTer and Brüggemann by 
having Euro denominated bank borrowings in the amount of 
£8.3 million as at 31 July 2015 (2014: £10.0 million). The Sterling 
value of our foreign currency denominated loans decreased by 
£3.9 million in the year as a consequence of exchange rate 
movements. We do not hedge the results of overseas subsidiaries.
During the year, movements in foreign currency exchange rates 
have had an adverse effect on the reported revenue and profitability 
of our business. If we had translated the full year performance 
of our business at our 2014 exchange rates, our reported Group 
revenues would have been £135.7 million or 4.2% higher and 
adjusted operating profit would have been £31.5 million or 
6.9% higher. 
Corporate restructuring
During the year the Group’s corporate and capital structure 
underneath Volution Group plc was re-organised in line with the 
expectations laid out in the Initial Public Offering Prospectus dated 
18 June 2014. The purpose of the internal re-organisation was 
to relieve historic blocks in the dividend chain. There was no 
change to the Group’s overall capital structure or net debt as 
a result of the changes.
Earnings per share
The basic and diluted earnings per share for the year was 5.9 pence 
(2014: loss of 14.0 pence). Our adjusted basic and diluted earnings 
per share was 11.0 pence (2014 pro-forma adjusted basic and 
diluted earnings per share: 8.8 pence), a significant 25.0% increase. 
Dividends
In May 2015 the Group paid an interim dividend of 1.05 pence 
per share. 
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 2.25 pence per 
share. Subject to approval at our Annual General Meeting 
of shareholders on 15 December 2015, this final dividend will 
be paid on 18 December 2015 to shareholders on the register 
on 27 November 2015. 
Ian Dew
Chief Financial Officer
16 October 2015
The Strategic Report comprising pages 1 to 35 
was approved and signed on behalf of the Board 
on 16 October 2015.
Ronnie George
Chief Executive Officer Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 36
Board of Directors
Peter Hill, CBE 
Non-Executive Chairman 
Ronnie George
Chief Executive Officer
Ian Dew 
Chief Financial Officer 
23 June 2014 15 May 2014 15 May 2014
Peter joined the Board on 
listing as Non-Executive 
Chairman and Chairman of 
the Nomination Committee. 
Ronnie joined in 2008 as 
Managing Director of Vent-Axia 
Division (now the Ventilation 
Group) and a director of our 
then holding company, Volution 
Holdings Limited, and was 
appointed our CEO and a 
director of our then holding 
company, Windmill Topco, 
in February 2012.
Ian joined in 2012 in 
Consultant Services before 
being appointed Business 
Improvement Director and 
subsequently our CFO in 
January 2014, becoming 
a director of our then holding 
company, Windmill Topco, 
in April 2014. 
Peter has extensive experience 
of this role, having acted as 
non-executive chairman of 
Alent plc since September 2012. 
He has previously acted as 
non-executive director on the 
boards of Cookson Group plc, 
Meggitt PLC and Oxford 
Instruments plc, and was a 
non-executive board member 
of UK Trade and Investment. 
He also has substantial 
experience in executive roles, 
having been chief executive of 
Laird PLC from 2002 until late 
2011, an executive director 
of Costain Group plc and a 
senior manager at BTR plc 
(subsequently Invensys plc).
Ronnie has over 25 years’ 
experience in industry and, 
prior to joining us, served 
as the managing director 
of Draka UK, a £200 million 
turnover business with c.450 
employees focusing on 
electric cable production for 
construction, where he had 
full financial and operational 
responsibility for the UK 
business. Latterly, he also 
served as the president of 
Draka’s global marine, oil and 
gas division, reporting directly 
to the Draka CEO.
Ian has over 25 years’ 
experience in industry and, 
prior to joining us, held the 
position of group finance 
director (industry and speciality 
group) at Draka Holding N.V ., 
where he had previously been 
divisional financial controller in 
the company’s marine, oil and 
gas division. He has also served 
as finance director of Draka UK 
and Transplastix Limited.
Peter has been non-executive 
chairman of Alent plc since 
September 2012. In addition, 
he acts as a non-executive 
director of Essentra plc and 
of the Royal Air Force.
None None
Appointed
Term of office
Committees
Experience
External appointments
N R
Committee membership
A
 Audit Committee
N
 Nomination Committee
R
 Remuneration Committee
X
 Chairman of Committee Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 37
Anthony Reading, MBE 
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director 
Adrian Barden
Independent 
Non-Executive Director 
Paul Hollingworth
Independent 
Non-Executive Director 
Gavin Chittick 
Non-Independent 
Non-Executive Director 
23 June 2014 23 June 2014 23 June 2014 15 May 2014
Tony joined the Board on 
listing as Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Adrian joined in 2012 as an 
independent Non-Executive 
Director of our then holding 
company, Windmill Topco. 
Paul joined the Board on 
listing as an independent 
Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman of the 
Audit Committee.
Gavin joined in 2012 as a 
Non-Executive Director of 
our then holding company, 
Windmill Topco, following his 
nomination by TowerBrook 
Capital Partners (TCP). 
Tony has extensive board 
experience, having been 
a non-executive director of 
Taylor Wimpey plc, Laird PLC, 
e2v technologies plc, Spectris 
plc and George Wimpey plc. 
He was previously an executive 
director of Tomkins plc and 
chairman and chief executive 
of Tomkins Corp. USA.
Adrian was previously 
chairman of the Construction 
Products Association and 
chief business development 
officer of Wolseley plc as 
well as a board member of 
Sanitec Corporation.
Paul previously headed 
the finance function and 
served on the boards at a 
number of UK listed public 
companies, including 
Thomas Cook Group plc, 
Mondi Group, BPB plc, 
De La Rue plc and 
Ransomes plc.
Gavin was chief executive of 
EuroPlex BV, an international 
cinema operator. Over more 
than 25 years, Gavin has 
gained extensive board-level 
management experience in 
various sectors. 
None None Paul is currently a 
non-executive director 
and chairman of the 
audit committee at 
Electrocomponents plc.
Gavin is the operating director 
at TCP and provides operational 
management support to 
portfolio and prospective 
investee companies. 
A N R A N R A N R Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 38
Introduction to Governance
Maintaining high standards 
Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to be introducing our 2015 Governance Report. 
As Chairman, I am committed to ensuring that your Board operates 
in an effective, transparent and ethical manner, and that we make 
our decisions based only on what we believe is likely to be for the 
benefit of shareholders by promoting and maintaining the long-term 
success of the Company and its reputation, having regard, amongst 
other things, to the interests of our employees and stakeholders. 
In our discussions as a Board, I seek to encourage and foster 
open, honest and challenging discussion. The Board understands 
how good governance and the promotion of ethical business 
practices can assist in driving forward the business and its 
performance, whilst managing or mitigating risks.
Good governance means more than merely complying with a set 
of rules and regulations, and one of our main aims is to seek to 
embed within our business a culture that ensures colleagues continue 
to behave in an ethical and principled manner and in compliance 
with our governance and risk management processes. T o encourage 
this approach we have a number of processes and procedures 
designed to facilitate appropriate, sound working practices and 
good governance in a practicable and achievable way.
We understand the need to continually develop and evolve the 
Board to make it relevant and appropriately experienced in the 
light of both near-term and longer-term business strategy and 
operations, especially as our outlook and activities extend 
further across Europe. 
The Board has regular items that it discusses during the course 
of a year, which include performance and progress of the Group, 
future development and strategy, investor relations and value 
creation and risk. During the year we continued to build on our 
procedures and processes that had been put in place at the time 
of the IPO, focusing on ensuring the Group has robust internal 
controls and risk management systems. The Audit Committee 
has played a pivotal role in this. We will continue to review our 
procedures and processes regularly, implement any developments 
in corporate governance best practice as necessary and seek to 
apply them appropriately. 
During the year we carried out our first Board evaluation exercise 
to review the performance of the Board, its Committees and 
individual Directors. Further details are set out later in this report.
The remainder of this report explains in more detail how the 
Company has complied with the principles of the 2012 edition 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Listing Rules and 
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
I look forward to meeting any shareholders who can join us at our 
Annual General Meeting in December and extend my thanks to you 
all for your continued support as we look forward to the year ahead.
Peter Hill, CBE
Chairman
16 October 2015
Governance framework
Audit Committee
Members:
Three independent  
Non-Executive Directors
Remuneration Committee
Members:
Non-Executive Chairman
Three independent  
Non-Executive Directors
Nomination Committee
Members:
Non-Executive Chairman
Three independent  
Non-Executive Directors
Volution Group plc Board Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 39
Corporate Governance
Overview
The Board fully supports the principles laid down in the UK Corporate Governance Code as issued by the Financial Reporting Council 
in September 2012, which applies to financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2012 (the “Code”) and the updated UK Corporate 
Governance Code issued in September 2014 (the “New Code”), which applies to financial periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014, 
both of which are available at www.frc.org.uk.
This report sets out the Company’s governance structure and how it complies with the Code and also includes items required by the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTRs). The disclosures in this report relate to our responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report 
and Accounts, including compliance with the Code to the extent required, our report on the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control systems, and the functioning of our committees.
Compliance with the Code
The Board considers that it has been in compliance with the 
provisions of the Code throughout the period under review. 
The Board also considers that it complies with most aspects of 
the New Code to the date of this report and is working towards 
full compliance for the financial year ending 31 July 2016.
Board governance
The Board is appointed by shareholders, who are the owners 
of the Company. The Board’s principal responsibility is to act 
in the best interests of shareholders as a whole, within the legal 
framework of the Companies Act 2006. It is also collectively 
responsible to shareholders for the long-term success of the 
Company. It agrees the strategic direction and governance 
structure that will help achieve this long-term success and deliver 
shareholder value. The Board oversees areas such as strategy, 
financial policy and making sure we maintain a sound system 
of internal control, and focuses primarily on strategic policy and 
governance issues. The Board’s main responsibilities are included 
in a schedule of matters reserved for the Board, as set out below.
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Committees 
to assist it with discharging its duties. The Committees play an 
essential role in supporting the Board to implement its strategy 
and provide focused oversight of key aspects of the business. 
The full Terms of Reference for each Committee are available 
on the Company’s website, www.volutiongroupplc.com.
Board balance and independence
The Code recommends that at least half the board of directors 
of a UK-listed company, excluding the chairman, should comprise 
non-executive directors determined by the Board to be independent 
in character and judgement and free from relationships or 
circumstances which may affect, or could appear to affect, the 
directors’ judgement. The Company’s Board consists of three 
independent Non-Executive Directors, one Non-Executive Chairman, 
one non-independent Non-Executive Director appointed by 
Windmill Holdings B.V., our controlling shareholder, and two 
Executive Directors. A list of the Directors is provided on 
pages 36 to 37.
The matters reserved for the Board include:
 > agreeing the Group’s strategy and objectives;
 > approving acquisitions and disposals;
 > changing the structure and capital of the Group;
 > approving the Annual Report and Accounts and 
Half-yearly Reports;
 > approving the Group’s dividend policy and declaration 
of dividends;
 > approving the Group’s Treasury Policy;
 > reviewing the effectiveness of the Board;
 > reviewing the effectiveness of risk identification 
and management and internal controls;
 > approving significant expenditure and material transactions 
and contracts;
 > ensuring a satisfactory dialogue with the Group’s shareholders;
 > appointing and removing Directors;
 > determining the remuneration policy for the Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors;
 > reviewing the Company’s overall corporate 
governance arrangements;
 > delegating authority to the Chief Executive Officer;
 > each year, meeting to set annual objectives for the business 
in line with the current Group strategy. The Board will monitor 
the achievement of the Company’s objectives through Board 
reports which include updates from the Chief Executive Officer, 
Chief Financial Officer and other functions; and
 > the Board also has a rolling agenda of items that regularly 
need to be considered by the Board and this agenda will be 
continually updated to include any topical matters that arise.
Board composition
Executive 2
Non-Executive 
Chairman 1
Independent 
Non-Executive 3
Non-independent 
Non-Executive 1 Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 40
Corporate Governance continued
Board activities and priorities during the year ended 31 July 2015
Board meetings consist of a mix of regular and standard items considered at each meeting and also special items which arise 
from time to time, either annually or as part of key project-related work. The table below shows the items of business 
considered during the year:
Matters considered at all 
Board meetings
 > Current trading and financial performance
 > Management accounts
 > Operations update
 > Merger and acquisition update
 > Health and safety, and environmental updates
 > Customers and marketing
 > Investor relations including market and sector update
 > People update
 > IT and ERP implementation
 > Regulatory updates
 > Company policies and future governance planning
Matters considered  
during 2014/15 
 > Group strategy
 > Budget and business plan
 > Annual Report and Accounts
 > Notice of AGM
 > Draft preliminary results and half-year results and presentation to analysts
 > Maiden dividend
 > Trading updates
 > Acquisition of Ventilair Group and Brüggemann
 > Refinancing of the Group
 > Integration of recent acquisitions
 > Feedback from current and potential investors following full and half-year investor roadshows
 > Visit to Fresh in Sweden and presentation on Nordics business
 > Property disposal
 > Risk management and internal controls
 > Construction market updates
 > Appointment of joint corporate brokers
 > Appointment of corporate lawyers
 > Board evaluation and effectiveness
 > AGM results and shareholder voting Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 41
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The Company has established a clear division between the 
respective responsibilities of the Non-Executive Chairman of the 
Board and the Chief Executive Officer. The Non-Executive Chairman 
is Peter Hill who is responsible for leading the Board’s discussions 
and decision-making. The Chairman promotes a culture of 
openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution 
of Non-Executive Directors in particular and ensuring constructive 
relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors. The 
Chief Executive Officer is Ronnie George who, through delegation 
from the Board, is responsible for executing the strategy and leading 
the Company’ s operating performance and day-to-day management 
of the Group. This separation of responsibilities between the Chairman 
and the Chief Executive Officer, coupled with the schedule of reserved 
matters described above, ensures that no individual has unfettered 
powers of decision-making.
Senior Independent Director
The Code recommends that the board of directors of a company 
with a premium listing should appoint one of the non-executive 
directors as a senior independent director to provide a sounding 
board for the chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the 
other directors when necessary. The senior independent director 
should be available to shareholders if they have concerns, when 
contact through the normal channels of the chief executive officer 
has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate. 
Tony Reading has been appointed as the Senior Independent 
Director and has considerable experience of acting as an 
independent non-executive director on listed company boards. 
Prior to joining the Company, he was a non-executive director 
of Taylor Wimpey plc, Laird PLC, e2v Technologies plc, 
Spectris plc and George Wimpey plc. He was also an executive 
director of Tomkins plc, and chairman and chief executive 
of Tomkins Corp. USA.
Non-Executive Directors and independence
The independence of each Non-Executive Director was 
considered at the time of appointment in June 2014 and once 
again immediately prior to the signing of this Annual Report and 
Accounts. The Company’s Non-Executive Directors provide a 
broad range of skills and experience to the Board which assists 
both in their roles in formulating the Company’s strategy and 
in providing constructive challenge to the Executive Directors. 
All of the Non-Executive Directors, except for Gavin Chittick, 
are regarded by the Company as independent Non-Executive 
Directors within the meaning defined in the Code and free from 
any business or other relationship which could materially interfere 
with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Gavin Chittick is not considered independent due to his position 
in TowerBrook Capital Partners L.P . and its relationship with our 
controlling shareholder (a company which is indirectly controlled 
by the following funds: TowerBrook Investors III L.P ., TowerBrook 
Investors III (Parallel) L.P ., and TowerBrook Investors III Executive 
Fund L.P ., (Funds)). Our controlling shareholder prior to listing 
controlled the Company and now holds ordinary shares totalling 
approximately 61.4% of the total issued share capital. Under the 
terms of a Relationship Agreement, our controlling shareholder 
has the right to nominate one person to be a Director of the 
Company for so long as it is interested in at least 15% of the 
Company’s ordinary shares.
Company Secretary
The Company Secretary plays a leading role in the good governance 
of the Company by supporting the Chairman and helping the Board 
and its Committees to function efficiently. T ogether with the Chairman, 
the Company Secretary keeps under review the governance 
processes adopted by the Company to ensure they remain fit for 
purpose and considers any improvements that could strengthen 
the governance of the Company. All Directors have access to the 
services of the Company Secretary and may take independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense in conducting 
their duties. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the 
Board and each of its Committees.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary 
is a matter for the board as a whole. Michael Anscombe 
has been Company Secretary since August 2014.  Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 42
Corporate Governance continued
Board meetings
The table below sets out the attendance record of each Director at scheduled Board and Committee meetings during 2014/15:
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Meetings held 7 4 3 1
Meetings attended
Peter Hill 7 — 3 1
Adrian Barden 7 4 3 1
Gavin Chittick 7 — — —
Ian Dew 7 — — —
Ronnie George 7 — — —
Paul Hollingworth 7 4 3 1
Tony Reading 7 4 3 1
Note
Where a Director is not a member of the committee, this is indicated as a dash. During the year, certain Directors who were not committee members attended 
meetings of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee by invitation. These details have not been included in the table.
Agendas for the Board meetings are set out at the beginning of the year and new items are added to this as and when appropriate. 
All Directors receive papers in advance of Board meetings. These include a business and market update report with updates from 
the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Members of the Group’s Senior Management Team may also be invited to 
present at Board meetings as appropriate so that Non-Executive Directors keep abreast of developments in the Group.
Appointment and tenure 
The appointment dates of Directors are shown on pages 36 to 37. 
The Board believes that all Directors are effective, committed 
to their roles and have sufficient time available to perform their 
duties. Accordingly, all members of the Board will be offering 
themselves for election at the Company’s Annual General 
Meeting to be held on 15 December 2015.
All of the Directors have service agreements or letters of 
appointment and the details of their terms are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 68. The service 
agreements and letters of appointment are available for inspection 
at the Company’s registered office during normal business hours. 
No other contract with the Company or any subsidiary undertaking 
of the Company in which any Director was materially interested 
subsisted during or at the end of the financial year other than the 
Relationship Agreement, further details of which can be found 
on page 70. Under the Relationship Agreement, our controlling 
shareholder has the right to nominate one person to the Board 
of the Company for so long as its shareholding is at least 15% 
of the Company’s ordinary shares.
Board evaluation and effectiveness
The effectiveness and performance of the Board is vital to our 
continuing success. An internal evaluation of the performance 
of the Board and its Committees was carried out during the year. 
The process of evaluating the performance was facilitated by the 
Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary. A tailored, high-level 
questionnaire was distributed for the Directors to complete. 
This was structured to provide Directors with an opportunity 
to express their views about:
 > the performance of the Board and its Committees, including 
how the Directors work together as a whole;
 > the balance of skills, experience, independence and 
knowledge of the Directors; and
 > the Board processes and operation.
The responses to the evaluation of the Board and its Committees 
were reviewed with the Chairman and then considered by the 
Board and the Committees. The results of the Board evaluation 
indicated that the Board is working well and that there are no 
significant concerns among the Directors about its effectiveness. 
Some actions were agreed as a result of the exercise and these 
will be progressed over the coming year. These included more 
visits to business sites to broaden understanding of the business 
and more exposure to members of the Senior Management Team 
through being invited to present at more Board meetings. 
The Senior Independent Director met with the other Non-Executive 
Directors in the absence of the Chairman, to assess the Chairman’ s 
effectiveness. After considering and discussing the tasks undertaken 
by the Chairman during the period under review, the Non-Executive 
Directors agreed that Mr Hill gave appropriate time and commitment 
to his role as Chairman of the Company and was effective in 
that role throughout the year. The Senior Independent Director 
then discussed the results with the Chairman at a separate 
one-to-one meeting.
The performance of individual Directors was evaluated by 
the Chairman, with input from the Committee chairmen and 
other Directors. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 43
The Board intends to comply with Code guidance that the 
evaluation process should be externally facilitated at least every 
three years and will engage an external reviewer to evaluate the 
Board’s effectiveness during that time period.
Development
In line with the Code, the Company will ensure that any new Directors 
joining the Board will receive appropriate support and are given 
a comprehensive, formal and tailored induction programme 
organised through the Company Secretary, including the provision 
of background material on the Company and briefings with senior 
management. Each Director’ s individual experience and background 
will be taken into account in developing a programme tailored 
to his or her own requirements. 
Directors’ conflicts of interest 
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which 
they have or may have interests that conflict with those of the 
Company, unless that conflict is first authorised by the Board. 
This includes potential conflicts that may arise when a Director 
takes up a position with another company. The Company’s 
Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise such potential 
conflicts, and there is in place a procedure to deal with any 
actual or potential conflict of interest. The Board deals with each 
appointment on its individual merit and takes into consideration 
all the circumstances. All potential conflicts approved by the 
Board are recorded in a conflicts of interest register, which will 
be reviewed by the Board on a regular basis to ensure that the 
procedure is working effectively.
External directorships 
The Board allows Executive Directors to accept one external 
commercial non-executive director appointment provided the 
commitment is compatible with their duties as an Executive 
Director. The Executive Director concerned may retain fees paid 
for these services which will be subject to approval by the Board. 
Currently, neither of the Executive Directors holds an external 
directorship. Details of all Directors’ significant directorships 
can be found in their biographies on pages 36 to 37.
Where Non-Executive Directors have external directorships, the 
Board is comfortable that these do not impact on the time that 
any Director devotes to the Company and we believe that this 
experience only enhances the capability of the Board.
Information and support available to Directors
All Board Directors have access to the Company Secretary, 
who advises them on governance matters. The Chairman and 
the Company Secretary work together to ensure that Board 
papers are clear, accurate, delivered in a timely manner to 
Directors, and of sufficient quality to enable the Board to 
discharge its duties. Specific business-related presentations 
are given by senior management when appropriate. As well 
as the support of the Company Secretary, there is a procedure 
in place for any Director to take independent professional advice 
at the Company’s expense in the furtherance of their duties, where 
considered necessary. Deloitte LLP advises on remuneration matters, 
Ernst & Young LLP on external audit matters and BDO LLP on 
internal audit matters.
Internal control and risk management
The Board has responsibility for establishing and maintaining 
the Group’s system of risk management and internal control 
to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets 
and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system. Such a system 
is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
During the year, the Board appointed BDO LLP to act in the capacity 
of internal auditor and regular reports have been submitted to the 
Audit Committee. In addition processes have been introduced to 
enable an effectiveness review of the Group’s system of risk 
management and internal control to be undertaken. 
The key elements of the Group’s system of internal control 
and risk management are as follows: 
 > a system is in place for planning, reporting and 
reviewing performance; 
 > the Group has established processes for the identification, 
review and mitigation of risks that are reviewed and monitored 
regularly by the Executive Directors and Senior Management 
Team. These have been reviewed by the Audit Committee 
which reviews the Group Risk Register at least twice a year 
and the Principal Risks and Uncertainties together with their 
potential impact on strategic initiatives and their mitigation 
can be found on pages 24 to 27; and 
 > the Group has in place, controls which cover financial, 
operational and compliance controls. 
In accordance with the requirements of the Code and the Turnbull 
Guidance on internal control and the revised guidance issued by 
the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010, the Audit Committee 
has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management and internal control systems and reported the results 
to the Board. Further details are given in the Audit Committee 
Report on pages 47 to 52. The Directors confirm that these 
processes have been in place during the 2014/15 financial year 
and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.  Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 44
Corporate Governance continued
Whistleblowing 
During the year an external independent whistleblowing facility 
was implemented to enable employees to report any concerns 
which they feel need to be brought to the attention of management 
concerning any possible impropriety, financial or otherwise. The 
new system was reviewed by the Audit Committee. The Group 
believes that it is important to have a culture of openness and 
accountability in order to prevent such situations occurring or 
to address them when they do occur.
Shareholder engagement 
Responsibility for shareholder relations rests with the Chairman, 
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. They ensure 
that there is effective communication with shareholders on matters 
such as governance and strategy, and are responsible for ensuring 
that the Board understands the views of major shareholders. 
The Board aims to present a balanced and clear view of the 
Group in communications with shareholders and believes that 
being transparent in describing how we see the market and 
the prospects for the business is extremely important.
We communicate with existing and potential shareholders 
in a number of different ways, such as:
 > full and half-year financial results announcements followed by 
investor roadshows for existing and potential shareholders;
 > periodic trading updates;
 > one-to-one meetings and telephone briefings for analysts 
and investors;
 > the Annual General Meeting; and
 > periodic visits to the business sites to give analysts and major 
shareholders a better understanding of how we manage our 
business. These visits and meetings are principally undertaken 
by the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other 
members of the Senior Management Team.
In any of the above situations, any material presented is also uploaded 
to the Company’s website so being available to all shareholders.
The Board receives regular updates on the views of its shareholders 
from the Chief Executive Officer and Company brokers. This is 
a standing agenda item for all Board meetings. In addition, the 
Senior Independent Director is available to meet shareholders 
if they wish to raise issues separately from the arrangements 
as described above.
The Company’s investor website is also regularly updated with 
news and information including this Annual Report and Accounts 
which sets out our strategy and performance together with our 
plans for future growth.
Fair, balanced and understandable
The Board recognises its duty to ensure that the Annual Report and 
Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable 
and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the performance, strategy and business model of the Company.
The Board has placed reliance on the following to form this opinion:
 > a verification process dealing with the factual content of the 
reports and to ensure consistency across the various sections;
 > review of the Annual Report and Accounts by senior management 
to ensure consistency and overall balance; and
 > the Audit Committee reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts 
and its compliance with the requirements, concluded that they 
had been met and recommended their approval by the Board 
as fair, balanced and understandable.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company will take 
place at 11.00 am on Tuesday 15 December 2015 at the offices 
of Norton Rose Fulbright LLP , 3 More London Riverside, London 
SE1 2AQ, United Kingdom. All shareholders have the opportunity 
to attend and vote, in person or by proxy, at the AGM. The Notice 
of AGM can be found in a circular which is being posted at the 
same time as this Annual Report and Accounts. The Notice of AGM 
sets out the business of the meeting and explanatory notes on all 
resolutions. Separate resolutions are proposed in respect of each 
substantive issue. The Chairman, the chairman of each of the 
Committees and both Executive Directors will be present at the 
AGM and will be available to answer shareholders’ questions. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 45
Nomination Committee Report
Dear Shareholder,
As chairman of the Nomination Committee, I present our report detailing the role 
and responsibilities of the Committee and its activities during the year. 
Role and responsibilities
The key responsibilities of the Committee are: 
 > assessing whether the size, structure and composition of the 
Board (including its skills, knowledge, experience and diversity, 
including gender diversity) continues to meet the Group’s 
business and strategic needs;
 > examining succession planning for Directors and other senior 
executives and, in particular, for the key roles of Chairman of 
the Board and Chief Executive Officer, taking into account the 
challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the future 
skills and expertise needed on the Board; and 
 > identifying and nominating, for the approval by the Board, 
candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise 
together with leading the process for such appointments.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available 
on the Company’s website at www.volutiongroupplc.com 
and are reviewed annually by the Committee.
Membership and attendance
The Code recommends that a majority of the members 
of a nomination committee should be independent non-executive 
directors. As the Committee is chaired by me, and its other members 
are Adrian Barden, Paul Hollingworth and Tony Reading, all of 
whom are independent Non-Executive Directors, the Company 
complies with this Code recommendation. By invitation, the meetings 
of the Committee may be attended by the Chief Executive Officer, 
the Chief Financial Officer and the non-independent Non-Executive 
Director. The Chairman of the Board normally chairs the Committee 
except where it is dealing with his own re-appointment 
or replacement. The Company Secretary acts as the 
Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee met once during the year with attendance disclosed 
on page 42. The Committee will meet formally at least once 
a year and at such other times as the Board or the Committee 
chairman requires. 
Election of Directors
On the recommendation of the Committee and in line with the Code 
and the Company’s Articles of Association, all of the Company’s 
Directors will stand for election at the Annual General Meeting 2015. 
The biographical details of the Directors can be found on pages 36 
to 37. The Committee considers that the performance of each 
of the Directors standing for re-election at the Annual General 
Meeting 2015 continues to be effective and each demonstrates 
commitment to their role.
Main activities of the Committee during the year
The following matters were considered at the Committee 
meeting held during the year:
 > evaluated the balance of skills, experience, 
independence, diversity and knowledge on the Board;
 > reviewed and approved the recommendations to be 
made to shareholders for the election of Directors at the 
Annual General Meeting; and 
 > reviewed the Committee’s report in the Annual Report 
and Accounts and recommended approval to the Board.
After the year end, the Committee considered the outcome 
of the performance evaluations when discussing the 
effectiveness of the Non-Executive Directors seeking 
re-election at the Annual General Meeting 2015.
Nomination Committee members
Peter Hill, CBE (chair)
Adrian Barden
Paul Hollingworth
Tony Reading Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 46
Nomination Committee Report continued
Diversity
The Board supports the aims, objectives and recommendations 
outlined in Lord Davies’ report “Women on Boards” and recognises 
the need to recruit women on to the Board, to which it is committed 
over time. This commitment will be considered as and when the 
current Board members need to be replaced, given that the Board 
was only appointed on listing in June 2014 and is felt to be of the 
right size. The Company’s policy is also to make appointments 
based on merit and against objective criteria to ensure we appoint 
the best individual for each role. We are committed to developing 
the potential of women throughout the Group.
The Committee and the Board understands the importance of a 
diverse Board membership as well as throughout the Company, 
and recognises that diversity encompasses not only gender but 
also background, ethnicity and disability. The Committee believes 
that appointments should be made on merit, the key criterion 
being whether or not the appointee can add to or complement the 
existing range of skills and experience on the Board. Although 
there are currently no females on the Board, two of the eight 
members of the Senior Management Team (excluding Directors) 
are female (25%). Across our business of approximately 1,030 
employees, female employees represented approximately 36% 
(2014: 34%) of the workforce and held 18% (2014: 22%) of senior 
managerial positions as at 31 July 2015. 
Committee performance evaluation
During the year, the Committee carried out an evaluation of its 
performance through completion of a confidential questionnaire 
by the Committee members within the context of the wider Board 
performance evaluation review. This process concluded that the 
Committee had fulfilled its role effectively. 
I look forward to meeting with shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting to answer any questions on the work of 
the Nomination Committee.
Peter Hill, CBE
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
16 October 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 47
Audit Committee Report
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to introduce my second report 
of the Audit Committee since it was established 
as part of the governance processes adopted 
by the Company on listing in June 2014.
This report has been written to offer shareholders an insight into 
the activities of the Committee during the year and provide an 
overview of how the Committee has reviewed the work of the 
external auditor and systems of internal control for effectiveness. 
It also gives the Committee’s opinion on the fairness, balance 
and understandability of the Annual Report, when viewed as a 
whole, and provides greater detail on the programme for internal 
audit and the Group’s risk management processes that the 
Committee oversees.
During this first full year as a listed company, the Committee has 
focused on the integrity of the Group’s financial reporting, risk 
management and internal controls, and the quality of the internal 
and external audit processes. BDO LLP (BDO) was appointed to 
perform the internal audit function on behalf of the Group and a 
three-year internal audit plan was approved. As I mentioned in my 
report last year, prior to the Company’s listing, Ernst & Young LLP 
(EY) undertook a Financial Position, Prospects and Procedures 
review. Their review covered a number of areas and the Committee 
has been monitoring the progress and resolution of outstanding 
actions during the year. Further details of the activities undertaken 
by the Committee during the year are set out on page 48.
Going forward, the Committee will continue the good work achieved 
so far by looking in detail at more of the Group’ s business operations, 
with a further 13 internal audits planned for the 2015/16 financial 
year. These will cover internal control and compliance areas and 
be undertaken across functions in UK and German business units.
The Committee has also noted the changes to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and associated guidance relating to the 
viability statement and corporate risk management respectively, 
and is considering the implications for the Group. 
On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank everyone for 
their hard work over the past year, including EY as our external 
auditor, BDO as our internal auditor and the finance teams across 
the businesses.
I look forward to meeting with shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting to answer any questions on the work of the Committee.
Paul Hollingworth
Chairman of the Audit Committee
16 October 2015
Paul Hollingworth
Chairman, Audit Committee
Audit Committee members
Paul Hollingworth (chair)
Adrian Barden
Tony Reading Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 48
Audit Committee Report continued
Membership and meetings
The UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) recommends 
that all members of an audit committee be non-executive 
directors, independent in character and judgement and free 
from any relationship or circumstance which may, could or would 
be likely to, or appear to, affect their judgement and that one 
such member has recent and relevant financial experience. 
Accordingly, the Committee comprises three members who 
are independent Non-Executive Directors, Paul Hollingworth 
as Committee Chairman, considered by the Board to have 
recent and relevant financial experience, Tony Reading and 
Adrian Barden. Biographies of all Committee members can 
be found on pages 36 to 37. As such, the Committee complies 
with the Code recommendations. Regular Committee meetings 
are also normally attended by the Chief Executive Officer, 
Chief Financial Officer, other Directors, the external auditor, 
the internal auditor and the Company Secretary, who acts 
as secretary to the Committee. Other members of management 
are invited to attend depending on the matters under discussion. 
The Committee meets regularly with the external auditor with no 
members of management present. 
Meetings are scheduled in accordance with the financial and 
reporting cycles of the Company and generally take place prior 
to Board meetings to ensure effectiveness of the collaboration 
with the Board.
Members and their attendance at meetings during the year are 
set out in the Governance Report on page 42.
The Committee has independent access to BDO, the internal auditor 
and to EY , external auditor. BDO and EY have direct access to the 
Chairman of the Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
Minutes of each Committee meeting are provided to Board members.
Audit Committee activities during 2014/15
Financial statements and reports
 > reviewed the Preliminary Results Statement, Annual Report and Accounts, Half-year Results Announcement, received reports 
from the external auditor, and reviewed the Trading Updates issued in August 2014 and December 2014;
 > reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls and disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts; 
 > reviewed management representation letters, going concern reviews, fair balanced and understandable criteria, significant 
areas of accounting estimates/judgements (including exceptional items, intangible assets and rebates); and 
 > reported to the Board on the appropriateness of accounting policies and practices.
Risk management
 > considered the Group Risk Register which identified, evaluated and set out mitigation of risks, and reviewed the Principal Risks 
and Uncertainties disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts; 
 > reviewed the current risk management and internal control processes to determine the key enhancements required to ensure 
compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 requirements for disclosure in the Annual Report and Accounts 2016; and
 > considered the results of cyber-attack penetration testing.
Internal audit
 > appointed BDO to perform the function of Group internal auditor and approved a three-year plan;
 > reviewed management responses to BDO’s internal audit reports issued during the year; and
 > reviewed the Group’s new Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and approved the appointment of an 
external independent Whistleblowing provider which allows the receipt, in confidence, of complaints on accounting, risk issues, 
internal controls, auditing issues and non-financial related matters.
External auditor and non-audit work
 > reviewed the relationship with the external auditor including its independence, objectivity and effectiveness and, on the basis 
of that review, recommended to the Board their re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting;
 > reviewed, considered and agreed the scope and methodology of the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditor; 
 > agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to the external auditor; and
 > reviewed and approved the Group policy on non-audit services and reviewed any non-audit fees.
Compliance
 > met with the external auditor without executive management; and
 > reviewed the Committee terms of reference and evaluated its performance. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 49
Role and responsibilities 
The primary function of the Committee is to assist the Board in 
fulfilling its responsibilities to protect the interests of shareholders 
with regard to the integrity of financial reporting, audit, risk 
management and internal controls. This comprises:
 > monitoring and reviewing the Group’s accounting policies, 
practices and significant accounting judgements; and
 > receiving the annual and half-yearly financial statements and 
any public financial announcements and advising the Board 
on whether the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced 
and understandable.
In relation to the external audit:
 > approving the appointment and recommending the re-appointment 
of the external auditor and their terms of engagement and fees;
 > considering the scope of work to be undertaken by the 
external auditor and reviewing the results of that work; 
 > reviewing and monitoring the independence of the external 
auditor and approving their provision of non-audit services;
 > reviewing the effectiveness of the external auditor;
 > reviewing compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code;
 > monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal audit function, and its material findings, in the context 
of the Group’s overall risk management systems;
 > overseeing the Group’s procedures for its employees to raise 
concerns through its whistleblowing policy as set out in the 
Code of Conduct;
 > monitoring the effectiveness of the risk management systems 
and processes; and
 > assessing and advising the Board on the internal financial, 
operational and compliance controls.
Significant accounting matters
In reviewing the financial statements with management and the external auditor, the Committee has discussed and debated 
the critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty as set out in note 4 to the consolidated financial 
statements. As a result of its review, the Committee has identified the following issues that require particular judgement or have 
significant impact on interpretation of this Annual Report and Accounts 2015:
 > Exceptional items: exceptional items on a pre-tax basis of £0.7 million (2014: £7.8 million) represent a material item in the profit 
and loss account and primarily consist of costs associated with acquisitions, internal simplification of the corporate structure 
and the profit on the disposal of a property (see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements).
 > Intangible assets: as a result of a number of recent acquisitions, intangible assets, both goodwill and others, are the biggest 
single asset in the balance sheet. At 31 July 2015 intangible assets relating to goodwill, customer base and trademarks 
amounted to £147.9 million. The value of goodwill and other intangible assets has been reviewed for impairment using 
a value in use model using cash flow and discount rates as set out in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. 
The Fresh, PAX, inVENTer and Brüggemann acquisitions are showing reasonable headroom on their goodwill calculations 
(see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements).
 > The Group has a number of customer and supplier rebate agreements that are recognised as a reduction from sales or a 
reduction of cost of sales as appropriate (collectively referred to as rebates). Rebates are based on an agreed percentage of 
revenue or purchases, which will increase with the level of revenue achieved or purchases made. These agreements typically 
run to a different reporting period to that of the Group with some of the amounts payable and receivable being subject to 
confirmation after the reporting date. At the reporting date, the Directors make estimates of the amount of rebate that will 
become both payable and due to the Group under these agreements based upon their best estimates of volumes and 
product mix that will be bought or sold over each individual rebate agreement period. Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 50
Audit Committee Report continued
Internal control and risk management
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’ s systems of internal 
control and for reviewing their effectiveness and this responsibility 
has been delegated to the Committee. In accordance with the 
requirements of the Code and the Turnbull Guidance on internal 
control and the revised guidance issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council in June 2010, the Committee has conducted a review 
of the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal 
control systems and reported the results to the Board. 
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can 
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. The Group’s system is designed to provide 
the Directors with reasonable assurance that any problems are 
identified on a timely basis and are dealt with appropriately.
The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness 
of the Group’s system of internal controls and that the necessary 
actions have been taken to remedy and control any control 
weaknesses identified during the year. Since the date of this review, 
there have been no significant changes in internal controls or other 
matters which could significantly affect them. The Principal Risks 
and Uncertainties facing the Group are set out on pages 24 to 27 
of the Strategic Report.
During the year, the Board appointed BDO to act in the capacity 
of internal auditor and regular reports have been submitted to 
the Committee for review. The Group has operating policies and 
controls in place covering a range of issues including financial 
reporting, budgeting and capital expenditure, information technology 
and appropriate employee and ethics policies. These policies are 
designed to ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial reporting 
and govern the preparation of financial statements. The Board, being 
ultimately responsible for the Group’s system of internal controls 
and risk management, discharges its duties in this area by:
 > holding regular Board meetings to consider the matters 
reserved for its consideration;
 > receiving regular management reports which provide 
an assessment of key risks and controls;
 > scheduling annual Board reviews of strategy including reviews 
of the material risks and uncertainties facing the business;
 > ensuring there is a clear organisational structure with defined 
responsibilities and levels of authority;
 > ensuring there are documented policies and procedures 
in place; and
 > scheduling regular Board reviews of financial budgets and 
forecasts with performance reported to the Board monthly.
In respect of the Group’s financial reporting, the Group Finance 
department is responsible for preparing the Group financial 
statements using a well-established consolidation process 
and ensuring that accounting policies are in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards. All financial information 
published by the Group is subject to the approval of the Committee. 
Internal audit
Following the IPO, the Committee considered whether to set up 
an internal audit function. The Committee concluded that given 
the size and scale of the Group’ s operations, although management 
had not historically considered it necessary to establish such a 
function, it had been determined that the best option for the Group 
was to outsource the function. During the year, BDO was appointed 
to provide the function, reporting into the Group Chief Accountant, 
with a separate reporting line to the Committee Chairman.
Following the appointment of BDO, an Internal Audit Charter 
was approved, formally defining the purpose, authority and 
responsibility of the internal audit function to be provided. 
In addition, a three-year internal audit programme was 
developed and approved by the Committee.
Internal audit reports drafted by BDO have been received by the 
Committee covering areas such as the effectiveness of financial 
controls, an audit of the overall control environment in the T orin-Sifan 
business unit, procurement and payroll. Where areas of weakness 
have been identified, recommendations for improvements in controls 
have been presented to the Committee and followed up with 
management to ensure that all actions agreed had been taken 
on a timely basis.
The Committee will continue to review and assess the internal 
audit function to ensure it remains effective and will continue 
to monitor and provide direction to its activities in 2015/16.
External audit
During the year the external auditor presented their audit plans for 
the interim review and annual audit. These plans were discussed 
with the external auditor and appropriate changes from the 
previous year’s scope agreed as appropriate.
The effectiveness of the external audit process depends on 
appropriate risk identification at the start of the cycle and these 
were reviewed as part of the planning process.
Following completion of the audit, EY notified the Committee 
of amendments to their planned procedures, which largely arose 
due to changes in the business. The Committee assessed the 
effectiveness of the audit process based on its interaction with 
the external auditor and by obtaining feedback from management 
on the effectiveness of the process. The Committee was satisfied 
that there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the 
primary areas of audit risk during the year. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 51
External auditor
As noted earlier, EY is the Group’ s external auditor. Their performance 
is kept under regular review by the Board and the Audit Committee 
and the Committee undertook a formal assessment of the external 
audit process during the external audit of the Group’s 2014/15 
results and the suitability of EY going forward. This review took the 
form of a checklist and questionnaire issued to senior management 
across the business units and involvement of senior management 
in the detailed stages of the audit process. A summary of the 
findings was prepared for consideration by the Committee at 
its October 2015 meeting. The outcome of the review was that 
the Committee recommended to the Board, which in turn is 
recommending to shareholders by way of an ordinary resolution 
at the Annual General Meeting 2015, that EY be re-appointed 
as the Group’s auditor.
In accordance with current professional standards, the external 
auditor is required to change the lead partner every five years in 
order to protect auditor independence and objectivity. EY was 
awarded the external audit for the 2012/13 financial year following 
a competitive tendering process and therefore no rotation of the 
lead partner is required until the audit of the 2017/18 financial 
year. In accordance with the recent changes to the Code, the 
Competition and Markets Authority’s final order on mandatory 
re-tendering published in September 2014 and the associated 
transitional provisions and EU Audit Directive, it is the Group’s 
intention to put the audit out to tender at least every ten years. 
There are no contractual obligations on the Company which 
restrict the choice of auditor. 
Non-audit services
The Group’s external auditor may also be used to provide specialist 
advice where, as a result of their position as auditor, they either must, 
or are best placed to, perform the work in question. A formal 
policy is in place in relation to the provision of non-audit services 
by the external auditor to ensure that there is adequate protection 
of their independence and objectivity.
Fees charged by EY in respect of non-audit services generally 
require the prior approval of the Committee. During the year, 
EY charged the Group £25,000 (2014: £2.1 million) for non-audit 
related services. A breakdown of the fees paid to EY during the 
year is set out in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. 
In relation to the 2014 fees, £1.8 million related to the Reporting 
Accountant work on the Group’s IPO and accordingly related to 
non-recurring work. EY was best placed to perform their work 
given their knowledge of the business.
It is the Company’s practice that it will seek quotes from several 
firms, which may include EY, before work on non-audit projects 
is awarded. Contracts are awarded to our suppliers based on 
individual merits.
Code of Conduct, anti-bribery and whistleblowing
The Group is committed to providing a safe and confidential 
avenue for all employees across the Group to raise concerns 
about serious wrongdoings. The Group also acknowledges the 
requirements of the Code in this area, which states that the 
Committee should review arrangements by which employees 
across the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about 
possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other 
matters and ensuring that these concerns are investigated and 
escalated as appropriate. 
During the year, the Committee reviewed and the Board approved, 
a new Group-wide Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery and Corruption 
Policy. These policies set out clearly the Group’s values and the 
importance that is placed on honest, ethical and lawful conduct 
in all business dealings. All Group employees, agents and suppliers 
are asked to confirm that they do and will continue to comply 
with them. A gifts and hospitality register is operated to ensure 
transparency where items are over a certain monetary threshold. 
In addition, all employees who are considered the most likely 
to be exposed to bribery and corruption have been given 
web-based anti-bribery and corruption training. 
Also during the year, the Committee reviewed the arrangements 
by which employees are able to raise, in confidence, any concerns 
they may have about possible wrongdoing or dishonest or 
unethical behaviour, such as bribery, corruption, fraud, dishonesty 
and illegal practices. A new external independent whistleblowing 
provider was appointed and the confidential web-based, email and 
telephone facility provided was communicated across the Group, 
branded as “Speak Up”, to ensure awareness. The Code of 
Conduct protects anyone who comes forward to make a disclosure 
under the Whistleblowing Policy. Should any disclosures be made, 
the Company Secretary will initiate an investigation to include 
all necessary parties. The Committee receives regular reports 
on matters raised and monitors their resolution. The Committee 
also has the power to conduct further enquiries itself or other 
additional actions it sees fit.
Committee performance evaluation
The Board conducted an internal review of Committee effectiveness 
during the year and concluded that the Committee had acted in 
accordance with its terms of reference and carried out all of its 
responsibilities effectively. The review identified certain areas 
where the Committee would benefit from additional support 
including more exposure to members of the Senior Management 
Team through being invited to present at more meetings. Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 52
Audit Committee Report continued
Fair, balanced and understandable
The Board has responsibility under the Code for preparing the 
Company’s Annual Report and Accounts, ensuring that it presents 
a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s 
position and prospects and that it provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, 
business model and strategy. 
Process
The review of the Annual Report and Accounts took the form 
of a detailed assessment of the collaborative process of drafting 
them, which involves Group Finance, the Company Secretary and 
Group Marketing with guidance and input from external advisers. 
It ensured that there is a clear and unified link between this 
Annual Report and Accounts and the Group’s other external 
reporting, and between the three main sections of the Annual 
Report and Accounts – the Strategic Report; the Governance 
Report; and the Financial Statements.
In particular, the Committee:
 > reviewed all material matters, as reported elsewhere in this 
Annual Report and Accounts;
 > ensured that it correctly reflected the Group’s performance 
in the reporting year;
 > ensured that it correctly reflected the Group’s business model 
and strategy;
 > ensured that it presented a consistent message throughout; and
 > considered whether it presented the information in a clear and 
concise manner, illustrated by appropriate KPIs, to facilitate 
shareholders’ access to relevant information.
Conclusion
A summary of the process and of the Committee’s findings, was 
considered by the Board at its meeting on 13 October 2015.
The outcome of that review was that the Committee confirmed 
to the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts 2015 met 
the requirements of the Code and the Board’s formal statement 
to that effect, to meet the requirements of the Code, is set 
out on page 39. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 53
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, 
I am pleased to present the report of the 
Remuneration Committee for the year 
ended 31 July 2015, our first full year 
as a public company. 
Last year we reported for the first time on our remuneration 
arrangements and shareholders were asked to vote at the 
Annual General Meeting in 2014 on our Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy Report, as well as on the Annual Report on Remuneration, 
as required by the Companies Act. The Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy Report received strong support from shareholders with 
100% of the votes cast in favour, and the Annual Report on 
Remuneration received 99.77% of the votes cast in favour. 
The Committee believes that the Remuneration Policy approved 
last year continues to appropriately support our remuneration 
principles, which are to:
 > attract and retain the best talent;
 > drive behaviours that support the Group’s strategy and 
business objectives which are developed in the long-term 
interests of the Company and its shareholders;
 > reward senior management appropriately for their personal 
and collective achievements; 
 > provide incentives that help to maintain commitment over 
the longer term and align the interests of senior management 
with those of shareholders; and
 > ensure that a significant percentage of the overall package 
of the Executive Directors and senior management remains 
at risk dependent on performance, and that their pay and 
benefits adequately take account of reward versus risk.
Whilst not asking for a shareholder vote on the Remuneration 
Policy at the 2015 AGM, we have set out the full policy, as 
approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, in this report 
to help shareholders assess the reported remuneration in 
the context of the policy.
Anthony Reading, MBE
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Remuneration Committee members
Tony Reading (chair)
Adrian Barden
Peter Hill
Paul Hollingworth
Remuneration policies and practices 
must drive behaviour that is in the 
long-term interests of the Company 
and its shareholders.
Anthony Reading, MBE
Chairman, Remuneration Committee Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 54
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Performance in 2014/15
It has been another strong year for Volution Group. Adjusted EBIT, 
working capital management, EBIT margin and Group employee 
retention were the key measures used by the Committee to measure 
performance towards achieving the Group’s strategic objectives 
and, accordingly, were the performance measures used in the 
Annual Bonus Plan (ABP). Performance against these measures 
resulted in the Committee awarding an annual bonus of 65% of 
salary to Ronnie George and 65% of salary to Ian Dew. As committed 
to in last year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report, we have provided 
full retrospective disclosure of these targets, as well as the actual 
performance against them. In accordance with the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy, 50% of the annual bonus payment above 
the target incentive (which was 60% of the maximum opportunity) 
has been deferred into awards over the Company’s shares which 
will vest after three years. Further details can be found on page 63. 
In the Annual Report on Remuneration 2014, the Committee 
outlined the performance measures to be used for the first 
awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) to be made to 
the Executive Directors and members of the Senior Management 
Team. The first LTIP awards were made on 29 October 2014 and 
further details are set out on page 65. As the vesting date of the 
first LTIP awards is the third anniversary of grant, no LTIP awards 
vested during the year.
Remuneration decisions for 2015/16
The Remuneration Committee has recently undertaken a review 
of the remuneration arrangements for our Executive Directors, 
with assistance from the Committee’s advisers, Deloitte LLP . 
We believe that the framework remains broadly fit for purpose 
and so are not proposing any significant changes.
In the light of the review, the Committee awarded salary 
increases of 1% to each of the Executive Directors with 
effect from 1 August 2015, in line with the average increase 
awarded to the Group’s UK employees. 
The performance measures and their weightings for the ABP to 
be used for the 2015/16 financial year will be different from last 
year in that the adjusted EBIT measure will be replaced by adjusted 
operating profit and adjusted EPS to align more closely with the 
underlying performance of the business and the creation of 
shareholder value. In line with the approach taken for 2014/15, 
the Remuneration Committee will continue its policy of setting 
stretching annual bonus targets which take into account a number 
of internal and external factors. The targets set are commercially 
sensitive at this point in time and it is the Committee’s intention 
to disclose these in the next Annual Report on Remuneration, 
unless they remain commercially sensitive at that point. 
Following the review it was also determined that the performance 
measures used for LTIP awards made during the 2014/15 financial 
year remain appropriate. The Committee confirms that it intends 
to make further LTIP awards during the 2015/16 financial year 
which will be consistent to the awards made in 2014/15. 
Shareholder engagement
We take an active interest in shareholder views on our Directors’ 
remuneration and have established channels for ongoing dialogue 
with our major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies. 
Annual General Meeting 2015
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank shareholders for their 
continued support and do hope that you will support the resolution 
requesting approval of the Annual Report on Remuneration at this 
year’s Annual General Meeting on 15 December.
Anthony Reading, MBE 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
16 October 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 55
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report
This section of the Directors’ Remuneration Report sets out the Remuneration Policy for Executive and Non-Executive Directors, which 
shareholders approved at the Annual General Meeting in 2014 and was brought into effect from 17 December 2014. In practice the 
Remuneration Policy has been applied since the beginning of the financial year on 1 August 2014. The Remuneration Policy will remain 
binding until the Annual General Meeting in 2017. The Remuneration Policy Report has been updated to show new chart illustrations 
of the application of the Remuneration Policy to reflect the revised Executive Director salaries for 2015/16.
Remuneration Policy table
Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary  
Purpose and link to strategy: Core element of remuneration set at a level to attract, retain and reward Executive Directors of the 
required calibre to successfully deliver Company strategy. 
Fixed annual sum, normally reviewed annually.
In determining base salaries, the Committee 
considers:
 > salary levels at companies of a similar 
size and complexity;
 > Company performance and external 
market conditions;
 > pay and conditions elsewhere in the 
Group; and
 > role, experience and personal performance.
There is no automatic entitlement to an 
increase each year.
The current salaries for the Executive 
Directors are set out in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration. 
While the Committee does not consider 
it appropriate to set a maximum salary 
increase, annual increases will generally 
be in line with those of the wider workforce. 
Increases beyond those awarded to the wider 
workforce (in percentage of salary terms) 
may be awarded in certain circumstances 
such as progression in the role, where there 
is a change in responsibility, experience 
or a significant increase in the scale of the  
role and/or size, value and/or complexity 
of the Group. 
Company and individual performance 
are factors considered when 
reviewing salaries.
Pension 
Purpose and link to strategy: The Company aims to provide competitive retirement benefits for the role. 
Executive Directors may receive an 
employer’s pension contribution to a 
personal or Group pension scheme  
and/or cash allowance.
15% of base salary.  N/A Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 56
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report continued
Remuneration Policy table continued
Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Annual Bonus Plan (ABP)
Purpose and link to strategy: To incentivise Executive Directors to achieve specific, pre-determined goals during a one-year period. 
Rewards achievement of objectives linked to the Company’s strategy. 
Annual bonus payment is determined by 
the Committee after the financial year end, 
based on annual performance against 
targets set at the start of the year.
Normally, 50% of any annual bonus 
payment above the target incentive (which 
will be 60% of the maximum opportunity) 
earned by the Executive Directors will be 
deferred into awards over the Company’s 
shares which normally vest after at least 
two years. 
Dividend equivalent payments (cash and/
or shares) may be payable on awards to 
the extent that they vest.
100% of base salary. Performance measures are 
determined with reference to the 
Company’s key strategic business 
objectives for the year.
No less than 50% of the bonus will 
be dependent on financial measures 
and the remainder will be based on 
non-financial measures that are 
aligned to the strategic priorities 
of the business.
At threshold performance up to 25% 
of the maximum pays out. Below this 
level of performance, no bonus pays out.
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Purpose and link to strategy: To incentivise the delivery of key strategic objectives over the longer term and align the interests 
of Executive Directors with those of our shareholders. 
Typically a contingent award of shares or 
nil-cost options is made on an annual basis.
Vesting of the awards is dependent on the 
achievement of performance targets, 
typically measured over a three-year period.
Dividend equivalent payments (cash and/or 
shares) may be payable on awards to the 
extent that they vest.
The Committee intends initially to make 
awards of 100% of base salary, with the 
ability to make awards of up to 175% of 
base salary as permitted by the plan rules. 
Awards vest based on challenging 
financial, operational or share 
price targets.
At least 50% will be based on 
financial measures.
No more than 25% vests at threshold 
with 100% of awards vesting at 
maximum performance.
Other benefits 
Purpose and link to strategy: To provide a market-competitive package of benefits consistent with the role. 
Various cash/non-cash benefits are 
provided to Executive Directors which may 
include (but are not limited to) a company 
car (or cash equivalent), life assurance, 
expatriate benefits, private medical 
insurance, relocation benefits. 
Executive Directors would also be able 
to participate in any all-employee share 
plans on the same basis as other eligible 
employees, should such plans be 
implemented by the Company. 
Although the Committee does not consider 
it appropriate to set a maximum benefits 
level, they are set at an appropriate level 
for the specific nature of the role. 
N/A Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 57
Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Share ownership guidelines 
Purpose and link to strategy: To provide close alignment between the longer-term interests of Executive Directors and shareholders. 
Executive Directors are expected to achieve 
and retain a holding of the Company’s 
shares worth 100% of their base salary 
within a period of four years from Listing 
on the London Stock Exchange, which  
was 23 June 2014, or, if later, within four 
years of the new Director becoming subject 
to such guidelines.
100% of base salary. N/A
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees 
Purpose and link to strategy: To enable the Company to attract and retain Non-Executive Directors of the required calibre 
by offering market-competitive fees. 
Fees are determined by the Board. 
The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive  
fee for all Board responsibilities. 
Non-Executive Directors receive a basic 
Board fee. 
Neither the Chairman nor Non-Executive 
Directors are eligible to participate in any 
of the Company’s incentive arrangements 
or receive any pension provision.
Additional fees may be payable for additional 
Board responsibilities such as chairmanship 
or membership of a committee or performing 
the Senior Independent Director role.
The Committee reviews the fees paid to the 
Chairman and the Board reviews the fees 
paid to the Non-Executive Directors, 
periodically, with reference to the time 
commitment of the role and market 
levels in companies of comparable size 
and complexity.
Non-Executive Directors shall be entitled 
to have reimbursed all expenses that 
they reasonably incur in the performance 
of their duties. 
Fees are set within the aggregate limits set 
out in the Company’s Articles of Association.
Non-Executive Directors are eligible for 
fee increases during the three-year period 
that the policy operates to ensure they 
continue to appropriately recognise the time 
commitment of the role and fee levels in 
companies of a similar size and complexity. 
N/A Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 58
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report continued
Choice of performance measures and approach to setting
The performance metrics and targets that will be set for the 
Executive Directors for the ABP and LTIP will be carefully selected 
to align closely with the Company’s strategic plan and key 
performance indicators.
Awards under the ABP will be determined by a combination of 
financial and strategic objectives appropriate to an individual’s role.
The long-term performance metrics relating to the LTIP awards 
will be set at the time of each grant but will normally include at 
least 50% based on financial performance in line with the 
Company’s key strategic objectives.
Challenging targets for both plans will be set each year based 
on a number of internal and external reference points. 
The Committee will review the choice of performance measures 
and the appropriateness of the performance targets prior to each 
grant under the LTIP and will consult with major shareholders in 
the event of any significant proposed change.
Committee discretion
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration 
payments and payments for loss of office (including exercising 
any discretions available to it in connection with such payments) 
that are not in line with the Remuneration Policy set out above 
where the terms of the payment were agreed:
 > before the Remuneration Policy came into effect; or
 > at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the 
Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment 
was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director 
of the Company.
For these purposes, “payments” includes the Committee 
satisfying variable remuneration.
The Committee will operate the LTIP and Deferred Share Bonus 
Plan (DSBP) according to the respective rules, the Remuneration 
Policy set out above and in accordance with the Listing Rules 
where relevant. The Committee, consistent with market practice, 
retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation 
and administration of these plans. These include (but are not 
limited to) the following: 
 > the Committee may settle an award in cash;
 > in the event of a variation of share capital, demerger, delisting, 
special dividend or any other exceptional event which, in the 
reasonable opinion of the Committee may affect the current 
or future value of the Company’s shares, the Committee may 
(i) adjust the terms of the awards and (ii) make amendments 
to the plan rules in accordance with the terms of the plan; and
 > a performance condition may be amended or substituted 
if one or more events occur which cause the Committee 
to consider that it would be more appropriate and would 
not be materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be 
explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as 
appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Company’s 
major shareholders.
Malus and clawback
Malus and clawback provisions (as relevant) may be operated 
at the discretion of the Committee in respect of awards granted 
under the LTIP and the DSBP in certain circumstances including, 
but not limited to, a material misstatement of the Company’s 
financial results, a material failure of risk management by any 
member of the Group or a relevant business unit, material 
reputational damage to any member of the Group or relevant 
business unit, or if the participant is summarily dismissed. 
Clawback may be applied at the discretion of the Committee 
up to the third anniversary of delivery.
Takeover or other corporate event
In the event of a change of control, outstanding deferred share 
bonus awards will vest in full as soon as practicable after the 
date of the event, unless the Committee determines otherwise. 
For outstanding LTIP awards, generally the performance period 
will end on the date of the event. The Committee will determine the 
level of vesting taking into account the extent to which performance 
conditions have been achieved at this point. Unless the Committee 
determines otherwise, awards will generally vest on a time 
pro-rata basis taking into account the period of time between 
grant and the relevant event. 
Alternatively, the Committee may permit a participant to exchange 
his awards for equivalent awards which relate to shares in a different 
company. If the change of control is an internal re-organisation 
of the Group, if the Committee so decides, participants will be 
required to exchange their awards (rather than awards vesting).
If other corporate events occur, such as a winding-up of the 
Company, demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event 
which, in the opinion of the Committee, may affect the current 
or future value of the Company’s shares, the Committee may 
determine that awards will vest on the same basis as set out 
above for a takeover.
Minor changes
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Remuneration 
Policy set out in this report (for regulatory, exchange control, tax 
or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in 
legislation) without obtaining shareholder approval for the amendment. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 59
Illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy
The Company’s remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the 
delivery of stretching short-term and long-term performance targets.
The charts below provide illustrative values of the remuneration package for Executive Directors under three assumed performance 
scenarios. The charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from that shown.
Three scenarios have been illustrated for each Executive Director:
The assumptions used for these charts are as follows:
Levels of performance Assumptions
Fixed pay All scenarios > Total fixed pay comprises base salary, benefits and pension
 > Base salary – effective as at 1 August 2015
 > Benefits – the value for 2014/15 as set out in the single figure table
 > 15% of base salary pension contributions
Variable pay Below threshold performance > No cash payout under the ABP
 > No vesting under the LTIP
Target performance > 60% of the maximum potential payout under the ABP  
(i.e. 60% of base salary)
 > 25% vesting under the LTIP (i.e. 25% of base salary), assuming 
awards equivalent to 100% of base salary are granted
Maximum performance > 100% of the maximum potential payout under the ABP  
(i.e. 100% of base salary)
 > 100% vesting under the LTIP (i.e. 100% of base salary), assuming 
awards equivalent to 100% of base salary are granted
LTIP awards have been shown at face value with no share price growth, dividends or discount rate assumptions. 
External appointments of Executive Directors
The Board allows Executive Directors to accept one external 
commercial non-executive director appointment provided the 
commitment is compatible with their duties as an Executive Director. 
The Executive Director concerned may retain fees paid for these 
services which will be subject to approval by the Board. Currently, 
neither of the Executive Directors holds an external directorship. 
Approach to recruitment 
The Committee will aim to set a new Executive Directors’ 
remuneration package in line with the Remuneration Policy 
approved by shareholders.
In arriving at a total package and in considering value for each 
element of the package, the Committee will take into account 
the skills and experience of a candidate, the market rate for 
a candidate of that experience, as well as the importance 
of securing the preferred candidate. 
The maximum level of variable remuneration (excluding any buy-outs) 
on appointment will be in line with the maximum Remuneration 
Policy set out above (i.e. 275% of base salary). The Committee 
retains discretion to flex the balance of the annual bonus and 
LTIP and the measures used to assess performance. 
Target
performance
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Below threshold
performance
100%
£418,525
58%
30%
12%
31.5%
£719,000
37%
31.5%
£1,125,525
Maximum
performance
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
£0
£200,000
£400,000
£600,000
£800,000
£1,000,000
£1,200,000
Long-term variable remuneration
Annual variable remuneration
Fixed remuneration
Target
performance
Below threshold
performance
100%
£302,375
58%
30%
12%
31.5%
£517,000
37%
31.5%
£807,375
Maximum
performance Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 60
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report continued
Approach to recruitment continued
The Committee may make additional cash and/or share-based 
awards as it deems appropriate and if the circumstances so demand 
to replace remuneration arrangements forfeited by an Executive 
Director on leaving a previous employer. This may include the 
use of the relevant provisions in the Financial Conduct Authority’s 
Listing Rules allowing for exceptional awards to be made without 
shareholder approval. 
Awards to replace forfeited remuneration would, where possible, 
be consistent with the awards forfeited in terms of delivery mechanism 
(cash or shares), time horizons, attributed expected value and 
whether or not they were subject to performance conditions. 
Other payments may be made in relation to relocation expenses 
and support as appropriate. 
In the case of an internal appointment, any element of remuneration 
in respect of the prior role would be allowed to continue according 
to its original terms, or adjusted if appropriate to take into account 
the appointment.
For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, 
the fee would be set in accordance with the approved Remuneration 
Policy in force at that time. The length of service and notice periods 
shall be set at the discretion of the Committee taking into account 
market practice, corporate governance considerations and the 
particular candidate at that time. 
The Committee retains discretion to make appropriate remuneration 
decisions outside the standard Remuneration Policy to meet the 
individual circumstances of recruitment when:
 > an interim appointment is made to fill an Executive Director 
role on a short-term basis; and
 > exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman 
or a Non-Executive Director takes on an executive function 
on a short-term basis.
Service agreements and letters of appointment
Each of the Executive Directors’ service agreements is for a rolling 
term and may be terminated by the Company or the Executive 
Director by giving not less than twelve months’ prior written notice. 
The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors of the 
Company do not have service contracts. The independent 
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment which have 
an initial three-year term which is renewable and is terminable 
by the Company or the individual on one month’s written notice. 
Adrian Barden’s letter of appointment is with Blue Burgee Limited, 
a service company through which he provides his services.
Under a Relationship Agreement between the Company and our 
controlling shareholder, Windmill Holdings B.V ., one Non-Executive 
Director (who shall be deemed non-independent) can be appointed 
to the Board on behalf of the controlling shareholder. Gavin Chittick 
was nominated and has a letter of appointment to provide services 
to the Company for an initial three-year term which is renewable 
and is terminable on one month’s written notice.
The terms of the Non-Executive Directors’ positions are subject 
to their election by the Company’s shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting 2015. No contractual payments would become 
due on termination.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in cash 
or share incentive arrangements and their service does not 
qualify for pension or other benefits. No element of their fee 
is performance related.
A Non-Executive Director’s appointment may be terminated 
with immediate effect if such Director has:
 > materially breached a term of their letter of appointment;
 > committed a serious or repeated breach of his duties 
to the Company;
 > been found guilty of fraud, dishonesty or certain criminal offences;
 > acted in a way likely to bring the Company into disrepute 
or which is materially adverse to the Company;
 > been declared bankrupt; or
 > been disqualified from acting as a director.
The Executive Directors’ service agreements and Non-Executive 
Directors’ letters of appointment are available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office and will be available at the Annual 
General Meeting 2015. 
Policy on Directors leaving the Group
The Committee must satisfy any contractual obligations agreed 
with the Executive Director. This is dependent on the contractual 
obligations not being in contradiction with the Remuneration 
Policy set out in this report.
If an Executive Director’s employment is terminated, in the absence 
of a breach of service agreement by the Director, the Company may, 
although it is not obliged to, terminate the Director’s employment 
immediately by payment of an amount equal to base salary and 
the specified benefits (including pension scheme contribution) 
in lieu of the whole or the remaining part of the notice period. 
Payments in lieu of notice may be paid in monthly instalments 
over the length of the notice period. The Executive Directors are 
obliged to seek alternative income during the notice period and 
to notify the Company of any income so received. The Company 
would then reduce the monthly instalments to reflect such 
alternative income.  Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 61
Discretionary bonus payments will not form part of any payments 
made in lieu of notice. Annual bonus may be payable, at the 
Committee’s discretion, with respect to the period of the financial 
year served although it would be paid in cash and normally pro-rated 
for time and paid at the normal payment date. 
Any share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director 
under the Company’s share plans will be determined based 
on the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment under the LTIP is that any outstanding awards 
lapse when the individual leaves the Group. However, in certain 
prescribed circumstances, such as death, ill health, injury or 
disability, transfer of the employing entity outside of the Group 
or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee 
(except where the Director is summarily dismissed), 
“good leaver” status may be applied. 
For good leavers, awards will normally vest to the extent that 
the Committee determines, taking into account the satisfaction 
of the relevant performance conditions and unless the Committee 
determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed between 
grant and the date of leaving. Awards will normally vest at the 
original vesting date, unless the Committee decides that awards 
should vest at the time of leaving.
If a participant of the DSBP leaves the Group for any reason, 
the award will usually vest in full at the date of cessation, unless 
the Committee determines otherwise.
In the event that a buy-out award is made on recruitment, the 
leaver provisions would be determined at the time of the award.
Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors 
compared to other employees 
The Committee has regard to pay structures across the wider 
Group when setting the Remuneration Policy for Executive 
Directors. The Committee considers the general basic salary 
increase for the broader workforce when determining the annual 
salary review for the Executive Directors. 
Overall, the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors 
is more heavily weighted towards performance-related pay 
than for other employees. 
The level of performance-related pay varies within the Group 
by grade of employee and is calculated by reference to the 
specific responsibilities of each role as appropriate.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions 
elsewhere in the Group 
Although pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group 
are taken into account to ensure the relationship between the pay 
of Executive Directors and employees remains appropriate, the 
Committee does not consult with employees when formulating 
the Remuneration Policy set out in this report.
Consideration of shareholder views
We take an active interest in shareholder views on our executive 
remuneration policy. The Committee is also committed to 
maintaining an ongoing dialogue with major shareholders 
and shareholder representative bodies whenever material 
changes are under consideration.
Annual Report on Remuneration
This section provides details of how the Remuneration Policy was implemented during the year and how the Remuneration Committee 
(the “Committee”) intends to apply the policy in the financial year 2015/16. Certain sections of this report are audited and indicated as such 
where applicable. The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting 2015.
Role of the Committee
The role of the Committee is to recommend to the Board a strategy 
and framework for remuneration for Executive Directors and the 
Senior Management Team in order to attract and retain leaders 
who are focused and incentivised to deliver the Company’s 
strategic business priorities, within a remuneration framework 
which is aligned with the interests of our shareholders and thus 
designed to promote the long-term success of the Company.
The Committee has clearly defined terms of reference which are 
available on the Company’s website, www.volutiongroupplc.com. 
The Committee’s main responsibilities are to:
 > establish and maintain formal and transparent procedures for 
developing policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the 
remuneration packages of individual Directors, and to monitor 
and report on them;
 > determine the remuneration, including pension arrangements, 
of the Executive Directors;
 > monitor and make recommendations in respect 
of remuneration for the tier of senior management 
one level below that of the Board;
 > approve annual and long-term incentive arrangements 
together with their targets and levels of awards;
 > determine the level of fees for the Chairman of the Board; and
 > select and appoint the external advisers to the Committee. Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 62
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
Membership
The Committee currently comprises three independent Non-Executive 
Directors, Tony Reading, Adrian Barden and Paul Hollingworth, 
and the Chairman of the Board, Peter Hill. Tony Reading is the 
Committee chairman and he has chaired the Committee from 
his appointment to the Board on 23 June 2014. The Chairman 
of the Board is a member of the Committee because the Board 
considers it essential that the Chairman is involved in setting 
remuneration policy (although he is not party to any discussion 
directly relating to his own remuneration). 
During the year the Committee also consulted with the Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the Company 
Secretary but not on matters relating to their own remuneration.
Meetings
The Committee met three times during the year and has had 
two meetings to date in 2015/16. Committee member 
attendance can be found in the table on Board and Committee 
attendance on page 42.
Committee activity and key decisions during the year 
ended 31 July 2015
Matters considered and decisions reached by the Committee 
during the year included:
 > reviewed outcomes and approved payments for Executive 
Director and Senior Management Team bonuses for 2013/14;
 > considered and approved the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report 2013/14;
 > reviewed and approved the Remuneration Policy and 
arrangements in the light of market trends for the 2014/15 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and reviewed and confirmed 
the Remuneration Policy remained appropriate for 2015/16;
 > reviewed and approved the parameters of the ABP , including 
performance measures and targets for 2014/15 for the 
Executive Directors and Senior Management Team;
 > considered and approved the first LTIP awards to the Executive 
Directors and Senior Management Team for 2014/15;
 > reviewed market trends and developments in executive 
remuneration in advance of considering Executive Director 
and Senior Management Team remuneration proposals 
for 2015/16;
 > reviewed and approved the Executive Director and Senior 
Management Team salaries for 2015/16;
 > reviewed and approved the parameters of the ABP , including 
performance measures for 2015/16 for the Executive Directors 
and Senior Management Team;
 > reviewed and approved the performance measures to be used 
for any LTIP awards made during 2015/16;
 > agreed the process for consultation with shareholders 
on Remuneration Policy;
 > reviewed the Committee’s Terms of Reference;
 > evaluated the performance of the Committee; and
 > reviewed and approved the Committee’s rolling annual agenda.
Committee performance evaluation
The Board conducted an internal review of Committee effectiveness 
during the year and concluded that the Committee has acted in 
accordance with its terms of reference and carried out all of its 
responsibilities effectively. 
Advice to the Committee
The Committee keeps itself fully informed on developments and 
best practice in the field of remuneration and it seeks advice from 
external advisers when appropriate.
The Committee appoints its own independent remuneration 
advisers and at the time of listing appointed Deloitte LLP to that 
role. Deloitte LLP have served as advisers to the Committee since 
listing and throughout the year. Total fees for advice provided to 
the Committee during the year by Deloitte LLP were £33,100 and 
were charged based on the time spent and seniority of the staff 
involved in providing the advice.
Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group 
and as such voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in 
relation to executive remuneration consulting in the United Kingdom. 
The Committee requests Deloitte LLP to attend meetings periodically 
during the year. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 63
Single total figure of remuneration (audited)
The audited table below sets out the total remuneration for the Directors in the years ended 31 July 2015 and 31 July 2014. It should 
be noted that, as the Company was listed in June 2014, figures for the year ended 31 July 2014 relate to remuneration paid under the 
pre-listing remuneration policy.
Salary and fees
1
Benefits
2
Pension
3
Annual bonus
4
Long-term
 incentives
5
Other
6
Total
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
Chairman
Peter Hill 135 14 — — — — — — — — — 50 135 64
Executive Directors
Ronnie George 350 239 12 18 53 23 228 311 — — — 470 643 1,061
Ian Dew
7
250 96 12 6 38 9 163 135 — — — 75 463 321
Non-Executive Directors
Adrian Barden 45 51 — — — — — — — — — 25 45 76
Gavin Chittick
8
— — — — — — — — — — — — — —
Paul Hollingworth 55 6 — — — — — — — — — 25 55 31
Tony Reading 60 6 — — — — — — — — — 25 60 31
Notes
1.  As explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration 2014, prior to listing on 23 June 2014, the salaries of our Executive Directors were reviewed against other 
companies comparable to Volution Group plc:
 >  Ronnie George’s base salary was increased to £350,000 per annum effective from listing; and
 >  Ian Dew’s base salary was increased to £250,000 per annum effective from listing.
2.  Benefits include an annual car allowance paid in cash of £10,000 per annum, life assurance equivalent to four times annual salary and permanent health insurance.
3. Employer’s pension contributions of 15% of base salary were paid to each of the Executive Directors with effect from listing. 
4.   The annual bonus for 2014/15 relates to annual incentive payments for performance in that financial year. The calculation of this amount is set out on page 64. 
  50% of the 2014/15 annual bonus above target (which is 60% of the maximum) is deferred into shares for a minimum period of two years. Ronnie George will 
be awarded shares equivalent to £8,750 and Ian Dew will be awarded shares equivalent to £6,250.
5.  Long-term incentives: this column relates to the value of long-term awards whose performance period ends in the year under review. The first long-term 
incentive awards granted post listing have a performance period that ends on 31 July 2017. As a result, this column has a zero figure in 2014 and 2015.
6.   Conditional on listing, the Company agreed to pay to the Chairman and each independent Non-Executive Director £25,000 (or, in the case of the Chairman, 
£50,000) in consideration for each Director providing certain advice and assistance to the Company in connection with the listing. This amount was satisfied 
on listing by allotting shares to each Director. These payments on an after-tax basis were subject to each of the Directors acquiring an equivalent amount 
of shares from their own funds.
  Prior to listing, the employee benefit trust held a number of unallocated shares. Windmill Holdings B.V., the owner of the then group, approved the gifting 
of these shares to the Executive Directors (and other management shareholders), pro-rata to their shareholdings at the time. Ronnie George was gifted 
£470,305 of shares and Ian Dew was gifted £75,420 of shares. 
7.  Ian Dew was a consultant to the Group between December 2012 and February 2013. He became an employee in September 2013.
8.   Gavin Chittick is the non-independent Non-Executive Director appointed by the Company’s controlling shareholder, Windmill Holdings B.V ., under a Relationship 
Agreement dated 18 June 2014 between the Company and the controlling shareholder. He is not entitled to receive any fees for the services he provides 
to the Company.  Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 64
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
Annual Bonus Plan (ABP) (audited)
The operation of the ABP during the year ended 31 July 2015 was consistent with the framework set out in the Remuneration Policy. 
The maximum annual bonus potential for the Executive Directors during the year was 100% of base salary, and bonus for on-target 
performance was 60% of base salary. In last year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report we committed to retrospective disclosure of the 
targets and performance against those targets which are set out in the table below. 
Measure Strategic objective Weighting Threshold Target Maximum
Actual
 performance
Payment
(% of 
maximum)
Payment
(% of
 base salary)
Adjusted EBIT To increase profit 70% £27.7m £29.4m £31.2m £29.4m 55.7% 40.0% 
Working capital 
management
Delivering efficiency 
of working capital 
and cash generation
10% £19.4m £18.5m £17.5m £15.2m 100.0% 10.0% 
EBIT margin Driving operating margin 
progression
15% 21.5% 22.0% 22.5% 22.6% 100.0% 15.0% 
Group employee 
retention
To continue to retain  
our skilled employees
5% 93.5% 94.0% 95.0% 89.0% 0% 0% 
Total 65.0%
Note
All measures exclude acquisitions completed during the year.
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) (audited)
2014/15 Awards
During the year the Committee made the first awards under the LTIP in accordance with the Remuneration Policy. The LTIP awards 
were made in the form of nil-cost options, which will, subject to the rules of the LTIP , vest after three years following the Committee’s 
determination of the extent to which performance conditions applicable to the awards have been satisfied. To the extent the performance 
conditions have been satisfied, the nil-cost options will have a normal vesting date of 29 October 2017 and the last date of exercise 
shall be 29 October 2024, subject to the individual’s ongoing employment. 
As described in last year’s Annual Report on Remuneration, the Committee approved the following performance conditions which 
were used for these awards.
Weighting 
(% of total award)
Below threshold 
(0% vesting)
Threshold 
(25% vesting)
Maximum
 (100% vesting)
TSR vs Direct Peer Group index 25% Below index Equal to index Index + 8% p.a.
TSR vs FTSE companies of a similar size 25% Less than median Median Upper quartile 
Cumulative average EPS growth 50% Below 6% p.a. 6% p.a. 15% p.a.
Awards will vest on a straight line basis between these points. For the LTIP awards granted during the year ended 31 July 2015, 
the Direct Peer Group index was an unweighted index comprised of Polypipe, Tyman, Topps Tiles, Marshalls, Safestyle, Epwin Group 
and Norcros.
The companies of a similar size represent the group of 50 companies above and below the Company in terms of market capitalisation 
(excluding financial services and oil and gas companies). Relative TSR performance will be measured on a ranked basis against this 
group as set out in the table above. 
The combination of the two relative TSR comparator groups above has been selected to measure Volution’s performance as the 
Committee believes that this approach aligns remuneration with the delivery of superior market performance over the long term.
Growth in EPS will be assessed over the three financial years ending 31 July 2017 and will determine the vesting of 50% of the awards.
In addition to the stretching performance conditions set out above, for awards to vest, the Committee must be satisfied with the 
overall financial performance of the Company over the performance period. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 65
The LTIP awards made on 29 October 2014 were as follows:
Executive Director
Number 
of shares Base price Face value
1
Face value
% of base salary Vesting date
Ronnie George 243,325 £1.4384 £349,998 100% 29 October 2017
Ian Dew 173,804 £1.4384 £249,999 100% 29 October 2017
Note
1.  The price used to calculate the number of LTIP awards was £1.4384 per share, being the average of the mid-market closing price of a Volution Group plc share 
on the three consecutive business days immediately preceding the date of grant.
Statement of Directors’ shareholdings and share interests (audited)
We believe that Executive Directors should have shareholdings in the Company to ensure that they are as closely aligned as possible 
with shareholder interests. As such the Company has implemented share ownership guidelines which state that Executive Directors 
are expected to achieve and retain a holding of the Company’s shares equal to 100% of their base salary within a period of four years 
from listing or, if later, within four years of the new Director becoming subject to such guidelines. It should be noted that both the Executive 
Directors currently have shareholdings well in excess of 100% of base salary. The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are also 
encouraged to hold shares in the Company in order to align their interests with those of shareholders. Directors’ interests in ordinary 
shares held as at 31 July 2015 (together with the interests held by their connected persons) are set out below.
Shares held
 beneficially at 
31 July 2015 
1
LTIP awards 
(unvested 
awards subject 
to performance)
Total share 
interests held at 
31 July 2015 
1
Target 
shareholding 
guidelines 
(% of salary)
Target 
shareholding
 achieved
2
Chairman
Peter Hill 35,333 — 35,333 N/A N/A
Executive Directors
3
Ronnie George 5,622,833 243,325 5,866,158 100% Yes
Ian Dew 855,327 173,804 1,029,131 100% Yes
Non-Executive Directors
Adrian Barden 97,725 — 97,725 N/A N/A
Gavin Chittick — — — N/A N/A
Paul Hollingworth 19,333 — 19,333 N/A N/A
Tony Reading 40,000 — 40,000 N/A N/A
Notes
1. Includes any shares held by connected persons.
2. The target shareholding achieved has been calculated based on shares held beneficially as at 31 July 2015 using the share price on that date.
3.  As part of the listing, the Executive Directors became subject to a lock-up arrangement whereby they agreed not to dispose of any shares for 365 days from 
listing. That period has now ended and it is possible that they may sell a portion of their holding, although at all times they will maintain a sizeable holding in the 
Company to ensure alignment with shareholders.
4.  There were no changes in the Directors’ shareholdings between 31 July 2015 and the date of this report. Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 66
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
Performance graph and Chief Executive Officer remuneration table (audited)
The chart below compares the total shareholder return performance of the Company against the performance of the FTSE SmallCap 
Index since listing on 23 June 2014. This index has been chosen because it is a recognised equity market index of which the Company 
is a member. The base point in the chart for the Company equates to the listing offer price of 150 pence per share. 
 
The table below summarises the Chief Executive Officer’s single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus payments and LTIP vesting 
levels as a percentage of maximum opportunity. Note that the 2014 data below relates to the whole of the 2014 financial year and so 
is not directly comparable to the 2014 period used above for TSR purposes as the Company listed on 23 June 2014.
2015 2014 
Chief Executive Officer’s single figure of remuneration (£000) 643 1,061
Annual bonus pay out (as a % of maximum opportunity) 65% 100%
LTIP vesting (as a % of maximum opportunity) N/A N/A
Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer (audited)
The table below shows the movement in salary, benefits and bonus for the Chief Executive Officer between the current and prior year 
compared to the average remuneration for all employees.
% change
Chief Executive
 Officer
All 
employees
1
Base salary 46.4% 12.6%
Benefits
2
58.5% 9.0%
Total annual bonus (26.7)% 4.5%
Notes
1. Also including Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration.
2. Benefits include car allowance, health cover and pension contributions.
The figures above represent a comparison of the Chief Executive Officer’s salary pre and post listing. As explained earlier in the report, 
the Chief Executive Officer’s salary was increased to £350,000 from listing (23 June 2014) following review of comparable companies.
Relative importance of the spend on pay (audited)
The following table shows the total expenditure on pay for all of the Company’s employees compared to distributions to shareholders 
by way of dividend and share buyback. In order to provide context for these figures, adjusted EBITDA is also shown.
2015
£m
2014
£m
% 
change
Employee remuneration costs 31.5 27.1 16.2%
Distributions to shareholders 2.1 — N/A
Adjusted EBITDA 32.1 28.5 12.6%
Total shareholder return (rebased) 
23 June 2014
30 June 2014
30 September 2014
30 November 2014
31 January 2015
31 July 2014
31 August 2014
31 October 2014
31 December 2014
28 February 2015
31 March 2015
30 April 2015
30 May 2015
30 June 2015
31 July 2015
90
85
95
100
105
110
115
Volution Group plc
FTSE SmallCap Index  Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 67
Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy 
for the financial year ending 31 July 2016
The Remuneration Committee has recently undertaken a review of the remuneration arrangements for our Executive Directors, with 
assistance from the Committee’s advisers, Deloitte LLP . The following conclusions were reached by the Committee on implementation 
of the Remuneration Policy for the 2015/16 financial year.
Executive Director base salaries
Following the review, the Committee discussed and reviewed the salaries of the Executive Directors to ensure they were aligned with 
pay levels at companies of a similar size and complexity, considering Company performance and external market conditions, pay and 
conditions elsewhere in the Group, and the role, experience and personal performance of each individual. In the light of the review, the 
Committee awarded salary increases of 1% to each of the Executive Directors with effect from 1 August 2015, taking the base salary 
of Ronnie George to £353,500 and for Ian Dew to £252,500. This level of increase is in line with the average increase awarded to the 
Group’s UK employees. 
Pension and other benefits
The Executive Directors will continue to receive an annual employer’s pension contribution at the rate of 15% of base salary and benefits 
comprising an annual car allowance paid in cash of £10,000 per annum, life assurance equivalent to four times annual salary and 
permanent health insurance.
Annual Bonus Plan (ABP)
Following the review, it was determined that there would be no change to the maximum percentage payable for Executive Director 
annual bonuses which would be up to a maximum of 100% of base salary. However, the adjusted EBIT performance measure which 
for the year ended 31 July 2015 was weighted as 70% of the maximum opportunity, would be replaced with adjusted operating profit 
(50%) and adjusted EPS (35%). Given the introduction of these two new measures, the EBIT margin measure would not continue as 
a performance measure. The remaining performance measures and weightings would remain the same as for the year ended 31 July 2015, 
being working capital management (10%) and Group employee retention (5%). Adjusted operating profit would measure the underlying 
performance of the business and adjusted EPS would measure the creation of shareholder value, therefore aligning the annual bonus 
incentive closely with the Group’s strategy.
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Following the review, it was determined that the LTIP framework would remain unchanged for the year ended 31 July 2016. Performance 
measures together with the Direct Peer Group and FTSE Comparator Group to be used for the LTIP awards made would remain the 
same as for the year ended 31 July 2015. Any LTIP awards made will be in accordance with the Remuneration Policy.
Non-Executive Director fees
Fees of Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board in their absence. The fees of the Chairman (whose fees are determined by 
the Committee in his absence) and the Non-Executive Directors were reviewed in July 2015 and it was determined that they will remain 
unchanged for the year ended 31 July 2016. 
The fees with effect from 1 August 2015 are summarised in the table below:
Chairman fee covering all Board duties £135,000
Non-Executive Director basic fee £45,000
Supplementary fees to Non-Executive Directors covering additional Board duties:
– Senior Independent Director £5,000
– Audit Committee Chairman £10,000
– Remuneration Committee Chairman £10,000 Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 68
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy 
for the financial year ending 31 July 2016 continued
Statement on shareholder voting
The Company is committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes in respect of the approval 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Remuneration Policy. In the event of a substantial vote against a resolution in relation 
to Directors’ remuneration, the Company would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote and would set out in the following 
annual report and accounts any actions in response to it.
The following table sets out the voting by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in December 2014 in respect of our 
Remuneration Policy and Annual Report of Remuneration.
Resolution Votes cast for
% of 
votes cast
Votes 
cast against
% of 
votes cast
Votes 
withheld
Approval of Remuneration Policy 179,988,175 100.00 0 0 4,000,000
Approval of Annual Report on Remuneration 179,572,767 99.77 415,408 0.23 4,000,000
Approval
This Directors’ Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 16 October 2015 and signed on its behalf by the 
Remuneration Committee chairman.
Anthony Reading, MBE
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
16 October 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 69
Directors’ Report
Introduction
The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial 
statements of the Company for the year ended 31 July 2015.
This Directors’ Report includes additional information required 
to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006, the Code, the 
DTRs and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Certain information required to be included in the Directors’ Report 
is included in other sections of this Annual Report as follows, 
which is incorporated by reference into this Directors’ Report:
 > the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 35;
 > the Governance Report on pages 36 to 72;
 > information relating to financial instruments, as set out in note 25 
to the consolidated financial statements; and
 > related party transactions as set out in note 31 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
This Directors’ Report also represents the “Management Report” 
for the purpose of compliance with the DTRs.
Corporate structure
Volution Group plc is a public company limited by shares, 
incorporated in England and Wales and its shares are traded 
on the premium segment of the main market of the London 
Stock Exchange (LSE: FAN).
Results and dividend
The Group’s results for the year are shown in the statement 
of comprehensive income on page 79.
In accordance with the Company’ s dividend policy, a maiden interim 
dividend of 1.05 pence per share was paid to shareholders on 
14 May 2015. The Directors are recommending a final dividend 
in respect of the financial year ended 31 July 2015 of 2.25 pence 
per share which, if approved, will be paid on 18 December 2015 
to shareholders on the register on 27 November 2015. The total 
dividend paid and proposed for the year amount to 3.30 pence 
per share.
Share capital and related matters
The Company has only one class of share and the rights attached 
to each share are identical. Details of the rights and obligations 
attaching to the shares are set out in the Company’s Articles 
of Association which are available from the Company Secretary. 
The Company may refuse to register any transfer of any share 
which is not a fully paid share. At a general meeting of the Company, 
every member has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll 
one vote for each share held. Details of the voting procedure, 
including deadlines for exercising voting rights, are set out 
in the Notice of Annual General Meeting 2015.
As at 31 July 2015 the issued share capital of the Company 
was 200,000,000 ordinary shares of 1 pence each. Details 
of the share capital as at 31 July 2015 are shown in note 28 
to the financial statements. 
Powers of the Directors
The Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company including, 
subject to obtaining the required authority from the shareholders 
in general meeting, the power to authorise the issue of new 
shares and the purchase of the Company’s shares. During the 
financial year ended 31 July 2015, the Directors did not exercise 
any of the powers to issue or purchase shares in the Company.
Restrictions on transfer
There are no general restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares 
in the Company other than in relation to certain restrictions that 
are imposed from time to time by laws and regulations (for example 
insider trading laws). Pursuant to the Listing Rules, Directors and 
certain officers and employees of the Group require the approval 
of the Company to deal in the ordinary shares of the Company. 
On 18 June 2014, the Company entered into an Underwriting 
Agreement with, among others, the Directors, the Senior 
Management Team (the names of which are set out in the 
Prospectus dated 23 June 2014, available on the Company’s 
website), Windmill Holdings B.V. (our controlling shareholder), 
and Liberum Capital Limited and Canaccord Genuity Limited 
(underwriters) in accordance with which:
 > our controlling shareholder agreed, subject to certain 
customary exceptions, not to dispose of any shares in the 
Company for a period of 180 days following listing; and
 > each of the Executive Directors and the Senior Management 
Team agreed, subject to certain customary exceptions, not 
to dispose of any shares in the Company for a period of 
365 days following listing.
All these restrictions ceased during the year.
Each ordinary share in the capital of the Company ranks equally 
in all respects. No shareholder holds shares carrying special rights 
relating to the control of the Company. However, the Company 
has entered into a Relationship Agreement with our controlling 
shareholder in connection with the exercise of their rights as 
principal shareholder in the Company and their right to appoint 
a Director to the Board.
The Company has in place certain share incentive plans and details 
can be found on page 64. The first awards under the Company’s 
Long Term Incentive Plan were made in October 2014 and details 
can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 65. 
The Company also has an employee benefit trust in which to hold 
ordinary shares to satisfy awards under the share incentive plans. 
As at the financial year end on 31 July 2015 and as at the date 
of this report, there were no ordinary shares held in the trust. Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 70
Substantial shareholdings
As at 16 October 2015, the Company had been notified, in 
accordance with the DTRs, of the following interests representing 
3% or more of the voting rights in the issued share capital of 
the Company:
Name of holder
Total holding 
of shares
% of total 
voting rights
Windmill Holdings B.V. 122,751,087 61.38%
Tameside MBC re. Greater 
Manchester Pension Fund 6,413,511 3.21%
Polar Capital European 
Forager Fund Limited 6,087,757 3.04%
Relationship Agreement
On 18 June 2014, the Company and our controlling shareholder 
entered into a Relationship Agreement, the principal purpose of 
which is to ensure that the Company is capable at all times of 
carrying on its business independently of our controlling shareholder 
and their associates and ensure all transactions and arrangements 
between them and the Group will be conducted at arm’s length 
and on normal commercial terms. The terms of the Relationship 
Agreement remain unchanged.
The Board can confirm that during the financial year ended 
31 July 2015, the Company complied with the independence 
provisions in the Relationship Agreement and, so far as the 
Board is aware, the independence provisions have also been 
complied with by the Company’s controlling shareholder and 
its associates.
Directors
The Directors of the Company and their biographies are set out 
on pages 36 to 37. Their interests in the ordinary shares of the 
Company are shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
on page 65. There have been no changes in the make-up of 
the Board between the end of the financial year and the date 
of this report. 
Appointment and removal of Directors
Directors may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the Company 
or by the Board.
Under the Relationship Agreement, the Company has agreed with 
our controlling shareholder that it may appoint and remove one 
Non-Executive Director to the Board for so long as our controlling 
shareholder (and/or any of its associates, when taken together) 
holds 15% or more of the voting rights over the Company’s shares.
All Directors will stand for re-election on an annual basis, in line 
with the recommendations of the Code.
Under the Listing Rules, our controlling shareholder is a controlling 
shareholder of the Company. For so long as the Company has a 
controlling shareholder, any election or re-election of an Independent 
Director by shareholders must also be approved by independent 
shareholders (being shareholders other than the controlling 
shareholder). If the approval of independent shareholders to the 
appointment of a Director is not obtained, the Company may 
propose a further shareholder resolution to appoint that person 
between 90 and 120 days after the vote on the first resolution. 
Independent shareholder approval is not required for any such 
second resolution.
In addition to any powers of removal conferred by the Companies 
Act 2006, the Company may by special resolution remove any 
Director before the expiration of his period of office.
Directors’ indemnities and insurance
The Articles of Association of the Company permit it to indemnify 
the Directors of the Company against liabilities arising from or in 
connection with the execution of their duties or powers to the 
extent permitted by law. 
The Company has directors’ and officers’ indemnity insurance in 
place in respect of each of the Directors. The Company has entered 
into a qualifying third party indemnity (the terms of which are in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006) with each of the Directors. 
Neither the indemnity nor insurance provide cover in the event 
that a Director or officer is proved to have acted fraudulently.
Transactions with related parties
Details of the transactions entered into by the Company with parties 
who are related to it are set out in note 31 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
The only material agreements with related parties in place during 
the year were as follows:
 > the Relationship Agreement with our controlling shareholder, 
Windmill Holdings B.V. This Relationship Agreement describes 
the relationship of the Company with our controlling shareholder 
together with and subject to certain minimum shareholding 
requirements, the right of our controlling shareholder to be 
represented on the Board and certain anti-dilution rights; and
 > the Underwriting Agreement. The Company entered into this 
agreement on 18 June 2014 with, among others, the Directors, 
the Senior Management Team (the names of which are set out 
in the Prospectus dated 23 June 2014 available on the Company’ s 
website), our controlling shareholder (Windmill Holdings B.V.) 
and Liberum Capital Limited and Canaccord Genuity Limited 
(underwriters). This agreement sets out the underwriting 
arrangements for the Company’s listing on 23 June 2014. 
As part of this agreement, our controlling shareholder, the 
Directors and the Senior Management Team became subject 
to certain lock-up arrangements whereby they agreed not to 
dispose of any ordinary shares in the Company for a period 
of time. Further details can be found on page 69 under share 
capital and related matters.
Directors’ Report continued Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 71
Change of control
There is one significant agreement to which the Company 
is a party that is affected by a change of control as follows:
 > The Facilities Agreement dated 13 February 2015 contains 
provisions to enter into negotiations with the lenders to continue 
with the Facilities set out in the agreement upon notification 
that there will be a change of control. Further details of the 
Group’s banking facilities are shown in note 26 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
The provisions of the Company’s share incentive plans may 
cause options and awards granted to employees under such 
plans to vest on takeover.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director that 
would provide compensation for loss of office or employment 
resulting from a change of control.
Amendment to the Company’s Articles of Association
The Company may alter its Articles of Association by special 
resolution passed at a general meeting of shareholders.
Political donations
The Group has not made in the past, nor does it intend to make 
in the future, any political donations.
Post balance sheet events
On 5 August 2015, the Company completed the acquisition of 
Ventilair Group International BVBA based in Belgium. This company 
is not consolidated into the Volution Group plc financial statements.
Going concern
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity 
position are set out in the Financial Statements section. 
Furthermore, note 30 on page 113 to the consolidated financial 
statements includes the Group’s objectives and policies for 
managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, 
details of its financial instruments and its exposure to credit 
and liquidity risk. 
The Directors believe the Group is in a strong financial position 
due to its profitable operations and strong cash generation and 
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation 
for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 
The Directors have made this assessment after consideration 
of the Company’s budgeted cash flows and related assumptions 
and in accordance with the Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: 
Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 published by 
the UK Financial Reporting Council.
Viability statement
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code 2014 (which applies to the Group for the financial year 
ended 31 July 2016), the Board will assess the prospects of the 
Group over a longer period than the twelve months required by 
the Going Concern provision. The Board will determine the period 
of time which is relevant to the Group and its prospects over that 
period, and make a disclosure together with the reasons why the 
period was chosen, in the Annual Report and Accounts 2016. 
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 am on Tuesday 
15 December 2015 at the offices of Norton Rose Fulbright LLP , 
3 More London Riverside, London SE1 2AQ. The Notice of 
Annual General Meeting and an explanation of the items of 
non-routine business are set out in the explanatory circular 
that accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
Auditor and disclosure of information to auditor
Each of the Directors in office at the date when this Annual Report 
and Accounts was approved confirms that:
 > so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
 > the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken 
as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor 
is aware of that information.
Ernst & Young LLP has expressed their willingness to be 
re-appointed as auditor of the Company. A resolution to re-appoint 
Ernst & Young LLP as the Company’s independent auditor will 
be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board
Michael Anscombe
Company Secretary
16 October 2015
Volution Group plc 
Registered office: Fleming Way, Crawley, West Sussex RH10 9YX 
Company number: 09041571 Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 72
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Group and parent company financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements 
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable 
law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company 
and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the 
Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors 
are required to:
 > select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
 > make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
 > state whether the Group and parent company financial 
statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS 
as adopted by the EU; and
 > prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’ s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the parent company and enable them 
to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps 
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the 
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a strategic report, directors’ report, 
directors’ remuneration report and corporate governance 
statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of Directors in respect 
of the Annual Report and the financial statements
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 > the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the 
Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
 > the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report include a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business 
and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in 
the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face; and
 > the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
By order of the Board
Ronnie George Ian Dew
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
16 October 2015 16 October 2015
Directors’ Responsibility Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 73
Independent Auditor’s Report 
to the members of Volution Group plc
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
 > the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs at 31 July 2015 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
 > the Group and parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the 
European Union; and
 > the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
Volution Group plc’s financial statements comprise the:
Group
 > consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year 
ended 31 July 2015;
 > consolidated statement of financial position at 31 July 2015;
 > consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year 
then ended;
 > consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then 
ended; and
 > related notes 1 to 36 to the consolidated financial statements.
Parent company
 > parent company statement of financial position at 31 July 2015;
 > parent company statement of changes in equity for the year 
then ended;
 > parent company statement of cash flows for the year then 
ended; and
 > related notes 1 to 18 to the parent company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) adopted by the European Union.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement
We identified the following risks that had the greatest impact on our audit strategy and scope; the allocation of resources in the audit; 
and directing the efforts of the engagement team. Our response to the risks identified is also set out below:
Risk Our response to these risks What we concluded to the Audit Committee
Revenue recognition – inaccuracy of the measurement, completeness and occurrence of revenue
Group revenue substantially arises from 
the sale of goods, with a small proportion 
relating to the provision of services. The 
timing of revenue recognition depends on 
the terms of individual transactions and 
is typically recognised on despatch.
We assessed inappropriate revenue 
cut-off to be a significant risk as revenue 
is a key input to many of the Group’s 
key performance indicators. In addition 
we assessed inaccurate accruals for 
customer rebates to be a significant risk 
within revenue recognition. Details of the 
estimates and assumptions applied to 
rebates are disclosed in note 4 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
Revenue is analysed in note 6 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
We updated our understanding of revenue 
processes and controls and, in certain key 
locations, tested key management controls 
supporting the recognition and measurement 
of revenue. 
In all locations we verified the recognition and 
measurement of revenue by tracing a sample 
of transactions throughout the year to source 
data. We simultaneously verified the 
accuracy of reported revenue.
We tested a sample of non-automated 
journal entries to revenue and credit notes 
issued subsequent to the year end. We 
tested the appropriate recognition and 
documentation of customer rebates with 
reference to agreed rebate terms and 
through comparison of prior period 
provisions and their eventual settlement.
We also performed analytical review 
procedures to identify significant fluctuations 
and trends and obtained explanations for 
unusual variances. 
We performed full audit procedures  
in six locations, which covered 98% of 
consolidated revenue. We also performed 
analytical review procedures in two locations, 
which covered 2% of consolidated revenue.
Having completed our procedures nothing 
has come to our attention to indicate that 
revenue recognition is inappropriate. Our 
testing of controls did not identify material 
weaknesses in the design and operation 
of controls. 
From the testing performed we found 
that revenue is accurate and measured 
in line with source data. Our testing of 
non-automated journal entries to revenue  
did not indicate evidence of management 
override nor did we identify an unusually  
high level of sales returns or credit notes 
issued subsequent to the year end. 
We also found that the accrual for  
customer rebates reflected the commercial 
substance of the customer agreements,  
and assumptions applied by management  
in reaching the rebate accrual to be 
consistent with those applied in FY 2014.  Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 74
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report continued
to the members of Volution Group plc
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement continued
Risk Our response to these risks What we concluded to the Audit Committee
Impairment of the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets
Goodwill and intangible assets comprise 
a significant proportion of total assets  
and have arisen principally from various 
business combinations entered into by 
the Group. 
The Group tests annually whether 
goodwill, which has an indefinite useful 
life, has suffered impairment. The Group 
also reviews assets that are subject to 
amortisation or depreciation for events  
or changes in circumstances that indicate 
the carrying amount of the asset may not 
be recoverable. 
The testing described above requires  
the use of accounting estimates and 
judgements in determining the 
recoverable amount of cash generating 
units (CGUs) to which the assets are 
associated. These include forecast cash 
flows for CGUs for future years ahead 
and the determination of an appropriate 
post-tax discount factor. This is a key 
focus of our audit procedures due to the 
level of management judgement required 
in determining appropriate assumptions 
impacting the impairment assessment 
and the sensitivity of the model. 
The main assumptions impacting the 
assessment and sensitivity of the model 
are future revenues, future earnings and 
discount rates. 
Further details of the key assumptions 
used and the recoverable amount are 
set out in notes 4 and 19 to the 
consolidated financial statements. 
We updated our understanding of 
management’ s annual impairment process. 
We ensured the methodology applied  
in the impairment review complies with 
the requirements specified in IAS 36, 
including the components of the carrying 
value and the nature of cash flows 
included in determining the value in use. 
We also performed the following:
 > We obtained the forecasts underlying 
the impairment review and agreed these 
to budgets approved by the Board.
 > We assessed the reasonableness  
of terminal growth rates used in  
the model for the period beyond  
the approved budgets. 
 > We reviewed key assumptions 
including sales and EBITDA against 
actual performance and ascertained 
the historical accuracy of forecasting. 
 > We made enquiries of the appropriate 
finance and commercial personnel 
where forecasted performance 
significantly deviated from historic 
performance levels, observable 
trends or our expectations.
 > We also performed sensitivity analysis 
on key assumptions.
We determined whether the discount 
rates applied were appropriate with 
support from our internal business 
modelling experts. We also considered 
whether an appropriate country specific 
discount rate was applied and whether 
the associated financial statement 
disclosures were appropriate.
We compared indicators of impairment 
considered by management with those 
suggested by IAS 36 and other matters 
we considered to be relevant to the Group.
We believe the assessment of the CGU 
recoverable amounts, including the cash 
flow projections estimated by management, 
are reasonable. We noted the methodology 
applied by management to be consistent 
with the methodology applied in FY 2014.
We believe the process undertaken in 
determining whether any indicators of 
impairment are present is appropriate. 
Based on the procedures performed, we 
believe the carrying value of goodwill and 
intangible and assets to be supportable.  Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 75
Risk Our response to these risks What we concluded to the Audit Committee
Legal entity restructuring – incorrect measurement of realised profit recognised by the parent company
During the IPO in 2014, the Group 
identified a number of potential dividend 
blocks in its legal entity structure, which it 
intended to resolve through restructuring 
intra-group balances and investments. 
The restructuring took place during the  
year and, as a result, subsidiaries have 
adequate distributable reserves to distribute 
dividends upwards to the parent company 
in the future. A £4.8 million dividend in 
specie was received by the parent entity 
from the restructuring, thus increasing 
distributable reserves. The remaining 
£92.9 million created in reserves in the 
parent company is non-distributable. 
We assessed the legal entity restructuring 
as containing a significant risk due to the 
magnitude of realised profit recognised 
by the parent company and the complex 
pattern of individual steps in arriving at 
the increase in distributable reserves of 
the parent company.
We obtained the detailed step plan 
used by management and involved our 
specialists in reviewing the steps that 
were implemented. We also reviewed 
all the journals recorded and whether 
the amounts recorded were accurate. 
We reviewed filings made at Companies 
House in support of the above and 
undertook further procedures in 
understanding the qualifications of the 
advisers engaged by management to 
design and execute the step plan.
Having completed our procedures, nothing 
has come to our attention to suggest the 
amounts recognised are inaccurate, nor  
the steps taken in the restructuring are 
inappropriate. We also consider the 
accompanying disclosure to be appropriate.
In our audit opinion for the year ended 31 July 2014, the following 
were included in our summary of risks of material misstatement:
 > inappropriate accounting for the Group restructuring resulting 
from the IPO in June 2014;
 > the conversion of the Group’s results from UK GAAP to IFRS 
adopted by the European Union; 
 > accounting for business combinations; and
 > inappropriate presentation of items as exceptional. 
The IPO and conversion of the Group’s results from UK GAAP 
to IFRS were one-off events in the year ended 31 July 2014 that 
were not applicable for 2015. Whilst we continue to perform 
audit procedures over business combinations, of which there 
has only been one during the year and of a relatively small scale, 
and the presentation of items as exceptional, we considered 
the impact in FY 2015 to be considerably less significant to 
the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit 
Our audit focused on the Group’s principal trading locations and cost centres, which were identified based on our assessment 
of higher risk areas and locations that were considered material based on size, complexity and risk, organisation of the Group 
and effectiveness of Group-wide controls. Our testing is summarised below:
2014 2015
Limited scope 
2%
Full scope 
73%
Specific scope 
25%
Limited scope 
2%
Full scope 
78%
Specific scope 
20% Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 76
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report continued
to the members of Volution Group plc
An overview of the scope of our audit continued
Financial year 2015 Financial year 2014
Coverage 
(revenue)
Number of 
components
Coverage
(revenue)
Number of 
components
Full scope procedures 73% 4 78% 4
Specific audit testing 25% 10 20% 9
Limited review 2% 6 2% 6
100% 20 100% 19
Financial year 2015 Financial year 2014
Coverage 
(adjusted PBT)*
Number of 
components
Coverage 
(adjusted PBT)*
Number of 
components
Full scope procedures 85% 4 52% 4
Specific audit testing 14% 10 48% 9
Limited review 1% 6 0% 6
100% 20 100% 19
*  Pre-tax earnings, adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items. Full scope coverage increased substantially as a result of refinancing of loan facilities. 
These facilities were moved from a non-trading, specific scope component into a full scope component. 
The audits of these components were performed at a materiality 
level calculated as a proportion of Group materiality appropriate 
to the relative scale and risk of the location. The number of 
components changed following the acquisition of Brüggemann 
during the year.
Full scope locations were subject to an audit of the entire balance 
sheet and income statement. Specific scope locations were not 
significant enough to require a full scope audit; our procedures 
therefore focused on individual balances that are significant to the 
Group either based on their size or risk. Limited review locations 
were subject to analytical procedures, testing of entity level 
controls at Group level and review of the Group financial 
statement close process.
Involvement with component teams 
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we 
determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at 
each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement 
team, or by component auditors from other EY global network 
firms operating under our instruction. Of the four full scope 
components, audit procedures were performed on all of these 
directly by the primary audit team. Of the ten specific scope 
components, where the work was performed by component 
auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to 
enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been 
obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to the EY component 
auditors in Sweden and Germany. The instructions explained the 
relevant risks of material misstatement to the Group and set out 
significant audit areas that should be addressed and the nature 
of reporting required by the Group audit team. 
The audit of all the UK components was performed by the Group 
audit team, who also attended key meetings of the Swedish and 
German components to discuss the results of their testing of 
higher risk areas relevant to the Group. All significant locations 
were audited by EY member firms. Due to the nature of the risks 
noted on the previous page, the Group audit team was supported 
by valuations experts and taxation and accounting specialists.
Our application of materiality 
We applied the concept of materiality both in planning and performing 
our audit, and in evaluating the effects of misstatements on our 
audit and the financial statements. For the purposes of determining 
whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement, 
we define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that 
makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably 
knowledgeable person relying on the financial statements would 
be changed or influenced. We also determine a level of performance 
materiality, which we use to determine the extent of testing 
needed to reduce to an appropriately low level, the probability 
that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements 
exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a 
magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would 
be material for the financial statements as a whole. We determined 
materiality for the Group to be £752,000, which is approximately 
5% of pre-tax earnings, adjusted for non-recurring exceptional 
items, as set out in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 77
On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment 
of the Group’s overall control environment, our judgement is that 
overall performance materiality for the Group is £376,000. This 
equates to 50% of the Group materiality. Our objective in adopting 
this approach is to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected 
audit differences do not exceed our materiality of £752,000 for 
the financial statements as a whole.
Materiality in the year ended 31 July 2014 was £511,000 and was 
calculated as approximately 2% of earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA), adjusted for non-recurring 
exceptional items. We adjusted the basis for calculating planning 
materiality as the Group is generating pre-tax profits in FY 2015, 
whereas the Group was loss making in FY 2014 due to the high 
levels of interest payable under its previous private equity capital 
structure. Performance materiality in FY 2014 was £256,000.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report all 
identified audit differences in excess of £38,000, as well as 
differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds. We reported audit differences 
greater than £26,000 to the audit committee in FY 2014.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both 
quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light 
of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming an opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of whether the accounting policies are appropriate 
to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with 
the audited financial statements and to identify any information 
that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibility Statement 
set out on page 72, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to 
the Company’s members those matters we are required to state 
to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the 
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’ s 
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the 
opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed  
by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 > the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; and
 > the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 78
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report continued
to the members of Volution Group plc
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
ISAs (UK and Ireland) reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report is: 
 > materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
 > apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge  
of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or 
 > otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies 
between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors’ 
statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the entity’s performance, business model and strategy; and whether the Annual 
Report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee 
that we consider should have been disclosed.
We have no exceptions to report.
Companies Act 2006 reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 > adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 > the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 > certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 > we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report.
Listing Rules review requirements
We are required to review:
 > the Directors’ Responsibility Statement, set out on page 72, in relation to going concern; and
 > the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance 
with the ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have no exceptions to report.
Notes 
1.  The maintenance and integrity of the Volution Group plc website is the responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditor does not involve 
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since 
they were initially presented on the website.
2.  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Andy Glover (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , 
Statutory Auditor  
London 
16 October 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 79
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 July 2015
Notes
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Revenue 6 130,178 120,709
Cost of sales (67,019) (63,748)
Gross profit 63,159 56,961
Distribution costs (18,052) (16,657)
Administrative expenses (27,174) (26,857)
Operating profit before exceptional items 17,933 13,447
Exceptional items 8 (731) (7,783)
Operating profit 12 17,202 5,664
Finance revenue 9 533 7
Finance costs 9 (2,209) (21,183)
Profit/(loss) before tax 15,526 (15,512)
Income tax 14 (3,691) 1,254
Profit/(loss) for the year 11,835 (14,258)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income:
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss:
Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations (533) (497)
(Loss)/gain on hedge of net investment in foreign operation (187) 172
Other comprehensive expense for the year (720) (325)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 11,115 (14,583)
Profit/(loss) per share
Basic and diluted earnings per share (pence per share) 15 5.9p (14.0)p Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 80
Financial Statements
Notes
2015
£000
2014
£000
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 16 16,047 15,915
Intangible assets – goodwill 17 51,725 50,127
Intangible assets – others 18 100,951 113,651
Deferred tax assets 14 394 732
169,117 180,425
Current assets
Inventories 21 15,019 15,922
Trade and other receivables 22 26,271 25,422
Income tax — 1,093
Other current financial assets 25 — 422
Cash and short-term deposits 23 11,565 10,987
52,855 53,846
Total assets 221,972 234,271
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 24 (25,295) (22,821)
Other current financial liabilities 25 (225) (467)
Income tax (1,411) —
Provisions 27 (855) (1,018)
(27,786) (24,306)
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 26 (31,867) (53,903)
Other non-current financial liabilities 25 — (122)
Provisions 27 (600) (600)
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (19,273) (22,090)
(51,740) (76,715)
Total liabilities (79,526) (101,021)
Net assets 142,446 133,250
Capital and reserves
Share capital 28 2,000 2,000
Share premium 11,527 11,527
Capital reserve 92,325 92,325
Share-based payment reserve 181 —
Foreign currency translation reserve (463) 257
Retained earnings 36,876 27,141
Total equity 142,446 133,250
The consolidated financial statements of Volution Group plc (registered number: 09041571) were approved by the Board of Directors 
and authorised for issue on 16 October 2015. 
On behalf of the Board
Ronnie George Ian Dew
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
At 31 July 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 81
Share
capital
£000
Share
premium
£000
Capital
reserve
£000
Share-based
payment
reserve
£000
Foreign
currency
translation
reserve
£000
Retained
earnings
£000
Total
£000
At 1 August 2013 3 2,098 — — 582 (16,231) (13,548)
Loss for the year — — — — — (14,258) (14,258)
Other comprehensive expense — — — — (325) — (325)
Total comprehensive expense — — — — (325) (14,258) (14,583)
Net adjustment to reserves arising from 
Group re-organisation (3) (2,098) — — — — (2,101)
Share for share exchange as part  
of Group re-organisation 1,520 — 92,325 — — — 93,845
Issue of new ordinary shares on stock 
market listing 480 71,520 — — — — 72,000
Share issue costs — (2,363) — — — — (2,363)
Capital reduction — (57,630) — — — 57,630 —
At 31 July 2014 2,000 11,527 92,325 — 257 27,141 133,250
Profit for the year — — — — — 11,835 11,835
Other comprehensive expense — — — — (720) — (720)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) — — — — (720) 11,835 11,115
Share-based payment — — — 181 — — 181
Dividends paid — — — — — (2,100) (2,100)
At 31 July 2015 2,000 11,527 92,325 181 (463) 36,876 142,446
Capital reserve
The capital reserve is the difference in share capital and reserves arising from the use of the pooling of interest method for preparation 
of the financial statements in 2014. This is a non-distributable reserve.
Share-based payment reserve
The Share-based payment reserve is used to recognise the value of equity-settled share-based payments provided to key management 
personnel, as part of their remuneration. Refer to note 34 for further detail of these plans. 
Foreign currency translation reserve
Exchange differences arising on translation of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries into GBP are included in the foreign currency translation 
reserve. The Group hedges some of its exposure to its net investment in foreign operations; foreign exchange gains and losses relating 
to the effective portion of the net investment hedge are accounted for by entries made directly to the foreign currency translation reserve. 
No ineffectiveness has been recognised in the statement of comprehensive income for any of the periods presented.
These two items are the only items in other comprehensive income.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 July 2015 Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 82
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 31 July 2015
Notes
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Operating activities
Profit/(loss) for the year after tax 11,835 (14,258)
Adjustments to reconcile profit/(loss) for the year to net cash flow  
from operating activities:
Income tax 3,691 (1,254)
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (19) (15)
Exceptional costs 8 731 7,783
Cash flows relating to exceptional costs (89) (6,847)
Finance revenue 9 (533) (7)
Finance costs 9 2,209 21,183
Share-based payment expense 181 —
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 2,536 1,932
Amortisation of intangible assets 18 11,646 11,201
Impairment of intangible assets 18 — 1,949
Working capital adjustments:
Increase in trade receivables and other assets (895) (1,803)
Movement in inventories 453 (1,370)
Exceptional costs: fair value of inventories — (201)
Increase in trade and other payables 750 1,450
Movement in provisions (164) 299
Withholding tax paid on loan note interest — (34)
UK income tax paid (2,313) (2,650)
Overseas income tax paid (770) (475)
Net cash flow from operating activities 29,249 16,883
Investing activities
Payments to acquire intangible assets 18 (1,723) (1,664)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 16 (3,880) (2,930)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 979 62
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 20 (1,521) (29,795)
Interest received 66 7
Net cash flow used in investing activities (6,079) (34,320)
Financing activities
Repayment of interest-bearing loans and borrowings (57,060) (106,106)
Proceeds from new borrowings 39,760 59,479
Issue costs of new borrowings (968) (4,652)
Interest paid (2,004) (5,900)
Transaction costs on issue of new shares — (2,363)
Proceeds from issue of new shares — 72,000
Dividends paid (2,100) —
Net cash flow (used in)/generated from financing activities (22,372) 12,458
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 798 (4,979)
Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 10,987 15,943
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (220) 23
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 23 11,565 10,987 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 83
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 July 2015
1. General information
The consolidated financial statements present the results of Volution Group plc (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries (collectively referred 
to as “the Group”) for the year ended 31 July 2015. A list of subsidiaries and their countries of incorporation is presented in note 32.
From a trading perspective, the Group is engaged in the following:
 > the design, manufacture and distribution of unitary and systems ventilation products and equipment. These include a number 
of respected brands in the ventilation industry; and
 > the design, manufacture and distribution of a range of motors and components for use in air movement applications and gas boilers.
The Company is a public limited company and is incorporated and domiciled in the UK (registered number: 09041571). The share 
capital of the Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange. The address of its registered office is Fleming Way, Crawley, 
West Sussex RH10 9YX. 
2. Going concern
The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group 
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Group cash flow forecasts have been produced for the period to 31 July 2017 and demonstrate that the Group will be able to meet 
its liabilities as and when they fall due for the foreseeable future. The Group is also forecast to remain in compliance with its banking 
agreement covenants at each quarter end during the forecast period.
The Directors confirm that, after making appropriate enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
3. Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. 
These policies have been consistently applied to the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) adopted by the European Union and the Companies Act 2006. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared 
under the historical cost convention, except as disclosed in the accounting policies below. 
The preparation of the consolidated financial information in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting 
estimates and requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas 
involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated 
financial statements are set out in note 4.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in GBP and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand (£000), except 
as otherwise indicated. 
Capital re-organisation during 2014
Windmill Newco plc was incorporated on 15 May 2014 and subsequently changed its name to Volution Group plc on 4 June 2014. 
With effect from 23 June 2014, Volution Group plc became the legal parent of Windmill Topco Limited, the previous holding company 
of the Group, and its subsidiary undertakings through a Group re-organisation, which was accounted for as a common control 
transaction. The consolidated financial statements have therefore been prepared as a continuation of the existing Group using the 
pooling of interest method. The difference in share capital and reserves arising from the use of the pooling of interest method was 
recorded in a capital reserve.
Legal entity re-organisation during 2015
As the Volution Group (the “Group”) has grown and been through various rounds of ownership and refinancing the Group structure 
has evolved accordingly. Because Volution is now a fully listed Group it was necessary to simplify the Group corporate structure and 
remove dividend blocks, as initially described in the IPO prospectus (page 207 and 208). In summary, the change to the corporate 
structure involved the movement “sideways” of 4 subsidiary holding companies out of the dividend chain and the transfer of a 6% 
shareholding in a German property subsidiary to Volution Group plc. These changes were required in order to allow dividends to flow 
freely up the Group and ultimately be available for distribution to shareholders of the Group. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 84
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015
3. Accounting policies continued
Basis of consolidation
The financial information includes all subsidiaries. The results of subsidiaries are included from the date on which effective control 
is acquired up to the date control ceases to exist.
Subsidiaries are controlled by the parent (in each relevant period) regardless of the amount of shares owned. Control exists when the 
parent has the power, either directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise so as to obtain benefits 
from its activities. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred and cease to be consolidated from the 
date on which control no longer exists. 
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting periods using consistent accounting policies. All intercompany 
transactions and balances, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate 
of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value. There have been no non-controlling interests in the business 
combinations to date. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in exceptional items.
When the Group acquires a business it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation 
in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions at the acquisition date. 
Contingent consideration resulting from business combinations is valued at fair value at the acquisition date as part of the business combination. 
When the contingent consideration meets the definition of a financial liability, it is subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting 
date, with changes in fair value recognised either in profit or loss or as a change in other comprehensive income (OCI). The determination 
of fair value is based on discounted cash flows. The key assumptions take into consideration the probability of meeting each performance 
target and the discount factor.
Goodwill is initially recognised at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred over the net identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed. 
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, 
goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units (CGUs) 
that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether assets or liabilities of the acquisition are assigned to those units.
Business combinations are set out in note 20.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. Revenue is reduced for estimated customer returns, 
rebates and other similar allowances that are calculated based upon the price of goods, volumes and product mix purchased by the 
customer. Revenue is stated net of settlement discounts, VAT, other sales taxes and duties.
Sale of goods
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when all the following conditions are satisfied:
 > the Group has transferred ownership of the goods when the significant risks and rewards have passed to the buyer, usually on the 
delivery of the goods; 
 > the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control 
over the goods sold;
 > the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;
 > it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity; and
 > the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.
The Group has a number of customer and supplier rebate agreements that are recognised as a reduction from sales or a reduction of 
cost of sales as appropriate (collectively referred to as rebates). Rebates are based on an agreed percentage of revenue or purchases, 
which will increase with the level of revenue achieved or purchases made. These agreements typically run to a different reporting period to 
that of the Group with some of the amounts payable and receivable being subject to confirmation after the reporting date. At the reporting 
date, the Directors make estimates of the amount of rebate that will become both payable and due to the Group under these agreements 
based upon their best estimates of volumes and product mix that will be bought or sold over each individual rebate agreement period. 
Where the respective customer or supplier has been engaged with the Group for a number of years, historical settlement trends are 
also used to assist in ensuring an appropriate estimate is recorded at the reporting date and that appropriate internal approvals and 
reviews take place before rebates are recorded. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 85
3. Accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition continued
Rendering of services
Revenue from the provision of services is recognised by reference to the stage of completion. The stage of completion is measured 
by reference to costs incurred to date as a percentage of total expected cost for each contract. Where the contract outcome cannot 
be measured reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent of expenses recognised that are recoverable.
Finance revenue 
Revenue is recognised as interest accrues using the effective interest method. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts 
estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to its net carrying amount.
Segmental analysis
The Group has adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments. The method of identifying segments is based on internal management reporting 
information that is regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker, which is considered to be the Chief Executive Officer 
of the Company.
For management purposes, the Group is organised into two reportable segments: Ventilation Group and Original Equipment 
Manufacturer (OEM (Torin-Sifan)). Each reportable segment is managed separately as they require different marketing approaches.
Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each subsidiary are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
the entity operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the Group financial statements, the results and financial position of each 
entity are expressed in GBP (“£000”), which is the functional currency of the Company and the presentational currency of the Group.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency 
(“foreign currencies”) are recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting 
period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate prevailing at the end of the reporting period. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date 
of the initial transaction. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate 
at the date the fair value was determined.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial information, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are expressed 
in GBP using exchange rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period. Income and expenses are translated at the average exchange 
rate for the period. Exchange differences arising are classified as other comprehensive income and are transferred to the foreign currency 
translation reserve. All other translation differences are taken to profit and loss with the exception of differences on foreign currency 
borrowings to the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge against Group equity investments in foreign operations, 
in which case they are taken directly to reserves together with the exchange difference on the net investment in these operations. 
Income taxes
Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from, or payable to the taxation authorities. 
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts in the financial statements with the following exceptions: 
 > where the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not 
a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and
 > in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider it is probable that there will be taxable profits 
from which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply when 
the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities 
are offset only if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, the deferred taxes relate 
to the same taxation authority and that authority permits the Group to make a single net payment. 
Deferred income tax is charged or credited to other comprehensive income if it relates to items that are charged or credited to other 
comprehensive income. Similarly, deferred tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged 
directly to equity.  Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 86
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015
3. Accounting policies continued
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. Such 
cost includes the cost of replacing part of the property, plant and equipment; when significant parts of property, plant and equipment 
are required to be replaced at intervals, the Group recognises such parts as individual assets with specific useful lives and depreciates 
them accordingly. Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of the property, plant 
and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied. All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the 
statement of comprehensive income as incurred. 
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets, except freehold land, over their estimated useful lives using 
the straight line method. The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at each year end, with the 
effect of any changes in estimates accounted for on a prospective basis.
The following useful lives are used in the calculation of depreciation:
Freehold buildings – 30–50 years 
Plant and machinery – 5–10 years 
Fixtures, fittings, tools, equipment and vehicles – 4–10 years
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference between 
the disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as part 
of administrative expenses, as set out in note 12, or if the amount is deemed significant within exceptional items, as set out in note 8.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are identified and recognised separately from goodwill where they satisfy the definition 
of an intangible asset and their fair values can be measured reliably. The cost of such intangible assets is their fair value at the acquisition date. 
The fair value of patents, trademarks and customer base acquired and recognised as part of a business combination is determined 
using the relief-from-royalty method or multi-period excess earnings method.
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business combination are reported at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. 
Research and development costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditure on an individual project is recognised as an intangible asset when 
the Company can demonstrate the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale; its 
intention to complete and its ability to use or sell the asset; how the asset will generate future economic benefits; the availability of 
resources to complete the asset; and the ability to reliably measure the expenditure during development.
Development costs
In the first set of financial statements prepared applying IFRS, the Group had been unable to capitalise development costs in full for 
historical periods. Retrospective application of IFRS does not permit the use of hindsight to conclude whether the development costs 
recognition and measurement criteria were met in historical periods. In order to retrospectively apply IFRS and capitalise development 
costs prior to periods presented, the Group would have had to revisit the research and development costs incurred and reconstruct a 
development cost that would be compliant with IFRS criteria, as the current records do not separate research and development costs 
based on the IFRS criteria. For example, staff costs were not divided between specific projects. The Group has therefore determined 
that most of the development costs for the historical periods could not be capitalised without the use of hindsight and therefore all 
development costs relating to staff costs were expensed as incurred for the respective periods. The Group has now put a procedure 
in place to monitor all future development spending and staff costs to assess whether the criteria are met.
Subsequent measurement of intangible assets
Intangible assets with a definitive life are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Development costs – 10 years 
Software costs – 5 years 
Customer base – 5–11 years 
Trademarks – 20–25 years 
Patents – 20–25 years
The estimated useful life and amortisation methods are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes 
in estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 87
3. Accounting policies continued
Intangible assets continued
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets with definite lives to determine 
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount 
of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any. Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable 
amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
Where a reasonable and consistent basis of allocation can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual cash generating 
units, or otherwise they are allocated to the smallest Group of cash generating units for which a reasonable and consistent allocation 
basis can be identified.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount 
of the asset (or cash generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are immediately recognised in the 
statement of comprehensive income.
The Group has identified the following cash generating units. These are used in the impairment review of tangible and intangible assets. 
Residential repair, maintenance and improvement (RMI) 
Residential New Build 
Commercial 
UK Export 
Nordics Residential 
Germany Residential 
Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM (Torin-Sifan))
Goodwill
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment 
testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination, 
irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the Group are assigned to those units.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if there is an indication of impairment. Impairment of goodwill is 
determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable 
amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying value of the cash generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated, 
an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future periods.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition is accounted for as follows:
 > raw materials: purchase cost on a first in, first out basis; and
 > work in progress and finished goods: cost of direct materials and labour and an appropriate portion of fixed and variable overhead 
expenses based on normal operating capacity, but excluding borrowing costs.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price for inventories less all estimated costs of completion and costs necessary 
to make the sale.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised when it is probable that a future economic benefit will flow to the Group. Trade and other 
receivables are carried at original invoice or contract amount less any provisions for discounts and doubtful debts. Provisions are made 
where there is evidence of a risk of non-payment taking into account ageing, previous experience and general economic conditions.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short-term deposits comprise cash at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months 
or less. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 88
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015
3. Accounting policies continued
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event; it is probable 
that the Group will be required to settle the obligation; and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions for the expected costs of maintenance guarantees are charged against profits when products have been invoiced.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation taking into 
account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle 
the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
The timing of cash outflows are by their nature uncertain and are therefore best estimates. Provisions are not discounted as the time 
value of money is not considered material.
Exceptional items 
The Group discloses exceptional items by virtue of their nature, size or incidence to allow a better understanding of the underlying 
trading performance of the Group. Exceptional items include, but are not limited to, IPO transaction costs, significant restructuring, 
acquisition and related integration and earn-out costs and material gains or losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
Financial liabilities
Net financing costs
Net financing costs comprise interest income on funds invested, gains/losses on the disposal of financial instruments, changes in the 
fair value of financial instruments, interest expense on borrowings and finance leases, and foreign exchange gains/losses. Interest income 
and expense is recognised as it accrues in the statement of comprehensive income using the effective interest method.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Borrowings and other financial liabilities, including loans, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. 
Borrowings and other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest 
expense recognised on an effective yield basis. 
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over 
the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected 
life of the financial liability or, where appropriate, a shorter period. 
All transaction costs relating to the refinancing have been expensed in the prior year. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other 
costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk. Instruments 
used are principally foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps. Further details of derivative financial instruments are 
included in notes 25 and 30.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to 
their fair value at the reporting date. The resulting gain or loss is immediately recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. 
Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The fair value of derivatives is classified as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the relationship is more 
than twelve months and as a current asset or a current liability if the remaining maturity of the relationship is less than twelve months. 
No derivative contracts have been designated as hedges for accounting purposes.
Hedge of net investment
Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, including a hedge of a monetary item that is accounted for as part of the net investment, 
are accounted for as follows: gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge are recognised in OCI while 
any gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in profit or loss. On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative 
value of any such gains or losses recorded in equity is reclassified to profit or loss.
The Group uses borrowings in local currencies as a hedge of its exposure to foreign exchange risk on its investments in foreign operations. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 89
3. Accounting policies continued
Fair value measurement
The Group measures certain financial instruments, such as derivatives, at fair value at each reporting date. The Group also measures 
assets and liabilities (for example intangible assets) acquired in a business combination at fair value on initial recognition. The fair values 
of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in note 30.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset 
or transfer the liability takes place either:
 > in the principal market for the asset or liability; or
 > in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or most advantageous market must be accessible by the Group.
The fair value of an asset or liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset 
or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using 
the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data is available to measure 
fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value 
hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
 > Level 1 – quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
 > Level 2 – valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly 
observable; and
 > Level 3 – valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers 
have occurred in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
Fair value measurement
For recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, based on a multi-criteria 
approach, the following valuation techniques can be used for the same class of assets: 
 > discounted cash flow using the following inputs: net current inflow, terminal value, discount rate; and 
 > yield methodology using market values capitalised with a market capitalisation rate. 
The resulting valuations are cross-checked against the initial yields and the fair market values derived from actual market transactions. 
If the fair value is not reliably determinable, the asset is measured at cost model until such time as the fair value can be reliably measured. 
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, 
characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above. 
Leasing commitments
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Payments under operating leases are charged to the statement of comprehensive income on a straight line basis over the term of the lease. 
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Pensions
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the period they become 
payable. The cost charged to the statement of comprehensive income of providing retirement pensions for employees represents the 
amounts paid by the Group to various defined contribution pension schemes operated by the Group in the financial period.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised when they meet the criteria for recognition as a liability. In relation to final dividends, this is when the dividend 
is approved by the Directors in the general meeting, and in relation to interim dividends, when paid. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 90
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, management is required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about 
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. 
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised 
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods 
if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Judgements
The following are the critical judgements (apart from those involving estimations) that management has made in the process of applying 
the entity’s accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in financial statements:
Exceptional items
The Group discloses exceptional items by virtue of their nature, size or incidence to allow a better understanding of the underlying trading 
performance of the Group mainly relating to the IPO, acquisition costs and restructuring costs following acquisitions. The Group 
identifies an item of expense or income as exceptional, when in managements judgement, the underlying event giving rise to the 
exceptional item is deemed to be non-recurring in its nature, size or incidence such that Group results would be distorted without 
specific reference to the event in question. To enable the full impact of an exceptional item to be understood, the tax impact is 
disclosed and they are presented separately in the statement of cash flows. See note 8 for details of exceptional items.
Development costs
Development costs that are directly attributable to the development of a product are capitalised using management’s assessment 
of the likelihood of a successful outcome for each product being released to the market, this is based on management’s judgement 
that the product is technologically, commercially and economically feasible in accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets. 
In determining the amounts to be capitalised, management makes assumptions regarding the expected future cash generation of the 
project, discount rates to be applied and the expected period of benefits. See note 18 for amounts capitalised as development costs. 
Estimates and assumptions
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date that have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities within the next financial year are described 
below. The Group based its assumptions and estimates on parameters available when these financial statements were prepared. 
Existing circumstances and assumptions about future developments, however, may change due to market changes or circumstances 
arising beyond the control of the Group. Such changes are reflected in the assumptions when they occur.
Fair value of assets acquired during business combinations
Judgements and estimates are required in assessment of fair value of the consideration and net assets acquired, including the identification 
and valuation of intangible assets. In valuing certain intangible assets management has made assumptions about the retention rate 
of customers and cash flow forecasts used to determine the fair value of the assets at the date of acquisition. Note 20 provides details 
on business combinations.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets
The Group’s impairment test for goodwill is based on a value in use calculation using a discounted cash flow model. The cash flows are 
derived from the business plan for the following three years. The recoverable amount is most sensitive to the discount rate used for the 
discounted cash flow model as well as the expected future cash inflows and the growth rate used for extrapolation purposes. The key 
assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount for the different cash generating units are explained further in note 19.
The Group’s accounting policy for impairment of other intangible assets is set out in note 3. The Group records all assets and liabilities 
acquired in business acquisitions at fair value. Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment annually if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Further details are included in note 18.
Taxation
The Group establishes provisions, based on reasonable estimates, for possible consequences of audits by tax authorities of the respective 
countries in which it operates. The amount of such provisions is based on various factors, such as experience with previous tax audits 
and differing interpretations of tax regulations by the taxable entity and the responsible authority.
Management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based on the likely timing 
and level of future taxable profits together with an assessment of the effect of future tax planning strategies. A breakdown of the deferred 
tax asset is included in note 14. Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations, changes in tax laws 
and the amount and timing of future taxable income. Given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term 
nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and the assumptions made, 
or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax income and expense already recorded. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 91
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued
Estimates and assumptions continued
Rebates payable and receivable
The Group has a number of customer and supplier rebate agreements that are recognised as a reduction from sales or a reduction of 
cost of sales as appropriate (collectively referred to as rebates). Rebates are based on an agreed percentage of revenue or purchases, 
which will increase with the level of revenue achieved or purchases made. These agreements typically run to a different reporting period 
to that of the Group with some of the amounts payable and receivable being subject to confirmation after the reporting date. At the 
reporting date, the Directors make estimates of the amount of rebate that will become both payable and due to the Group under these 
agreements based upon their best estimates of volumes and product mix that will be bought or sold over each individual rebate agreement 
period. Where the respective customer or supplier has been engaged with the Group for a number of years, historical settlement trends 
are also used to assist in ensuring an appropriate estimate is recorded at the reporting date and that appropriate internal approvals 
and reviews take place before rebates are recorded. The total rebate provision at 31 July 2015 is £5,017,000 (2014: £4,485,000).
Provisions for warranties, bad debts and inventory obsolescence 
Provisions for warranties are made with reference to recent trading history and historic warranty claim information, and the view 
of management as to whether warranty claims are expected. 
Provisions for bad debts and inventory obsolescence are made with reference to the ageing of receivables and inventory balances 
and the view of management as to whether amounts are recoverable. Bad debt and warranty provisions will be determined with 
consideration to recent customer trading and management experience, and provision for inventory obsolescence to sales history 
and to latest sales forecasts.
5. New standards and interpretations 
The following new accounting standards and amendments have been adopted during the period:
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor 
in whether an entity should be included in the consolidated accounts of the Company. The standard provides additional guidance to 
assist in the determination of control where this is difficult to assess.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities.
2010–2012 Annual Improvements cycle – The IASB’s annual improvements process deals with non-urgent, but necessary, clarifications 
and amendments to IFRS. The 2010–12 cycle includes an amendment to IFRS 8 Operating Segments that requires the Group to disclose 
the judgements made by management in applying the aggregation criteria in IFRS 8, including a brief description of the economic 
characteristics used to assess whether the segments are similar. 
Adoption of IFRS 10 and 12 and the 2010–12 Annual Improvements cycle has had no impact on the Group’s reported results or 
financial position.
The following standards and interpretations have an effective date after the date of these financial statements. The Group plans to adopt 
them from the effective dates adopted by the EU and based on the currently completed impact assessment work does not foresee 
any material impact.
Standard 
or interpretation Title
Effective for accounting 
periods beginning 
on or after
IAS 1 Disclosure initiative – Amendments to IAS 1 1 January 2016
IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation – Amendments 
to IAS 16 and IAS 38 1 January 2016
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 1 January 2018
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accruals 1 January 2016
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 92
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015
6. Revenue
Revenue recognised in the statement of comprehensive income is analysed below:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Sale of goods 127,652 117,924
Rendering of services 2,526 2,785
Total revenue 130,178 120,709
Market sectors
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Ventilation Group
UK Residential RMI 36,574 36,979
UK Residential New Build 17,180 14,592
UK Commercial 16,188 16,409
UK Export 8,374 7,129
Nordics
1
 22,241 22,702
Germany
2
10,904 3,493
Total Ventilation Group 111,461 101,304
Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM (Torin-Sifan))
OEM (Torin-Sifan) 18,717 19,405
Total revenue 130,178 120,709
Notes 
1. Represents revenue of Fresh AB and its subsidiaries, PAX AB, Volution Norge AS and PAX Norge AS.
2. Represents revenue of inVENTer GmbH and Brüggemann Energiekonzepte GmbH.
7. Segmental analysis
In identifying its operating segments, management follows the Group’s product markets. The Group is considered to have two 
reportable segments: Ventilation Group and Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM (Torin-Sifan)). Each reportable segment is 
managed separately as they require different marketing approaches. 
Operating segments that provide ventilation services have been aggregated as they have similar economic characteristics, assessed 
by reference to the gross margins of the segments. In addition the segments are similar in relation to the nature of products, services, 
production processes, type of customer, method for distribution and regulatory environment.
The measure of revenue reported to the chief operating decision maker to assess performance is total revenue for each operating segment. 
The measure of profit reported to the chief operating decision maker to assess performance is adjusted EBITDA (see note 36 for definition) 
after exceptional items for each operating segment. Gross profit and the analysis below segment profit is additional voluntary information 
and not “segment information” prepared in accordance with IFRS 8.
Finance revenue and costs are not allocated to individual operating segments as the underlying instruments are managed on a Group basis. 
Total assets and liabilities are not disclosed as this information is not provided by operating segment to the chief operating decision 
maker on a regular basis.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis on terms similar to transactions with third parties. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 93
7. Segmental analysis continued
Year ended 31 July 2015
Ventilation 
Group
£000
OEM
£000
Unallocated
£000
Total
£000
Eliminations
£000
Consolidated
£000
Revenue
External customers 111,461 18,717 — 130,178 — 130,178
Inter-segment 11,834 1,249 — 13,083 (13,083) —
Total revenue 123,295 19,966 — 143,261 (13,083) 130,178
Gross profit 57,702 5,457 — 63,159 — 63,159
Results
Adjusted segment EBITDA 31,117 2,977 (1,979) 32,115 — 32,115
Depreciation and amortisation of 
developments costs, software and patents (2,176) (477) (31) (2,684) — (2,684)
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 28,941 2,500 (2,010) 29,431 — 29,431
Amortisation of intangible assets acquired 
through business combinations (10,140) (1,358) — (11,498) — (11,498)
Exceptional items 6 (24) (713) (731) — (731)
Operating profit/(loss) 18,807 1,118 (2,723) 17,202 — 17,202
Unallocated expenses
Net finance cost — — (1,676) (1,676) — (1,676)
Profit/(loss) before tax 18,807 1,118 (4,399) 15,526 — 15,526
Year ended 31 July 2014
Ventilation 
Group
£000
OEM
£000
Unallocated
£000
Total
£000
Eliminations
£000
Consolidated
£000
Revenue
External customers 101,304 19,405 — 120,709 — 120,709
Inter-segment 6,775 1,185 — 7,960 (7,960) —
Total revenue 108,079 20,590 — 128,669 (7,960) 120,709
Gross profit 51,818 6,210 — 58,028 (1,067) 56,961
Results
Adjusted segment EBITDA 26,082 3,062 (615) 28,529 — 28,529
Depreciation and amortisation of 
developments costs, software and patents (1,655) (371) — (2,026) — (2,026)
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 24,427 2,691 (615) 26,503 — 26,503
Amortisation and impairment of  
intangible assets acquired through 
business combinations (11,698) (1,358) — (13,056) — (13,056)
Exceptional items (686) (133) (6,964) (7,783) — (7,783)
Operating profit/(loss) 12,043 1,200 (7,579) 5,664 — 5,664
Unallocated expenses
Net finance cost — — (21,176) (21,176) — (21,176)
Profit/(loss) before tax 12,043 1,200 (28,755) (15,512) — (15,512)
The Group overhead costs are not allocated to individual operating segments. Likewise, certain exceptional costs, which include 
the re-organisation costs and IPO costs, have not been allocated to individual operating segments. 
The 2014 unallocated costs have been restated in line with the 2015 allocation method to allow a more accurate comparison of the 
years presented. The 2014 segmental analysis does not include any adjustments for pro-forma numbers, therefore there is a significant 
increase in unallocated costs in the year ended 31 July 2015 due to the additional costs of being listed group. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 94
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015
7. Segmental analysis continued
Reconciliation of management reporting to IFRS
During the year ended 31 July 2014 the Group converted to IFRS for financial reporting purposes; however, throughout the year ended 
31 July 2014, the Board continued to use alternative management reporting information for making operational and resource allocation 
decisions. During the year ended 31 July 2015, the information used by the Board has been prepared using IFRS accounting policies. 
The 2014 segmental information set out on the previous page has been restated accordingly.
Inter-segment revenues are eliminated on consolidation.
Geographic information
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Revenue from external customers by destination
United Kingdom 79,936 76,623
Sweden 16,663 16,239
Europe (excluding United Kingdom and Sweden) 31,131 25,451
Rest of the world 2,448 2,396
Total revenue 130,178 120,709
2015
£000
2014
£000
Non-current assets excluding deferred tax
United Kingdom 142,957 150,801
Europe (excluding United Kingdom and Nordics) 13,787 13,850
Nordics 11,979 15,042
Total 168,723 179,693
Information about major customers
Annual revenue from one customer in the Ventilation Group segment accounts for more than 10% of Group revenue. In the year ended 
31 July 2015, revenue was £13,607,000 (2014: £14,340,000).
8. Exceptional items
The Group discloses exceptional items by virtue of their nature, size or incidence to allow a better understanding of the underlying 
trading performance of the Group. Exceptional costs are summarised below:
Notes
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Inventory fair value adjustment arising on business combinations (a) — 201
Acquisition costs (b) 875 850
Restructuring and acquisition integration (c) 128 1,198
Profit on disposal of property plant and equipment (d) (261) —
Costs associated with the stock market listing of the Group (e) (11) 5,534
731 7,783
Total tax credit for the year (f) (26) (224)
705 7,559
(a)  As set out in note 20, inventory acquired on acquisitions during year ended 31 July 2014 was recognised at fair value, which is based 
on selling price less costs of disposal and a profit allowance for selling efforts. In line with the Group’s definition of exceptional costs, 
inclusion of the inventory fair value adjustment within trading results would not be reflective of ongoing business performance. 
The inventory fair value adjustment has therefore been presented separately.
 The fair value adjustment in the year ended 31 July 2014 relates to the acquisitions of PAX AB, PAX Norge AS and inVENTer GmbH.
 The relevant inventory was disposed of in the same period it was acquired. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 95
8. Exceptional items continued
(b)  Acquisition costs substantially relate to professional fees incurred in respect of the business combinations disclosed in note 20 and 
the acquisition of Ventilair completed post year end and are set out below: 
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Brüggemann Energiekonzepte GmbH 134 —
Ventilair Group International BVBA, completed after year end 559 —
Volution Group Limited — 72
Fresh AB and its subsidiaries
1
49 —
PAX AB and PAX Norge AS — 39
inVENTer GmbH — 683
Aborted acquisitions 133 56
875 850
1.  Acquisition costs of £49,000 for the acquisition of Fresh AB and its subsidiaries relate to the write back of a potential VAT claim, which was disclosed 
as a contingent liability at 31 July 2014.
(c)  During the year ended 31 July 2015, the Group incurred costs of £128,000 (2014: £28,000) in simplifying the corporate structure. 
This cost was incurred as a result of the commitment made in the Initial Public Offering Prospectus dated 18 June 2014. The project 
was started and completed during the year. During the year ended 31 July 2014, £524,000 was incurred relating to the restructuring 
of the Group’ s Nordic operations and £133,000 in relation to the restructuring of the OEM (T orin-Sifan) site; UK restructuring costs 
of £513,000 were also incurred.
(d)  During the year ended 31 July 2015, the Group sold a property previously included within property, plant and equipment on the 
statement of financial position. The profit on sale was £261,000.
(e)  Cost incurred in relation to the stock market listing in 2014 have been included here. An overprovision of the Real Estate Transfer T ax (RETT) 
in relation to the purchase of Volution Deutschland Real Estate GmbH in the prior year has been written back during the year ended 
31 July 2015. Whilst the overall size of the write back is not significant, the original RETT expense was included within exceptional 
items; therefore, we have included the corresponding credit as exceptional for consistency and comparability. In addition it meets 
the criteria of being exceptional due to its nature.
(f)  Out of the exceptional items incurred in the year it was deemed that the items allowable for or chargeable to tax was approximately 
£128,000 with a potential tax benefit of £26,000.
9. Finance revenue and costs
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Finance revenue
Net gain on financial instruments at fair value 467 —
Interest receivable 66 7
Total finance revenue 533 7
Finance costs
Interest payable on bank loans (2,004) (5,947)
Interest on loan notes — (6,720)
Amortisation of finance costs (102) (8,338)
Other interest — (17)
Total interest expense (2,106) (21,022)
Net loss on financial instruments at fair value (103) (161)
Total finance costs (2,209) (21,183)
Net finance costs (1,676) (21,176)
The charge for amortisation of finance costs in 2014 includes £7,005,000 of unamortised finance costs written off upon refinancing 
of debt in December 2013. In addition, £821,000 of financing fees relating to the new bank facility were written off during June 2014. 
Included in the interest payable on bank loans is £106,000 (2014: £144,000) relating to breakage costs of the interest rate swaps 
(see note 30 for further information). Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 96
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015
10. Adjusted and pro-forma earnings 
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Profit/(loss) before tax 15,526 (15,512)
Add back:
Exceptional items 731 7,783
Amortisation of financing costs written off upon refinancing — 8,338
Breakage costs of interest rate swaps 106 144
Net (gain)/loss on financial instruments at fair value (364) 161
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets acquired through business combinations 11,498 13,056
Adjusted profit before tax 27,497 13,970
Add back:
Interest payable on bank loans and amortisation of financing costs 2,000 5,803
Interest on loan notes — 6,720
Finance (revenue)/costs (66) 10
Adjusted operating profit 29,431 26,503
Add back:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,536 1,932
Amortisation of development costs, software and patents 148 94
Adjusted EBITDA 32,115 28,529
For definitions of terms referred to above see note 36, Glossary of terms.
Year ended 31 July 2015
Reported
£000
Adjustments
£000
Adjusted 
results
£000
Pro-forma
adjustments
£000
Adjusted 
results
£000
Revenue 130,178 — 130,178 — 130,178 
Cost of sales (67,019) — (67,019) — (67,019)
Gross profit 63,159 — 63,159 — 63,159 
Administration and distribution costs (45,226) 11,498 (33,728) — (33,728)
Operating profit before exceptional items 17,933 11,498 29,431 — 29,431 
Exceptional items (731) 731 — — — 
Operating profit 17,202 12,229 29,431 — 29,431 
Finance revenue 533 (467) 66 — 66 
Finance costs (2,209) 209 (2,000) — (2,000)
Profit before tax 15,526 11,971 27,497 — 27,497 
Income tax (3,691) (1,838) (5,529) — (5,529)
Profit after tax 11,835 10,133 21,968 — 21,968 
EBITDA 31,384 731 32,115 — 32,115 
Basic and diluted EPS (pence per share)
3
5.9 11.0 11.0 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 97
10. Adjusted and pro-forma earnings continued
Year ended 31 July 2014
Reported
£000
Adjustments
£000
Adjusted 
results
£000
Pro-forma
adjustments
£000
Pro-forma 
results
£000
Revenue 120,709 — 120,709 — 120,709 
Cost of sales (63,748) — (63,748) — (63,748)
Gross profit 56,961 — 56,961 — 56,961 
Administration and distribution costs (43,514) 13,056 (30,458) (1,200)
1
(31,658)
Operating profit/(loss) before exceptional items 13,447 13,056 26,503 (1,200) 25,303 
Exceptional items (7,783) 7,783 — — — 
Operating profit/(loss) 5,664 20,839 26,503 (1,200) 25,303 
Finance revenue 7 — 7 — 7 
Finance costs (21,183) 8,643 (12,540) 10,003
2
 (2,537)
(Loss)/profit before tax (15,512) 29,482 13,970 8,803 22,773 
Income tax 1,254 (4,314) (3,060) (2,025) (5,085)
(Loss)/profit after tax (14,258) 25,168 10,910 6,778 17,688 
EBITDA 20,746 7,783 28,529 (1,200) 27,329 
Basic and diluted EPS (pence per share)
3
(14.0) 5.5 8.8 
Notes
1.  In order to better compare and explain our financial performance in the current year with the comparative year we have restated the comparative year to show 
what it would have looked like under public ownership with the current debt structure. 
    Administration and distribution costs – A pro-forma adjustment has been made to the prior year administration and distribution costs for our estimated 
incremental cost increase as a result of our listing on the London Stock Exchange (LSE). Such adjustments include increased audit fees, salary increases, 
corporate governance costs and other costs directly incurred as a result of the Group being listed on the LSE. 
2. Finance costs – An adjustment has been made to finance costs in the prior year to reflect the current debt structure. 
3.  On 23 June 2014, a share for share exchange converted the entire share capital (after re-organisation) of Windmill Topco Limited to new ordinary shares 
of Volution Group plc. The weighted number of shares has been calculated assuming the share for share exchange took place as from 1 August 2013. 
The pro-forma EPS assumes the same weighted average number of shares in the year ended 31 July 2014 as in the year ended 31 July 2015 to ensure 
we are showing a consistent comparison. 
11. Staff costs
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Wages and salaries  26,759 22,836
Social security costs 3,407 3,205
Other pension costs 1,174 1,065
Share-based payment charge (see note 34) 181 —
31,521 27,106
Other pension costs relate to the Group’s contribution to defined contribution pension plans. Total contributions payable in the next 
financial year are expected to be at rates broadly similar to those in 2014/15 but based on actual salary levels in 2015/16.
Average monthly number of employees in the year
2015 
Number
2014 
Number
Production 586 551
Sales and administration 450 457
1,036 1,008 Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 98
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015
11. Staff costs continued
Directors’ remuneration
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Amounts paid in respect of qualifying services
Aggregate Directors’ emoluments 1,011 1,655
Aggregate Directors’ pension scheme contributions 91 36
In respect of the highest paid Director
Aggregate Directors’ emoluments 588 1,038
Aggregate Directors’ pension scheme contributions 53 23
The number of Directors accruing benefits under Group money purchase pension arrangements was two (2014: two). 
The Group also incurred costs of £295,000 from Peter Hill, Tony Reading, Paul Hollingworth and Adrian Barden for their services as 
Non-Executive Directors. For the period from 1 August 2013 to 22 June 2014 the Group incurred costs of £246,000 from Marcel Klepfisch, 
Adrian Barden and Chris Lebeer for their services as Non-Executive Directors. Following the re-organisation and the listing on the 
London Stock Exchange, the Group Board of Directors changed and the Group incurred further costs from 23 June 2014 to 31 July 2014 
of £36,000.
12. Other operating expenses
Cost of sales, distribution costs and administrative expenses include the following:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Cost of sales
Costs of inventories recognised as expenses 65,050 62,250
Operating lease expense – land and buildings 847 505
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,122 993
Distribution costs
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 436 412
Administrative expenses
Research and development costs 1,485 533
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 978 527
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 11,646 13,150
Operating lease expense – other 74 7
Net foreign exchange differences (483) (71)
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (19) (15)
The Group’s research and development concentrates on the development of new products. Research and development costs that are 
not eligible for capitalisation have been expensed in the period incurred and are disclosed in the table above. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 99
13. Auditor’s remuneration
The Group paid the following amounts to its auditor, Ernst & Young LLP , and its member firms in respect of the audit of the financial 
statements and for other services provided to the Group:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Audit services
Fees for the audit of the parent and Group financial statements 120 90
Fees for local statutory audits of subsidiaries 136 142
Non-audit services
Fees payable for taxation advisory services — 98
Fees payable for corporate finance services* — 1,960
Fees payable for interim review, including tax 25 —
281 2,290
*  In 2014, £182,000 relates to transaction advisory services in connection with the refinancing of bank debt and £1,778,000 relating to the stock market listing. 
The fee relating to the stock market listing is included in exceptional items. 
14. Income taxes
(a) Income tax recognised in profit/(loss) for the year
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Current income tax
Current income tax expense 4,451 957
Foreign income taxes 1,178 471
Tax credit relating to the prior year (100) (330)
Total current tax 5,529 1,098
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (2,002) (2,524)
Effect of changes in the tax rate 26 211
Tax charge/(credit) relating to prior years 138 (39)
Total deferred tax (1,838) (2,352)
Net tax charge/(credit) 3,691 (1,254)
(b) Reconciliation of total tax 
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Profit/(loss) before tax 15,526 (15,512)
Profit/(loss) before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.67% (2014: 22.33%) 3,209 (3,463)
Adjustment in respect of previous years 38 (369)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 401 2,725
Effect of difference in tax rates 26 211
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses (38) (77)
Unrelieved tax losses — 1
Additional relief for research and development — (150)
Higher/(lower) overseas tax rate 55 (132)
Net tax charge/(credit) reported in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 3,691 (1,254)
(c) Unrecognised deferred tax assets
At 31 July 2015, the Group had an unrecognised deferred asset of £nil (2014: £41,000) arising in overseas entities. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 100
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015
14. Income taxes continued
(d) Deferred tax balances
Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise from the following:
2015
1 August
 2014
£000
Credited/
(charged)
to income
£000
Translation
 difference
£000
On 
acquisition
£000
31 July 
2015
£000
Temporary differences:
Depreciation in advance of capital allowances (58) (618) — — (676)
Fair value movements of derivative financial instruments 122 (77) — — 45
Customer base, trademark and patent (21,050) 2,241 587 (54) (18,276)
Losses 560 (57) 33 — 536
Untaxed reserves (617) 82 67 — (468)
Other temporary differences (315) 267 8 — (40)
(21,358) 1,838 695 (54) (18,879)
Deferred tax asset 732 (378) 40 — 394
Deferred tax liability (22,090) 2,216 655 (54) (19,273)
(21,358) 1,838 695 (54) (18,879)
2014
1 August
 2013
£000
Credited
to income
£000
Translation
 difference
£000
On 
acquisition
£000
31 July 
2014
£000
Temporary differences:
Depreciation in advance of capital allowances (76) 18 — — (58)
Fair value movements of derivative financial instruments 73 49 — — 122
Customer base, trademark and patent (21,449) 2,168 — (1,769) (21,050)
Other temporary differences (250) 117 101 (340) (372)
(21,702) 2,352 101 (2,109) (21,358)
Deferred tax asset 99 633 — — 732
Deferred tax liability (21,801) 1,719 101 (2,109) (22,090)
(21,702) 2,352 101 (2,109) (21,358)
The Finance Act 2013 was enacted on 17 July 2013 and introduced a reduction in the headline rate of corporation tax to 21% 
by 1 April 2014 and to 20% by 1 April 2015. The implications of the rate change are incorporated within the financial statements. 
Further changes have been announced, with reductions to 19% and 18% to apply from 1 April 2017 and 1 April 2020, respectively. 
As the further changes were not substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, they are not reflected within the financial statements. 
The estimated impact of the announced changes is not expected to have a significant impact on the deferred tax balance.
15. Earnings per share (EPS)
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit/(loss) for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by 
the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that 
would be issued on conversion of any dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. There are no dilutive potential ordinary 
shares for the years ended 31 July 2015 and 2014. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 101
15. Earnings per share (EPS) continued
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations:
Year ended 31 July
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary equity holders 11,835 (14,258)
 
Number Number
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share 200,000,000 102,205,228
Earnings per share:
Basic and diluted 5.9p (14.0)p
Year ended 31 July
2015 
£000
2014
 1
 
£000
Adjusted profit attributable to ordinary equity holders 21,968 17,688
 
Number Number
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for adjusted basic earnings per share and adjusted diluted 
earnings per share 200,000,000 200,000,000
Adjusted earnings per share:
Basic and diluted 11.0p 8.8p
1. 2014 adjusted profit attributable to ordinary equity holders is stated after pro-forma adjustments. See note 10 for details of adjustments made. 
See note 36, Glossary of terms, for explanation of the adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share calculation.
16. Property, plant and equipment
2015
Freehold 
land and
buildings
£000
Plant and 
machinery
£000
Fixtures, 
fittings, tools, 
equipment 
and vehicles
£000
Total
£000
Cost
At 1 August 2014 12,477 2,998 5,461 20,936
On acquisition — — 51 51
Additions 265 1,113 2,502 3,880
Disposals (611) (76) (1,058) (1,745)
Net foreign currency exchange differences (651) (281) (346) (1,278)
Transfers
1
— — (95) (95)
At 31 July 2015 11,480 3,754 6,515 21,749
Depreciation
At 1 August 2014 1,980 718 2,323 5,021
Charge for the year 432 552 1,552 2,536
Disposals (252) (72) (852) (1,176)
Net foreign currency exchange differences (78) (273) (343) (694)
Transfers
1
— — 15 15
At 31 July 2015 2,082 925 2,695 5,702
Net book value
At 31 July 2015 9,398 2,829 3,820 16,047
1.  During the year it was identified that costs related to software had been incorrectly classified as fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment and costs related to fixtures, 
fittings, tools and equipment had been incorrectly classified as patents and have therefore been transferred accordingly. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 102
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015
16. Property, plant and equipment continued
2014
Freehold 
land and 
buildings
£000
Plant and 
machinery
£000
Fixtures, 
fittings, tools, 
equipment 
and vehicles
£000
Total
£000
Cost
At 1 August 2013 8,254 2,503 3,954 14,711
On acquisition 3,503 170 788 4,461
Additions 873 724 1,333 2,930
Disposals — (130) (257) (387)
Net foreign currency exchange differences (153) (269) (357) (779)
At 31 July 2014 12,477 2,998 5,461 20,936
Depreciation
At 1 August 2013 1,729 776 1,413 3,918
Charge for the year 294 344 1,294 1,932
Disposals — (119) (221) (340)
Net foreign currency exchange differences (43) (283) (163) (489)
At 31 July 2014 1,980 718 2,323 5,021
Net book value
At 31 July 2014 10,497 2,280 3,138 15,915
17. Intangible assets – goodwill
£000
Cost and net book value
At 1 August 2013 46,488
Adjustment to goodwill relating to Fresh AB and its subsidiaries 15
On acquisition of PAX AB and PAX Norge AS 2,211
On acquisition of inVENTer GmbH 2,138
Net foreign currency exchange differences (725)
At 31 July 2014 50,127
At 1 August 2014 50,127
Adjustment to goodwill relating to inVENTer and its subsidiaries
1
473
On acquisition of Brüggemann Energiekonzepte GmbH 1,395
Net foreign currency exchange differences (270)
At 31 July 2015 51,725
1.  During the year ended 31 July 2015 Volution Management Holdings GmbH purchased the entire issued share capital of Brüggemann Energiekonzepte GmbH. 
When inVENTer GmbH was acquired by Volution Management Holdings GmbH, during the prior year, Brüggemann Energiekonzepte GmbH was a customer 
of inVENTer and therefore an amount was included in the customer base intangible asset in relation to Brüggemann Energiekonzepte GmbH. On acquisition of 
Brüggemann Energiekonzepte GmbH during the year, the net book value of the intangible customer base which related to Brüggemann Energiekonzepte GmbH 
of £360,000 was transferred to goodwill. In addition an adjustment of £113,000 was made to the provisional value of the goodwill initially recognised for 
inVENTer GmbH in the prior year; see note 20 for further details.  Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 103
18. Intangible assets – other
2015
Development 
costs
£000
Software 
costs
£000
Customer
 base
£000
Trademark
£000
Patents
£000
Total
£000
Cost
At 1 August 2014 1,029 2,973 100,066 38,182 927 143,177
Additions 637 1,086 — — — 1,723
Disposals — (5) — — — (5)
On acquisition — — 208 — — 208
Transfers
1
— 271 (360) — (176) (265)
Net foreign currency exchange differences (21) — (2,070) (922) (272) (3,285)
At 31 July 2015 1,645 4,325 97,844 37,260 479 141,553
Amortisation
At 1 August 2014 40 1,576 24,212 3,691 7 29,526
Charge for the year 25 97 9,904 1,594 26 11,646
Disposals — (4) — — — (4)
Transfers — — — — (15) (15)
Net foreign currency exchange differences — — (382) (167) (2) (551)
At 31 July 2015 65 1,669 33,734 5,118 16 40,602
Net book value
At 31 July 2015 1,580 2,656 64,110 32,142 463 100,951
1.  During the year it was identified that costs related to patents and software had been incorrectly classified and have therefore been transferred accordingly. 
In addition £360,000 has been transferred from the customer base to goodwill in connection with the purchase of Brüggemann Energiekonzepte GmbH 
(see note 17 for more details).
Included in software costs are assets under construction of £2,441,000 (2014: £1,466,000), which are not amortised. 
Included in development costs are assets under construction of £1,395,000 (2014: £758,000), which are not amortised.
2014
Development 
costs
£000
Software 
costs
£000
Customer
 base
£000
Trademark
£000
Patents
£000
Total
£000
Cost
At 1 August 2013 446 2,133 88,314 33,961 — 124,854
Additions 583 840 — — 241 1,664
On acquisition — — 13,120 4,798 730 18,648
Net foreign currency exchange differences — — (1,368) (577) (44) (1,989)
At 31 July 2014 1,029 2,973 100,066 38,182 927 143,177
Amortisation
At 1 August 2013 9 1,520 12,912 2,021 — 16,462
Charge for the year 31 56 9,424 1,683 7 11,201
Impairment — — 1,949 — — 1,949
Net foreign currency exchange differences — — (73) (13) — (86)
At 31 July 2014 40 1,576 24,212 3,691 7 29,526
Net book value 
At 31 July 2014 989 1,397 75,854 34,491 920 113,651
The impairment loss of £1,949,000 represents the write down of the customer base relating to the Residential German CGU, within 
the Ventilation segment, as the value in use was deemed to be below the book value at which it was valued on acquisition. This arose 
as a result of reduced levels of revenues of existing customers since the acquisition. The impairment charge is recorded within 
administrative expenses in the statement of comprehensive income. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 104
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015
18. Intangible assets – other continued
The remaining amortisation periods for acquired intangible assets at 31 July 2015 are as follows:
Customer base Trademark Patent
Volution Group Limited and its subsidiaries 7 years 22 years —
Fresh AB and its subsidiaries 4 years 17 years —
PAX AB and PAX Norge AS 6 years 18 years —
inVENTer GmbH 8 years 19 years 19 years
Brüggemann Energiekonzepte GmbH 5 years — —
19. Impairment assessment of goodwill 
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to cash generating units. 
These represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
31 July 2015
Residential 
RMI
£000
Residential 
New Build
£000
Commercial
£000
UK 
Export 
£000
OEM
(Torin-Sifan)
£000
Nordics
 Residential
£000
Germany 
Residential
£000
Carrying value of goodwill 21,195 7,143 8,744 3,590 4,996 2,303 3,754
CGU value in use headroom* 72,267 33,946 31,985 16,546 18,823 36,843 18,393
Discount rate (%) (post tax) 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 11.8 11.8
31 July 2014
Residential 
RMI
£000
Residential 
New Build
£000
Commercial
£000
UK 
Export 
£000
OEM
(Torin-Sifan)
£000
Nordics
 Residential
£000
Germany
Residential
£000
Carrying value of goodwill 21,195 7,143 8,744 3,590 4,996 2,729 1,730
GU value in use headroom* 51,031 17,198 21,054 8,643 11,971 33,564 6,406
Discount rate (%) (post tax) 11.0 11.0 11.0 11.0 11.0 11.0 13.0
* Includes the net book value of fixed assets (tangible and intangible), goodwill and operating working capital (current assets and liabilities).
Impairment review
Under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, the Group is required to complete a full impairment review of goodwill, which has been achieved 
using a value in use calculation. A discounted cash flow (DCF) model was used, taking a period of five years, which has been established 
using pre-tax discount rates of 12% to 15% (post tax: 10%–12%) over that period. In all periods it was concluded that the carrying 
amount was in excess of the value in use and all CGUs had positive headroom.
Key assumptions in the value in use calculation
The calculation of value in use for all CGUs is most sensitive to the following assumptions:
 > Price inflation – small annual percentage increases are assumed in all markets based on historic data.
 > Growth in the ventilation market – assumed to be static in all markets and is based on recent historic trends with a 2% inflationary increase.
 > Discount rates – rates reflect the current market assessment of the risks specific to each operation. The pre-tax discount rate 
ranged from 12% to 15% (post tax: 10%–12%).
 > Raw material cost – assumed to be at the industry average of sales price.
 > Excise duty – no future duty changes have been used in projections.
 > No growth rate has been used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the forecast period other than the 2% rate of inflation.
The value in use headroom for each cash generating unit where these sensitivities would be applicable has been set out above. 
No reasonably possible change in the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the cash generating units to materially 
exceed their recoverable value.  Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 105
20. Business combinations
Acquisition in the year ended 31 July 2015
Brüggemann Energiekonzepte GmbH
On 14 April 2015, Volution Management Holdings GmbH acquired the entire issued share capital of Brüggemann Energiekonzepte 
GmbH. The transaction was funded from the Group’s existing revolving credit facility. The Group acquired Brüggemann as it offers 
a channel to sell existing ventilation products in a new region.
Total consideration for the transaction was cash consideration of €2,280,000 (£1,649,000).
The provisional fair value of the net assets acquired is set out below:
Book value 
£000
Fair value 
adjustments
£000
Provisional 
fair value
£000
Intangible assets — 208 208
Deferred tax — (54) (54)
Property, plant and equipment 63 (12) 51
Inventory 8 — 8
Trade and other receivables 23 — 23
Trade and other payables (110) — (110)
Cash and cash equivalents 128 — 128
Total identifiable net assets 112 142 254
Goodwill on acquisition 1,395
1,649
Discharged by:
Consideration satisfied in cash 1,649
The fair value of the acquired customer base was identified and included in intangible assets. 
Goodwill of £1,395,000 reflects certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due to their 
nature. These items include the value of expected synergies and the experience and skill of the workforce arising from the acquisition. 
Brüggemann Energiekonzepte GmbH generated revenue of £719,000 and a profit after tax of £55,000 in the period from acquisition 
to 31 July 2015, which are is included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for this reporting period.
If the combination had taken place at 1 August 2014, the Group’s revenue would have been £132,539,000 and the profit before tax 
from continuing operations would have been £15,705,000.
Acquisitions in the year ended 31 July 2014
inVENTer GmbH
The Group purchased of the assets of inVENTer GmbH on 17 April 2014; prior to this, Volution Holdings Germany was incorporated 
as a holding company on 5 December 2013. Two further companies were incorporated as subsidiaries of Volution Holdings Germany, 
being Volution Ventilation Germany, the trading company, and Volution Ventilation Property Germany, the property investment company. 
The Group acquired inVENTer because it significantly enlarged the range of decentralised heat recovery ventilation systems in the 
ventilation segment and it also offered a channel to sell existing ventilation products in a new region. The transaction was funded by 
bank debt.
Total consideration for the transaction was split as follows:
 > cash consideration of €21,510,000 (£17,705,000); and
 > deferred consideration of €2,000,000 (£1,646,000), which was paid on 31 July 2014. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 106
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015
20. Business combinations continued
Acquisitions in the year ended 31 July 2014 continued
inVENTer GmbH continued
Transaction costs associated with the transaction were £683,000. During the year ended 31 July 2015 the original provisional fair value 
of the net assets acquired has been reduced by £113,000 for additional inventory that was subsequently discovered to be obsolete 
at the date of purchase. The finalised fair value of the assets acquired is set out below: 
Book 
value
£000
Fair value 
adjustments
£000
Final value
£000
Intangible assets 154 10,454 10,608
Property, plant and equipment (note 16) 3,672 — 3,672
Inventory 2,031 (14) 2,017
Trade and other receivables 627 — 627
Trade and other payables (29) — (29)
Total identifiable net assets 6,455 10,440 16,895
Goodwill on acquisition 2,251
19,146
Discharged by:
Consideration satisfied in cash 19,146
The fair value of the acquired trademarks and customer base was identified and included in intangible assets. 
Goodwill of £2,251,000 reflects certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due to their nature. 
These items include the value of expected synergies and the experience and skill of the workforce arising from the acquisition. 
The gross amount of trade receivables is £627,000. It is expected that the full contractual amounts for trade and other receivables can 
be collected.
InVENTer generated revenue of £3,408,000 and generated a loss after tax of £99,000 in the period from acquisition to 31 July 2014, 
which are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for this reporting period.
If the combination had taken place as at 1 August 2013, the Group’s revenue from continuing operations for the year to 31 July 2014 
would have been £129,997,000 and the loss before tax from continuing operations would have been £14,939,000.
PAX AB and PAX Norge AS
On 22 August 2013, Volution Holdings Sweden AB acquired the entire issued share capital of PAX AB and PAX AS. The transaction 
was funded by surplus cash in hand. The Group acquired PAX AB and PAX AS because it significantly enlarges the Group’s presence 
in Swedish and Norwegian markets. It also offered a channel to sell existing ventilation products in a new region.
Total consideration for the transaction was split as follows:
 > upfront cash consideration of SEK 115,536,000 (£11,384,000); and
 > contingent consideration of SEK 828,000 (£78,000). The performance criteria for payment of the contingent consideration were 
met and payment was made in January 2014.  Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 107
20. Business combinations continued
Acquisitions in the year ended 31 July 2014 continued
PAX AB and PAX Norge AS continued
Transaction costs of £39,000 were expensed in the year ended 31 July 2014. The fair value of the net assets acquired was finalised in the 
prior year and is set out below:
Book 
value
£000
Fair value 
adjustments
£000
Fair value
£000
Intangible assets (note 18) — 8,040 8,040
Property, plant and equipment (note 16) 789 — 789
Inventory 1,086 102 1,188
Trade and other receivables 1,797 — 1,797
Trade and other payables (1,831) (1,769) (3,600)
Cash and cash equivalents 1,037 — 1,037
Total identifiable net assets 2,878 6,373 9,251
Goodwill on acquisition 2,211
11,462
Discharged by:
Consideration satisfied in cash 11,462 
The fair value adjustments arose in aligning PAX accounting policies to those of the Group and in the recognition of intangible assets, 
net of the associated deferred tax liability. Goodwill reflects certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably 
measured due to their nature. These items include the value of expected synergies and the experience and skill of the workforce arising 
from the acquisition. The fair value of the acquired trademarks and customer base was identified and included in intangible assets. 
The gross amount of trade and other receivables is £1,797,000. It is expected that the full contractual amounts for trade and other 
receivables can be collected.
PAX generated revenue of £9,159,000 and a profit after tax of £1,094,000 in the period from acquisition to 31 July 2014, which are 
included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for this reporting period. 
If the combination had taken place as at 1 August 2013, the Group’s revenue from continuing operations would have been 
£121,404,000 and the loss before tax from continuing operations would have been £15,814,000.
Cash outflows arising from business combinations are as follows:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Brüggemann Energiekonzepte GmbH
Cash consideration 1,649 —
Less: cash acquired with the business (128) —
inVENTer GmbH
Cash consideration — 19,146
PAX AB and PAX Norge AS
Cash consideration — 11,462
Less: cash acquired with the business — (1,037)
1,521 29,571 Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 108
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015
21. Inventories
2015
£000
2014
£000
Raw materials and consumables 7,545 7,116
Work in progress 1,212 1,429
Finished goods and goods for resale 6,262 7,377
15,019 15,922
During 2015, £331,000 (2014: £454,000) was recognised as a cost of sales for inventories written off in the year.
22. Trade and other receivables
2015
£000
2014
£000
Trade receivables 24,818 23,748
Allowance for doubtful debts (1,185) (926)
23,633 22,822
Other debtors 311 277
Prepayments 2,327 2,323
26,271 25,422
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts is set out below.
2015
£000
2014
£000
At start of the year (926) (903)
Charge for the year (864) (252)
Amounts utilised 599 217
Foreign currency adjustment 6 12
At end of the year (1,185) (926)
Gross trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Sterling 19,725 19,405
US Dollar 36 112
Euro 2,285 2,405
Swedish Kroner 2,180 1,726
Other 592 100
24,818 23,748
Gross trade receivables are aged as follows:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Neither past due nor impaired 21,056 19,260
Past due but not impaired:
Overdue 0–30 days 1,721 1,998
Overdue 31–60 days 687 677
Overdue 61–90 days 123 171
Overdue more than 90 days 46 716
23,633 22,822
The credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired is assessed by reference to external credit ratings where 
available; otherwise historical information relating to counterparty default rates is used. The Group continually assesses the recoverability 
of trade receivables and the level of provisioning required. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 109
23. Cash and cash equivalents
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand and in banks, net of outstanding 
bank overdrafts, which is £nil. Cash and cash equivalents as shown in the statement of cash flows is equal to that in the statement 
of financial position as follows:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Cash and short-term deposits 11,565 10,987
Cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Sterling 6,070 8,103
Euro 3,729 1,457
US Dollar 201 255
Swedish Kroner 1,187 839
Other 378 333
11,565 10,987
24. Trade and other payables
2015
£000
2014
£000
Trade payables 10,629 7,622
Social security and staff welfare costs 1,234 2,627
Accrued expenses 13,432 12,572
25,295 22,821
25. Other financial assets and liabilities
2015 2014
Current
£000
Non-current
£000
Current
£000
Non-current
£000
Financial assets
Cash held in escrow account — — 422 —
— — 422 —
Financial liabilities
Interest rate swap (73) — — (122)
FX forward contracts (152) — (467) —
(225) — (467) (122) Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 110
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015
26. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
2015 2014
Current
£000
Non-current
£000
Current
£000
Non-current
£000
Unsecured – at amortised cost
Revolving credit facility
1
— 32,733 — —
Cost of arranging bank loan — (866) — —
Secured – at amortised cost
GE Corporate Finance Bank loan
1
— — — 53,903
— 31,867 — 53,903
Notes
1.  During the year ended 31 July 2015 the GE corporate finance bank loan was repaid in full and a new multicurrency revolving credit facility was entered into. 
Interest-bearing borrowings at 31 July 2015 comprise a revolving credit facility from Danske Bank A/S, HSBC and The Royal Bank of Scotland with HSBC acting as 
agent and are governed by a facilities agreement. The outstanding loans are set out in the table below. No security is provided under the new facility. Bank loans 
at 31 July 2014 comprised a facility from GE Corporate Finance Bank SAS, London branch, and were governed by a facilities agreement. The outstanding loans 
as at 31 July 2014 are also set out in the table below. The facilities agreement gave GE Corporate Finance Bank SAS, London branch, as security agent, for 
itself and any other bank that participates in the facilities, a fixed and floating charge over the assets of the Group.
2.  During the year ended 31 July 2014 all the costs of arranging the bank loans were written off to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as part of 
the refinancing following admission to the LSE in June 2014.
Revolving credit facility – at year ended 31 July 2015
Currency
Amount
outstanding
£000
Termination
dates
Repayment
frequency Rate %
GBP 11,000 30 April 2019 One payment Libor + 1.25%
Euro 8,283 30 April 2019 One payment Euribor + 1.25%
Swedish Kroner 13,450 30 April 2019 One payment Stibor + 1.25%
The interest rate on borrowings includes a margin that is dependent on the consolidated leverage level of the Group in respect of the 
most recently completed reporting period. For the year ended 31 July 2015, Group leverage was between 1.0:1 and 1.5:1 and therefore 
the margin was 1.25%. The consolidated leverage level has fallen below 1.0:1 for the year ended 31 July 2015 and therefore the margin 
for the first period of the year ended 31 July 2016 will fall to 1.0%. 
At 31 July 2015 the Group had £57,267,000 of its multicurrency revolving credit facility unutilised. 
GE Corporate Finance Bank loan – at year ended 31 July 2014
Element
Principal 
£000
Amount 
outstanding
£000
Repayment 
dates 
Repayment 
frequency Rate %
Term B 26,100 26,100 February 2019 One payment Libor + 3%
Term B1 20,500 17,818 February 2019 One payment  SEK Libor + 3.75%
Term B2 10,600 9,985 February 2019 One payment Euro Libor + 3%
At 31 July 2014 the Group had two credit facilities: the acquisition facility (£20,000,000), which matured in February 2018, and a revolving 
facility (£13,000,000), which matured in February 2018. Part of the revolving facility related to ancillaries (£1,500,000), which was used 
at 31 July 2014 for an amount of £502,000. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 111
27. Provisions
2015
Product 
warranties 
£000
Property 
dilapidations 
£000
Total 
£000
At 1 August 2014 1,018  600 1,618 
Arising during the year 656 — 656
Utilised (791) — (791)
Foreign currency adjustment (28) — (28)
At 31 July 2015 855 600 1,455
Analysis:
Current 855 — 855
Non-current — 600 600
855 600 1,455
2014
Product 
warranties 
£000
Property 
dilapidations 
£000
Total 
£000
At 1 August 2013 719  550 1,269 
On acquisition 113 — 113
Arising during the year 923 50 973
Utilised (723) — (723) 
Foreign currency adjustment (14) — (14)
At 31 July 2014 1,018  600 1,618 
Analysis:
Current 1,018 — 1,018 
Non-current —  600 600
1,018 600 1,618
Product warranties
A provision is recognised for warranty costs expected to be incurred in the following twelve months on products sold during the year 
and in prior years. Product warranties can range between one and five years; however, based on management’s knowledge of the 
products, claims in relation to warranties after more than twelve months are rare and highly immaterial.
Property dilapidations
A provision has been recognised for dilapidations relating to obligations under leases for leasehold buildings and will be payable at the 
end of the lease term. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 112
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015
28. Authorised and issued share capital and reserves
Share capital of Volution Group plc
Number of shares 2015 2014
Ordinary shares of £0.01 each, allotted, called up, issued and fully paid 200,000,000 200,000,000
In 2014, following the decision by the Board of Directors, the Group was listed on the London Stock Exchange. Prior to the listing 
the Group completed a re-organisation implemented by way of a share for share exchange made by the Company for the shares 
of Windmill Topco Limited on 17 June 2014. 
As the Group has been formed through a re-organisation in which Volution Group plc, a newly incorporated entity, became the new 
parent company of the existing Group, the 2014 consolidated accounts were prepared as a continuation of the existing Group using 
the pooling of interest method.
Prior to the re-organisation implemented by way of a share for share exchange made by the Company for the ordinary shares in 
Windmill Topco Limited on 17 June 2014, the share capital of the Company comprised the share capital of Windmill Topco Limited, 
the former parent.
The 2014 movement in called up share capital and the share premium account is set out below:
Number of 
ordinary 
shares
Ordinary 
shares 
£000
Share 
premium 
£000 
At 17 June 2014
Issue of ordinary shares following subdivision of preference shares to 100 ordinary shares 100 — —
At 22 June 2014
Issue of ordinary shares following the re-organisation and the share for share exchange 151,999,900 1,520 —
At 23 June 2014
Primary issue of ordinary shares on admission to the London Stock Exchange 48,000,000 480 71,520
Share issue costs — — (2,363)
At 16 July 2014
Reduction of share premium account — — (57,630)
At 31 July 2014 and 31 July 2015 200,000,000 2,000 11,527
29. Dividends paid and proposed
2015
£000 
2014
£000
Cash dividends on ordinary shares declared and paid
Interim dividend for 2015: 1.05 pence per share (2014: £nil) 2,100 —
Proposed dividends on ordinary shares
Final dividend for 2015: 2.25 pence per share (2014: £nil) 4,500 —
The Interim dividend payment of £2,100,000 is included in the consolidated cash flow statement.
The proposed dividend on ordinary shares is subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting and is not recognised as a liability 
at 31 July 2015. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 113
30. Risk management
As a result of entering into financial instruments, the Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk, foreign exchange risk and liquidity risk. 
The Group’s principal financial instruments are: 
 > interest-bearing loans and borrowings;
 > trade and other receivables, trade and other payables, cash and short-term deposits; and
 > FX forward contracts and interest rate swaps. 
This note provides further detail on financial risk management and includes quantitative information on the specific risks the Group is exposed to.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate swaps to reduce its 
exposure to interest rate risk. 
Forward foreign currency contracts
The Group’s purchases in foreign currencies, net of Group sales in those currencies, represent approximately 4% (2014: 15%) of total 
material and component purchases. Each quarter the Group enters into forward exchange contracts for the purchase of the budgeted 
monthly net expenditure in US Dollars for the following rolling 15 months. Hedge accounting is not applied for these derivatives.
The Group’s criteria for entering into a forward foreign currency contract would require that the instrument must:
 > be related to anticipated foreign currency commitment;
 > involve the same currency as the foreign currency commitment; and
 > reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Group’s operations.
Interest rate swaps
The Group’s criteria for entering into an interest rate swap would require that the instrument must:
 > be related to an asset or a liability; and
 > change the character of the interest rate by converting a variable rate to a fixed rate or vice versa.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. 
Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other price risks, such as equity price risk and commodity risk. 
The Group’s exposure is primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Group enters 
into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to these risks. 
On 3 May 2012, the Group entered into an interest rate swap agreement with Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Bank of Ireland. Under 
this agreement, which was due to mature on 30 April 2015, the Libor interest rate above the margin related to the bank loan with 
GE Corporate Finance Bank SAS, London branch, was subject to a fixed rate of 1.2550%, replacing Libor. This interest rate swap 
was cancelled on 31 July 2014 and incurred a breakage cost of £144,000.
In February 2014, the Group entered into an interest rate swap agreement with Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Bank of Ireland. 
Under this agreement, which matures on 31 December 2015, the Libor interest rate above the margin related to the bank loan with 
GE Corporate Finance Bank SAS, London branch, is subject to a fixed rate of 1.15%, replacing Libor. This interest rate swap was 
restructured during the prior year with no breakage costs to ensure that 66.67% of the GE Corporate Finance Bank SAS, London 
branch, loans was hedged.
In February 2015, the interest rate swap with Bank of Ireland was cancelled, leading to breakage costs of £102,000. 
The fair value of the interest rate swap at 31 July 2015 is a liability of £73,000 (2014: £122,000).
At 31 July 2015, the Group had commitments under forward foreign exchange contracts with varying settlement dates to 6 May 2016 
(2014: 6 October 2014). See note 25 for fair values.  Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 114
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015
30. Risk management continued
Sensitivity analysis 
The Group recognises that movements in certain risk variables (such as interest rates or foreign exchange rates) might affect the value of 
its derivatives and also the amounts recorded in its equity in the overseas entities and its statement of comprehensive income for the period. 
Therefore the Group has assessed:
 > what would be reasonably possible changes in the risk variables at the end of the reporting period; and
 > the effects on profit or loss and equity if such changes in the risk variables were to occur.
Interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on the Group’s floating rate loans and 
borrowings which at the relevant reporting dates are not hedged. With all other variables being constant the Group’s profit before tax is 
affected through the impact on floating rate borrowings as follows. There is only an immaterial impact on the Group’s equity.
Increase in 
basis points
Effect on 
profit 
before tax
£000
31 July 2015
Sterling +25 —
Swedish Kroner +25 (18)
Euro +25 (21)
31 July 2014
Sterling +25 (4) 
Swedish Kroner +25 (15) 
Euro +25 (25)
The assigned movement in basis points for interest rate sensitivity analysis is based upon the currently observable market environment.
The Group cash balances are held in bank current accounts and earn immaterial levels of interest. Management has concluded that 
any changes in the Libor and SEK Libor rates will have an immaterial impact on interest income earned on the Group cash balances. 
No interest rate sensitivity has been included in relation to the Group’s cash balances.
Foreign currency risk
The Group’s exposure to foreign exchange risk primarily arises when revenue and expenses are denominated in a different currency 
from the Group’s presentational currency. Foreign exchange risk also arises when the individual entities enter into transactions that are 
not denominated in their functional currency.
The following tables illustrate the impact of several changes to the spot £/USD, £/EUR and £/SEK exchange rates of +5%. The tables 
below reflect the impact on profit before tax and equity if those changes were to occur. Only the impact of changes in the SEK, USD 
and Euro denominated balances have been considered as these are the most significant non-GBP denominations used by the Group.
Change in 
Effect on profit before tax
GBP vs USD/
SEK/EUR rate
2015
£000
2014
£000
Swedish Kroner 5% 240 191
US Dollar 5% 107 78
Euro 5% (186) (163)
Change in 
Effect on equity
GBP vs 
SEK/EUR rate
2015
£000
2014
£000
Swedish Kroner 5% 5 (12)
Euro 5% (39) — Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 115
30. Risk management continued
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk for the Group arises from the management of working capital commitments and meeting its financial obligations as they 
fall due. The Group’s policy is to regularly review cash flow forecasts/projections as well as information regarding cash balances to 
ensure that it has significant cash to allow it to meet its liabilities when they become due. The Group reviews its long-term funding 
requirements in parallel with its long-term strategy, with an objective of aligning both in a timely manner. At the reporting date, 
forecasts indicate that the Group is expected to have sufficient liquidity to meet its financial obligations for the foreseeable future.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s significant undiscounted financial liabilities at 31 July 2015 and 2014.
At 31 July 2015
Less than 
one year
£000
Between one 
and five years
£000
More than 
five years
£000
Total
£000
Financial liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (excluding interest) — 32,733 — 32,733
Forward foreign currency exchange outflow 8,224 —  — 8,224
Forward foreign currency exchange inflow (8,072) —  — (8,072)
Interest rate swaps 73 —  — 73
Trade and other payables 25,218 — — 25,218
25,443 32,733 — 58,176
At 31 July 2014
Less than 
one year
£000
Between one 
and five years
£000
More than 
five years
£000
Total
£000
Financial liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (including interest) 1,853 51,301 10,119 63,273 
Forward foreign currency exchange outflow 8,280 —  — 8,280
Forward foreign currency exchange inflow (7,805) —  — (7,805)
Interest rate swaps 87 35 — 122
Trade and other payables 20,194 —  — 20,194 
22,609 51,336 10,119 84,064 
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities 
There are no material differences between the book values and fair values for any of the Group’s financial instruments carried at amortised 
cost. Derivatives financial instruments have all been valued using other techniques, for which all inputs that have a significant effect on 
the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 116
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015
30. Risk management continued
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty fails to meet its contractual obligations under a financial 
instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss. The Group is mainly exposed to credit risk from its operating activities 
(primarily for trade receivables – credit sales) and from cash and cash equivalents and deposits with banks and financial institutions 
and other financial instruments.
Trade receivables
The Group’s finance function has established a credit policy under which each new customer is analysed by each business unit subject 
to the Group’s established policy, procedures and control relating to customer credit risk management. Outstanding customer receivables 
are regularly monitored and credit insurance is used where applicable. The credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due 
nor impaired is assessed by reference to external credit ratings where available, otherwise historical information relating to counterparty 
default rates is used. The Group continually assesses the recoverability of trade receivables and the level of provisioning required. 
Customers that fail to meet the Group’s benchmark creditworthiness may transact with the Group on a prepayment/pro-forma basis. 
Refer to note 22 for the table of the age of accounts receivable that are past due.
The carrying amount of accounts receivable is reduced by an allowance account and the amount of loss is recognised within the 
consolidated income statement. When a receivable balance is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance for 
doubtful accounts. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income.
The Group evaluated the concentration of credit risk with respect of trade receivables as low in view of the Group’s large and 
diversified client base, which is located in several jurisdictions, and the Group’s established credit policies.
Financial instruments and cash deposits
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed in accordance with the Group’s policy. The Group deposits 
cash with reputable financial institutions, from which management believes the possibilities of loss to be remote. The Group’s maximum 
exposure to credit risk for the components of the statement of financial position at 31 July 2015 and 2014 is the carrying amount. 
The Group’s maximum exposure for financial derivative instruments is noted in either note 25 on page 109 or in the liquidity table 
on the previous page, respectively.
Capital risk management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management policy is to ensure that it has the capital required to operate and grow the 
business at a reasonable cost of capital without incurring undue financial risks. The Board periodically reviews its capital structure to 
ensure it meets changing business needs. The Group defines its capital as its share capital, share premium account, foreign currency 
translation reserves and retained earnings. In addition, the Directors consider the management of debt to be an important element 
in controlling the capital structure of the Group. The Group may carry significant levels of long-term structural and subordinated 
debt to fund investments and acquisitions and has arranged debt facilities to allow for fluctuations in working capital requirements. 
Aside from the refinancing, there have been no changes to the capital management policy in the current period. Management 
manages capital on an ongoing basis to ensure that covenant requirements on third party debt are met.
Fair value hierarchy
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: 
 > Level 1 – quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 
 > Level 2 –  other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly 
or indirectly; and
 > Level 3 –  techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable 
market data.
Financial instruments carried at fair value solely comprise the derivative financial instruments in note 25. For hierarchy purposes all 
these instruments are deemed to be Level 2 as external valuers are involved for the valuation of these contracts. Their fair value is 
measured using valuation techniques including the DCF model. Inputs to this calculation include the expected cash flows in relation 
to these derivatives contracts and relevant discount rates. Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 117
31. Related party transactions
Transactions between Volution Group plc and its subsidiaries, and transactions between subsidiaries, are eliminated on consolidation 
and are not disclosed in this note. A breakdown of transactions between the Group and its related parties is disclosed below. 
No related party loan note balances exist at 31 July 2015 or 31 July 2014. 
There were no material transactions or balances between the Company and its key management personnel or members of their close 
family. At the end of the period, key management personnel did not owe the Company any amounts.
Other disclosures on Directors’ remuneration required by the Companies Act 2006 and those specified for the audit by the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report Regulation 2013 are included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Other transactions with related parties include the following:
 > the Group incurred costs of £nil (2014: £168,000) from Windmill Holdings B.V. (the previous direct controlling party) 
and Windmill Cooperatief U.A. (a previous intermediate parent undertaking) for management services; and
 > the Group incurred costs of £295,000 from Peter Hill, Tony Reading, Paul Hollingworth and Adrian Barden for their services as 
Non-Executive Directors. For the period from 1 August 2013 to 22 June 2014 the Group incurred costs of £246,000 from Marcel Klepfisch, 
Adrian Barden and Chris Lebeer for their services as Non-Executive Directors. Following the re-organisation and the listing on the 
LSE, the Group Board of Directors changed and the Group incurred a further cost from 23 June 2014 to 31 July 2014 of £36,000.
Non-Executive Director Paul Hollingworth is also a non-executive director of Electrocomponents plc. During the year, the Group sold 
goods to Electrocomponents plc amounting to £253,000 (2014: £212,000). At the year end, amounts owing by Electrocomponents plc 
were £44,000 (2014: £35,000). During the year the Group purchased goods from Electrocomponents plc amounting to £79,000 
(2014: £70,000). At the year end, amounts owed to Electrocomponents plc were £15,000 (2014: £9,000).
Compensation of key management personnel
2015
£000
2014
£000
Short-term employee benefits 2,134 2,697
Termination benefits — 203
2,134 2,900
Key management personnel is defined as the CEO, CFO and the eight individuals who report directly to the CEO. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 118
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015
32. Group structure and acquisition details
At 31 July 2015, Volution Group plc held 100% voting shares of the following subsidiaries:
Group company
Country of
incorporation
Direct
Windmill Topco Limited England
Volution Holdings Limited England
Indirect
Windmill Midco Limited England
Windmill Cleanco Limited England
Windmill Bidco Limited England
Manrose Manufacturing Limited England
Volution Ventilation Group Limited England
Torin-Sifan Limited England
Anda Products Limited England
Axia Fans Limited England
Roof Units Limited England
Torin Limited England
Vent-Axia Limited England
Vent-Axia Clean Air Systems Limited England
Vent-Axia Group Limited England
Volution Holdings Sweden AB Sweden 
Fresh AB Sweden
Volution Norge AS (formerly Fresh Norge AS) Norway
Fresh Shanghai Limited China
PAX AB Sweden
PAX Norge AS Norway
inVENTer GmbH Germany
Volution Management Holdings GmbH Germany
Volution Deutschland Real Estate GmbH Germany
Brüggemann Energiekonzepte GmbH Germany
During the year ended 31 July 2015 the Group undertook a re-organisation exercise as described in the prospectus prepared for 
listing on the LSE. As part of the re-organisation Windmill Bidco Limited sold the entire issued share capital of Volution Holdings Limited 
to Volution Group plc. The re-organisation did not change the overall companies held (either indirectly or directly) by Volution Group plc. 
33. Commitments and contingencies
Operating lease commitments
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain items of land and building and others. These leases have an average life 
of between five and 15 years with no renewal option included in the contracts. There are no restrictions placed upon the Group 
by entering into these contracts.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Within one year 1,033 934
After one year but not more than five years 3,859 3,153
More than five years 1,212 2,853
6,104 6,940
Commitments
Commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment as of 31 July 2015 are £789,000 (2014: £362,000).  Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 119
34. Share-based payments
The Company operates a share-based incentive scheme for Directors and key employees, known as the Volution Long Term 
Incentive Plan (LTIP). Share options were granted in October 2014; these nil-cost options normally vest after three years assuming 
continuing employment with the Company. The extent to which the options will vest is dependent upon the Company’s performance 
over a three-year period set at the date of grant. The vesting of 50% of the awards will be determined by the Company’s relative total 
shareholder return (TSR) performance and the other 50% by the Company’s absolute EPS performance. The TSR element of the 
options granted has been valued using the Group’s share price volatility, the correlation between the share price movements of TSR 
comparators and the relevant vesting schedule. 
2015
Number
2014
Number
Outstanding at 1 August — —
Granted during the year 563,354 —
Exercised during the year — —
Lapsed during the year — —
Outstanding at 31 July 563,354 —
The weighted average exercise price for all options is £nil.
Of the total number of options outstanding at 31 July 2015 none had vested or were exercisable.
The weighted average fair value of each option granted during the year was £1.44 (2014: £nil).
The following information is relevant in the determination of the fair value of options granted during the year under the LTIP . 
2015
Option pricing model used Deloitte TSR pricing tool
Weighted average share price at grant date (in £) 1.44
Exercise price (in £) Nil
Expected life (years) 3
Expected volatility 25%
Risk-free interest rate 1.04%
The volatility assumption, measured at the standard deviation of expected share price returns, is based on a statistical analysis 
of share prices since the Company listed in June 2014.
The share-based remuneration expense comprises:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Equity-settled schemes 181 —
181 —
The Group did not enter into any share-based payment transactions with parties other than employees during the current or previous period.
35. Events after the reporting period
On 5 August 2015 Volution Ventilation Group Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Volution Group plc, purchased the entire issued 
share capital of Ventilair Group International BVBA and its subsidiary operations in Belgium, the Netherlands and France. The consideration 
for the acquisition was €16.3 million (approximately £11.6 million), on a debt-free, cash-free basis, funded from the Group’s existing 
cash and banking facilities. The Group is in the process of finalising the acquisition accounting and can therefore not provide any further 
disclosure in line with IFRS 3 at this stage.
There have been no other material events between 31 July 2015 and the date of authorisation of the consolidated financial statements 
that would require adjustments of the consolidated financial statements or disclosure. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 120
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015
36. Glossary of terms
Net debt – interest-bearing loans and borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Adjusted operating cash flow – adjusted EBITDA plus or minus movements in operating working capital, less net investments 
in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (including cash held in escrow).
Adjusted profit before tax – earnings before tax, exceptional items, amortisation of financing costs, breakage costs on interest rate 
swaps, net gains or losses on financial instruments at fair value and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets associated with 
the customer base, trademarks and patents. 
Adjusted operating profit – earnings before tax, exceptional items, amortisation and impairment of intangible assets associated 
with the customer base, trademarks and patents and net finance costs.
Adjusted EBITDA – earnings before tax, exceptional items, net finance costs, depreciation, amortisation and impairment.
Change constant currency – to calculate the change at constant currency we have converted the income statement of our foreign 
operating companies for the year ended 31 July 2015 at the average exchange rate for the year ended 31 July 2014. In addition we 
have converted the UK operating companies’ sales and purchase transactions in the year ended 31 July 2015, which were denominated 
in foreign currencies, at the average exchange rates for the year ended 31 July 2014. 
Adjusted basic and diluted EPS – calculated by dividing the adjusted profit/(loss) for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders 
of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the adjusted net profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary equity holders of the 
parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares that would be issued on conversion of any dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. There are no dilutive potential 
ordinary shares for the years ended 31 July 2015 and 2014.
On 23 June 2014, a share for share exchange converted the entire share capital (after re-organisation) of Windmill Topco Limited 
to new ordinary shares of Volution Group plc. The weighted number of shares has been calculated assuming the share for share 
exchange took place as from 1 August 2013. The pro-forma EPS assumes the same weighted average number of shares in the 
year ended 31 July 2014 as in the year ended 31 July 2015 to ensure we are showing a consistent comparison. 
Cash conversion – calculated by dividing adjusted operating cash flow by adjusted EBITDA less depreciation.  Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 121
Parent Company Statement of Financial Position
At 31 July 2015
Notes
2015
£000
2014 
£000
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 8 1 —
Investments 9 189,941 64,022
Deferred tax assets 7 48 —
189,990 64,022
Current assets
Other receivables and prepayments 10 23,435 1,120
Other current financial assets 11 — 423
Income tax 591 —
Cash and short-term deposits 581 533
24,607 2,076
Total assets 214,597 66,098
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 12 (19,158) (731)
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 13 (31,867) —
Total liabilities (51,025) (731)
Net assets 163,572 65,367
Capital and reserves
Share capital 14 2,000 2,000
Share premium 11,527 11,527
Share-based payment reserve 181 —
Capital reserve (273) (273)
Retained earnings 150,137 52,113
Total equity 163,572 65,367
The financial statements of Volution Group plc (registered number: 09041571) were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised 
for issue on 16 October 2015. 
On behalf of the Board
Ronnie George Ian Dew
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 122
Financial Statements
Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 July 2015
Share 
capital
£000
Share 
premium
£000
Share-based
payment
reserve
£000
Capital 
reserve
£000
Retained 
earnings
£000 
Total
£000
On incorporation (15 May 2014) — — — — — —
Share for share exchange as part of the 
Group re-organisation 1,520 — — (273) — 1,247
Issue of new ordinary shares on stock market listing 480 71,520 — — — 72,000
Share issue costs — (2,363) — — — (2,363)
Capital reduction — (57,630) — — 57,630 —
Loss for the period — — — — (5,517) (5,517)
At 1 August 2014 2,000 11,527 — (273) 52,113 65,367
Profit for the year — — — — 7,233 7,233
Other comprehensive income — — — — 92,891 92,891
Total comprehensive income — — — — 100,124 100,124
Share-based payment — — 181 — — 181
Dividends paid — — — — (2,100) (2,100)
At 31 July 2015 2,000 11,527 181 (273) 150,137 163,572
Share-based payment reserve
The share-based payment reserve is used to recognise the value of equity-settled share-based payments provided to key 
management personnel, as part of their remuneration. Refer to note 33 of the Group financial statements for further details. 
Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 July 2015
The significant profit for the year ended 31 July 2015 was generated as a result of the Group re-organisation which took place during 
the year. The other comprehensive income of £92,891,000 does not meet the criteria for qualifying consideration and is therefore not 
realised or distributable.  Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 123
Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows 
For the year ended 31 July 2015
Notes
2015
£000
2014 
£000
Operating activities
Profit/(loss) for the year after tax 100,124 (5,517)
Adjustments to reconcile profit/(loss) for the year to net cash flow 
from operating activities:
Income tax for the year (639) —
Exceptional costs 34 5,479
Cash flows relating to exceptional costs (34) (4,881)
Finance revenue (17) —
Finance costs 530 —
Share-based payment expense 181 —
Non-cash dividends received (97,743) —
Working capital adjustments:
Decrease/(increase) in other receivables, prepayments and other current financial assets 717 (1,543)
Increase in trade and other payables 5,199 133
Net cash flow generated from/(used in) operating activities 8,352 (6,329)
Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 8 (1) —
Interest received 17 —
Investment in subsidiary undertaking — (62,775)
Net cash flow generated from/(used in) investing activities 16 (62,775)
Financing activities
Interest paid (428) —
Repayment of interest-bearing loans and borrowings (45,260) —
Proceeds from new borrowings 40,435 —
Issue costs of new borrowings (967) —
Proceeds from issue of new shares — 72,000
Transaction costs on issue of new shares — (2,363)
Dividend paid to equity holders (2,100) —
Net cash flow (used in)/generated from financing activities (8,320) 69,637
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 48 533
Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 533 —
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 581 533 Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 124
Financial Statements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 July 2015
1. General information
These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Volution Group plc (“the Company”) 
on 16 October 2015.
The Company is a public limited company and is incorporated and domiciled in the UK (registered number: 09041571). The share 
capital of the Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange. The address of its registered office is Fleming Way, Crawley, 
West Sussex RH10 9YX.
2. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The financial statements of Volution Group plc (“the Company”) are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. The financial 
statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are presented in Sterling (£), rounded to the nearest thousand (£000) unless otherwise stated. They have 
been prepared under the historical cost convention. 
The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under Section 408 of the Companies Act and not presented an income 
statement or a statement of comprehensive income for the Company. The profit for the year is disclosed in the statement of changes 
in equity.
The policies applied by the Company are consistent with those set out in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. The following 
additional policies are also relevant to the company financial statements.
Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are valued at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given and including directly attributable 
transaction costs. The carrying value is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may 
not be recoverable.
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
The preparation of the Company financial statements requires the use of certain judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amount of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on 
historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Company makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom 
equal the actual results. The estimates and assumptions relevant to the financial statements are embedded with the relevant notes to 
the consolidated financial statements.
Carrying value of investments
The key source of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date that has a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the parent 
company financial statements is the recoverability of the investments set out in note 9. 
The recoverability is estimated based on the expected performance and value of the investments factoring in potential expected future 
net cash flow to be generated from the investment. The Company based its estimation on information available when these financial 
statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and assumptions about future developments may change due to market changes 
or circumstances arising beyond the control of the Company. Such changes are reflected when they occur.
4. Standards issued but not yet effective 
The following standards and interpretations have an effective date after the date of these financial statements. The Company plans 
to adopt them from the effective dates adopted by the EU and does not foresee any material impact.
Standard or 
interpretation Title
Effective for accounting  
periods beginning on or after
IAS 1 Disclosure initiative – Amendments to IAS 1 1 January 2016
IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation – 
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 1 January 2016
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 1 January 2018
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accruals 1 January 2016
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 125
5. Auditor’s remuneration
The Company paid the following amounts to its auditor, Ernst & Young LLP , and its member firms in respect of the audit of the financial 
statements and for other services provided to the Group:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Audit services
Fees for the audit of the parent and Group financial statements 120 —
Fees for local statutory audits of subsidiaries 76 —
Non-audit services
Fees payable for corporate finance services* — 1,778
Fees payable for interim review, including tax 25 —
221 1,778
* Primarily comprises services relating to preparation before the Listing of the Company.
The audit fees for 2014 were borne by a fellow Group undertaking.
6. Staff costs
2015
£000
2014
£000
Wages and salaries 1,746 —
Social security costs 155 —
Share-based payment charge 181 —
Other pension costs 111 —
2,193 —
Other pension costs relate to the Group’s contribution to defined contribution pension plans. Total contributions payable in the next 
financial year are expected to be at rates broadly similar to those in 2014/15 but based on actual salary levels in 2015/16.
Average monthly number of employees in the year
2015
Number
2014
Number
Administration 7 —
Directors’ remuneration
2015
£000
2014
£000
Amounts paid in respect of qualifying services
Aggregate Directors’ emoluments 1,011 —
Aggregate Directors’ pension scheme contributions 91 —
In respect of the highest paid Director
Aggregate Directors’ emoluments 588 —
Aggregate Directors’ pension scheme contributions 53 —
In the prior year the Executive Directors received remuneration for their services to the Group from a fellow Group undertaking, 
Windmill Bidco Limited, in respect of services to the Group of which the Company is a member. Further information on Directors’ 
remuneration is provided in note 11 of the Group financial statements.
The number of Directors accruing benefits under Group money purchase pension arrangements was two (2014: nil). 
The Group incurred costs of £295,000 (2014: £36,000) from Peter Hill, Tony Reading, Paul Hollingworth and Adrian Barden for their 
services as Non-Executive Directors.  Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 126
Financial Statements
7. Deferred tax balances
Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise from the following:
1 August 
2014
£000
Charged 
to income
£000
31 July
2015
£000
Deferred tax asset
Temporary differences — 48 48
8. Property, plant and equipment
Fixtures,
fittings, tools,
equipment
and vehicles
£000
Total
£000
Cost
At 1 August 2013 and 2014 — —
Additions 1 1
At 31 July 2015 1 1
Depreciation
At 31 July 2013, 2014 and 2015 — —
Net book value
At 31 July 2015 1 1
At 31 July 2014 — —
9. Investments
2015 
 £000
Cost
At 1 August 2014 64,022
Acquired in the period 189,941
Disposals in the period (64,022)
At 31 July 2015 189,941
For a list of the subsidiaries in which Volution Group plc held 100% voting shares of as at 31 July 2015, see note 32 of the Group 
financial statements.
The significant additions and disposals during the year were as a result of the legal entity re-organisation as described in note 3 of the 
Group financial statements.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 127
10. Other receivables and prepayments
2015 
 £000
2014 
 £000
Amounts owed by Group undertaking 23,085 475
Prepayments 350 645
23,435 1,120
11. Other current financial assets
2015
£000
2014 
 £000
Cash held on escrow — 423
12. Trade and other payables
2015
£000
2014 
 £000
Trade payables 152 391
Accruals 1,046 253
Amounts owed to Group undertaking 17,960 87
19,158 731
13. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
2015 2014
Current
£000
Non-current
£000
Current 
£000
Non-current
£000
Unsecured – at amortised cost
Revolving credit facility
1
— 32,733 — —
Cost of arranging bank loan — (866) — —
— 31,867 — —
1.  During the year ended 31 July 2015 a new multicurrency revolving credit facility was entered into. Interest-bearing borrowings at 31 July 2015 comprise a 
revolving credit facility from Danske Bank A/S, HSBC and The Royal Bank of Scotland with HSBC acting as agent and are governed by a facilities agreement. 
The outstanding loans are set out in the table below. No security is provided under the new facility.
Revolving credit facility – year ended 31 July 2015
Currency
Amount
outstanding
 £000
Termination
dates
Repayment
frequency Rate %
GBP 11,000 30 April 2019 One payment Libor + 1.25%
Euro 8,283 30 April 2019 One payment Euribor + 1.25%
Swedish Kroner 13,450 30 April 2019 One payment Stibor + 1.25%
The interest rate on borrowings includes a margin that is dependent on the consolidated leverage level of the Group in respect of the 
most recently completed reporting period. For the year ended 31 July 2015, Group leverage was between 1.0:1 and 1.5:1 and therefore 
the margin was 1.25%. The consolidated leverage level has fallen below 1.0:1 for the year ended 31 July 2015 and therefore the margin 
for the first period of the year ended 31 July 2016 will fall to 1.0%.
At 31 July 2015 the Company had £57,267,000 of its multicurrency revolving credit facility unutilised.  Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 128
Financial Statements
14. Share capital, share premium and reserves
The movement in called up share capital and share premium accounts is set out below:
Number of
 ordinary shares
Share capital
£000
Share premium 
£000 
At 17 June 2014
Issue of ordinary shares following subdivision of preference shares to 100 ordinary shares 100 — —
At 22 June 2014
Issue of ordinary shares following the re-organisation and the share for share exchange 151,999,900 1,520 —
At 23 June 2014
Primary issue of ordinary shares on admission to the LSE 48,000,000 480 71,520
Share issue costs — — (2,363)
At 16 July 2014
Reduction of share capital account — — (57,630)
At 31 July 2015 and 31 July 2014 200,000,000 2,000 11,527
15. Dividends paid and proposed
2015
£000
2014
£000
Cash dividends on ordinary shares declared and paid
Interim dividend for 2015: 1.05 pence per share (2014: nil) 2,100 —
Proposed dividends on ordinary shares
Final dividend for 2015: 2.25 pence per share (2014: nil) 4,500 —
The interim dividend payment of £2,100,000 is included in the cash flow statement.
The proposed dividend on ordinary shares is subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting and is not recognised as a liability 
at 31 July 2015.
16. Financial instruments
The Company’s principal financial liabilities are trade payables and Group debt. The Company’s principal financial assets include 
investments, Group receivables and cash and cash equivalents. The Company is exposed to a variety of risks, including credit risk 
and liquidity risk. The Company’s senior management oversees the management of these risks and agrees the policies for managing 
each of these risks. The risks are summarised as follows:
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument, leading to a financial loss. The Company 
is exposed to credit risk from its financing activity, including cash and cash equivalents and deposits with banks and financial institutions.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 129
16. Financial instruments continued
Interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on the Company’s floating rate loans and 
borrowings which at the relevant reporting dates are not fully hedged. With all other variables being constant the Company’s profit before 
tax is affected through the impact on floating rate borrowings as follows. There is only an immaterial impact on the Company’s equity.
Increase in 
basis points
Effect on loss
before tax
£000
31 July 2015
Sterling +25 —
Swedish Kroner +25 (18)
Euro +25 (21)
The assigned movement in basis points for interest rate sensitivity analysis is based upon the currently observable market environment.
The Company cash balances are held in bank current accounts and earn immaterial levels of interest. Management has concluded 
that any changes in the Libor and Euribor rates will have an immaterial impact on interest income earned on the Company cash 
balances. No interest rate sensitivity has been included in relation to the Company’s cash balances.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities 
There are no material differences between the book values and fair values for any of the Company’s financial instruments carried 
at amortised cost.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk for the Company arises from the management of working capital commitments and meeting its financial obligations as they 
fall due. The Company’s policy is to review cash flow forecasts/projections regularly as well as information regarding cash balances to 
ensure that it has significant cash to allow it to meet its liabilities when they become due. The Company reviews its long-term funding 
requirements in parallel with its long-term strategy, with an objective of aligning both in a timely manner. At the reporting date, forecasts 
indicate that the Company is expected to have sufficient liquidity to meet its financial obligations for the foreseeable future.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s significant undiscounted financial assets and liabilities at 31 July 2015; 
the Company had no undiscounted financial assets and liabilities at 31 July 2014.
At 31 July 2015
Less than 
one year
£000
Between one 
and five years
£000
More than 
five years
£000
Total
£000
Financial liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (excluding interest) — 32,733 — 32,733
Trade and other payables 19,158 — — 19,158
19,158 32,733 — 51,891
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities 
There are no material differences between the book values and fair values for any of the Company’s financial instruments carried 
at amortised cost. 
Capital risk management
The Board’s objectives and policies for the Company are consistent with those of the Group. Full details are provided in note 29 
of the consolidated financial statements. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 130
Financial Statements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2015
17. Related party transactions
The following table provides the total amount of transactions that have been entered into with subsidiary undertakings for the relevant 
financial period.
2015 2014
Related parties
Amounts 
owed by 
related parties
£000
Amounts 
owed to 
related parties
£000
Amounts 
owed by 
related parties
£000
Amounts 
owed to 
related parties
£000
Volution Ventilation Group Limited 23,085 17,960 — —
Windmill Bidco Limited — — 451 —
Windmill Midco Limited — — 24 —
Volution Holdings Limited — — — 87
23,085 17,960 475 87
In considering each possible related party relationship, attention is directed to the substance of the relationship, not merely the legal form.
Compensation of key management personnel
The Executive and Non-Executive Directors are deemed to be key management personnel of Volution Group plc. It is the Board that 
has responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group. Please refer to note 6 for details of the Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration. 
There were no material transactions or balances between the Company and its key management personnel or members of their close 
family. At the end of the year, key management personnel did not owe the Company any amounts.
18. Share-based payments
For detailed disclosures of share-based payments granted to employees refer to note 34 of the Group financial statements. Strategic Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 131
Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
Glossary of Technical Terms
Alternating current or AC the flow of electric current which reverses direction periodically, typically at 50Hz 
in the UK and Europe. This is the standard type of electricity supply to domestic 
and commercial properties
AC blowers a low-pressure fan with an AC motor
AC motor an alternating current motor
Airvac a central vacuum system
Decentralised heat recovery a system of ventilation that collects heat from exhaust air that would otherwise be lost 
and reuses such heat by transferring it to the incoming fresh air. Decentralised heat 
recovery consists of multiple units supplying and extracting from around the home
EC/DC electronically commutated direct current
Electronically commutated a type of motor which historically used a mechanical means of “EC” reversing the current 
flow but which now uses an electronic device to do the same, which is more reliable and 
more efficient
HVAC heating, ventilation and air conditioning
IAQ indoor air quality
Lo-carbon products a trademark used to represent our low-energy range of products
MEV a system of ventilation operated by a power-driven mechanism which extracts air from 
a room and discharges it only to the external air
Motorised impellers a motor that is supplied complete with an impeller attached to it
MVHR a system of ventilation that collects heat from exhaust air that would otherwise be lost 
and reuses such heat by transferring it to the incoming fresh air
OEM original equipment manufacturer
PVC polyvinyl chloride
POD blower a forward curved impeller mounted on a motor (“motorised impeller”) fitted into a scroll 
to enhance the performance and provide a means of mounting the fan to the customer
RMI repair, maintenance and improvement
Specifiers persons who may specify certain characteristics of products Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 132
Additional Information
Shareholder Information
Shareholder services
For any enquiries concerning your shareholding please contact 
our registrar:
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
United Kingdom
Equiniti has a shareholder portal offering access to services and 
information to help manage your shareholdings and inform your 
important investment decisions. Please visit www.shareview.co.uk. 
Shareholder helpline: 0371 384 2030* from the UK or  
+44 (0) 121 415 7047 from overseas.
*  Calls to this number cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras. Lines are 
open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday (excluding UK public holidays).
You can access our Annual Report and Accounts and other 
shareholder communications through our website,  
www.volutiongroupplc.com.
Company advisers
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP
Joint corporate brokers
Liberum Capital Limited 
Canaccord Genuity Limited
Legal adviser
Norton Rose Fulbright LLP 
Financial PR adviser
Brunswick Group LLP
Company Secretary and registered office
Michael Anscombe FCIS 
Volution Group plc
Fleming Way 
Crawley 
West Sussex RH10 9YX 
United Kingdom
Registered in England and Wales
Company number: 09041571 
LSE ticker code: FAN
Tel: +44 (0) 1293 441 662 
Shareholder enquiries: investors@volutiongroupplc.com 
General enquiries: info@volutiongroupplc.com 
Website: www.volutiongroupplc.com 
Forward-looking statements
The Annual Report and Accounts contains certain statements, statistics 
and projections that are or may be forward-looking. The accuracy 
and completeness of all such statements including, without limitation, 
statements regarding the future financial position, strategy, projected 
costs, plans and objectives for the management of future operations of 
Volution Group plc and its subsidiaries is not warranted or guaranteed. 
These statements typically contain words such as “intends”, “expects”, 
“anticipates”, “estimates” and words of similar import. By their nature, 
forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they 
relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future. 
Although Volution Group plc believes that the expectations reflected in 
such statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such 
expectations will prove to be correct. There are a number of factors, 
which may be beyond the control of Volution Group plc, that could cause 
actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed 
or implied by such forward-looking statements. Other than as required 
by applicable law or the applicable rules of any exchange on which our 
securities may be listed, Volution Group plc has no intention or obligation 
to update forward-looking statements contained herein. Strategic Report Corporate Governance
 
Design Portolio is committed to planting 
trees or every corporate communications 
project, in association with Trees or Cities.
Volution Group’s commitment to environmental 
issues is reflected in this annual report which 
has been printed on Chorus Silk, an FSC
®
 mix 
certified paper, which ensures that all virgin pulp 
is derived from well-managed forests and other 
responsible sources.  Volution Group plc Annual Report 2015
Volution Group plc
Fleming Way 
Crawley 
West Sussex RH10 9YX 
United Kingdom
www.volutiongroupplc.com
