 Interactive PDF
 
User guide
This PDF allows you to find 
 information and navigate around 
 this document more easily. 
Links in this PDF
Words and numbers that are 
underlined are links — clicking 
on them will take you to further 
information within the document  
or to a web page (which opens  
in  a new window) if they are  
a url (e.g www.whitbread.co.uk).
Guide to buttons
 
Back to user guide
 
Search this PDF
 
Print options
 
Preceding page
 
Next page
 
Last visited page
Whitbread PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
“ Making everyday experiences special” An interactive PDF of our  
Report and Accounts is  
available to download online.
  w w w . whitbr ead. c o .uk/in v es t ors 
Financial highlights
Whitbread has delivered another year of strong  
growth in revenue, profit and dividend.
 More on our financial performance
p6 Chairman’s statement 
p8 Chief Executive’s review
p42 Finance Director’s review
Total revenue
£2,608.1m +13.7%




m
m
m
m
Profit before tax
£463.8m +33.7%




m
m
m
m
Cash generated from operations
£606.4m to £714.2m
Net assets
£1,783.0m to £1,977.9m
Full–year dividend
82.15p +19.4%




p
p
p
p
1  Underlying profit excluding amortisation of acquired 
intangibles, exceptional items and the impact of the 
pension finance cost as accounted for under IAS 19. 
Underlying EPS represents the earnings per share 
based on the above underlying profit definition and 
the tax thereon.
Group like for like sales
Up 6.5%
Underlying profit
1
 before tax
£488.1m +18.5%




m
m
m
m
Net debt
£391.6m to £583.2m
Group return on capital
2
15.3% to 15.7%
Underlying basic EPS
1
213.67p +19.4%




p
p
p
p
2  Return on capital is the return on invested capital 
which is calculated by dividing the underlying profit 
before interest and tax for the year by net assets at 
the balance sheet date adding back debt, taxation 
liabilities and the pension deficit. Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 1
Overview p1/3
Governance
48 Corporate governance
50 Board of Directors
57 Audit Committee report
60 Nomination Committee report
62 Remuneration report
77 Directors’ report
Strategic report
4 Whitbread’s Business Model
5 New growth milestones
6 Chairman’s statement
8 Chief Executive’s review
11 Good Together
12 Hotels & Restaurants
24 Costa 
34  P r i n ci p a l r is k s  
and uncertainties
38 Key Performance Indicators
42 Finance Director’s review
46 Group HR Director’s report
Consolidated accounts 2014/15
84  D i r e c t o r s ’ r e s p o n s i bi l i ty 
statement
85  Independent auditor’s report
88  C o n so l id a t e d  
financial statements
93  Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
Company accounts 2014/15
138 Balance sheet
139 Notes to the accounts
Shareholder information
144 Shareholder services
146 Glossary
148 Our charities
Contents
Overview
 Financial highlights
1 Introduction
2 Group at a glance
 More on Winning Teams on p14 and p26
 More on Customer Heartbeat on p17 and p28
 More on Profitable Growth on p20 and p31 
 More on Good Together on p11, p23 and p33
Whitbread is all about people. As the UK’s  
leading hospitality company , our success  
is thanks to 45,000 motivated and engaged  
team members delivering outstanding service  
to 25 million customers every month across  
our hotels, coffee shops and restaurants.
We use this Customer Heartbeat schematic  
to describe our business philosophy .
Our vision is to grow legendary brands  
by building a strong Customer Heartbeat  
and innovating to stay ahead. It’s our Winning  
T eams that make everyday experiences  
special for our customers so they come back  
time and again, driving Profitable Growth.  
Our Good T ogether programme makes  
us a force for good in our communities.
Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Group at 
a glance
Whitbread
Whitbread has built some of the  
UK’s most successful hospitality 
brands, including Premier Inn  
and Costa. We employ over  
45,000 people in the UK and  
serve 25 million customers every 
month. Our strategy is to grow   
our leading brands with a clear  
focus on returns to deliver  
substantial shareholder value.
Hotels & Restaurants
Premier Inn is the UK’s leading hotel 
business, with almost 700 hotels  
and more than 59,000 rooms across 
the UK. 
We have more rooms in more locations than our competitors, 
which allows our customers to stay closer to where they  
want to be.
We offer our customers a 100% money–back guarantee  
of a good night’s sleep with a quality room, comfortable 
surroundings and friendly service. We call it our Good  
Night Guarantee.
All Premier Inn UK bedrooms have an ensuite bathroom,  
TV with Freeview and free Wi–Fi internet access. All our  
hotels have a bar and restaurant, either inside the building  
or next to it, offering a wide range of dishes. Whitbread’s 
unique joint site model means that 382 of these hotels are 
located alongside our own restaurant brands: Beefeater; 
Brewers Fayre; Table Table; Whitbread Inns; or Taybarns.  
A further 190 hotels include one of our Thyme or Kitchen 
restaurants.
Internationally, we have five hotels in the Middle East and  
three in India with more in the pipeline. This year we  
announced that we will open our first hotel in Germany in 2016.
We have demonstrated our ability to build strong brands 
through the consistent delivery of operational excellence and 
a great customer experience in people–intensive businesses.
We set our sights on ambitious and fast–paced profitable 
growth and, in 2011, set out our first milestones which were  
to achieve 65,000 Premier Inn rooms by 2016 and £1.3 billion 
of system sales in Costa. We are well on track to achieving the 
2016 Premier Inn milestone and have already met the Costa 
milestone. We extended these milestones in 2013 and we  
can now see further growth opportunities. We have therefore 
announced new milestones to achieve around 85,000 UK 
rooms and c.£2.5 billion of system sales in Costa in 2020.
Listed on the London Stock Exchange, Whitbread PLC 
is a member of the FTSE 100 and the FTSE4Good indices.
The Group
Our businesses
  Mo r e o n p12 
to p23
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Group at 
a glance 2
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Group at 
a glance 3
Costa
Costa is the UK’s favourite coffee  
shop
1
, with over 1,900 coffee  
shops in the UK, over 1,100 stores  
in 29 international markets  
and over 4,200 Costa Express  
self–serve units.
We have a multichannel strategy, with equity stores, franchise 
stores and stores operated by joint ventures, as well as a 
wholesale operation.
Costa was founded in London by Italian brothers Sergio and 
Bruno Costa in 1971 and we attribute much of our success  
to the quality of our coffee and our ability to open coffee  
shops in the most convenient locations. All the coffee we  
serve in the UK, and most of that served by Costa in the rest  
of the world, is roasted at our Roastery in Lambeth, London.
Costa Express was founded in 2011, after the acquisition of 
Coffee Nation. Our self–serve units provide customers with  
the same famous Mocha Italia blend as that enjoyed in our 
coffee shops and make drinks with fresh milk. Costa Express 
gives us access to a range of locations where customers are  
on the move and want a quality coffee on the go.
1  Independent survey of 5,000 people published in December 2014  
by Allegra Strategies. For further details see www.costa.co.uk/terms
  More on p42  More on p20 
and p31
  More on p24 
to p33
Revenue by business
Up 
Up 
Growth

net new rooms

net new restaurants

net new stores
Rooms
Premier Inn
Stores
Costa
Restaurants





net new machines
Express machines






m
m








Revenue
Hotels & Restaurants
Revenue
Costa


m
m
Premier Inn is the UK’s leading 
hotel business.
Costa is the UK’s favourite 
coffee shop.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread’s 
Business Model
The Customer Heartbeat schematic, as shown on page 1, forms the basis of our Business Model,  
which shows how we create value for our teams, customers, shareholders and the communities  
in which we operate.
Driving Proﬁtable Growth
Building a Strong Customer Heartbeat
Creating Winning Teams
Environment    
Team and Community                            Customer Wellbeing
Driving Proﬁtable Growth
Building a Strong Customer Heartbeat
Creating Winning Teams
T eam and Community
Environment
Customer Wellbeing
Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer er
H He Heartbea at at t Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer er
H He Heartbea at at t
Creating
employment
opportunities
Building strong leadership 
throughout our organisation 
Active property
management 
Strong returns
on capital 
Market–
leading
brands 
Convenient and
accessible locations
Brand
preference
and loyalty
Investment in our people:
apprenticeships and 
career development   
Product innovation
and continuous
improvement 
Winning market share,
growing sales and
driving e­ciencies
Making everyday
experiences 
special 
Strong cash ﬂow
and balance sheet
Expansion in the UK
and in selected
international markets
Creating
employment
opportunities
Building strong leadership 
throughout our organisation 
Active property
management 
Strong returns
on capital 
Market
leading
brands 
Convenient and
accessible locations
Brand
preference
and loyalty
Investment in our people:
apprenticeships and 
career development   
Product innovation
and continuous
improvement 
Winning market share,
growing sales and
driving e­ciencies
Making everyday
experiences 
special 
Strong cash ﬂow
and balance sheet
Expansion in the UK
and in selected
international markets
WINcard
The key elements of our Business Model have targets attached to them to ensure we consistently focus on creating  
and delivering value. We set key performance indicators for Winning Teams, Customer Heartbeat, Profitable Growth and  
Good Together. Behind each of these headings are clear and measurable targets which together make up our balanced 
scorecard, or WINcard as we call it (Whitbread In Numbers). A range of factors are taken into consideration when setting 
targets but, in most cases, the following principles are applied:
  A green score is achieved where the performance is better than both the prior year and target.
 An amber score is for performance which is better than the prior year, but below target.
 A red score is for a result below the previous year.
Further detail on each area of value creation and the application of Whitbread’s Business Model in Hotels & Restaurants 
and Costa can be found on pages 12 and 13, and 24 and 25 respectively.
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Whitbread’s
Business Model 4
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
New growth 
milestones 5
New growth 
milestones
Whitbread has delivered consistent growth in sales, earnings and dividends, creating substantial 
shareholder value. Since 2007/08 Premier Inn UK has grown from 36,006 rooms to 59,138 rooms,  
while Costa has grown its total system sales from £0.3 billion to £1.4 billion. We have now announced  
new growth milestones for 2020 and have confidence that we will continue to create significant 
shareholder value over that period.
Sustained shareholder value creation

























CAGR

CAGR

CAGR

CAGR

CAGR
Sales (£m)
Underlying basic
EPS (p)*
DPS (p)
Premier Inn
UK rooms
Costa system sales


bn
   

bn

pts
Return on capital  
0
2500
0
190
*Restated for the impact of IAS 19(R).
New growth milestones for 2020
 c c c
bn cbn* cbn cbn
*This milestone was set in 2011 and has already been achieved.
UK and Ireland
rooms
Worldwide
system sales

Full–year

milestone

milestone

milestone
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Chairman’s
statement
This is another good set of results, once again 
demonstrating the strengths of the Premier Inn and  
Costa brands.
The continuation of our successful strategy
I was delighted to be invited to become Chairman of Whitbread when Anthony Habgood 
stepped down at the end of August last year. Having joined the Company in a non–executive 
capacity in 2009, I was a member of the Board as the strategy that has been pursued  
in recent years was initially developed.
Whilst there is no plan to change our winning formula, we will not be complacent. It is 
important that we invest our resources wisely in order to provide sustainable value for our 
shareholders over the long term. As great businesses grow they must also improve and we 
intend to do just that for all our stakeholders.
Throughout this Report you will see references to our Customer Heartbeat schematic.  
It really encapsulates who we are and how we behave. It is about providing team members 
with fantastic career development opportunities, making everyday experiences special  
for our customers and growing our business in a profitable and sustainable way. All of this,  
whilst being a real force for good in the communities in which we operate.
Investing in skills and experience
This Company has always believed in providing opportunities for people to flourish. Indeed  
Samuel Whitbread began his own career as an apprentice and his son was one of the original 
lobbyists for a national minimum wage. I am proud to say that these core values are still part  
of the fabric of Whitbread today. 
The sheer scale of the Company enables us to provide great opportunities to thousands  
of team members. At Whitbread, there are no barriers to entry and no limits to ambition!  
In 2014/15 alone, we provided 1,318 people with the opportunity to manage one of our  
hotels, restaurants or coffee shops and 593 of these are managing their own business for  
the first time. The importance we place on providing opportunities for our team members  
is demonstrated by the fact that we are one of only four FTSE 100 companies to have 
appointed its Group HR Director to the Board.
It is not just about providing great opportunities for our current team members, but also  
about providing some excellent opportunities for young people to take the first steps in their 
career. This year we have created 3,000 new jobs in the UK and provided over 940 people 
with the opportunity to join our apprenticeship schemes. Young people bring fresh energy to 
the Company. They have the ability to provide a different perspective on life and to challenge 
the status quo. There is an old saying that ‘youth is wasted on the young’, but at Whitbread we 
value the youthful exuberance that our young team members bring and relish the opportunity 
to provide them with the platform for a successful career in the hospitality industry.
In the early weeks of my new role as Chairman of Whitbread I took the opportunity to travel 
around the country to visit a number of our outlets. Indeed, I am writing this on a Saturday 
morning in my local Costa store and I can see the Whitbread values living within our team, 
both in this store and wherever else I visit. I would like to thank all of Whitbread’s employees 
for their hard work and dedication in making every day experiences special for our customers.
Improving our customer propositions
I have great faith in the ability and desire of Whitbread’s people to provide our customers with 
an excellent level of service, but it is our duty to make sure that they are given a great quality 
product to sell. Whether it is improving our current businesses through regular refurbishments 
or the innovation of ‘hub by Premier Inn’ or Costa Express, we constantly strive to be our 
customers’ number one choice.
Richard Baker
Chairman
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Chairman’s 
statement 6
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Chairman’s 
statement 7
Sustainable growth
Whitbread has grown rapidly in recent years and the pace of that growth is increasing. Indeed, 
as you will see on page 5, we have announced new growth milestones for 2020. As I said 
earlier it is not just about getting bigger, it is also about getting better. This means that we 
must invest wisely. As you will read in Andy Harrison’s report, we will invest more capital than 
ever before next year and we have developed a rigorous investment approval process to 
ensure that we invest effectively. 
Dividend
The Board recommends a final dividend of 56.95p per share, making a total dividend of 82.15p 
per share, up by 19.4%. The final dividend will be paid on 3 July 2015 to shareholders on the 
register at the close of business on 29 May 2015. The Dividend Reinvestment Plan, which was 
introduced last year, will continue to be operated. Details of how to participate in this plan can 
be found on the Company’s website.
Full–year dividend




p
p
p
p
Board
Anthony Habgood stepped down from the Board in August 2014 after nine extremely 
successful years as Chairman of Whitbread. For the last five of those years I had the privilege 
of serving on the Board under Anthony’s leadership and saw at first hand the significant 
contribution he made to Whitbread’s success. I would like to place on record my thanks, on 
behalf of the Board and all of our shareholders, for that contribution and I wish him every 
success in his role at the Bank of England.
In December 2014, we announced that Patrick Dempsey would be leaving Whitbread at the 
end of the financial year. Patrick has led Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants for more than six 
years. He is an outstanding hotelier and, under his leadership Premier Inn has grown rapidly 
from 32,600 rooms in 2007, when the brand was launched, to more than 59,000 rooms today. 
His personal passion for a great guest experience and high team motivation are evident across 
Premier Inn. On behalf of all my Board colleagues, I’d like to thank Patrick for all he has done, 
and wish him every success for the future.
Chief Executive succession
You will have seen that Andy Harrison has decided to retire from his position as Chief Executive 
of Whitbread by the end of our financial year ending February 2016. Whitbread has been 
extremely successful under his leadership and I would like to thank him for his personal 
contribution to the Company over the last five years and wish him well in his retirement from 
executive life. 
I am running a succession process and we will make an announcement as soon as we have 
made a decision.
 
Richard Baker
Chairman 
27 April 2015
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Chief 
Executive’s 
review
New growth milestones for 2020 to reach 
around 85,000 Premier Inn UK rooms  
and Costa global system sales of around  
£2.5 billion.
2014/15 was an outstanding year for Whitbread 
with excellent levels of performance across all our key 
measures. High levels of employee engagement and 
customer satisfaction have supported impressive like  
for like and total sales growth which, together with our 
continued focus on driving efficiencies and disciplined 
organic growth, has produced a double–digit increase  
in profits and strong returns for our shareholders.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank each and every one of our 45,000 team members. 
It is their hard work, passion and commitment that makes Whitbread the successful and 
exciting company it is today. 
In 2014/15 we grew our total sales by 13.7% to £2,608.1 million. This growth in total sales was  
a combination of an increase in like for like unit sales of 6.5% and the continuing expansion  
of our network. Our strong sales performance translated into an 18.5% growth in our 
underlying pre–tax profit to £488.1 million and a 19.4% growth in our earnings per share.  
The combination of our growth in profit and good margins has produced a strong operating 
cash flow, increasing by 17.8% to £714.2 million. This in turn has allowed us to finance capital 
reinvestment in the business of £565.3 million. The Board has proposed a 21.2% increase in the 
final dividend, which would increase the full year dividend by 19.4% to 82.15 pence per share.
We have made some significant senior management changes to develop the next generation 
of leadership and to ensure that we have the talent to deliver our growth plans. After ten 
successful years within the Company, Patrick Dempsey, Managing Director of Whitbread  
Hotels & Restaurants, left the business in February and I would like to thank Patrick for his 
tremendous contribution over the last decade. Following Patrick’s departure, Paul Flaum  
was promoted to the position of Managing Director, Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants and  
we have created two new roles of Managing Director Premier Inn UK and ‘hub by Premier  
Inn’, and Managing Director Commercial and Premier Inn Germany, both reporting to Paul.  
We have also appointed a new Managing Director for WHR International to lead the 
development of Premier Inn in the Middle East, India and South East Asia. 
Our Customer Heartbeat
We put our customers at the heart of everything we do and use this powerful model 
throughout our business.
We create Winning Teams and better leaders by investing significantly in training and 
development programmes to help our people build their skills and careers. We are passionate 
about making everyday experiences special for our millions of customers and invest in high 
quality products and services to build market–leading brands, based on strong customer 
preference and loyalty. By driving sales and managing efficiencies we generate the margins 
and cash flow to both maintain a healthy balance sheet and finance continuing profitable 
organic growth.
Our growth milestones
We aim to deliver outstanding results for all our stakeholders as we strive to become bigger 
and better year after year. Over the past five years we have regularly laid out clear growth 
milestones for our two leading brands, Costa and Premier Inn.
• 
In April 2011 we announced our 2016 milestones to reach around 65,000 UK Premier Inn 
rooms and to double Costa’s global system sales to around £1.3 billion. 
• 
In April 2013 we announced our 2018 milestones to reach around 75,000 UK Premier Inn 
rooms and to double Costa’s global system sales to around £2 billion.
• 
In April 2015 we announced our 2020 milestones to reach around 85,000 UK Premier Inn 
rooms and to grow Costa’s global system sales to around £2.5 billion.
Andy Harrison
Chief Executive
Making everyday 
experiences special
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Chief Executive’s 
review 8
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Chief Executive’s 
review 9
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47
Delivering these ambitious growth plans requires sustained investment in our people, our 
brands and our infrastructure. This is against a backdrop of a UK economic recovery, which will 
bring more opportunities but greater competition for people, leadership talent and customers.
Investing in our people
We are committed to creating a great place to work for our 45,000 team members and the 
development opportunities which will help them realise their potential. 
As we pursue our new 2020 growth milestones we will create around another 15,000 jobs in 
the UK and we are targeting a significant proportion of these jobs to go to people who are not 
in education, employment or training. We are investing in skills and development programmes 
including our WISE programme (Whitbread Investing in Skills and Employment) which  
goes from strength to strength. In April 2015 we set new ambitious targets to deliver 7,500 
employment placements, 6,500 work experience placements and 6,000 apprentices by 2020.
This year over 940 team members are undertaking an apprenticeship and Costa will  
launch its first ever apprenticeship programme in summer 2015. We are actively involved in 
‘Movement to Work’, which is a collaboration of UK employers, committed to tackling youth 
unemployment through the provision of high quality vocational training and work experience 
opportunities for young people. We are also a founding member of ‘The Big Conversation’,  
an initiative which brings together hospitality businesses to provide young people with job 
opportunities and experiences in our industry. 
Ensuring we have highly engaged teams to deliver a consistently excellent service for our 
customers is critical to our success. We regularly ask our team members how they feel about 
working for Whitbread. This year we made some changes to our Your Say engagement survey 
to gain a deeper level of insight. I am pleased to say that we continue to achieve leading  
scores on engagement, significantly exceeding industry sector norms. We are also proud  
to be recognised once again in both The Sunday Times Top 25 Best Big Companies to Work  
For 2015 and the UK Top Employers’ Survey 2015.
Investing in our customer experience
Our 45,000 people are passionate about making everyday experiences special for the  
25 million customers we welcome into our hotels, restaurants and coffee shops every month. 
2014/15 has been a year of great guest scores and external accolades as our leading brands, 
Premier Inn and Costa, cement their positions as the UK’s favourite hotel chain and the UK’s 
favourite coffee shop. 
Key to building a strong customer heartbeat is our relentless focus on product improvement 
and we invest millions of pounds every year in refurbishing and re–imaging our hotels, coffee 
shops and restaurants as well as strengthening our digital and technological capabilities.  
As customers’ expectations and tastes become increasingly sophisticated, innovation is vital 
for us to stay ahead of the competition. This year we have launched a number of exciting new 
products including a range of new coffee blends in Costa, Old Paradise Street Limited Roasts, 
which are proving to be very popular with coffee lovers. Our new hotel brand, ‘hub by Premier 
Inn’ opened its first hotel in London’s Covent Garden and is already gaining good reviews  
on TripAdvisor. In our Restaurants business our new Beefeater, Brewers Fayre and Whitbread 
Inns brand propositions are performing well with customers enjoying the new menus and 
refreshed interiors.
Investing in growth
We are excited about the tremendous growth potential for our two leading brands, Costa  
and Premier Inn both in the UK and overseas.
In 2014/15 we opened 33 new Premier Inn hotels with 4,360 rooms which, including the 
closures of eight hotels, takes our UK rooms to 59,138. In Costa we opened 219 net new  
stores worldwide together with 777 Costa Express machines. Alongside our new Premier  
Inn hotels in the UK we constructed four new restaurants, reinforcing the unique Whitbread 
joint site model, consisting of a Premier Inn hotel adjacent to a Whitbread restaurant. 
Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
 
2014/15 has been a great year for our teams and 
customers with overall employee engagement at 78%, 
great customer satisfaction scores and prestigious  
awards to celebrate the strength of our brands. In 2015/16 we are increasing our planned capital expenditure to around £700 million as we 
open more hotel rooms, invest in our freehold pipeline (particularly in London) and deliver  
our refurbishment and maintenance programmes. With around 5,500 Premier Inn rooms and 
250 Costa stores planned to open in 2015/16, this fast–paced growth puts us well on track to 
achieve our 2016 and 2018 milestones. Overseas we continue to build brand presence. In 2014 
we announced our entry into the German hotel market with the purchase of a Premier Inn  
site in Frankfurt, in addition to securing a number of Premier Inn International management 
contracts. Costa is now in 30 countries and our equity businesses in China and Poland are 
making good progress.
The combination of disciplined organic network growth to achieve our 2020 milestones  
and a good return on capital will create substantial shareholder value.
Investing in ‘Good Together’ 
Good Together is our corporate responsibility programme and is a fundamental and integral 
part of how we do business at Whitbread. We know our teams want to be part of a company 
which is a force for good in the communities in which we all live. 
As we grow we aim to minimise our environmental impact, which is why we are committed  
to reducing the amount of energy and water we use and waste that we produce. Our growth 
also requires a supply chain that can grow with us, share our values and source products 
responsibly, according to the standards we set. In the year we developed robust sustainable 
supply policies, which require sound social, ethical and environmental practices within our 
supply chain.
I am proud of the work our teams do to raise money for our chosen charities, making a real 
difference to peoples’ lives and the communities in which we operate. We have now raised 
over £4 million for Great Ormond Street Hospital, helping to fund the development of the 
Premier Inn Clinical Building, and £7 million for the Costa Foundation, providing an education 
to over 30,000 children in coffee–growing communities. 
Our Good Together programme goes from strength to strength and we have already 
surpassed a number of our 2017 targets. Therefore, in April 2015 we announced new 2020 
targets across our three Good Together pillars of Team and Community, Customer Wellbeing 
and Energy and Environment. These targets are outlined on page 11 of this report.
In the following pages we have included more detail on the work our Winning Teams are doing 
to build a strong Customer Heartbeat and to drive Profitable Growth and create shareholder 
value. I hope you find this interesting and informative. 
My next chapter
After five highly enjoyable years at Whitbread, and over 18 years as Chief Executive of three 
different public companies, you will see that I have started planning my retirement from full 
time executive life. It is the people and culture of Whitbread which make the Company so 
special and successful. I would like to thank them all personally for all their hard work and 
support during my tenure as Chief Executive.
 
Andy Harrison
Chief Executive
27 April 2015 
Chief Executive’s 
review
continued 
Our first ‘hub by Premier Inn’ 
hotel is already gaining great 
reviews.
Our best ever bed provides  
our customers, young and old, 
with a great night’s sleep.
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Chief Executive’s 
review 10
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Good Together 11
Good 
Together
Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t
2016/17 targets Progress 2020 targets
Team and Community
• 
10,000 new UK jobs.
• 
Hotels & Restaurants to  
raise £7.5 million towards the 
Premier Inn Clinical Building at 
Great Ormond Street Hospital.
• 
Costa Foundation to educate  
50,000 children and build 50+ 
schools in coffee–growing 
communities.
• 
Hotels & Restaurants — 10,000 
qualifications (including 3,000 
apprenticeships).
• 
Costa — enhanced skills 
training to 20,000 team 
members.
• 
Hotels & Restaurants — 4,500 
school work experience 
placements.
• 
Around 3,000 net new UK jobs created in 2014/15.
• 
Raised over £4 million to date for Great Ormond 
Street Hospital Children’s Charity with over  
£1.7 million raised this year.
• 
Nine new Costa Foundation school projects  
opened during the year, bringing the total  
number of committed projects to 63, educating 
over 30,000 children.
• 
Over 940 apprentices in learning.
• 
Over 20,000 team members have received  
training and development and took part in skills 
programmes.
• 
Hotels & Restaurants to have 
raised £10 million in total for 
charity (including £7.5 million 
for Great Ormond Street 
Hospital Children’s Charity).
• 
Costa to have raised  
£15 million in total for the 
Costa Foundation, funding  
100 school projects.
• 
6,000 apprenticeships.
• 
15,000 new jobs created.
• 
6,500 work experience 
placements.
• 
7,500 employment 
placements.
Customer Wellbeing
• 
Accreditation and sustainable 
supply of: tea/coffee; timber; 
palm oil; fish; meat; and all 
Costa hot drinks will be 
Rainforest Alliance certified.
• 
Improve the nutritional content 
across our food and drink 
portfolio, enabling customers 
to make informed choices and 
introduce calorific labelling 
into outlets.
• 
Launched sustainable supply model and policies  
to our supply base.
• 
All of Costa’s coffee, tea and hot chocolate  
are from Rainforest Alliance Certified farms.
• 
Continued increased activity on development  
within our food and drink portfolio, delivering 
further focus on calorific content and  
nutritional value.
• 
100% accredited supply  
for critical product sourced 
commodities.
• 
Commitment to set  
relevant salt and sugar 
reduction targets.
Energy and Environment
• 
25% carbon reduction from 
Whitbread direct operations 
and based on 2009 baselines.
• 
25% reduction in water 
consumption from Whitbread 
direct operations based on 
2009 baselines.
• 
Zero waste to landfill from 
Whitbread direct operations 
based on 2009 baselines.
• 
10% carbon reduction across 
the supply chain.
• 
35.88% improvement in carbon efficiency  
against our 2009 baseline.
• 
29.91% reduction in water usage from our  
2009 baseline.
• 
83.98% of operational waste diverted from  
landfill. 100% of waste from the Costa Roastery  
and head office locations was diverted from  
landfill during the year.
• 
Data collection system launched to determine 
carbon footprint baseline within our supply  
chain activities.
• 
15% carbon reduction from 
direct operations (against  
a new 2014 baseline).
• 
20% water consumption 
reduction (against a new  
2014 baseline).
• 
Increase direct operations 
recycling rate to 80%.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Hotels & Restaurants
The Business Model in action
Winning Teams Customer Heartbeat
Our approach
• 
We recruit, reward, train and develop  
our 32,000 team members to build 
highly engaged teams who deliver 
great customer service and make 
everyday experiences special.
• 
We offer jobs and an industry–leading 
apprenticeship programme to grow 
talented leaders.
Our approach
• 
Premier Inn offers customers the 
greatest choice.
• 
Premier Inn offers a consistently high 
quality product supported by our 
Good Night Guarantee.
• 
Our dynamic pricing system means  
we can offer customers the best 
value and deliver occupancy targets.
• 
We are a leading online retailer —  
four out of every five bookings  
is made at www.premierinn.com.
• 
We build brand awareness and 
loyalty through targeted marketing 
and sales.
• 
At every Premier Inn we serve  
great food and drink.
• 
Over half of our Premier Inns  
have a Whitbread branded 
restaurant next door.
• 
Our restaurants have distinctive 
brand propositions and serve  
great quality value food appealing  
to a local customer base and  
our hotel guests.
• 
We continually refurbish our  
estate to maintain its quality.
Business Model in action
Creating employment opportunities
• 
78 graduates were recruited into 
operational roles via our graduate 
scheme this year.
• 
Around 55% of the people we 
recruit are aged 16 to 25.
• 
We have created over 1,200 work 
placements, providing opportunities 
to young and unemployed people 
who may struggle with access to 
employment.
Building strong leadership
• 
Premier Inn’s ‘Shooting Stars’ 
programme continues to be highly 
successful, with 68% of Premier  
Inn’s roles being filled by internal 
candidates.
• 
We have rolled out MSc and MBA 
level qualifications for site and 
support centre leaders.
Investment in our people
• 
Last year we launched our WISE 
(Whitbread Investing in Skills & 
Employment) programme.
• 
During the year over 4,400 
Restaurants team members  
were trained at one of our  
three national skills academies.
Business Model in action
Making everyday experiences special
• 
At Premier Inn we promise to ‘make 
our guests feel brilliant by giving them 
a great night’s sleep’ and we back this 
up with our Good Night Guarantee.
• 
We aim to ‘serve up great memories’ 
in our restaurants and our guests are 
scoring us more highly for levels of 
service, with the score up 1.3% pts  
in the year.
Product innovation and continuous 
improvement
• 
We have partnered with Hypnos  
to develop our best ever bed, which 
assures both comfort and durability. 
We have rolled out around 21,000  
of the new beds during the year.
• 
In November 2014 we launched the 
first ‘hub by Premier Inn’, a new hotel 
concept that makes great use of 
space and provides guests with the 
latest technology.
• 
We have given 38 of our Beefeater 
Grill restaurants a new contemporary 
look and feel, which has brought  
in new customers and improved  
guest scores.
Convenient and accessible locations
• 
With over 690 hotels across the UK, 
our customers can be confident  
of finding a Premier Inn near to  
where they want to be.
• 
Almost all of our 405 restaurants  
are located alongside a Premier  
Inn, making them convenient  
for Premier Inn guests and local 
communities alike.
Market–leading brands
• 
Premier Inn was recognised as  
the Best Budget Hotel Chain  
by Business Traveller.
Brand preference and loyalty
• 
Premier Inn continues to lead the 
YouGov Hotel Brand Index and  
has retained its title as ‘Best Value 
Hotel’ for the fifth year running.
• 
Sales from Premier Inn’s Business 
Account programme account for 
around 26% of all sales.
• 
We now have 1.5 million members 
across our Restaurants loyalty 
programmes.
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Hotels & Restaurants 
The Business Model in action 12
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Hotels & Restaurants 
The Business Model in action 13
Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts p83/135 Company accounts p137/142 Strategic report p4/47 Overview p1/3
Profitable Growth Good Together
Our approach
• 
We invest in high returning, 
consistently profitable sites and  
are increasing our share of the  
UK market with rapid expansion  
of Premier Inn, especially  
in London.
• 
We are entering into selected 
international markets with the 
Premier Inn brand.
• 
We maximise synergies and 
efficiencies with our joint site 
restaurants.
Our approach
• 
We are raising £7.5 million towards  
The Premier Inn Clinical Building  
at Great Ormond Street Children’s 
Hospital.
• 
We are creating more than 1,000 
job opportunities every year with  
a focus on 16 to 24 year olds and  
the long–term unemployed.
• 
We are committed to sustainable 
sourcing.
• 
We seek to minimise our carbon,  
waste and water usage often  
using innovative technology and 
construction methods.
Business Model in action
Winning market share, growing  
sales and driving efficiencies
• 
Premier Inn has 39% more UK rooms 
than its nearest competitor and 
achieved record occupancy  
of 81.3%.
• 
Premier Inn’s total sales increased  
by 15.3% to £1,116.4 million and its  
like for like sales grew by 9.1%.
• 
Restaurants total sales increased  
by 3.2% to £542.8 million and its like 
for like sales grew by 2.1%.
Strong cash flow and balance sheet
• 
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants 
strong EBITDA growth generates 
cash to support its ambitious  
growth plans and the refurbishment 
of its estate.
Strong returns on capital
• 
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants  
grew returns by 0.2% pts to 13.5%.
Expansion in the UK and in selected 
international markets
• 
During the year we added 4,360  
new UK rooms, whilst our committed 
pipeline remains strong with 12,465 
rooms, of which 5,568 are in London.
• 
We have now extended our Premier 
Inn UK growth milestone to reach 
around 85,000 rooms in 2020.
• 
Overseas we have a strong 
committed pipeline of 26 hotels  
in the Middle East, South East Asia 
and India and will open our first 
Premier Inn in Germany in early 2016.
Active property management
• 
We closed 257 Premier Inn rooms 
which didn’t meet our brand 
standards and replaced them  
with better quality rooms in the  
same area.
Business Model in action
Team and Community
• 
We have now raised over £4 million 
for Great Ormond Street Hospital 
Children’s Charity
• 
There are now over 940 apprentices 
in learning and over 1,000 students 
have completed work experience 
placements.
Customer Wellbeing
• 
The sustainable supply strategy has 
been launched to our supplier base 
with robust risk analysis to assess 
performance against our 2017 
sustainable sourcing target.
• 
We have continued to progress  
within our food platforms to reduce 
salt content in line with Department 
of Health targets.
Environment
• 
Carbon emissions have reduced by 
25.59% since 2009 relative to sales.
• 
95.47% of waste is now diverted  
from landfill from direct operations.
• 
Water consumption has reduced  
by 20.85% relative to sales against  
our 2009 baseline.
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t Hotels & Restaurants
Winning T eams
Success is all about making  
everyday experiences feel special  
for our customers and we rely on  
our Winning Teams to do just that.  
That is why it is vital that our teams 
are highly engaged and passionate 
about what they do. 
Listening and taking action
Over the past four years we have seen high levels of 
engagement measured through our annual engagement 
survey, ‘Your Say’. This year we took the opportunity to  
review and improve the survey by simplifying the language 
and improving the structure to provide better insight to 
inform action planning. In addition, we translated the survey 
into multiple languages for our international team members. 
The new survey was launched in October 2014 and we 
achieved an engagement score of 78%. Key priority areas 
identified were to improve benefits and the promotion  
of a healthy work life balance.
Team engagement survey: ‘Your Say’
  Engagement Engagement Response Response 
  score  score rate rate 
  Oct 2014 Oct 2013 Oct 2014 Oct 2013
Hotels & Restaurants 78% 80% 85% 93%
Team turnover
With the economic recovery, we have seen signs of a tightening 
labour market and have therefore launched a number of 
research initiatives to gain a better understanding of the 
reasons why people may leave us as well as what existing team 
members are looking for. This is done through exit interviews, 
our annual engagement survey, regular pulse surveys and 
listening groups. We have also implemented a robust reporting 
process for Premier Inn operators and senior managers to 
monitor turnover at a local level. 
We are turning these insights into action. Our approach  
to paying team members will focus on pay for progression.  
We are developing a new career ladder within Premier Inn 
operations, which enables team members at the start of their 
career to understand the extensive opportunities available  
and how to realise them. Similarly, there are clear progression 
pathways within Restaurants which are supported by different 
stages of training. Team members can also cross–train  
to diversify their skills and experience. 
Strengthening our culture
In 2014/15 we continued to embed the purpose of ‘helping  
our guests feel brilliant through a great night’s sleep’, through 
our Bigger, Bolder, Better campaign in Premier Inn and our 
purpose of ‘serving up great memories’ in Restaurants.
We are committed to making everyone feel valued, nurtured, 
recognised and invested in, and we are incorporating this 
promise into every aspect of our employee experience. 
Career development
We are building our talent for the future by strengthening  
our succession planning and continuing to develop the next 
generation of leaders to support the delivery of our growth 
ambitions. 
In Premier Inn we continued to deliver our highly successful 
‘Shooting Stars’ programmes. The success and strength  
of ‘Shooting Stars’ is demonstrated by 68% of Premier Inn 
roles being filled from our internal talent pipeline.
In addition we have introduced a new commercial programme 
within our support centre, aimed at developing internal 
capability within trading, strategy, digital and finance. 
Furthermore, we rolled out MSc and MBA level qualifications 
for site and support centre leaders.
In Restaurants we introduced a new training programme 
called ‘Best Welcome’, which offers all our team members  
a range of opportunities related to their potential, skill and 
career aspirations. All will complete their basic and foundation 
training in–house as part of their induction into Whitbread 
Restaurants, with the potential to progress to the intermediate 
and advanced stages to prepare them for their next role. 
Food quality
Our central development kitchen encourages teams to 
experiment and innovate with new dishes and we have 
invested significantly in kitchen equipment and training to 
support our site teams. During the year, over 4,400 people 
were welcomed through three national skills academies. 
During each restaurant renovation we train the entire team  
for five days, including two days at our skills academies, 
raising levels of engagement, excitement and expertise. 
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Hotels & Restaurants 
Winning Teams 14
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Hotels & Restaurants 
Winning Teams 15
Investing in young people
Our industry is often a first entry job for young people going 
into the workplace. At Whitbread we have a young workforce, 
where around 34% are aged 16 to 25 years and around 55%  
of the people we recruit every year are 16 to 25 years old. Many 
are not in employment, education or training so we invest in 
training to ensure they have the necessary skills and confidence 
to progress their careers. 
Externally we recruited 78 graduates in operational roles  
onto our graduate scheme this year and we have also doubled 
the numbers of support centre graduates and interns in HR, 
finance and property. 
Last year we launched WISE — Whitbread Investing in  
Skills and Employment. WISE uses an innovative in–house, 
employer–designed qualification system which complies  
with national accreditation standards. Our WISE programme 
is focused on educating, engaging and employing people  
who are often from disadvantaged backgrounds. It is focused 
on four key areas:
• 
building national links with schools, colleges and universities 
to provide sustainable and inspirational work experience  
to young people;
• 
 transitioning these students and the unemployed into  
work with opportunities to progress;
• 
 developing a ladder of apprenticeships, from pre–
employment at level 1 to multi–site management at  
level 7; and 
• 
 supporting our suppliers to adopt these WISE principles.
Building on the success of WISE within Premier Inn, we are 
developing structured work placement and apprenticeship 
programmes across Whitbread. 
Work placements
We have created over 1,200 work placements this year, 
providing opportunities to young and unemployed people 
who may struggle with access to employment. We have 
empowered our managers to make meaningful links with 
schools through our partnership with ‘Believe in Young 
People’, and our managers have built stronger relationships 
with the Jobcentre Plus teams. 
Stuart Mapplebeck, Halifax Town Centre Hotel
Two years ago, Stuart was 
unemployed and de–motivated. 
Following a visit to his local  
job centre, Stuart attended  
a recruitment day for a new 
Premier Inn hotel opening in 
Halifax town centre. Stuart’s 
natural flare for hospitality  
shone through, resulting in  
him being offered a position  
as a Reception Team Member. 
Within just four months, his passion and strong skills led to a 
promotion to Reception Team Leader. Two years later, Stuart has 
completed the Bronze Shooting Stars Programme, the level 2 
apprenticeship and is currently on the pilot level 4 apprenticeship. 
Stuart said “I will be forever grateful to Whitbread and the WISE 
team for giving me the opportunity to change my life. Before  
joining Premier Inn, I was an extremely lost individual and I now  
have a career with a company that has given me the opportunity  
to grow, develop and achieve my dreams — both professionally  
and personally”.
Our Winning Teams make everyday experiences feel special  
for our customers.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Hotels & Restaurants
Winning Teams 
continued  Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Hotels & Restaurants
Winning Teams 
continued 
Apprenticeships
We are proud of the impact we are making, with many 
Whitbread apprentices gaining promotion within 15 months 
and some of them progressing into management. 
We offer Intermediate, Advanced and Higher Apprenticeships 
in Hospitality, and we have 16 to 60 year olds who are  
learning on and off the job, increasing their wider industry 
knowledge and stretching their capabilities to help progress 
to the next level. We have also launched an Advanced 
Apprenticeship in Business Administration and we are excited 
about plans for the contact centre, digital and logistics teams.
Daniel Blanco, Edinburgh Airport Newbridge Hotel
Selected from over 150 entries, 
Daniel was named Premier Inn’s  
UK Apprentice of the Year 2014.
Having left school with no 
qualifications, Daniel joined 
Premier Inn, initially to work in 
Edinburgh Airport Newbridge 
Hotel’s restaurant. Within a 
month he started showing signs 
of real potential and was offered 
a place on the Apprenticeship 
Programme. Since beginning his
apprenticeship two years ago, he has shown outstanding 
commitment and enthusiasm and is a fantastic ambassador  
for the programme.
Daniel said, “Winning the Apprentice of the Year Award has been  
an amazing achievement. So many people believed in me from  
the beginning of my journey at Premier Inn, when my confidence 
was at an all–time low. I genuinely had no idea what I wanted 
to do with my life and I am very grateful to them. 
The Apprenticeship Programme has been a fantastic experience 
and really helped me understand not only the running of the 
business and how it all fits together to make a great hotel, but  
also some important life skills which will stay with me forever.”
The ‘Big Hospitality Conversation’ 
Whitbread participates in the ‘Big Hospitality Conversation’, 
which is a joint initiative that was set up between the British 
Hospitality Association, Springboard and Business in the 
Community. 
The aim is to create 60,000 job opportunities for young  
people by 2016. In September 2014, the 20th ‘Big Hospitality 
Conversation’ took place at London’s City Hall.
Recognition
The ‘My Rewards’ programme is an automated, pre–loadable, 
pre–paid Visa debit card used for all reward and recognition 
payments in Premier Inn. During the year, we paid out around 
£900,000 to our teams and over 86% of our team members 
have registered for their ‘My Rewards’ card.
In 2014, we launched a brand new incentive: ‘All Green —  
more than just a dream’. This incentive gives team members 
working in hotels the potential to earn an extra week’s salary  
if all their key metrics are achieved. This allows us to recognise 
Winning Teams and ensure that every team member is 
connected to our overall purpose.
In Restaurants we have developed a recognition strategy  
that balances out commercial success with great behaviours. 
We created a system of pin badges (white, silver and gold) 
and financial rewards which can be given to team members 
who have served up a great memory to guests.
We collect the best stories every month and a restaurant 
team member is surprised with a cheque for £1,000 for 
serving up great memories. These stories are included in our 
monthly interactive newsletter, Cover Stories, which is sent 
electronically to our team members.
In Restaurants we reward team members who have served up a great 
memory to guests.
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Hotels & Restaurants 
Winning Teams 16 Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 17
Hotels & Restaurants 
Customer Heartbeat
Hotels & Restaurants
Customer Heartbeat
The Premier Inn bed is the centrepiece of the customer  
offer and everything else in the room flows from it. We have 
partnered with Hypnos to develop our best–ever bed with 
1,200 individual pocket coil springs, a super–comfort 
integrated topper and mattress made from 100% recyclable 
materials supporting our Good Together programme. These 
beds assure comfort as well as durability and in 2014/15 we 
rolled out around 21,000 new beds. 
During the year we have continued to introduce our next 
generation of bedroom which, along with the new bed, 
features more contemporary design with excellent working 
space, aerated power shower and a 40–inch flat screen TV. 
The public areas in many of our hotels have also been given  
a make–over to create a better flow between the lobby and 
restaurant and create a fresher, more modern environment. 
Premier Inn’s in–house Thyme restaurant chain is one of the 
UK’s largest restaurant brands with 180 sites serving around 
two million dinners every year. 
The bed is the star!
Appealing to a broad customer base
Premier Inn has a uniquely broad customer base stretching 
across business and leisure segments. Our guests trust 
Premier Inn to deliver great value, providing comfort and 
quality at a reasonable price and with nearly 700 hotels across 
the UK they can rest assured they will find a Premier Inn near 
to where they want or need to be. 
In 2014/15 we launched four local language websites — 
German, Spanish, Italian and French — to make it easier for 
our international guests to book with us. Since the launch, 
web visitor volumes from these countries have gone up 
around 30% year–on–year and booking values have gone  
up around 38%.
Around 55% of guests who stay with us are travelling  
on business and many of them are holders of a Premier Inn 
Business Account card. It is a valuable tool and sales from  
the card now account for around 26% of all sales.
As the owner of the UK’s favourite 
hotel chain, Premier Inn, as well as 
restaurant brands including Brewers 
Fayre and Beefeater, we welcome  
over five million customers a month  
to stay or eat with us.
At Premier Inn we promise to ‘make our guests feel brilliant by giving 
them a great night’s sleep’.
At Premier Inn we’re all about sleep
We believe a great day starts with a great night’s sleep and 
we promise to ‘make our guests feel brilliant by giving them  
a great night’s sleep’. We are so convinced we can deliver on 
our promise that we offer the unique Premier Inn ‘Good Night 
Guarantee’ which means any guest that doesn’t get a good 
night’s sleep can get a full refund.
Sleep plays a key role in all our planning and investment 
decisions, from addressing problems that prevent our guests 
from getting a great night’s sleep, such as room temperature 
and noise; to perfecting the best–ever bed and room design; 
to creating impactful advertising campaigns.
In 2014/15 we invested £100 million in Premier Inn in  
product improvement, maintenance and systems to deliver 
the excellent standards our guests expect. This included  
a significant investment in providing unlimited free Wi–Fi  
across the estate, fully refurbishing 3,000 rooms, rolling  
out our new bed and installing air conditioning in around 
2,500 rooms. We plan to increase this investment to  
around £140 million in 2015/16, as we refurbish more rooms, 
complete the new bed roll out and continue the investment  
in our estate.
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Case study
Help Link UK Ltd operates in the renewable technology  
and central heating industry and has had a Premier Inn 
business account since 2012. They typically book around 
5,000 rooms per year and Dawn Matthias–Jackson, Help  
Link’s Procurement Manager, explains why Premier Inn  
is their hotel chain of choice.
“We receive excellent account 
management, in terms of 
always being able to contact 
our account manager who is 
more than willing and able to 
deal with any requests we have 
in a very professional and 
timely manner, together with 
being updated on all the latest 
developments from Premier 
Inn such as new locations and 
booking tools. 
We value the online booking 
tool as it is very user friendly 
and gives us all the 
management information 
requirements we could ever 
need, whilst enabling us to 
control spend. Premier Inn 
hotels are perfect for our 
people in terms of the amount 
of locations to select from and 
the consistency and standard 
of each location.”
An exciting innovation, ‘hub by Premier Inn’
In November 2014 we launched our first ever ‘hub by Premier 
Inn’ hotel on St. Martin’s Lane in central London. Over four 
years in development and testing, ‘hub by Premier Inn’  
has been shaped by extensive guest research and aims to 
capture the imagination of guests who already rely on 
technology for many other aspects of their everyday lives.
Each of the hotel’s 163 compact rooms is stylishly designed  
to make the best possible use of space and comes equipped 
with the latest technology, including a 40–inch smart TV. A 
state of the art app enables guests to check availability and 
book a room in minutes. Then, when they arrive, they can use 
the same app to control various settings in their room, such  
as changing the channel on the smart TV, or adjusting the 
room temperature and lights. The app also provides guests 
with a detailed local area guide, with the hottest places to  
go and things to do in the city. 
Targeted customer communications
With 89% of all our rooms booked online, Premier Inn is a 
major digital retailer. We drive traffic to www.premierinn.com 
with the help of the year–round TV advertising campaign 
featuring Lenny Henry, along with other promotional  
channels such as poster advertising, CRM and digital 
marketing. All channels work together highly effectively  
to enable guests to receive information about the brand  
in the way that they want.
In the past year we have significantly increased our social 
media presence and activity. We now have over 138,000 
friends on Facebook, up from around 96,000 last year  
and have the biggest social following of any UK based hotel 
chain. Our Twitter following is also up by more than a third  
to over 46,000. 
What our customers think of us
We always want to find out what our customers think of  
us so we can continuously improve. To do this we operate  
the largest consumer survey in Europe and over 900,000 
guests respond every year to our questionnaire, providing 
daily feedback for every single site. In 2014/15 69.9% of  
our guests gave us nine or ten out of ten.
We are tremendously proud to have been recognised once 
again as the Best Budget Hotel Chain by Business Traveller 
and in January 2015 we picked up their award for Best Mid 
Scale Hotel Chain beating four star hotels to the top spot. 
Premier Inn continues to lead the YouGov Hotel Brand Index
1
 
and has retained its title as ‘Best Value Hotel’ in the index for 
the fifth year running. 
YouGov — value measure
January








–
January

Premier Inn
Travelodge
Holiday Inn
January

January

January

January

–
Ibis
Marriott
Hilton

Key
1  Source: YouGov Brand Index. 52 week rolling average at 1 January 2015. 
 “Which of the following brands do you think represents good/poor  
value for money. By that we don’t mean cheap or expensive, but that 
the brands offer a customer a lot in return for price paid.”
Restaurants
Almost all of our 405 restaurants are co–located alongside  
a Premier Inn and play an important role in delivering the 
Premier Inn customer experience, offering a great value ‘all 
you can eat’ breakfast (free for children under 16) and a 
welcoming venue for dinner. Each restaurant is also a popular 
choice for the local community to dine out with friends and 
family and our restaurant teams are passionate about serving 
up great memories for their 47.6 million guests every year.
Hotels & Restaurants
Customer Heartbeat 
continued 
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 18
Hotels & Restaurants 
Customer Heartbeat Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Hotels & Restaurants 
Customer Heartbeat 19
In 2014/15 we have focused on building a broader customer 
base across these local communities, appealing to a younger 
audience and those with families. We have refreshed our 
Beefeater Grill brand and given it a more contemporary  
look and feel, which has led to new customers trying out the 
brand for the first time. In those 38 sites which have been 
re–branded we have seen guest scores that relate to branding 
and environment increase by an average of 15% pts following 
refurbishment. Importantly, our focus on refreshing the  
brand proposition helps us to provide a better service to the 
Premier Inn customer, enhancing their overall experience.
For families we have launched new kids’ programmes in each 
of our three main brands. Beefeater Grill has partnered again 
with Mr Men (we had previously partnered with Mr Men in the 
1980’s and 1990’s), Brewers Fayre’s younger guests are loving 
The Beano promotions and Table Table is delighting children 
with its Horrible Histories fun and games!
We have launched new kids’ programmes in each of our three  
main restaurant brands.
Our brand loyalty schemes are enabling us to understand  
our customers better and tailor our communications and 
promotions in a much more relevant and personalised way. 
We now have 1.5 million members across our Beefeater  
Grill Reward Club, Brewers Fayre Bonus Club and Table  
Table Tasty Rewards loyalty programmes.
Increasingly we are connecting with our guests through  
social media and in the year we have seen significant growth 
in presence on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter with over 
515,000 fans on Facebook and over 17,000 Twitter followers 
across the three main brands.
In Restaurants, serving up great memories is about cooking 
quality food consistently well that is served by our Winning 
Teams who go the extra mile to create great memories for our 
guests. We are delighted that in the year we have seen record 
guest scores with the overall net guest score at 67%, with 
75.9% scoring us nine or ten out of ten. 
When we ask our guests specifically what they think about 
the quality of our food they are scoring us highly, with food 
scores up significantly year–on–year at 61.9%. This is as a 
result of the great new menus we have created with popular 
new dishes such as ‘Beef and Merlot Pie’ which became our 
top seller after being launched in Autumn 2014. 
The new ‘Beef and Merlot Pie’.
Creating great memories
In our business people are the main ingredient. After all,  
it is the waiter or waitress serving a guest that can make all  
the difference to their experience and if a guest has a great 
memory of their visit then they are more likely to tell their 
friends and family. Guests are scoring us more highly for  
levels of service with scores up 2.3% pts in the year. This is 
being driven by continued investment in training our teams  
at our three specialist food and drink skills academies and 
generally improving our training right across the board.
Serving up great memories for Sammy
Sammy is a teenage boy with severe autism. He has his set 
routines and, for Sammy, a huge part of his routine is visiting the 
Central Park Brewers Fayre in Rugby. Sammy visits every day at 
the same time, with his dad, Ben and he always asks for a Sammy 
Special for lunch which consists of: two pieces of bacon and two 
fried eggs on white bread, jelly in one bowl and chocolate ice–
cream with two flakes in another dish.
The team at Central Park know Sammy very well and Kirsty, a Team 
Leader, wanted to do something special so she worked with the 
marketing and systems teams at support centre and between them 
they set up a special button on the till for Sammy’s order, which  
has pleased Sammy no end and ensures he always gets exactly the 
same meal, every visit!
Hotels & Restaurants
Customer Heartbeat 
continued  Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Hotels & Restaurants
Profitable Growth
These opportunities include room extensions to existing 
hotels and access to central London that the ‘hub by Premier 
Inn’ is providing us. We have therefore set out a new milestone  
to reach around 85,000 rooms in 2020.
London remains a key area for expansion and we plan  
to grow our London estate to around 20,000 rooms in 2020.  
This includes 3,500 of our new compact city centre hotel 
brand, ‘hub by Premier Inn’. 
Our committed pipeline remains strong with 12,465 rooms  
of which 5,568 are in London and 5,158 are freehold 
properties. This puts us on track to achieve our 2016 growth 
milestone and well on our way towards reaching our target  
of around 75,000 rooms by 2018.
Whilst we focus on delivering our organic growth strategy  
it is also important that we continue to deliver good like  
for like growth. Our focus on the quality and consistency  
of our product and services, combined with the key levers  
of dynamic pricing, digital, reinvestment in our estate and 
network strength, improved like for like sales by 9.1% for 
Premier Inn during 2014/15.
Premier Inn’s market–leading position
Premier Inn continues to deliver a market–leading customer 
experience combined with offering the best value for  
money in the sector (according to YouGov, as shown  
on page 18.)
Through investing in better rooms for our customers, growing 
the strength of our network and implementing an enhanced 
refurbishment programme, we have further reinforced our 
competitive position and improved our customer experience. 
The quality and consistency of our guest experience, together 
with the strength of our network, has resulted in top customer 
satisfaction scores with Premier Inn scoring 4.3 out of  
5.0 on TripAdvisor and 82% in the recent WHICH? UK hotel  
chain survey. 
We continue to invest in the refurbishment and maintenance 
of our Premier Inn estate and we spent around £100 million  
in 2014/15, up from £80 million in the prior year. Through this 
we have refurbished some 12,700 rooms, rolled out around 
21,000 new beds, taking the total number of new beds to 
around 34,000, as well as installed air conditioning in a further 
2,500 rooms. We have also upgraded our Wi–Fi capability 
and installed free Wi–Fi across the Premier Inn estate.
During 2014/15 our Hotels & 
Restaurants business performed well. 
Total sales grew by 11.1%, a strong 
performance that reflects like for like 
sales growth of 6.6% and total rooms 
growth of 7.2%. Underlying profit  
rose by 15.3% to £401.4 million and 
return on capital increased by 0.2% 
pts to 13.5%. 
Driving profitable growth and returns
Hotels & Restaurants delivered a strong performance with 
revenue increasing by 11.1% to £1,659.2 million. Premier  
Inn grew total sales by 15.3% to £1,116.4 million with like for  
like sales growth of 9.1% and 4,103 net new room openings. 
Restaurants grew total sales by 3.2% to £542.8 million with  
like for like sales growth of 2.1% and the opening of four  
new restaurants. Our strong EBITDA growth provides cash 
generation to support the capital investment for both 
reinvestment in the business and organic growth as we 
invested £483.1 million in growing and improving our hotel  
and restaurant estate during the period. At the same time  
we grew our returns to 13.5% as we continue to focus on 
growing profits and creating sustainable shareholder value.
Premier Inn has grown its market share with RevPAR and room 
growth. In the year we saw a good recovery in the regional 
hotel market with RevPAR growth of 10.1%, with Premier Inn 
regional RevPAR up 9.7% at the same time increasing rooms 
available by 5%. In London, Premier Inn grew RevPAR by 1.7% 
whilst increasing rooms available by 14%.
UK growth milestones
At the end of 2012/13 we extended our growth milestones  
to reach around 75,000 rooms by 2018 with our share of the 
total hotel market rising from 8.0% to around 10.0% in this 
period. In 2014/15 we made good progress against these 
objectives opening 4,103 net new Premier Inn rooms in  
25 net new hotels ending the year with a total of 59,138  
rooms and a pipeline of 12,465 rooms.
Our strong market position with record occupancy of  
81.3%, low market share in London and the increase in 
customer demand brought about by the economic recovery  
is leading to further growth opportunities beyond 2018.  
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Hotels & Restaurants 
Profitable Growth 20 Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Hotels & Restaurants 
Profitable Growth 21
We are investing in our direct digital distribution, with  
www.premierinn.com being our customers’ preferred  
booking channel, representing 80% of bookings, up from  
63% in 2010/11. Visits from mobile devices continues to  
be one of the fastest growing channels, increasing 34%  
year on year to account for 45% of all traffic. 
Premier Inn — 80% direct distribution




















Key
Premier Inn
digital direct
Web indirect
Non–automated
Percentage of customers booking through different reservation channels.
Our dynamic pricing system aims to deliver efficient pricing 
for all our hotels, with the combination of high occupancy  
and great value for money. During 2014/15 we made good 
progress, achieving record occupancy of 81.3%, up 3.2% pts, 
growing rooms available by 6.1% and increasing total RevPAR 
by 8.7%. Dynamic pricing helps us to achieve this growth 
whilst maintaining our value for money proposition and 
delivering a good return on capital. 
Winning market share
At the end of 2014/15 we had a total of 697 hotels (59,138 
rooms), 39% more than our nearest competitor, enabling us  
to offer customers the widest choice of location. We expect  
to open around 5,500 new UK rooms in 2015/16, leaving us 
around a further 10,000 rooms to open to reach our 2018 
milestone. Our committed pipeline continues to grow, with  
the addition of 5,169 new rooms in the year taking the total  
to 12,465. 
2020 Growth milestones — c.85,000 UK rooms
Key
Premier Inn Closures
Key
Committed pipeline Uncommitted
ccpacpa
New room
openings
– 
target
c

target
c
– 
target
c
– Today

 ‘hub by Premier Inn’
The London hotel market remains a key growth opportunity 
and we plan to grow our London estate from 10,214 to around 
18,000 rooms by 2018 and around 20,000 in 2020. This  
will include 3,500 ‘hub by Premier Inn’ rooms. ‘hub’ is a new 
generation of compact, city centre hotel which offers a 
contemporary room design, excellent connectivity and good 
value for money and appeals to customers who value price, 
location and design over space. As the footprint of a hub  
room is around 45% smaller than that of a Premier Inn room  
it provides us with access to central London and, with a lower  
cost base, would deliver similarly good returns on capital to  
a Premier Inn at a 30% lower price point. 
Hotels & Restaurants
Profitable Growth 
continued  Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Hotels & Restaurants
Profitable Growth 
continued 
Our first ‘hub by Premier Inn’ hotel opened in St. Martin’s  
Lane in November 2014 and, although early days, the guest 
feedback has been very positive. The TripAdvisor score  
is 4.4 with 90% of correspondents rating their stay an 
excellent or very good experience.
We have ten hub hotels in the committed pipeline for  
London and a further three hub hotels in the committed 
pipeline for Edinburgh.
Premier Inn Germany
At our WHR Investor Day in July 2013 we announced that we 
were researching the German hotel market and in September 
2014 we acquired our first trial hotel in Frankfurt. The total 
investment will be around £25 million and the hotel, which has 
around 200 bedrooms, is due to open in the first half of 2016. 
The German hotel market is around a third larger than the  
UK’s, with around 900,000 hotel rooms, and is much more 
fragmented. The penetration of the branded budget sector  
is relatively low at 5% in comparison to 22% in the UK. The 
independents have the highest share of the German hotel 
market at 74%, albeit over time their share has been in gradual 
decline, similar to the trend we have seen in the UK. We  
intend to have around six to eight hotels in three or four major 
cities in Germany in 2020, leveraging our UK capabilities as 
we extend into this market.
Premier Inn International
Premier Inn International is focused on fast–growing, emerging 
markets such as the Middle East, South East Asia and India. 
During 2014/15 our international hotels made good progress 
with like for like occupancy rising 2.1% pts to 79.6% and like 
for like RevPAR growing 10.5% to £35.68. Our five hotels in the 
Middle East are now generating profits and, whilst our three 
hotels in India are in a challenging market, there are good 
longer–term opportunities. 
Although it has taken longer than we expected to sign 
management contracts and to open hotels, our international 
pipeline continues to build as we transition from an asset 
heavy to asset light structure to accelerate future growth.  
We have a strong committed pipeline of 26 hotels (up from  
22 last year) and we see the potential for opening around 
10,000 rooms (around 50 hotels) in 2020.
Restaurants
Restaurants made good progress in the year, with total  
sales growth of 3.2% and like for like sales growth of 2.1%, 
outperforming the Coffer Peach industry benchmark outside 
of the M25. While the first three quarters of the year showed  
a good performance there was a marked slowdown in the 
market in the fourth quarter. Management continues to  
focus on new menu ranges, better procurement and smarter 
promotions through using data from our loyalty cards to  
drive top line performance. We have also made good 
progress in rejuvenating our brands with our Brewers Fayre 
brand refresh now complete and 38 Beefeaters converted  
to our new format. The goal for our restaurants business  
is to ‘serve up great memories’ and it is pleasing to see that 
our guest scores have shown an improving trend increasing 
1.3% pts to 67.4%.
We continue to focus on new menu ranges.
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Hotels & Restaurants 
Profitable Growth 22 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Hotels & Restaurants 
Good Together 23
2016/17 targets Progress
Team and Community
• 
Raise £7.5 million for The Premier Inn  
Clinical Building at Great Ormond Street 
Children’s Hospital.
• 
10,000 nationally recognised qualifications 
for team members (including 3,000 
apprenticeships).
• 
5,000 new jobs created (50% of these filled 
by young and long–term unemployed).
• 
4,500 school work experience placements.
• 
5,000 local community hours given.
• 
Over £4 million raised for Great Ormond Street Hospital Children’s Charity. 
• 
Over 940 apprentices in learning.
• 
Over 1,200 new jobs (many filled by young and long–term unemployed). 
• 
Over 1,200 work placements completed. 
• 
61,079 volunteering hours given. 
• 
Over 1,000 school, college and university students completed work  
experience placements.
Customer Wellbeing
• 
Accreditation and sustainable supply  
of global critical products.
• 
Progressive improvement of information  
on nutritional content across our food  
and drink portfolio, enabling customers  
to make informed choices.
• 
Communicate with our customers openly 
and transparently about our actions, plans 
and achievements.
• 
Launched sustainable supply strategy to supplier base with robust  
risk analysis to assess supplier performance against 2017 sustainable 
sourcing target. 
• 
Continued focus and progress within our food platforms to reduce  
salt content in line with Department of Health targets.
• 
Upweighted activity on development within our food and drink portfolio, 
delivering further focus on calorific content and nutritional value.
• 
Continued high levels of traceability and audits for meat products.
Energy and Environment
• 
25% carbon reduction from direct 
operations (relative to sales against  
a 2009 baseline). 
• 
10% carbon reduction across supply  
chain activities (against a 2014 baseline). 
• 
25% water consumption reduction  
(relative to sales against a 2009 baseline). 
• 
Zero waste to landfill from direct operations. 
• 
Certified energy and environmental 
induction training for all team members. 
• 
Conduct energy assessment audits  
across all properties.
• 
25.59% less carbon emitted than in 2009 relative to sales. 
• 
Doubled the amount of renewable energy purchased to 60% and self 
generated over one million kWh from Solar PV panels on our hotels.
• 
Data collection tool identified and project launched to determine  
baseline carbon footprint within our supply chain activities.
• 
Delivery of tools and supplier workshops to enable suppliers to reduce 
carbon within their operations underway.
• 
20.85% water consumption reduction relative to sales against our  
2009 baseline. 
• 
95.47% of waste now diverted from landfill from direct operations. 
• 
Developed new energy assessment audits to comply with Energy  
Savings Opportunity Scheme regulation requirements.
Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t
Hotels & Restaurants
Good T ogether
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Costa 
The Business Model in action 24
Costa
The Business Model in action
Winning Teams Customer Heartbeat
Our approach
• 
 We recruit, reward, train and develop  
our team members to build highly 
engaged teams who deliver a great  
coffee experience for our customers. 
• 
We develop talented leaders 
and offer jobs with opportunities 
and exciting international career 
prospects.
Our approach
• 
The size of our network and the 
number of distribution channels 
mean you are never far from  
a cup of Costa coffee.
• 
 We serve great quality coffee.
• 
We constantly develop new food  
and drink ideas.
• 
We design our stores to create  
a warm and welcoming experience.
• 
We use customer insight to build 
customer satisfaction.
• 
We maintain quality through  
ongoing refurbishment.
Business Model in action
Creating employment opportunities
• 
Costa created 1,900 new UK jobs 
during the year.
• 
574 people were given the 
opportunity to manage one of 
our coffee shops in 2014/15 and  
213 of them are managing their  
own business for the first time.
Building strong leadership
• 
Costa’s senior leaders were engaged 
to create a talent plan for the future 
focused on recognising, developing 
and coaching the talent within the 
organisation.
• 
A new Costa Talent Charter has been 
introduced, enabling the creation  
of opportunities and support  
for our team members to develop 
their careers.
Investment in our people
• 
Our new Coffee Ambassador training 
programme, developed to enhance 
store managers’ coffee knowledge 
and expertise, has been attended  
by 1,124 store managers.
• 
A further 2,795 team members 
attended coffee–based training 
courses, with 753 receiving  
individual development training.
Business Model in action
Making everyday experiences special
• 
At Costa we aim to deliver a 
combination of lovingly hand–crafted 
quality coffee, absolute convenience, 
a real community spirit, a warm 
welcoming atmosphere and, above 
all, friendly expert barista service.
• 
In the past year we have focused on 
capturing and defining what makes 
Costa unique and how this translates 
for our millions of customers around 
the world.
Product innovation and continuous 
improvement
• 
We launched a new series of  
coffee roasts, Old Paradise Street 
Limited Roasts, to complement  
our existing Mocha Italia blend.
• 
Our first savoury gluten–free  
product, the British Chicken and  
Basil Salad Wrap, was added  
to the existing award–winning 
gluten–free sweet range.
• 
The new ‘Marlow’ Costa Express 
machine offers up to 240  
different variations of hot drink.
Convenient and accessible locations
• 
We have grown our presence in the 
UK and overseas, as well as extending 
our channels to include drive thru, 
cinemas, health clubs and offices,  
so our customers can enjoy a Costa 
coffee wherever they may be.
• 
We now have over 3,000 stores 
worldwide together with over  
4,000 Costa Express machines.
Market–leading brands
• 
Costa won the Allegra Strategies 
award for ‘Best Coffee Shop  
Chain Europe’.
Brand preference and loyalty
• 
YouGov’s annual usage and awareness 
study showed that, if a Costa, 
Starbucks and Caffè Nero were next  
to each other, 38% of respondents 
would choose Costa, 17% would 
choose Starbucks and 12% would 
choose Caffè Nero.
• 
The Costa Coffee Club has around  
2.5 million active card holders.
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Costa 
The Business Model in action 25
Profitable Growth Good Together
Our approach
• 
We invest in our stores to strengthen 
our position as UK market leader  
and expand in selected international 
markets where we can build 
significant presence. 
• 
We use a number of different 
ownership models including Costa–
owned equity stores, franchise and 
joint ventures. Internationally, we 
continue to build a strong franchise 
business and are extending our 
Costa–owned equity model into  
key countries.
Our approach
• 
 We raise money for the Costa 
Foundation, which builds school 
projects in coffee–growing 
communities.
• 
Our teams take pride in supporting  
their local communities.
• 
We are creating more than 1,000  
new job opportunities on average 
every year.
• 
All our coffee is 100% Rainforest 
Alliance accredited and all our 
products are sustainably, ethically 
and, wherever possible, locally 
sourced.
• 
We are reducing waste to landfill  
and our carbon footprint in  
relative terms.
Business Model in action
Winning market share, growing  
sales and driving efficiencies
• 
Costa’s total system sales grew  
by 16.6% to 1,398.7 million in 2014/15.
• 
The UK Retail business delivered  
an 16.2% increase in sales, with like  
for like sales up 6.0%.
• 
We have announced a new Costa 
milestone to grow system sales  
to around £2.5 billion in 2020.
Strong cash flow and balance sheet
• 
Costa’s strong cash flow generation 
supports its growth plans and the 
refurbishment of its estate.
Expansion in the UK and in selected 
international markets
• 
During the year we opened 176  
net new UK stores, taking the total 
number to 1,931.
• 
Costa now has a presence in 29 
countries outside of the UK, with the 
opening of 43 net new stores in the 
year taking the total to 1,149.
• 
777 net new Costa Express machines 
were added as we continued to 
expand the business both in the  
UK and overseas.
Strong returns on capital
• 
Costa grew returns by 5.8% pts  
to 46.3%.
Business Model in action
Team and Community
• 
Over £1.7 million was raised for the 
Costa Foundation, which has now 
provided access to education for  
over 30,000 children.
• 
An additional nine school projects  
were completed, with ten more  
under construction.
Customer Wellbeing
• 
Nutrition and allergen information 
available for every product in store 
and on the website.
• 
All of Costa’s coffee, tea and  
hot chocolate are sourced from 
Rainforest Alliance Certified farms.
Environment
• 
Monitored UK stores achieved a 
32.35% reduction in carbon emissions 
relative to sales versus the 2009 
baseline.
• 
80.67% of all operational waste from 
Costa’s UK owned stores is now 
diverted from landfill.
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t
Costa
The Business Model in action 
continued  Costa 
Winning Teams
Costa
Winning T eams
We believe that if we create a great 
place to work for our team members 
this will help us to build Winning 
Teams to make everyday experiences 
special for millions of Costa customers.
Listening and taking action
Costa uses Whitbread’s six–monthly team engagement  
survey, ‘Your Say’, to measure how well we are doing at 
building a great place to work.
Team engagement survey: ‘Your Say’
  Engagement Engagement Response Response 
  score  score rate rate 
  Oct 2014 Oct 2013 Oct 2014 Oct 2013
Costa 80% 83% 82% 88%
Costa achieved a high engagement score of 80%, with 82%  
of people completing the survey. Key priority areas identified 
were to improve communication and the provision of tools 
required to do the job.
This year our teams contributed to the revision of our  
summer drinks campaign by streamlining the process for 
making the drinks to make it simpler and more efficient.  
This approach was so successful that we repeated the  
process for our Christmas 2014 campaign.
Team turnover
As we emerge from recession we have observed a  
tightening labour market and work is underway to deepen  
our understanding of why people leave Costa and to help us 
make sure that everyone we recruit can have a career with us. 
In order to gain such understanding, we’ve launched a new 
exit interview questionnaire, organised listening groups and 
built on our annual engagement with a pulse survey. This has 
helped us to develop a clear strategy that focuses on pay  
for progression, training platforms and ensuring we have the 
best joiner experience for new starters.
We have adopted a new recruitment framework which 
focuses on finding the right people, giving them a great 
recruitment experience and inducting them in the right way  
to ensure we create loyal and engaged team members.
Costa DNA
To achieve our vision of becoming the world’s favourite  
coffee shop brand, we have spent the last year working hard 
to make sure that our Costa DNA can be found wherever  
you are in the world. 
Our DNA is who we are as a brand and importantly how  
our teams feel about working here. Our new online global 
magazine, Extra Shot is a fantastic platform for connecting 
our business around the world. It provides news, updates  
and stories from across our business units and is available  
to Costa employees everywhere.
Talent and succession 
With our continued growth targets, it is increasingly important 
to ensure that we have the right people in place to deliver our 
goals. We have engaged Costa’s senior leaders to create a 
talent plan for the future, which includes a range of activities 
focused on developing, coaching and recognising the talent 
we have, and creating ownership to recruit and invest in more 
talent for the future. Included in these plans are a Talent Board 
to discuss and manage key activities and our commitment to 
the business, and the Costa Talent Charter that will enable us 
to create more opportunities and support our team members 
to develop their careers. 
Opportunities for progression
As our business grows so do the number of job opportunities. 
During the year 1,900 new jobs were created in the UK.  
We have successfully recruited for over 190 vacancies,  
from management level in stores to globally–based roles  
in our support functions. Over 40 of these were filled by 
internal candidates and 50 were brand new roles.
During the year, we provided 574 people with the opportunity 
to manage a coffee shop and 213 of these are managing their 
own business for the first time.
To help support our ambitious growth plans, we are 
increasingly focused on ensuring cross–pollination of talent 
between business units to create a well–rounded succession 
pipeline that benefits from the transference of ideas and 
experiences within Costa.
Lee Rice, Barista Maestro — France
“When I started in UK Equity it  
was in a brand new store which 
had a real emphasis on team 
dynamics and great customer 
service. Corporate Franchise 
also had a real sales focus — 
giving great customer service, 
making great drinks and  
going the extra mile to advise 
customers. I feel like I’m now 
encouraging similar things here 
in France. In the UK, Costa is  
a well–established brand with  
a certain prestige for both 
customers and staff. In France, 
cafés like Costa are largely new 
and unheard of which means  
we are really building from  
the ground up to establish 
customer loyalty. Working 
across different business  
units has given me many new 
professional experiences,  
and broadened my horizons 
beyond measure. 
I have worked in training, 
coaching, auditing and 
management in stores of all 
sizes. Trying a whole range  
of roles has helped me identify 
my strengths as well as areas  
for improvement. I have also  
had the privilege of working 
with some great people at  
all levels, from whom I have  
learned a lot.”
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 26 Costa 
Winning Teams
Ruth Sowerby, HR Graduate — China
In Autumn 2014 Costa created its first ever international 
graduate placement. Ruth Sowerby, an HR Graduate (second  
to left), undertook a five month placement in Shanghai with  
the Costa China team.
“I feel very privileged to have 
the opportunity to support our 
Shanghai team. In moving 
towards becoming a truly 
global brand, we are aligning 
our training programmes to 
reflect local market needs 
whilst retaining their core 
structure. 
When I arrived I was given a 
very warm welcome which 
helped me settle in and quickly 
feel at home. I have also had 
the chance to visit several store 
teams and meet other key 
stakeholders in our Chinese 
business. Everyone here 
exhibits the same core Costa 
values that I experienced  
in the UK!
Working internationally has 
given me the opportunity  
to share and increase my 
knowledge about how other  
HR processes are transferred 
globally, as well as an 
opportunity to build on my 
language skills.” 
 ‘Get Britain Back to Work’ campaign
In July Costa visited Glasgow, Manchester, Birmingham and 
London to support the Sun newspaper with its ‘Get Britain 
back to work’ campaign, to help connect job seekers with 
opportunities. 
The events were a great way to engage local communities 
with the fantastic opportunities Costa has, not just for jobs 
but also for careers. During the course of the week we 
completed over 500 interviews and, out of those, nearly  
300 went forward for a store trial or interview.
Apprenticeship scheme
This summer we will be launching our first ever Costa 
Apprenticeship programme. The scheme will begin with  
an Intermediate Level 2 Apprenticeship in Customer Service 
and Barista Skills. Each individual will be supported by a  
clear personalised development plan to ensure that they  
learn a range of skills and have the opportunity to progress  
in the Company.
Advanced and Higher level apprenticeships will follow  
as part of the wider apprenticeship scheme.
The Prince’s Trust
Our work with the Prince’s Trust enabled us to give access  
to work to more young people than ever before, with  
38 joining the programme in 2014/15 and 15 being offered  
long–term employment as a direct result of their placement.
Developing our teams
In 2014 we refocused on coffee as a core element of our 
heritage and as a foundation for future growth. We invested  
in a Coffee Ambassador training programme to take every 
Store Manager out of the business to enhance their coffee 
knowledge and expertise. They then took accountability for 
the coaching and development of their teams. To date 1,124 
managers have attended the programme and it is mandatory 
for all new Store Managers.
In addition we took a further 3,548 people out of the business 
to attend other training programmes; 2,795 for other coffee–
based training, and a further 753 for individual development.
Celebrating and recognising our teams
The most important ingredient in our coffee is our people  
and we are constantly searching for relevant and impactful 
ways to celebrate and recognise achievement, such as a  
suite of pins (flying beans) and awards that we present at  
our conferences and meetings.
Barista of the Year 2014
Now in its 9th year, our internal competition to find Costa’s 
best barista continues to be a stand out point in the Costa 
calendar for celebrating and recognising our brilliant team 
members for the pride, passion and personality that they 
bring to work every day. The competition runs from April  
to October and sees Costa baristi around the world take part 
in increasingly challenging levels of competition before flying 
to London to take part in the two day global Champion of 
Champions final. 
This year the global final saw baristi from China, the Middle 
East, Europe and the UK go head to head in front of a live 
audience of over 250 Costa stakeholders. The winner was 
Prakash Rai, a Barista from Dubai International Airport who 
wowed the judges with a technically brilliant performance.
Prakash Rai, Dubai — Barista of the Year 2014
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 27
Costa
Winning Teams 
continued  Costa 
Customer Heartbeat
Costa
Customer Heartbeat
The UK’s Favourite Coffee Shop
We were very proud to be named the nation’s Favourite 
Coffee Shop brand for the fifth consecutive year after 
industry experts, Allegra, published their annual Project  
Café 15 UK report for 2014. 50% of an independent consumer 
panel named Costa as their favourite coffee shop, up 2% pts 
on the prior year’s result. This market–leading position  
is reinforced by YouGov’s Usage and Awareness (U&A)  
annual study, which asks the question ‘If there were a Costa, 
Starbucks and Caffè Nero next door to each other which 
would be your first choice to visit for a break and/or a chat?’.
Brand preference
2
 — Costa is the UK’s favourite 







        
Key
CostaStarbucks Caè Nero
2  Brand preference YouGov U&A annual study, “If there were a Costa, 
Starbucks and a Caffè Nero next door to each other which would be  
your first choice to visit for a break and/or a chat?”
The UK is increasingly a nation  
of coffee drinkers. A recent Allegra 
report
1
 found that 80% of UK 
consumers visit a coffee shop at least 
once a week and drink an estimated 
two billion cups of coffee per year  
on those visits. 
Costa has led this trend in the UK and the brand is at the 
forefront of the growth of coffee shop culture around the 
world. Earlier this year we were delighted to win the  
Allegra Strategies award for ‘Best Coffee Chain Europe’. 
The ‘Home of Irresistible Coffee’
As the ‘Home of Irresistible Coffee’ we believe that our 
success has been built through a combination of elements — 
lovingly hand–crafted quality coffee, convenience, a real 
community spirit, a warm welcoming atmosphere and, above 
all, friendly expert barista service. 
In the past year we have focused on capturing and defining 
what makes our brand unique and how this translates for our 
millions of customers around the world. By creating a cycle  
of constant improvement in our look and feel, food offering, 
store service and product design, as well as marketing  
and customer communications, we will ensure that Costa 
continues to be the ‘Home of Irresistible Coffee’ for many 
years to come.
Our customers find a warm, welcoming atmosphere at Costa.
1 Project Café 15 UK report for 2014.
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 28 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Costa 
Customer Heartbeat 29
Old Paradise Street Limited Roasts
In September 2014, for the first time in Costa’s 43 year history, 
we launched a new series of coffee roasts, to complement  
our existing Mocha Italia blend. Named after the street in 
Lambeth, which was the birthplace of the Costa Roastery,  
the Old Paradise Street Limited Roasts have been created  
by our Master of Coffee, Gennaro Pelliccia. These limited 
edition roasts provide customers with greater choice  
and cater to changing consumer appetites as people’s 
appreciation of coffee becomes increasingly sophisticated.
Our Old Paradise Street Limited Roasts have been created by our 
Master of Coffee, Gennaro Pelliccia. 
Limited roast.
Unique origin.
Exceptional taste.
Try our new Old Paradise Street 
Limited Roast No.7 , made with 
100% Sumatran beans.
Start Date: 30/04/2015 Remove Date: COP 27/05/2015 CC051527A
The first of the Old Paradise Street Limited Roasts was Roast 
No.3. Made from 100% arabica beans from Colombia and 
Brazil it brings dark chocolate notes with a hint of pepper  
and a sweet buttery aroma. The second Roast to launch,  
in January 2015, was Roast No.5 which has a dark roasted 
almond taste with a bitter sweet lingering flavour. A great 
example of Costa’s commitment to innovation, we will 
continue to introduce further new Limited Roasts in the years 
to come, showcasing new flavours to our customers and 
meeting demand for customised and personalised drinks.
Giving our customers choice
Around 40% of transactions involve the purchase of  
food and we place a tremendous focus on making sure we  
have a great range of sweet and savoury products for them  
to choose from. We know that many of our customers come 
in to our stores for an indulgent treat and our new range of 
mini tarts are a range of delicious sweet treats such as mini 
banoffee tart and pecan tart, each one less than 150 calories. 
We also aim to cater to an increasing number of our 
customers that follow a coeliac diet. In the year we launched 
our first savoury gluten–free product, the British Chicken  
and Basil Salad Wrap, which is proving very popular and 
complements our existing award–winning gluten–free  
sweet range.
2014 was a year that saw some exciting new product launches 
in our 344 Costa China stores. In March 2014 we launched  
the Flat White, which received positive customer feedback 
and quickly moved to around 10% of coffee sales, despite  
it being a relatively niche coffee drink in a still immature 
coffee–drinking market. Whilst, in February 2015 we unveiled 
a new, special edition drink that draws on inspiration from 
both East and West and is a mix of Earl Grey Tea and Mocha 
Italia coffee, aptly named Café Grey. 
We love to listen and learn
Costa’s success is thanks to the passion and support of our 
baristas who transform our stores into vibrant communities 
and go the extra mile to put a smile on the face of every single 
customer. To motivate and engage our baristas we have a 
‘Listen and Learn’ customer insight programme that provides 
real time customer feedback to each UK store so they can  
find out directly what their customers are saying about their 
experience. On average each store receives around 26 pieces 
of feedback per month which are then discussed by the store 
team. This information gives them the insight and inspiration 
to find ways to delight customers even more.
Comfortable and inviting stores, where our customers can feel  
at home. 
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Costa
Customer Heartbeat 
continued  Costa
Customer Heartbeat 
continued 
Bringing quality coffee to the customer — everywhere
We know from customer research that people won’t travel  
far for a cup of coffee, which is why we’ve put so much energy 
and focus into growing our presence in the UK and overseas. 
We have extended our channels (such as drive thru, cinemas, 
health clubs and offices) so our customers can enjoy a cup  
of irresistible coffee, wherever they may be.
Number of UK stores 
Key
Costa
Starbucks
Caè Nero
   












We have become the first coffee shop brand to embrace 
innovative ways to deliver our coffee to places where there  
is simply no room for a full barista–service. We now have  
over 4,200 Costa Express machines including over 300 in 
international markets. Our new ‘Marlow’ model Costa Express 
machine offers up to 240 different types of hot drinks and has 
been designed to appeal to all five senses with the machine 
emitting coffee–shop inspired sounds and aromas and a screen 
that depicts the coffee journey from bean to cup.
Our 3,080 stores worldwide are designed to be comfortable 
and inviting so that wherever they are in the world our 
customers can feel at home, so we invested £25.9 million in 
improving our product in the current year. Across the UK  
we have refurbished 117 stores in 2014/15 and now more than 
half of our estate is new or refurbished in the last three years. 
Additionally, we have been developing a new global store 
design that brings to life ‘The Home of Irresistible Coffee’.  
The new design delivers the warmth and comfort that we 
know our customers want in their local coffee shop and uses 
wall art to reflect our coffee heritage and expertise. Currently 
on trial in selected stores in the UK, and with test sites  
to open internationally, the initial customer feedback has  
been very positive and we will roll out the new design more  
widely in 2015/16.
Strengthening our digital presence
In September 2014 we launched a new Coffee Club app, 
making it easier than ever for customers to reap rewards 
whilst enjoying the food and drink they love, (five points  
for every whole £1 spent and each point is worth a penny). 
Our four million active card members no longer need to  
carry a Coffee Club card in their wallet as everything is on the 
app, which means that when the barista scans the phone the 
points are automatically added to the customer’s account. 
The new app features a ‘location’ button to search for the 
nearest Costa and also enables customers to filter the search 
for the facilities they are looking for, such as baby–changing, 
disabled access, drive thru or Costa Express. Also included  
is a ‘What’s New’ feature with the latest news and offers and 
customers can customise the app by picking a background 
and adding a photo. 
In China, we used a digital campaign to promote the winning 
drink from Costa’s Barista of the Year competition. We 
created a microsite and invited customers to post their 
pictures and enter a competition to win six round–trip British 
Airways tickets to London. The campaign was very popular 
with thousands of submissions to the site.
We continue to grow our social media presence and now  
have over 1.2 million Facebook fans and over 140,000 Twitter 
followers.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Costa 
Customer Heartbeat 30 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Costa 
Profitable Growth 31
Costa
Profitable Growth
The UK coffee shop market
Over the last fifteen years there has been a series of social 
trends which have underpinned growth in the coffee shop 
market. According to coffee experts Allegra Strategies, UK 
branded chains outlets have grown at around 6% CAGR  
over 2008–2014 with further growth expected over the  
next few years.
Six years ago there were fewer than 11,000 outlets in the  
UK, today there are just under 19,000 and in 2020 this is 
expected to rise to over 27,000. Changes in consumer habits 
are cited as the major drivers behind the growth of this sector, 
including the rise in female spending power, increased mobile 
working and the evolution of the high street with many coffee 
venues increasingly acting as social and community hubs. Our 
relentless focus on understanding the changing needs of our 
customers and our rigorous approach to providing excellent 
execution has played a major part in our success and helped 
differentiate us from the competition. 
UK Retail
During 2014/15 our UK Retail business delivered another 
strong performance with sales up 16.2% and like for like  
sales in our UK equity stores up 6.0%. Increasing numbers  
of transactions continues to power like for like growth, driven 
by the increasing consumption of coffee as Costa remains  
the UK’s favourite coffee shop.
Our strong organic growth is continuing and we extended  
our lead in the UK, opening 176 net new stores in the year, 
taking the total to 1,931. This puts us on track to reach over 
2,200 stores in the UK by 2018. With the strength of our  
brand and the growing consumption of coffee we see further 
opportunity to grow our store base to over 2,500 in 2020. 
Product innovation underpins our like for like growth  
and we are pleased with the success of our new range of 
coffee blends, Old Paradise Street Limited Roasts, as well  
as the extension of our food offering. The success of our 
breakfast offering and the launch of our new sweet range 
continue to drive our performance in different day parts,  
with our food capture rate representing around 40%  
of transactions. 
Investment in our stores is a key element of our strategy,  
with 117 equity stores refurbished in 2014/15. The investment 
in organic growth, innovation, our teams and our stores  
has enabled us to increase our share of the UK coffee shop  
market and to build market–leading customer preference  
for our brand. The coffee shop brand preference survey  
(as conducted by YouGov) rates Costa as the clear  
number one.
Costa delivered another outstanding 
performance during the year, with 
total sales up 17 .9% driven by strong 
UK Retail and Enterprises sales 
growth, together with the opening  
of 219 net new stores worldwide. 
Underlying operating profit increased by 20.7% to  
£132.5 million. Once again, a disciplined approach to capital 
deployment combined with strong cash flow generation  
has increased return on capital by 5.8% pts to 46.3%.
Growth milestones
In 2011 and 2013 we laid out our growth milestones to grow 
system sales to £1.3 billion and £2.0 billion by 2016 and 2018 
respectively. During 2014/15 we achieved our 2016 milestone 
delivering total system sales of £1.4 billion, driven by a strong 
UK performance. As we continue to make good progress 
towards our 2018 milestone, our strong market position, 
combined with the increasing propensity of UK consumers  
to drink quality coffee and the exciting potential that our 
international expansion provides, is leading to further growth 
opportunities beyond this point. We have therefore set out  
a new milestone to grow system sales to around £2.5 billion  
in 2020. 
Growth opportunities from a wide variety of channels
Drive thru
Transport
Retails parks
High street
Concessions
Universities/hospitals
Growth
opportunity
through store
segmentation —
c.2,500 UK
stores 
by 2020
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Costa 
Profitable Growth
Costa Enterprises
In addition to our store portfolio, we provide access to  
Costa coffee through a number of different channels such  
as Wholesale, Costa Express and Costa at Home. This 
business is known as Costa Enterprises. In 2014/15 Costa 
Enterprises had a very successful year, growing system sales 
by 20.1%. Costa Express delivered a strong performance with 
the installation of 777 net new units, giving a total of 4,292 
units at the year–end. We believe we can grow the number  
of machines to over 8,000 in 2020 as we continue to expand 
into new growth channels in the UK as well as focus on our 
international expansion. Costa at Home continues to make 
progress in this emerging but fast–growing category.
Costa Express machines
International
Costa now has a presence in 29 countries outside of the UK 
with a total of 1,149 stores, giving us a good geographical mix 
and revenue diversification. Our franchise business continues 
to do well, particularly in the Middle East and Ireland. We are 
pleased with the progress we are making in Poland as we 
continue to re–brand the estate to Costa and have now  
re–branded 53% of the estate with the whole estate expected 
to be completed in 2015/16. Post re–branding, the stores are 
delivering positive like for like growth. In France we have been 
trialling a mixture of equity and franchise stores and ended  
the year with 11 equity stores along with three franchise stores. 
We expect to open a further six stores during the current 
financial year. 
China, where we operate through two joint ventures, remains 
an exciting opportunity for the Group. We are making  
good progress with the profitability of our like for like store 
estate in China improving. We continue to invest in new store 
openings, to build the critical infrastructure and to invest in 
the management capabilities and resources required for 
future growth. During the year we opened 18 net new stores  
in China as we re–focused on increasing our penetration in key 
tier one cities. We currently have a total of 344 stores across 
31 cities and plan to grow to around 900 stores in 2020.
Global coffee consumption 
(kg/capita/year)
Finland 12.2
Norway 9.5
Sweden 7.1
Germany 7.0
France 5.5
USA 4.2
Spain 4.1
Poland 3.2
UK 2.8
Source: International Coffee Organisation 2011.
While the propensity of UK consumers to drink quality coffee 
is on the rise, consumption remains below that of many other 
developed countries, providing an opportunity for growth, 
both at home and in our exciting international markets. 
Costa
Profitable Growth 
continued 
Costa: strength and breadth
System sales
m
% growth
*At constant FX system sales, reported grew 8.1% Costa EMEI, 20.0% Costa Asia.
Stores

+%
System sales
m
% growth
Stores

–%
Machines

+%
System sales
m
% growth*
Stores

+%
System sales
m
% growth*
Stores

+%
UK Retail
Equity stores
Individual franchise
Costa Enterprises
Costa Express
Corporate partnerships
Costa EMEI
Europe, Middle East 
and India
Costa Asia
China and South
East Asia
 *At constant FX system sales reported grew 8.1% for Costa EMEI and 20.0% for Costa Asia.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 32 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Costa 
Good Together 33
2016/17 targets Progress
Team and Community
• 
The Costa Foundation will build 50 schools  
to educate 50,000 children.
• 
Provide enhanced skills training to 20,000 
team members. 
• 
Give our team members over 5,000 
management progression opportunities.
• 
Over £1.7 million raised for the Costa Foundation.
• 
An additional nine new school projects have been completed with  
ten more still under construction.
• 
Seven more projects have been approved and are at planning stage,  
with committed funding in place bringing support from the Costa 
Foundation to 63 communities in nine countries around the world.
• 
The Costa Foundation has now provided access to education to over 
30,000 children.
• 
Costa skills training programmes have now enhanced the capability  
of more than 4,000 baristas this year and more than 15,000 since 2009.
• 
Our management development programmes have now reached more 
than 4,000 people since 2009.
• 
More than 1,900 new UK jobs have been created in Costa stores.
Customer Wellbeing
• 
All our hot drinks will be sustainably  
sourced and certified.
• 
Our products will be locally/ethically 
sourced wherever possible.
• 
We will improve the nutritional value  
of our products and enable our customers 
to make a fully informed choice when  
they visit our stores.
• 
Nutrition and allergen information available for every product in store  
and on our website.
• 
All our coffee, tea and hot chocolate is sourced from Rainforest Alliance 
Certified farms.
• 
Both savoury and sweet gluten–free items are available and certified  
by the Coeliac Society.
• 
Sugar free ginger bread syrup introduced into Christmas 2014  
beverage range.
• 
Launch of less than 150 calories ‘Little Treats’ range offering a real 
alternative to larger portion sweet items.
• 
New fresh fruit and salads launched.
• 
Continued commitment to Department of Health pledge on salt  
reduction (F2) 2012.
Environment and Energy
• 
25% carbon reduction from direct 
operations (relative to sales against  
a 2009 baseline).
• 
Zero waste to landfill (from UK  
equity stores).
• 
We will provide clear guidance to our 
partners to achieve similar results.
• 
Costa achieved a 39.91% reduction in carbon intensity from our  
2009 baseline.
• 
Monitored UK stores achieved a 32.35% reduction in carbon emissions 
relative to sales versus the 2009 baseline.
• 
The Roastery in Lambeth has reduced carbon by 32% relative to 
production since 2009.
• 
80.67% of all operational waste from Costa’s UK owned stores diverted 
from landfill.
• 
100% of the waste produced at the Roastery was diverted from landfill, 
with 80.59% being recycled.
• 
The Costa Express office achieved a 89.10% diversion of waste  
from landfill.
• 
Water usage in stores has been reduced through the implementation  
of low flow cisterns and taps and the roll out of water–efficient 
dishwashers.
Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t
Costa
Good T ogether
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Principal risks 
and uncertainties
Principal risks 
and uncertainties
The Board has ultimate responsibility for risk management 
throughout the Group and determines the nature and  
extent of the risks Whitbread is willing to take to achieve  
its objectives. Risk is managed proactively by the business 
unit management boards and the Executive Committee. 
Certain responsibilities, such as overseeing the systems of  
risk management and internal control, have been delegated  
to the Audit Committee, which completes an annual review  
of the effectiveness of these processes.
Both the Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants and the Costa 
businesses complete an annual review of their risks to the 
achievement of their strategic goals, whilst also taking  
into account the key operational risks, which are updated 
quarterly. A top–down risk assessment is also completed  
to capture the Board’s views on the principal risks facing 
Whitbread. Actions required to manage these risks are 
monitored and reviewed on a regular basis. 
The principal risks identified, together with a summary of  
key mitigations and their status are summarised on pages  
35 to 37.
Managing Directors
of businesses
Divisional key risk identiﬁcation
Risk identiﬁcation and review process
Process review and controls 
Whitbread Group key risk identiﬁcation
Business Unit
Board Review
Executive
Committee Review
Whitbread
Board
External factors
Risk action plans
Business plan
IA work plan
AR&A
Self certiﬁcation of risk assessment and mitigations
Internal Audit review internal controls and business risks
Audit Committee reviews risk identiﬁcation and monitoring process
Group risk framework
Audit Committee
Oversight and challenge of the e�ectiveness
of risk management and mitigating controls
Board
Accountable for strategic risk management
and ensuring a sound system of internal 
control and risk management is in place
Internal Audit
Coordination and analysis
Executive Committee
Review, challenge and approval of Group risks
Group
functions
Costa
Whitbread Hotels
& Restaurants
Whitbread Hotels
& Restaurants
International
Accountable for risk management in the respective business and risk submissions to the Executive Committee
Governance, strategy, oversight
and communications
Risk management reporting
and escalation
Understanding and responding  
to risks in our operations means we 
can make informed decisions that 
enhance our capacity to build value.
Risk management
Risk arises from the operations of, and strategic decisions 
taken by, every business. It is not something that can be 
avoided but should be harnessed in pursuit of business 
objectives.
We have continued to invest in our risk management 
capability with the appointment of a Director of Internal  
Audit, leading the implementation of a new risk management 
strategy and policy, which will enhance the identification, 
reporting, monitoring and management of risks at all levels 
within the organisation. 
The structure and governance over the risk management 
process at Whitbread is shown below.  
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 34 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Principal risks 
and uncertainties 35
 Principal risks
Risk Key mitigations Status
Winning Teams
Engagement and retention
Failure to maintain staff 
engagement and retention 
in tightening labour market.
The success of our businesses would not be possible without  
the passion and commitment of our teams. Team engagement  
is fundamental. We monitor this closely through our annual 
engagement survey ‘Your Say’, the results of which are reviewed  
by the Executive Committee and the Board, with trends analysed 
and appropriate actions agreed. Team turnover is also a key 
component of our WINcard and Annual Incentive Scheme.
Talent and succession planning takes place regularly to ensure  
top talent is identified and succession plans exist for key roles. 
Talent gaps are addressed through recruitment, training and 
development to grow our management capability. The Group 
offers key employees appropriate levels of reward and recognition 
in order to retain them.
Regularly reviewed at 
senior management 
and PLC Board level.
Health and safety
Health and safety risk: death 
or serious injury as a result  
of Company negligence.
The safety of our guests and employees is of paramount 
importance. NSF, an independent company, carries out health  
and safety audits on every site and we have a programme of fire 
safety training for our employees. In the last 12 months we have 
reviewed the fire safety of all hotels and completed the resulting 
improvements programme. Health and safety is a measure on 
the WINcard and acts as a hurdle for incentive payments.  
Regular health and safety updates are provided to the Executive 
Committee, management boards and to the Board.
Increasing activity  
in the international 
businesses.
Customer Heartbeat
Innovation and brand 
strength
A long–term decline in the 
customer perception of our 
brands would impact our 
ability to grow and achieve 
appropriate levels of return.
To ensure we maintain and improve the strength of our brands  
we continually complete market research and monitor opinion  
with focus groups and net guest scores to ensure we maintain  
the right levels of investment and innovation in our customer 
offerings.
Priority at senior 
management level.
Competitive supply
Increased competitive  
supply reduces returns.
Actions to outperform the competition are developed on a 
strategic and tactical basis. Significant customer research is carried 
out with the insight received used to develop action plans and 
stimulate innovation. Consumer trends both in the UK and 
overseas are analysed and competitor activity is monitored. 
Priority at senior 
management level.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Principal risks 
and uncertainties 
continued  Principal risks 
and uncertainties
Principal risks 
and uncertainties 
continued 
Risk Key mitigations Status
Profitable Growth
Cyber and data security
Inadequate systems and  
data security reduces the 
effectiveness of our systems 
or results in a loss of data. 
This in turn could result  
in loss of income and/or  
reputational damage.
We have a series of IT security controls in place including network 
and system monitoring and regular penetration testing to identify 
network and system vulnerabilities. We have also significantly 
invested in new skills and capability with the appointment of  
a Chief Data Officer and Director of System Architecture to lead 
our information assurance strategy.
A security improvement programme has been established to 
address immediate concerns and develop a roadmap to ensure 
data breach controls, procedures and accountabilities are 
embedded across Whitbread. 
Increased awareness 
of potential attacks  
on customer– 
facing systems  
with regular senior 
management  
review.
Failure of Premier Inn 
reservation system
System failure results  
in business interruption, 
process failure and  
financial loss.
We are currently upgrading the infrastructure and increasing the 
capacity, resilience and stability of the hotel booking reservation 
system. The project is being overseen by a steering committee, 
resourced with experienced personnel and supported with 
independent third party assurance. 
Significant 
investment agreed  
by PLC Board.
IT infrastructure
Ability to grow is hindered  
by focus, resources and  
time required to upgrade  
IT infrastructure.
A strong IT leadership team is in place together with Group 
governance structures to help prioritise, coordinate and deliver 
our business plans and the IT investment in an efficient way  
so as to minimise disruption.
Significant 
investment agreed  
by PLC Board.
Property inflation growing 
faster than our ability  
to increase RevPAR
Increase in property prices, 
relative to RevPAR growth, 
makes it harder to find hotel 
locations that provide good 
levels of return for Premier 
Inn and achieve our 
milestones.
We have strong site selection teams with well established  
and robust processes in place based on market and economic 
fundamentals, both at a macro and micro level. These are 
supported by a robust investment appraisal process to ensure  
we achieve good levels of return.
We have also launched our compact hotel format, ‘hub  
by Premier Inn’, focused on achieving good returns in high 
property cost locations. 
Investment  
criteria reviewed 
during the year.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 36 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Principal risks 
and uncertainties 37
Risk Key mitigations Status
Profitable Growth continued
Funding
The availability and cost of 
debt finance can influence  
the Group’s opportunities  
to develop its business.  
The Group’s ability to  
access funds for its 
businesses in the longer  
term may be affected during 
periods of tight credit 
conditions or the absence  
of funds at reasonable cost. 
The Group diversifies funding sources, where appropriate, with  
a combination of revolving credit facilities, US private placements 
and leases, whilst maintaining strong relationships with banks  
and institutions.
To ensure Whitbread has appropriate access to funds, it aims to 
maintain its financial position and capital structure consistent with 
retaining its investment grade status. To this end we work within  
a financial framework of net debt to EBITDAR (pension and lease 
adjusted) of less than 3.5 times, which is monitored regularly and 
reported to the Board.
Agreed at  
PLC Board level.
Pensions
Change in investment  
policy, or assumptions,  
leads to increased 
contributions or re–rating  
of the credit position.
The Company’s defined benefit pension scheme is closed to new 
members and, for future service, to existing members. The Pension 
Investment Committee and its advisers, as well as the internal 
pensions team, have significant expertise in the area and provide 
good quality oversight. The investment strategy has been 
designed to reduce volatility and risk and hedging opportunities 
are utilised as appropriate. The Finance Director attends Pension 
Investment Committee meetings.
Triennial valuation  
and recovery plan 
agreed.
Good Together
Food safety and hygiene
The preparation or storage  
of food and/or supply  
chain failure results  
in food poisoning and 
reputational damage. 
The health and wellbeing of our customers is fundamental to our 
business. We have stringent food safety and sourcing policies with 
traceability and testing requirements in place in respect of meat 
and other products.
Independent food safety audits are also completed regularly at  
our hotels, restaurants and coffee shops and the results are closely 
monitored. We also invest considerable resources in employee 
training in the storage, handling and preparation of food. 
Increasing activity  
in the international 
businesses.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Principal risks 
and uncertainties 
continued  Key Performance 
Indicators
Key Performance 
Indicators
Whitbread’s Business Model, which 
can be found on page 4 shows how 
we create value for our stakeholders. 
The Model’s foundation is the 
Customer Heartbeat schematic; 
— Winning Teams, Customer 
Heartbeat, Profitable Growth and 
Good Together. Behind each of these 
headings are clear and measurable 
targets which together make up our 
balanced scorecard or WINcard as 
we call it (Whitbread In Numbers).  
It is used throughout the Company. 
Every hotel, restaurant and coffee 
shop has its own WINcard. All 
support centres, each business and 
the Group as a whole have their own 
WINcard. Every month the results  
are published throughout the Group 
so that everyone knows exactly  
how they are doing against the  
key targets, both financial and 
non–financial, for the year.
As these are key strategic measures  
a number of them form an important 
part of the incentive schemes for our 
teams. Details of how the executive 
directors are rewarded for their 
WINcard performance are described 
in the remuneration report on pages 
62 to 76.
The Group, Hotels & Restaurants and 
Costa WINcard targets are set at the 
beginning of each year and agreed 
with the Remuneration Committee. 
They are usually set above the  
level achieved in the previous year  
to target improved performance.  
In general, a green WINcard is 
achieved where the performance  
is better than both previous year  
and target. An amber score is for 
performance which is better than  
the prior year but below target  
and a red score is for a result below 
the previous year.
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Winning Teams
Team turnover
We measure the percentage  
of our team members who leave  
the business during the year.  
For example, if we had team  
turnover of 50% that would mean  
that a number equivalent to half  
of our team members had  
left during the year and had  
to be replaced. 
Health and safety
Nothing could be more important  
than the safety of our teams and  
our customers. Independent audits  
are carried out throughout the  
year to check that standards are  
being maintained with certain  
key areas resulting in automatic  
failure if they are not met.
Why this is important
We aim to keep team turnover as  
low as possible as this means we have  
more settled and consistent teams 
who will do a better job of making 
everyday experiences special for our 
customers. We also save money on 
recruitment and training if we can 
retain team members.
Why this is important
Our people have a right to work  
in a safe environment and our 
customers rightly expect us to  
look after them when they choose  
to sleep, eat or drink with us.  
A significant health and safety  
failure would also affect confidence  
in our business.
How we have done in 2014/15 
Group Costa
44.3% 45.4%
Premier Inn Restaurants
38.1% 50.9%
Although we did not meet our 
stretching targets, these results  
are still good relative to our sector.  
See pages 14, 26 and 46 for more 
information.
How we have done in 2014/15 
We strengthened the targets in 2013/14 
and also increased the proportion  
of sites required to pass the audit for 
each business to achieve a green score. 
Both Costa and Hotels & Restaurants 
exceeded the tougher targets set.
WINcard results
 Group
 Hotels & Restaurants
 Costa
WINcard results
 Group
 Hotels & Restaurants
 Costa
Our goals for 2015/16
The team turnover targets  
are as follows:
Group: 42.8%
Premier Inn: 37.1%
Restaurants: 49.9%
Costa: 43.4%
1
Our goals for 2015/16
Our health and safety targets  
for 2015/16 have been  
further strengthened in order  
to incentivise continuous  
improvement.
1  The Costa target shown for 2015/16 is the Costa UK target. The full Costa WINcard target is 
based on a matrix including Costa China and Costa Express.
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 38 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Key Performance 
Indicators 39
Customer Heartbeat
Brand performance
With our aim to make everyday 
experiences special it is vital  
that we have a robust way of  
measuring how our customers  
rate our performance in terms  
of recommendations and  
preference over other brands. 
Family measures —  
Hotels & Restaurants
The provision of a quality restaurant  
is important to our Premier Inn  
guests and our joint–site model 
provides us with good synergies.
Why this is important
Without this information we would  
not be able to measure and improve  
our customers’ experience or  
compare the experience we provide  
to that provided by our competitors.
Why this is important
Measures have been developed  
to make sure that our Premier Inn  
and Restaurants teams work well 
together for the benefit of guests.  
For Premier Inn, we measure the 
proportion of guests that have 
breakfast in the restaurant.  
We audit breakfast standards  
for Restaurants.
How we have done in 2014/15 
Premier Inn’s target was to reduce  
the percentage of guests scoring zero  
to six out of ten to 8.9%, which was 
intentionally a very stretching target. 
The result was 10.4%. Costa’s target  
was to increase its net recommend 
score to 57.7%. The result was 58.3%.
How we have done in 2014/15 
Premier Inn Restaurants
65.7% 71.3%
We saw a small decline in the 
proportion of Premier Inn guests  
having breakfast in joint site  
restaurants from 66.5% in the prior 
year. However, the breakfast audit 
scores improved significantly.
WINcard results
 Group
 Hotels & Restaurants
 Costa
WINcard results
 Premier Inn
 Restaurants
Our goals for 2015/16
Premier Inn’s target is to reduce the 
proportion of guests scoring zero  
to six out of ten to below 10.1%.  
Costa’s target is to increase its net 
recommend score to 59.7%.
Our goals for 2015/16
Premier Inn’s target is to achieve  
a 2% like for like growth in F&B sales  
to Premier Inn guests in joint site 
restaurants. Restaurants have a target  
to reduce the proportion of Premier  
Inn guests giving a score of one or  
two out of five for breakfast or dinner  
to below 5.4%.
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Key Performance 
Indicators 
continued  Key Performance 
Indicators
Key Performance 
Indicators 
continued 
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams
Profitable Growth
Profit
As with all businesses we measure  
our financial success by the profits  
we make through growing our 
brands and operating our businesses 
efficiently. A budget is agreed  
with the Board each year which  
sets a target profit level.
Like for like sales growth
We closely follow the sales  
growth performance of those  
hotels, restaurants and coffee  
shops that have been open  
for more than a year. 
Market performance
We measure our performance  
versus our competitors in terms  
of our sales growth per available  
room in Premier Inn and the  
YouGov brand preference score  
in Costa. 
Why this is important
Recognising that our shareholders have 
a choice in investing their money we 
need to be able to demonstrate that  
our businesses can produce sustainable 
profit growth. This should mean that  
the underlying value of the Company 
will increase and dividends can be  
paid in line with that growth.
Why this is important
While we are investing so much in the 
organic growth of Hotels & Restaurants 
and Costa we need to keep a close eye 
on how the mature parts of the business 
are performing. This enables us to make 
better investment decisions in terms  
of our new developments as well as 
being able to react to shorter–term 
performance trends.
Why this is important
We need to be able to understand  
how we are performing on a constant 
basis to show our shareholders  
how we are performing against the  
rest of the market and to develop  
our strategy accordingly. 
How we have done in 2014/15
We grew our Group underlying profit 
before tax by 18.5% last year and  
grew our underlying basic earnings  
per share by 19.4%, with Hotels & 
Restaurants growing its underlying 
operating profits by 15.3% and  
Costa by 20.7%. 
 
 
How we have done in 2014/15
The strength of our brands has meant 
we have beaten our like for like sales 
targets across the Company with  
Group at 6.5%, Hotels & Restaurants  
at 6.6% and Costa at 6.0%. 
How we have done in 2014/15
Costa achieved a brand preference 
score of 37.6% during the year, which 
was 20.9% pts better than Starbucks.
We grew market share in Premier Inn, 
with 8.0% like for like RevPAR growth. 
Our midscale and economy competitors 
grew RevPAR by 12.1% from a low base.
Profit is not a WINcard measure. WINcard results
 Group
 Hotels & Restaurants
 Costa
WINcard results
 Group
  Hotels & Restaurants
 Costa
Our goals for 2015/16
Our profit targets are commercially 
sensitive. They will remain stretching,  
but achievable. 
Our goals for 2015/16
Our like for like sales targets are  
commercially sensitive but are  
set in the budget process against  
a realistic but stretching view  
of the markets in the coming year. 
Costa’s target for 2015/16  
is based on total system sales.
Our goals for 2015/16
These targets are commercially 
sensitive. They will remain  
stretching, but achievable.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 40 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Key Performance 
Indicators 41
Good Together
Brand expansion
Our strategy is based on the  
profitable growth of our  
Premier Inn and Costa brands.
Returns on investment 
A crucial factor in measuring our 
performance is how well we have  
invested our shareholders’ money.  
We calculate this by dividing  
the underlying profit of an asset  
or business by the capital value  
of the asset it has been invested in. 
Carbon consumption/waste to landfill
Our corporate responsibility 
programme covers a number  
of areas against which we measure 
ourselves. Hotels & Restaurants  
has a carbon reduction target  
and Costa had a target to divert  
waste from landfill.
Why this is important
We have shown that we are able  
to create significant shareholder  
value by growing our successful  
brands. It is important that we  
measure our progress towards  
meeting our growth milestones.
Why this is important
Our investors want to be able to  
judge how well we are using their 
money in comparison to other 
investments that they could make.  
We also want to be able to compare  
the performance of different types  
of businesses and assets to focus  
our own plans, and measuring  
returns helps us to do so.
Why this is important
Companies have a responsibility  
to reduce their impact on the 
environment which we fully endorse. 
There are also clear economic  
benefits in reducing carbon 
consumption primarily through  
reduced energy bills.
How we have done in 2014/15
Premier Inn opened 4,360 new  
rooms in the year but didn’t quite  
meet a stretching target. Costa  
opened 219 net new stores versus  
a stretching target of 282. This  
was due to the closure of a number  
of unprofitable franchise stores.
How we have done in 2014/15
The Group returns grew from  
15.3% to 15.7%. Hotels & Restaurants 
return on capital grew from 13.3%  
to 13.5% and Costa grew returns  
from 40.5% to 46.3%.
How we have done in 2014/15
Costa now diverts 80.7% of waste  
from landfill, which is in excess of the 
72.0% target. Hotels & Restaurants 
achieved a 3.24% reduction in like for  
like carbon consumption versus a  
target of 3.0%.
WINcard results
 Group
  Hotels & Restaurants
 Costa
Return on capital is an important 
indicator used when considering  
all investment decisions and is  
a key measure for the Group’s  
Long Term Incentive Plan, but is  
not on the WINcard.
WINcard results
 Group
 Hotels & Restaurants
 Costa
Our goals for 2015/16
These targets are commercially 
sensitive but are set in the context 
of Whitbread’s growth milestones.
Our goals for 2015/16
To continue to make a good return on 
capital.
Our goals for 2015/16
Hotels & Restaurants has an annual 
target of a 3% reduction in like  
for like carbon consumption. Costa  
has a new target, which is for 60%  
of stores to participate in volunteering 
hours or fundraising.
Proﬁtable Growth Winning Teams
A force for good
Customer
Heartbeat
C Customer r
H H Heartbea a at t
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Key Performance 
Indicators 
continued  Finance Director’s 
review
Finance 
Director’s 
review
Revenue
Revenue by business segment
  2014/15 2013/14 Change 
   £m £m % 
Hotels & Restaurants 1,659.2 1,494.0 11.1
Costa 951.9 807.7 17.9
Less: inter–segment (3.0) (2.8) 
Revenue before exceptional 2,608.1 2,298.9 13.4
Exceptional revenue  (4.6) 
Revenue 2,608.1 2,294.3 13.7
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants
Hotels & Restaurants revenue rose to £1,659.2 million, up 11.1%. Premier Inn grew its market share through new hotel openings 
and good like for like sales growth in the UK, with total sales growth of 15.3% to £1,116.4 million. In the UK we opened 33 (gross) 
new hotels with 4,360 (gross) new rooms, increasing our number of rooms to 59,138 and rooms available by 6.1%. Like for like 
sales grew by 9.1% driven by an increase in the like for like revenue per available room of 8.0%, benefitting from the recovery  
in the regional hotel market. Restaurants sales grew by 3.2%, predominantly due to like for like sales growth of 2.1%. Four new 
restaurants were opened during the year.
Costa
Costa’s revenue grew by 17.9% to £951.9 million. Costa’s UK sales grew to £838.9 million, up 18.5%, with retail like for like  
sales increasing by 6.0% and 176 net new coffee shops. International sales grew to £113.0 million up 13.5% (14.8% in constant 
currency) with 43 net new stores. Costa Enterprises also performed well with 777 net Costa Express coffee machines installed 
taking the total to 4,292 of which 338 are overseas.
Profit
  2014/15 2013/14 Change 
   £m £m %
Hotels & Restaurants — UK and Ireland 406.6 354.1 14.8 
Hotels & Restaurants — International (5.2) (6.0) 13.3
Totals Hotels & Restaurants 401.4 348.1 15.3
Costa — UK  1 31.4 110.9 18.5 
Costa — International 1.1 (1.1)
Total Costa 132.5 109.8 20.7
Profit from operations 533.9 457.9 16.6
Central costs (29.5) (27.2) (8.5)
Underlying operating profit 504.4 430.7 17.1
Interest (16.3) (18.9) 13.8
Underlying profit before tax 488.1 411.8 18.5
Exceptional items and non underlying adjustments (24.3) (64.8) 
Profit before tax 463.8 347.0 33.7
Whitbread has continued its strong financial performance, 
with total revenue up 13.7% to £2,608.1 million, underlying 
profit before tax up 18.5% to £488.1 million, cash generated 
from operations of £714.2 million and underlying basic 
earnings per share up 19.4%. 
Nicholas Cadbury
Finance Director
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 42 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Finance Director’s 
review 43
Whitbread’s underlying profit before tax was up 18.5% to £488.1 million. Underlying profit before tax excludes the pension 
interest charge, the amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items.
Hotels & Restaurants profits grew to £401.4 million, up 15.3%, with UK profits of £406.6 million, up 14.8%. Within this, rent  
costs reflected the higher mix of leasehold openings, increasing by 20.8% to £107.5 million (2013/14: £89.0 million), and  
our depreciation and amortisation charge increasing by 10.1% to £109.8 million (2013/14: £99.7 million) as we continued  
to invest in enhancing our hotels and restaurants and upgrading our systems. 
We are focused on continually improving our customer propositions. In February 2015, we launched our free upgraded  
Wi-Fi offering and in 2015/16 we will increase the number of full room refurbishments to around 4,500 rooms, complete  
the roll out of our ‘best ever’ bed and install around 2,300 air-conditioning units. We will also continue to increase our  
revenue investment in technology and process improvements as we grow our digital capabilities and evolve our systems to 
support future growth. These revenue investments will amount to approximately £15 million incremental spend in 2015/16.
International hotel losses were £5.2 million (2013/14: loss £6.0 million) with good progress in the Middle East and the  
continued planned investment in establishing our South East Asia operation. 
Costa’s strong performance was led by the UK, where profits increased 18.5% to £131.4 million, with good growth in both  
UK Retail and Costa Enterprises. Costa International made a profit of £1.1 million (2013/14: loss £1.1 million) with a good 
performance in our international franchise business and in our mature stores in China. 
In Costa, as with Hotels & Restaurants, we are investing in our future growth. We are building the platforms of our  
international businesses in China and France, completing the re–branding of our Polish stores from Coffeeheaven to Costa  
and investing in our international and digital talent capabilities, store formats and in food and beverage innovation. 
Profit before tax was £463.8 million (2013/14: £347.0 million) and after taxation, statutory profit for the year was £366.1 million, 
up 13.2% on last year. 
Interest
The underlying interest charge for the year was slightly lower than last year at £16.3 million (2013/14: £18.9 million) due  
to a greater proportion of our debt funded hotels under construction, which increased the element of interest capitalised  
on these developments. The effective interest rate on average net debt reduced from 4.7% to 4.3%.
The total pre-exceptional interest cost was £37.9 million (2013/14: £42.5 million) including the IAS 19(R) pension finance  
charge of £21.6 million (2013/14: £23.6 million). 
Exceptional items
Exceptional items for the year amounted to a credit of £2.2 million. Full details are set out in Note 6 to the consolidated  
financial statements.
Taxation
Underlying tax for the year amounted to £104.9 million at an effective tax rate of 21.5% (2013/14: 22.9%) following the 
reduction in corporation tax rates. Full details are set out in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.
Earnings per share
Underlying earnings per share for the year were 213.67 pence, up 19.4% on last year, and underlying diluted earnings  
per share for the year were 211.56 pence, up 19.4% on last year. Full details are set out in Note 11 to the consolidated  
financial statements.
Dividend 
The recommended final dividend is 56.95 pence, an increase on last year of 21.2%, making the total dividend for the year  
82.15 pence, a growth of 19.4%, in line with the Group’s basic earnings per share growth. With the final dividend, we will  
offer our shareholders the option to participate in a dividend reinvestment plan. Full details are set out in Note 12 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
 
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Finance 
Director’s 
review 
continued  Finance Director’s 
review
Finance 
Director’s 
review 
continued 
Net debt and free cash
The principal movements in net debt are as follows:
  2014/15 2013/14 
   £m £m
Cash generated from operations 714.2 606.4
Capital expenditure and business combinations (565.3) (306.2)
Interest (18.3) (19.1)
Tax (82.8) (81.4)
Pensions (81.4) (71.2)
Dividends (130.6) (62.4)
Other (27.4) 13.4
Net cash flow (191.6) 79.5
Net debt brought forward (391.6) (471.1)
Net debt carried forward (583.2) (391.6)
Cash generated from operations was strong at £714.2 million, an increase of 17.8% on last year. Investments in capital 
expenditure, including business combinations, rose to £565.3 million (2013/14: £306.2 million). This resulted from an increase  
in our hotel room openings and the investment in our pipeline, with a greater focus on freehold properties, and in improving  
our existing estate. Within this, there were also business acquisitions of £19.5 million for a Costa Franchise partner, Coffee Life, 
and for two going concern hotels.
Pension payments totalled £81.4 million, with the defined benefit contribution being in line with the triennial valuation 
scheduled payments agreed with the pension trustee in 2011. 
Dividend payments amounted to £130.6 million (2013/14: £62.4 million). The dividend payment last year was significantly  
lower due to the high take up of the scrip dividend, which has subsequently been replaced by the dividend reinvestment plan, 
and the increase in this year’s dividend payments is in line with the Group’s basic earnings per share growth. 
Corporation tax paid in the year was £82.8 million (2013/14: £81.4 million).
With the investments in our growth, net debt as at 26 February 2015 was £583.2 million (2013/14: £391.6 million).
Capital expenditure
On an accruals basis the Group’s capital expenditure, including business combinations, was £567.5 million, (2013/14: £336.6 
million). The Group’s cash capital expenditure was £565.3 million (2013/14: £306.2 million) including business combinations. 
Capital expenditure is split between expansionary (which includes the acquisition and development of properties) and product 
improvement and maintenance.
Hotels & Restaurants cash capital expenditure was £483.1 million (2013/14: £231.1 million), with expansionary expenditure 
increasing to £333.3 million (2013/14: £147.4 million) as we opened more rooms and built our pipeline to 12,465 rooms,  
including 5,568 in London. Within this we acquired £191.8 million of freehold property, an increase from £62.9 million  
in 2013/14, resulting in freehold property representing 41% of our pipeline compared to 25% at the end of the previous year. 
Freehold properties remain Whitbread’s preferred route to market for Hotels & Restaurants and, with record occupancy,  
they are providing a low risk opportunity to extend the number of rooms in our existing hotels. Product improvement and 
maintenance cash expenditure in Hotels & Restaurants was £149.8 million (2013/14: £83.7 million). This was an increase on  
the previous year as we stepped up the refurbishment programme with a combination of light and full refurbishments, 
increased the investment in our hotels infrastructure, invested in our Wi-Fi offering and upgraded our systems.
Costa cash capital expenditure was £82.0 million (2013/14: £74.2 million) with £56.1 million on expansionary capital as  
we opened 370 new coffee shops and installed 777 net new Costa Express machines. Costa product improvement and 
maintenance expenditure was £25.9 million (2013/14: £21.9 million), a significant part of which was spent on upgrading  
117 Costa stores.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 44 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Finance Director’s 
review 45
In 2015/16, we expect our cash capital expenditure to be around £700 million. The year on year increase is principally  
driven by Hotels & Restaurants with an increase in room openings to c.5,500 and the higher freehold pipeline mix being 
maintained, with a greater weighting to London. Hotels & Restaurants product improvement and maintenance investment  
will also increase year on year, as we continue to improve our customer experience and competitive edge through our 
refurbishment programme and systems capabilities. Around 80% of our room openings are planned for the second half  
of the year. Costa is planning to open around 250 coffee shops (net) and to install c.700 to 800 Costa express machines  
with cash capital expenditure planned at c.£100 million.
Return on capital
Return on capital is a prime focus for Whitbread. In the year, the Group’s return on capital improved 0.4% pts to 15.7% with 
Costa’s returns up 5.8% pts to 46.3% and Hotels & Restaurants’ returns up 0.2% pts to 13.5%. Return on capital in Hotels  
& Restaurants would have been 0.5% pts higher at 14.0% if the capital invested in freehold developments in construction  
was excluded.
Pension
As at 26 February 2015 there was an IAS 19(R) pension deficit of £553.8 million (2013/14: £534.3 million). The increase  
on last year was a result of a reduction in the liability discount rate from 4.3% to 3.3% and an improvement in members’  
life expectancy. The increase was partially offset by an increase in asset values and the company contributions.
We have reached agreement with the Trustee of the Pension Fund on the 2014 triennial funding valuation and recovery  
plan. The funding deficit at 31 March 2014 was £564 million compared to the last valuation in 2011 of £432 million.  
The increase in the deficit reflects an increase in the value of the liabilities and members’ life expectancy, again partially  
offset by the recovery plan contributions and better than expected investment returns.
The recovery plan maintains the schedule of company contributions agreed in the 2011 recovery plan up to 2018  
and extends the contributions to 2022. The recovery plan schedule of company contributions are £65 million in 2015,  
£70 million in 2016, £80 million per annum for 2017 to 2021 and £17 million in 2022. The payments will be accelerated  
by up to £5 million per year where increases in ordinary dividends exceed RPI.
The Group also makes payments of c.£9—10 million per year into the pension fund through the Scottish Partnership 
arrangements.
Financial status and funding
Whitbread aims to maintain its financial position and capital structure consistent with retaining its investment grade debt 
status. To this end we work within the financial framework of net debt to EBITDAR (pension and lease adjusted) of less  
than 3.5 times. The debt to EBITDAR for 2014/15 was 3.2 times.
With the growth of our Premier Inn and Costa estate and the increase in the leasehold mix of new hotels, our total lease 
commitment increased to £2,832.7 million (2013/14: £2,577.7 million).
In October 2014, we announced that Whitbread extended the maturity of its £650 million syndicated bank facility, under  
the existing terms, by one year to 4 November 2019. With this extension to our loan facility, together with our £258 million  
of private placement notes (at the hedged rate) and our strong balance sheet with freehold asset backing, we believe the 
Group is well positioned to be able to meet the needs of our growth programme.
 
Nicholas Cadbury
Finance Director
27 April 2015
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Finance 
Director’s 
review 
continued  Group HR 
Director’s report
Group HR 
Director’s 
report
Whitbread is a highly people intensive business and we 
work extremely hard to create an engaging environment 
for our 45,000 employees, ensuring our people are 
enabled to perform to the best of their abilities and 
progress at the fastest possible rate in order to fulfil  
their potential.
We are incredibly proud of the high levels of engagement that our managers have been  
able to achieve in our new, more challenging ‘Your Say’ survey.
We recognise that the ongoing commitment to build leadership strength is vital to our 
continued growth and success; the growth of our future leaders through stretching 
opportunities and broadening job experiences is paramount in our leadership development 
strategy. We recently implemented some important organisational changes to meet the future 
needs of our growing businesses and aligned this with a number of key internal promotions  
to accelerate the development of some of our highest potential leaders. In addition, as we 
build new capabilities for Whitbread, we have continued to attract some exceptional talent  
at all levels from a variety of industries and geographies. 
This year we have also seen increased volumes of graduates join us, launched a new  
coaching programme to support leaders through the most challenging career transitions  
and completely re–engineered our approach to understanding and measuring future 
leadership potential. 
To signify the strategic importance of high quality leadership, and to maintain the  
momentum we have generated over the last year, we have introduced measurable leadership 
succession objectives for all our directors. These will form part of the Annual Incentive  
Scheme and will ensure a clear and consistent focus on the drivers of a strong succession 
pipeline across the Group. 
Team turnover
Our aim is to set challenging people measures and targets to ensure we drive continued focus 
on establishing a great place to work for our team members and remain an employer of choice. 
Although our WINcard results for team turnover were below target, they still reflect a good 
performance relative to our sector and also the challenging stretch we set ourselves in what  
is becoming a more buoyant employment market. Ensuring that we have capable, confident 
and engaged teams to deliver a consistently excellent service for our customers is critical  
to our success. 
We believe that to build confident, skilled and capable teams who stay and also grow with  
the business, we have to invest in providing clear opportunities for training and development 
and to increase pay for progression. As outlined on pages 14 and 26, we are focussing  
on what engages our teams at work across the businesses and, as we grow, we will continue  
to set stretching people targets. 
Diversity
Operating in multiple countries, we recognise that diversity brings significant business and 
commercial benefits, from innovation to quality decision making. Building a healthy and diverse 
talent pipeline is critical to our global success. This year, our efforts have been targeted on 
identifying opportunities to increase the level of diversity throughout the organisation. This has 
resulted in a new strategy, targets and accountabilities across the Group. We are increasingly 
Louise Smalley
Group HR Director
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 46 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Group HR 
Director’s report 47
incorporating diversity into all aspects of our people strategies. Some examples of specific 
progress we have made in 2014/15 include: 
• 
identifying the points in the pipeline where interventions will be most effective in supporting 
gender balance: the precision of knowing where to focus by role in each brand will 
significantly support our diversity efforts;
• 
ensuring our up–and–coming leaders from under–represented groups have access to quality 
mentoring across the organisation; and
• 
trialling unconscious bias training throughout Costa, which will be expanded across the 
organisation and built into core manager training.
A breakdown of the directors of the Company, senior managers (defined as those in the 
Directors’ Forum) and all Whitbread employees, split by gender, as at 26 February 2015 is set 
out below
1
:
Directors
Male Female


Senior managers


Male Female
All Whitbread employees


Male Female
1 Numbers taken from our core HR database.
Internal policies
We have a range of policies and programmes which are regularly reviewed and communicated 
to employees through various training modules. These include our Code of Conduct, human 
rights, anti–bribery, hospitality and gifts, and anti–fraud and theft policies.
Code of Conduct and human rights
We recognise the importance of taking care of our people by providing a healthy and safe 
working environment and working responsibly to be a positive part of the communities in 
which we operate. 
Our Global Code of Conduct, which is applicable to all employees in all countries, outlines the 
expected standards of behaviour and the core values of the Company. The Code of Conduct 
also includes details of our independent speaking out service, enabling employees to report 
any concerns regarding harmful behaviour or conduct in a confidential manner.
Everyone deserves the right to live and work with dignity. There are basic standards of human 
rights that Whitbread respects at all times. These relate to issues such as child labour, humane 
treatment, working conditions and fair pay. We expect our business partners to respect these 
standards and we will only work with organisations that have the same respect for people’s 
working conditions that we do.
 
Louise Smalley
Group HR Director
27 April 2015
 The strategic report on pages 4 to 47 was approved by the Board and signed on its  
behalf by Simon Barratt, General Counsel and Company Secretary on 27 April 2015.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Group HR 
Director’s 
report 
continued  Corporate 
governance
Corporate
governance
Introduction from Richard Baker, Chairman
At Whitbread we recognise that corporate governance touches all aspects of our business  
and affects all of our employees in many different ways. We are committed to maintaining  
high standards of governance to ensure that the Company is managed with integrity and 
transparency.
During the year key governance activities have included:
• 
the Chairman succession process; 
• 
an internal evaluation of the Board;
• 
a talent review and succession plan for key executive roles; and
• 
a review of the Board’s ways of working.
UK Corporate Governance Code
The Board takes responsibility for high standards of accountability and ethical behaviour.  
The 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’), which can be found at www.frc.org.uk, 
was applicable to the financial year covered by this Report and is the standard against which 
we measured ourselves. In order to measure our compliance we undertook a thorough review 
of our corporate governance arrangements including our:
• 
overall compliance with the Code with respect to business and corporate practices;
• 
matters reserved to the Board; and
• 
terms of reference for each of the three Board committees.
The results of this review were presented at the January Board meeting and formally  
adopted by the Board.
We are compliant with the Code with the exception of provision B.6.2. Given my recent 
appointment as Chairman it was agreed by the Board as a whole that the external evaluation 
due to take place in January 2015 be postponed for a further twelve months. This will be 
completed later in the year and the results will be discussed in the 2015/16 Annual Report  
and Accounts. Our intention remains to have an external evaluation every three years. 
Details of how Whitbread has applied the main and supporting principles of the Code with 
regard to remuneration can be found in the remuneration report on pages 62 to 76. Details  
of the members and activities of the Remuneration Committee can be found on page 67. 
Details of the members and activities of the Audit and Nomination Committees can be found 
on pages 57 to 61.
The 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the 2014 Code’) will apply to the Company  
in 2015/16 and work is underway towards our compliance next year. This includes the 
development and preparation of the longer–term view of the Group’s going concern basis  
and the definition and identification of significant failings or weaknesses during the annual 
review of risk management and internal control.
Maintaining high standards of corporate governance is vital to supporting our financial 
performance and protecting your Company. We keep all developments under review  
and always aim for a level of governance that is appropriate and relevant to the Company.
 
Richard Baker
Chairman
27 April 2015
Richard Baker
Chairman
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 48 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Corporate 
governance 49
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Leadership and the Board of Directors
The Board of Directors
There are ten members of the Board including the Chairman, 
Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director. The 
composition of the Board is shown in the chart below.
Composition of the Board
Chairman: 
Executive directors: 
Independent 
non–executive directors: 
Biographical details of each of the directors can be found  
on pages 50 and 51. 
We believe that it is vital for the Board to contain a diverse 
range of skills, backgrounds and experiences to enable a 
broad evaluation of all matters considered and to contribute 
to a positive culture of mutual respect and constructive 
challenge. The mix of skills and experience represented on  
the Board is outlined below.
Board experience
  Number of directors  Number of directors
Retail sector 5 International 8
Travel and hospitality sector 2 Commercial property 1
Marketing 1 Technology 1
Legal 1 Human Resources 1
Financial 4
Board responsibilities
The Board is responsible for the long–term success of  
the Company and ensures that there are effective controls  
in place which enable risk to be assessed and managed.  
All Board members have responsibility for strategy, 
performance, risk and people. 
The Chairman and Chief Executive have clearly defined  
roles which are separate and distinct. The specific duties  
and division of responsibilities between the Chairman and  
Chief Executive have been agreed by the Board and are  
set out below.
Chairman
• Leadership of the Board and setting its agenda including approval  
of the Group’s strategy, business plans, annual budget and key  
areas of business importance.
• Maintaining appropriate contact with major shareholders and  
ensuring that Board members understand their views concerning  
the Company.
• Ensuring a culture of openness and debate around the Board table.
• Leading the annual evaluation of the Board, the committees and 
individual directors.
• Ensuring, through the General Counsel, that the members of the 
Board receive accurate, timely and clear information.
Chief Executive
• Optimising the performance of the Company.
• Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and employees.
• The creation of shareholder value by delivering profitable growth  
and a good return on capital.
• Ensuring the Company has a strong team of high–calibre executives, 
and putting in place appropriate management succession and 
development plans.
• Leading the activities of the Whitbread Directors Forum — a group  
of the Company’s most senior executives.
Senior Independent Director
The Senior Independent Director provides a sounding board 
for the Chairman and supports him in the delivery of his 
objectives. The Senior Independent Director is available to 
shareholders if they have concerns which the normal channels 
have failed to resolve or which would be inappropriate to raise 
with the Chairman or the executive team. He also leads the 
evaluation of the Chairman on behalf of the other directors.
The Senior Independent Director can be contacted directly  
or through the General Counsel.
Executive directors
The executive directors are responsible for the day–to–day 
running of the business and for implementing the operational 
and strategic plans of the Company.
Non–executive directors
The non–executive directors play a key role in constructively 
challenging and scrutinising the performance of the 
management of the Company and helping to develop 
proposals on strategy. Corporate governance: 
Board of Directors
Board of 
Directors
Richard Baker
Chairman 
Date of appointment to the Board:
September 2009
Date of appointment as Chairman:
September 2014
Age: 52
Experience:
Richard previously served as 
Chairman of Virgin Active Group, 
Chief Executive of Alliance Boots 
Group plc and Chief Operating 
Officer at Asda Group plc.
External appointments:
• Global Advisory Council,  
Aimia (Chairman)
• DFS Furniture Plc (Chairman)
• Advent International Plc 
(Operating Partner)
Committee membership:
• Nomination Committee 
(Chairman)
• Remuneration Committee
Andy Harrison
Chief Executive
Date of appointment to the Board:
September 2010 (due to step  
down by February 2016)
Age: 57
Experience:
Andy served as Chief Executive  
of easyJet plc from 2005 to 2010 
and was Chief Executive of RAC plc 
(previously Lex Services plc) from 
1996 to 2005. Prior to this, he held 
the roles of Managing Director of 
Courtaulds International Fabrics 
and Finance Director of Courtaulds 
Textiles plc. Andy has also held  
a non–executive directorship at 
Emap plc, where he was Chairman 
of the Audit Committee. 
External appointments:
• Dunelm Group plc  
(Non–executive director)
Sir Ian Cheshire
Senior Independent Director
Date of appointment to the Board:
February 2011
Age: 55
Experience:
Sir Ian was Group Chief Executive  
of Kingfisher plc until the end of 
January 2015, and was also a 
former Chair of the British Retail 
Consortium.
External appointments:
• Government lead non–executive 
director
• Business in the Community 
(Trustee Director)
• BGT Capital PLC (Chair)
• MediCinema (Trustee Chair)
• Cambridge Programme for 
Sustainability Leadership  
(Chairman of Advisory Board)
Committee membership:
• Remuneration Committee
• Nomination Committee
Wendy Becker
Independent non–executive 
director
Date of appointment to the Board:
January 2008
Age: 49
Experience:
Wendy has been Group Chief 
Marketing Officer for Vodafone, 
Managing Director of TalkTalk and a 
partner at McKinsey & Company. 
External appointments:
• Jack Wills Limited  
(Chief Executive)
• Cancer Research UK 
(Deputy Chairman)
• Princes Trust (Trustee)
• English National Ballet (Trustee)
• Oxford’s Said Business School 
(Member of Business  
Advisory Board)
Committee membership:
• Audit Committee
• Nomination Committee
• Remuneration Committee
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 50 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Corporate governance: 
Board of Directors 51
Christopher Rogers
Managing Director  
Costa Coffee
Date of appointment to the Board:
May 2005
Age: 55
Experience:
Christopher joined Whitbread ten 
years ago as Group Finance Director, 
a role he held until November 2012. 
He was appointed Managing 
Director of Costa Coffee in July 
2012. Christopher previously worked 
at Woolworths Group plc where  
he was Finance Director and also 
held the position of Chairman of the 
Woolworths Group Entertainment 
business. He originally qualified  
as an accountant with Price 
Waterhouse before joining 
Kingfisher plc in 1988. 
External appointments:
• Travis Perkins Plc 
(Non–executive director)
Stephen Williams
Independent non–executive 
director
Date of appointment to the Board:
April 2008
Age: 67
Experience:
Stephen retired as General Counsel 
and Chief Legal Officer of Unilever 
during 2010, having originally joined 
in that position in 1986. Prior to that, 
Stephen spent 11 years at Imperial 
Chemical Industries plc. From 1995 
to 2004 he was a non–executive 
director of Bunzl plc and from 2004 
to 2010 he was Senior Independent 
Director of Arriva plc.
External appointments:
• Croda International Plc  
(Non–executive director)
• Eversheds LLP  
(Non–executive director)
• Spencer Stuart LLP 
(Senior Advisor)
• Moorfields Eye Hospital  
NHS Trust (Trustee)
• De La Warr Pavilion Trust 
(Deputy Chairman)
• Amicus Curiae Limited (Director)
• Leverhulme Trust  
(Board member)
Committee membership:
• Remuneration Committee 
(Chairman)
• Nomination Committee
Simon Melliss
Independent non–executive 
director
Date of appointment to the Board:
April 2007
Age: 62
Experience:
Simon, a chartered accountant, 
was Chief Financial Officer of 
Hammerson plc from 1995 to  
2011, having originally joined the 
company in 1991 as Group Financial 
Controller. Prior to that he served 
as the Group Financial Controller  
of Sketchley PLC and held senior 
finance positions with Reed 
International. Simon also previously 
held a non–executive directorship 
at Associated British Ports 
Holdings plc.
External appointments:
• Hermes Property Unit Trust 
(Chairman)
• University College London 
(Treasurer and member  
of the Council)
Committee membership:
• Audit Committee (Chairman)
• Nomination Committee
Susan Taylor Martin
Independent non–executive 
director
Date of appointment to the Board:
January 2012
Age: 51
Experience:
Susan has held a number of roles  
at Thomson Reuters, including 
President, Thomson Reuters  
Media, President of Global 
Investment Focus Accounts and 
Managing Director of Legal in the 
UK and Ireland. Prior to this she 
was Global Head, Corporate 
Strategy for Reuters, which she 
joined in 1993. 
External appointments:
• Thomson Reuters  
(President, Legal)
• Thomson Reuters Foundation  
(Trustee)
Committee membership:
• Audit Committee
Nicholas Cadbury
Group Finance Director
Date of appointment to the Board:
November 2012
Age: 49
Experience:
Nicholas joined Whitbread in 
November 2012 as Group Finance 
Director. He previously worked at 
Dixons Retail PLC, in a variety of 
management roles, including Chief 
Financial Officer from 2008–2011. 
Nicholas also held the position of 
Chief Financial Officer of Premier 
Farnell PLC, which he joined in 2011. 
Nicholas originally qualified as an 
accountant with Price Waterhouse.
Louise Smalley
Group HR Director
Date of appointment to the Board:
November 2012
Age: 47
Experience:
Louise joined Whitbread in  
1995 and has held the position  
of Group HR Director since 2007. 
During her time at Whitbread, 
Louise has held a variety of  
HR roles across the Whitbread 
businesses, including HR Director 
of David Lloyd Leisure and 
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants. 
She previously worked in the  
oil industry, with BP and Esso 
Petroleum.
External appointments:
• DS Smith Plc  
(Non–executive director)
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Corporate 
governance 
continued 
At the meetings during the year, the Board discharged its 
responsibilities and considered a range of matters, details  
of which can be found below:
Board agenda 2014/15
Standing agenda items
• Chief Executive’s report
• Finance Director’s report
• Health and Safety report 
(quarterly) 
• Secretariat report
Q1
• Approval of year–end 
documentation and final 
dividend
• Costa UK Retail
• Costa France
• ‘hub by Premier Inn’
• Information Technology
• Premier Inn update
• Strategic plan preparation
• Costa China
Q2
• Premier Inn Germany
• Costa Poland
• Whitbread Hotels &  
Restaurants International
• Premier Inn UK Network 
Strategy
Q3
• Costa UK Retail
• Premier Inn digital
• Interim results and dividend
• Costa International Franchise
• Board Ways of Working
• Group risk profile
• Information Technology
• Team member pay
Q4
• Pensions update
• Premier Inn update
• 2015/16 budget
• Corporate Governance review
• Corporate Responsibility 
activity
• Leadership talent
Board processes and topics to be discussed are continually 
reviewed to ensure that the correct focus is given to the  
key issues highlighted at the annual Strategy Day.
Board activities during the year
In advance of each Board meeting, a set of Board papers, 
including monthly financial and trading reports, is circulated 
so that directors have sufficient time to review them and 
arrive at the meeting fully prepared.
The Board has a rolling agenda which sets matters to be 
considered throughout the year. Following the annual 
Strategy Day, the Board agrees the significant topics to be 
discussed at the Board meetings during the year. The rolling 
agenda is then scheduled to ensure that there is a structured 
approach to the consideration of topics and recurring issues 
are evenly spread across the calendar. The Board gives its 
attention to each area of the business in turn so that a strong 
understanding of the entire Company is maintained. The 
rolling agenda is regularly reviewed and updated and is 
circulated as part of the secretariat report before each 
meeting.
The agenda for individual Board meetings are agreed with 
the Chairman and the Chief Executive on a monthly basis  
so that current events and potential future issues can be 
discussed alongside the regular reports. Standard items  
for each meeting are a review of progress on action points, 
reports from the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and  
the Managing Directors of Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants 
and Costa and the secretariat report.
The Chairman meets with the non–executive directors  
without the executives present after Board meetings.
There is a schedule of matters reserved exclusively to the 
Board; all other decisions are delegated to management. 
Those matters reserved exclusively to the Board include 
approval of Group financial statements and the preliminary 
announcement of half and full–year results; changes relating  
to the Group’s capital structure; the annual budget and the 
Group’s business plan; approving capital projects, acquisitions 
and disposals valued at over £12 million; interim dividends  
and recommendation of final dividends; and establishment  
of Board committees.
The schedule of matters reserved was reviewed at the 
January 2015 Board meeting and is available on our website. 
Corporate 
governance
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 52 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Corporate 
governance 53
Board meetings and attendance
The Board generally holds meetings at monthly intervals 
during the year and on an ad hoc basis as and when required. 
Ten meetings were held during the year and attendance at 
meetings by directors is set out below:
Board
Audit 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Richard Baker 10/10 3/3
1
— 5/5
3
Andy Harrison 10/10 — — —
Nicholas Cadbury 10/10 — — —
Christopher Rogers 10/10 — — —
Louise Smalley 10/10 — — —
Wendy Becker 10/10 4/4 4/4 5/6
4
Sir Ian Cheshire 10/10 — 4/4
2
5/6
4
Simon Melliss 10/10 4/4 4/4 —
Susan Taylor Martin 10/10 4/4 — —
Stephen Williams 10/10 — 4/4 6/6
Members of the executive team attended committee meetings as 
appropriate. 
1  Richard Baker was a member of the Audit Committee prior  
to his appointment as Chairman and attended three meetings  
in this capacity. He was not a member of the Committee for the  
fourth meeting but was in attendance by invitation. 
2  Three of the Nomination Committee meetings dealt with the 
appointment of the successor to the Chairman, therefore Sir Ian 
Cheshire chaired these meetings as Senior Independent Director. 
Following his appointment as Chairman, Richard Baker now  
chairs the Nomination Committee.
3  One of the Remuneration Committee meetings dealt with the  
Chairman fees therefore Richard Baker did not attend.
4  Due to prior commitments Wendy and Sir Ian were unable to attend  
one of the Remuneration Committee meetings. Both directors  
received the papers and provided feedback for the relevant meeting.
Insurance cover
The Company has appropriate directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance in place. In addition to this, the Company provides 
an indemnity for directors against the costs of defending 
certain legal proceedings. These are reviewed periodically.
Effectiveness
The effectiveness of the Board, committees and individual 
directors is reviewed annually in accordance with the Code.
Composition of the Board
It is believed that the Board and its committees have the 
appropriate balance of skills, experience, diversity, 
independence and knowledge of the Company to enable 
them to discharge their responsibilities effectively. The Board 
has a majority of independent non–executive directors.  
After assessing independence against the Code, the Board 
considers all non–executive directors to be independent in 
judgement and character. On appointment, the Board also 
considered the Chairman to be independent in character  
and judgement. 
No new directors were appointed during the financial year. 
Details of the appointment procedure can be found in the 
report of the Nomination Committee on page 60.
External directorships
Non–executive directors may serve on other boards provided 
they continue to demonstrate the required commitment to 
discharge their duties effectively. The Nomination Committee 
has reviewed the extent of other interests of the non–executive 
directors and the Board is satisfied that the Chairman and  
each of the non–executive directors commit sufficient time  
to their duties and fulfil their obligations to the Company.
No executive director has taken on more than one  
non–executive directorship in a FTSE 100 company.  
During the year Andy Harrison became a non–executive 
director of Dunelm Group plc and Louise Smalley became 
a non–executive director of DS Smith Plc. 
Training and development
On appointment, all directors receive a full and formal 
induction that is tailored to their specific needs. Meetings are 
arranged with the Chairman, Chief Executive and all executive 
and non–executive directors. Meetings are also arranged  
with members of the senior management team, the Group’s 
advisers and, if appropriate, major investors. A detailed review 
of all our businesses is provided and several site visits to our 
brands are arranged to provide insight into the Company  
and to develop an understanding of each business.
Training and development continues beyond the induction 
process and is an ongoing process for all Board members. The 
Chairman reviews and agrees the training and development 
needs with each director on an annual basis.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Corporate 
governance 
continued  Corporate 
governance
Corporate 
governance 
continued 
The conclusions of the review were discussed at the April  
2015 Board meeting and actions in response to the results 
have been developed. Areas for discussion included:
• 
preparation and reporting of consistent KPIs at each  
Board meeting;
• 
further details on shareholder feedback and contact  
with advisers; and
• 
international strategy, with particular reference to Costa  
in China.
In response to last year’s evaluation, there has been a 
significant improvement in international capability, increasing  
the strength in depth of our international talent pipeline.
Individual directors
The Chairman has one–to–one meetings with all directors  
to discuss their performance and to identify whether  
they continue to contribute effectively to the Board and 
demonstrate commitment to the role.
Chairman
The Senior Independent Director meets with the non–
executive directors without the Chairman present to discuss 
the performance of the Chairman. The Senior Independent 
Director also speaks with the executive directors to gain their 
views before discussing the results with the Chairman.
Conflicts of interests
Directors are required to disclose any conflicts of interest 
immediately as and when they arise throughout the year.  
In addition, a formal process is undertaken in February  
each year when all directors confirm to the Board details  
of their external interests including any other directorships 
which they hold.
These are assessed by the Board to determine whether the 
director’s ability to act in the best interests of the Company 
could be compromised. If there are no such potential or actual 
conflicts, the external interests are authorised by the Board. 
All authorisations are for a period of 12 months. No director  
is counted as part of a quorum in respect of the authorisation 
of his or her own conflict.
It is recognised that all organisations are potential customers 
of Whitbread and, in view of this, the Board has authorised  
all directors’ current external directorships.
Directors attend external training events to update their skills 
and knowledge. Training events were attended by Board 
members during the year on a range of issues including: 
• 
Cyber Security Disciplines for Board members;
• 
Risk Management and Mitigation; and
• 
Media Training.
Investor relations and market updates were also presented  
to the Board and regular updates from each of the brands  
are made to the Board.
All directors have access to independent professional advice 
at the Company’s expense. Directors serving on the Board 
committees confirmed that they are satisfied that they 
received sufficient resources to enable them to undertake 
their duties effectively. Each director has access to the 
Company Secretary for advice on governance.
The Company Secretary prepares a monthly report that 
includes updates on corporate legislation and best practice 
on matters including corporate governance. This report  
is presented and discussed at each Board meeting.
Evaluation
An evaluation of the Board, its committees, individual 
directors and the Chairman is carried out each year. 
Board and committees
An external evaluation was conducted in 2012 and  
as discussed on page 48, it was agreed by the Board  
to postpone the external evaluation due to take place in  
January 2015 by 12 months in view of the recent Chairman 
succession process. This year’s Board evaluation was 
conducted internally and had two aspects:
• 
each director completed a formal questionnaire on  
the performance of the Board and each of the Board 
committees, considering the balance of skills, diversity 
independence and knowledge of the Company on the 
Board, how the Board works together, and other factors 
relevant to its effectiveness; and
• 
the Chairman met all directors on a one–to–one basis.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 54 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Corporate 
governance 55
Shareholder relations
In accordance with the Code, the Board recognises that it has 
responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with 
shareholders takes place and any major shareholders’ issues 
and concerns are communicated to the Board.
The Company communicates with both the institutional  
and private shareholders through the following means:
Interaction with all shareholders
• 
the Company’s website (www.whitbread.co.uk), where 
information and news is regularly updated;
• 
the Annual Report, which sets out details of the Company’s 
strategy, Business Model and performance over the past 
financial year and plans for future growth;
• 
the Annual General Meeting, where all shareholders have 
the opportunity to vote on the resolutions proposed and  
to put questions to the Board and executive team; and
• 
presentations of full–year and interim results to analysts  
and shareholders, which are also available on the 
Company’s website.
Interaction with institutional shareholders
• 
the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Director  
of Investor Relations hold meetings with institutional 
investors following the full–year and interim results;
• 
the Chairman meets with institutional shareholders  
on request;
• 
the Board receives updates on the views of major 
shareholders from the Company’s brokers; and
• 
investor days.
Interaction with private shareholders
• 
live webcast presentations of the full–year and interim 
results; and
• 
electronic communications with shareholders including  
use of the online share portal.
The Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) provides all shareholders 
with the opportunity to communicate directly with the  
Board which encourages their participation at the meeting. 
In accordance with the Code, the Notice of AGM and related 
papers are sent to the shareholders at least 20 working  
days before the meeting. The Company proposes a separate 
resolution on each substantially separate issue including  
a specific resolution to approve the Report and Accounts.  
For each resolution, proxy appointment forms provide 
shareholders with the option to vote in advance of the AGM  
if they are unable to attend in person. All valid proxy votes 
received for the AGM are properly recorded and counted  
by Whitbread’s registrars.
As in previous years, all voting by shareholders at this year’s 
AGM will be by poll using electronic handsets. The voting 
results, including proxy votes received, will be displayed on  
a screen at the end of the meeting. In addition, the audited 
poll results will be disclosed on the Company’s website 
following the meeting, and announced through the regulatory 
news service.
Share capital
The information that is required by DTR 7.2.6 relating to  
the share capital of the Company can be found within the 
directors’ report on pages 78 and 79.
Accountability and internal control
Internal control and risk management
The Board is responsible for the Group’s systems of internal 
control and risk management, and for reviewing their 
effectiveness. These systems are designed to manage rather 
than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives. 
They can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the Group’s significant risks. This 
process was in place throughout the 2014/15 financial year 
and up to the date of this Report. The process is reviewed by 
the Board and accords with the internal control guidance for 
directors in the Code. A report of the key risks can be found 
on pages 34 to 37.
Risk analysis
• 
The Board identifies the principal risks of the Company on a 
regular basis and throughout the year it reviews the actions 
in place to mitigate the risks together with assurance and 
monitoring activity. The analysis covers health and safety, 
financial, market, operational and reputational risks which 
the Company may face as well as specific areas identified  
in the business plan and budget process.
• 
Each of the businesses also carries out its own risk  
analysis together with the Director of Internal Audit and  
this is reviewed regularly by the management boards.
• 
All major capital and revenue projects, together with 
significant change programmes, include the consideration 
of the risks involved and an appropriate action plan.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Corporate 
governance 
continued  Corporate 
governance
Corporate 
governance 
continued 
• 
Ernst & Young review and report on the significant issues 
identified in their audit report. 
• 
An internal control evaluation process is overseen by the 
management team which assesses the level of compliance 
with the controls, policies and processes and the results  
are reviewed and tested on a sample basis by PwC.
• 
Post completion reviews of major projects and investments 
are carried out and reported on to the Board.
Statement of the directors in respect of the Annual Report 
and Accounts
As required by the Code, the directors confirm their 
responsibility for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts 
and consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, Business Model and strategy. Further detail on 
how this conclusion was reached can be found in the report  
of the Audit Committee on pages 57 to 59.
Statements by the auditor in respect of its reporting 
responsibilities 
Statements by the auditor about its reporting responsibilities 
can be found in the auditor’s report on pages 85 to 87.
Going concern
The directors’ going concern statement can be found in the 
directors’ report on page 80.
Business Model and strategy
Information on the Group’s Business Model and the strategy 
for delivering the objectives of the Company can be found  
on pages 4 to 47.
Board committees
The Board is supported by three committees; the Audit 
Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration 
Committee. Their terms of reference are reviewed annually 
and updated in line with best practice. They have been 
reviewed in 2015 and approved by each of the Committees. 
They are available in full on the Company’s website.
A detailed report from the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee is set out on pages 62 to 76. Reports for the Audit 
and Nomination Committees can be found on pages 57 to 61.
Controls
• 
The Company reviews and confirms its level of compliance 
with the Corporate Governance Code on an annual basis.
• 
The matters reserved to the Board require that major 
projects and programmes must have specific Board 
approval.
• 
Limits of delegation and authority are prescribed to ensure 
that the appropriate approvals are obtained if Board 
authority is not required to ensure appropriate segregation 
of tasks.
• 
Group financial policies, controls and procedures are in 
place and regularly reviewed and updated. 
• 
The Whitbread Code of Conduct, setting out required levels 
of ethics and behaviour, is communicated to employees.
• 
The Code of Conduct makes reference to specific policies 
and procedures which have to be followed.
• 
Management is responsible for ensuring the appropriate 
maintenance of financial records and processes that ensure 
that financial information is relevant, reliable, in accordance 
with applicable laws and regulations and is distributed both 
internally and externally in a timely manner.
• 
A review of the financial statements is completed by 
management to ensure that the financial position and 
results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
• 
All financial information published by the Group is subject 
to the approval of the Audit Committee and the Board.
• 
An annual review of internal controls is undertaken by  
the Board with the assistance of the Audit Committee. 
Assurance
• 
The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, 
approves an audit programme which ensures that the 
significant areas of risk identified are independently 
reviewed within at least a three year period. 
• 
The programme and the results of the audits are regularly 
assessed during the year.
• 
The Audit Committee reviews the major findings from  
both operational and external audits.
• 
Under the control of the Director of Internal Audit, 
independent audits are carried out by PwC. The reports are 
reviewed by the Audit Committee and on a monthly basis 
by the Executive Committee to ensure that the actions 
required to address issues identified are implemented. 
• 
The Director of Internal Audit and PwC reports annually to 
the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of operational 
and financial controls across the Group.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 56 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Audit Committee 
report 57
Role of the Audit Committee
The principal role of the Audit Committee is to monitor and review the integrity of the 
Company’s financial results, to review the Company’s internal controls and risk management 
systems, to monitor and review the effectiveness of the Company’s internal audit function  
and to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the external auditor.
Key responsibilities
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to:
• 
review the half–year and full–year results and financial statements;
• 
report to the Board on the appropriateness of our accounting policies and practices 
including critical accounting policies and practices;
• 
oversee the relationship with the external auditor and review the external audit plans  
and report;
• 
review and evaluate the effectiveness of the internal controls and risk management system;
• 
review the internal audit process;
• 
review the Group’s contingent liabilities; and
• 
review the speaking out facility and consider any matters raised.
The full terms of reference are available on the Company’s website.
Committee meetings
The Committee meets at least four times a year and will hold additional meetings as and when 
required. Meetings are attended by the members of the Committee and, by invitation, the 
Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial 
Controller, the newly appointed Director of Internal Audit and other relevant people from the 
business when appropriate. The external auditor and PwC (who have acted as operational 
auditors) are also invited to meetings.
Main activities during the year
During the year, the Committee focused on the following matters:
Financial reporting
• 
the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices;
• 
the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and  
relevant financial and governance reporting requirements;
• 
material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or where there  
has been discussion with the external auditor;
• 
whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess  
the Company’s performance, Business Model and strategy; 
• 
the regulatory announcement of the results; and
• 
a going concern assessment.
To aid its review, the Committee considers reports from the Group Financial Controller,  
the Tax Director, PwC, the Director of Internal Audit and also reports from the external  
auditor on the outcomes of their half–year review and annual audit. The Committee looks  
for constructive challenge from Ernst & Young as external auditor.
The key areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2014/15  
accounts were:
Taxation
The method of calculating the Group’s tax expense and liability and the provisioning for 
potential tax liabilities were considered. The Committee reviewed the judgements exercised  
on tax provisioning as part of its annual review of key provisions.
Audit Committee 
report
Members of the  
Audit Committee
• Simon Melliss (Chairman)
• Wendy Becker
• Susan Taylor Martin
• Simon Barratt (Secretary)
Simon Melliss
Chairman, Audit Committee
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Audit Committee 
report
Pension scheme
Judgement is taken around the assumptions used to calculate the pension scheme assets  
and liabilities under IAS 19(R). The Committee considered the consistency and basis of  
the calculation and the assumptions used with those used in 2013/14 and agreed with the 
judgements reached by management.
Liability provisioning
The level of provisioning for contingent and other liabilities, for example leases, is an issue 
where management views and legal advice are important. These are addressed through  
the Committee discussing with management and challenging the key judgements made.
Asset impairment 
The judgements in relation to asset impairment largely relate to the assumptions underlying 
the calculation of the value in use of the asset being tested, primarily the achievability  
of the long–term business plan and macroeconomic assumptions underlying the valuation 
process. The Committee addresses these matters through their own knowledge and 
experience of the business and through receiving reports from management outlining the 
basis for the assumptions used. In addition, the reporting by the external auditors to the 
Committee is considered.
Asset lives and residual values
Judgement is made on the assessment of residual value and the estimated useful lives of assets. 
The Committee reviews Group policy on specific groups of assets and challenges accordingly.
Fair, balanced and understandable
In order to confirm to the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole is fair, 
balanced and understandable, there has been a thorough verification and approval process 
using the Committee’s knowledge of the Company, as outlined below:
• 
the Annual Report is drafted by the appropriate senior management with overall  
coordination by the Secretariat team to ensure consistency;
• 
comprehensive reviews of the drafts of the Report and Accounts are undertaken by 
management, the Executive Committee and me, as the Audit Committee Chairman;
• 
a final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to consideration by the Board; and
• 
formal approval of the Annual Report and Accounts is given by a Committee of the Board.
Internal control and risk management
The Audit Committee holds an annual evaluation of internal controls in March. The Committee 
reviews the Group risk matrix and assesses the effectiveness of the internal processes that 
have been implemented to enable those risks to be mitigated and monitored. This review is 
completed in conjunction with an Internal Controls Effectiveness Review from PwC. Each risk  
is assessed and the level of assurance required is determined.
The Audit Committee then approves a plan from the Director of Internal Audit to carry out 
reviews of the chosen risk areas during the following year.
Information systems
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the information system improvement 
programmes. The Chief Information Officer presented the plans including the upgrades to the 
IT infrastructure and hotel reservation system and the enhancements to IT security controls. 
The development of the capabilities within the information systems team were also monitored.
Internal audit 
The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the scope, extent and effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal audit function. During the year, a new Director of Internal Audit was 
appointed. Reports from PwC were reviewed and contained updates on audit activities, the 
results of unsatisfactory audits and any relevant action plans to address these areas. Private 
discussions were held with the Director of Internal Audit as and when necessary and I have 
also met with PwC regularly outside of the formal Committee process. 
Audit Committee 
report 
continued 
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 58 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Audit Committee 
report 59
External audit
The Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditor. There is a review of the 
performance of the external auditor and its independence and effectiveness.
The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent on appropriate audit risk 
identification at the start of the audit cycle. We receive from Ernst & Young a detailed audit 
plan, identifying their assessment of these key risks. For the 2014/15 financial year, the primary  
risks identified were in relation to revenue recognition, defined benefit pension scheme and 
property related provisions. These risks were reviewed and the work done by the auditors was 
challenged to test management’s assumptions and estimates around these areas, as well as 
other areas reported upon, which included impairment and taxation. The effectiveness of the 
audit process was assessed in addressing these matters through the reporting we received 
from Ernst & Young at both the half–year and year–end. In addition feedback was sought from 
management on the effectiveness of the audit process.
We hold private meetings with the external auditor at the half–year and full–year Committee 
meetings to provide additional opportunities for open dialogue and feedback from the 
Committee and the auditor without management being present.
Change of auditor
Ernst & Young has been the external auditor for over 60 years. It was decided during the  
year that it would be appropriate to review the provider of statutory audit services and to 
undertake a competitive tender.
The top UK accounting firms were invited to submit a tender response from which two  
firms were selected to go through a more extensive tender process. This consisted of them 
understanding the Group’s structures, accounts, tax and policies, and several meetings  
with the finance leaders, the Group Finance Director, the General Counsel and myself.  
Each audit firm then made its tender presentation and the Audit Committee considered  
each proposal and made its recommendation to the Board. The criteria used to reach this 
decision included: the capability to provide comprehensive and effective audit services; the 
quality of the team; cultural fit with Whitbread; the overall audit approach; transition plan;  
and independence and governance.
As announced in March 2015, it was concluded that Deloitte LLP should be appointed as the 
Company’s statutory auditor, subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 16 June 2015. 
I would like to thank Ernst & Young for their significant contribution over many years and we 
look forward to working with Deloitte LLP in the future.
Auditor independence
To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, the Committee’s  
Terms of Reference set out the non–audit services that are permitted in certain circumstances 
and those not permitted at all. This prevents the auditor being able to provide certain services 
such as internal audits.
For certain specified audit and audit–related services, the Group can employ the external auditor 
without reference to the Audit Committee, subject to a specified fee limit. For the services 
permitted in certain circumstances, agreement must be sought from me, as Chairman of the 
Committee where fees are less than the limit specified, or with full Audit Committee approval 
where fees are anticipated to be greater. A tender process would be held where appropriate.
Committee evaluation
The Committee’s activities formed part of the internal review of the Board effectiveness 
undertaken during the year. Details of this process can be found on pages 53 and 54.
Simon Melliss
Chairman, Audit Committee
27 April 2015
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Audit Committee 
report 
continued  Nomination 
Committee report
Role of the Nomination Committee
The role of the Nomination Committee is to review the Board composition and identify and 
nominate directors who could improve the Board’s performance. The Committee is also 
responsible for evaluating the directors on an annual basis and striving for a balance of skills, 
knowledge, independence, experience and diverse representation.
The Committee meets at least twice a year. The main activities during 2014/15 included:
• 
the appointment of the new Whitbread Chairman;
• 
the annual planning and review meeting;
• 
a review of the Board size, structure and composition, with a view to ensuring the continued 
ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace;
• 
a review of the talent and succession planning for the Board, taking into account the 
challenges and opportunities facing the business; and
• 
the re–election of directors at the AGM.
The Committee is responsible for ensuring that Board and committee membership is 
progressively refreshed and that there is no undue reliance on any one individual. This is 
reviewed at the annual meeting in March.
The full terms of reference are available on the Company’s website.
Board appointments and diversity 
Appointments to the Board are based on merit against objective criteria. 
Diversity and equality have always been core values at Whitbread. The Board believes  
that diversity is of utmost importance, ensuring Board and Company effectiveness and 
continued success. Whitbread appoints members of the Board on the basis of performance 
and ability of continually contributing to the Board, on the grounds of the knowledge, skills  
and experience required. We are committed to an active policy of equal opportunities and 
embrace diversity at all levels.
Our approach to the appointment of new directors
The Nomination Committee annually evaluates the balance of skills, experience, independence 
and knowledge on the Board, preparing a description of the role and capabilities required for  
a particular appointment.
We use external search consultants to engage and identify a number of candidates, ensuring 
equal representation, aligned with the role and capabilities required for the appointment. 
Selected candidates meet with the Nomination Committee and further interviews take place 
before an appointment is made.
Our approach to the annual re–election of directors
As required by the Code, all directors will be subject to re–election at the next AGM. The 
Nomination Committee held a planning and review meeting in March when the contribution 
and commitment of each member of the Board was reviewed. Following this discussion,  
it was recommended that all directors be proposed for reappointment at this year’s AGM. 
Details setting out why each director is deemed to be suitable for reappointment will be 
included with the AGM papers circulated to all shareholders.
Nomination 
Committee report
Members of the 
Nomination Committee
• Richard Baker (Chairman)
• Wendy Becker
• Sir Ian Cheshire
• Simon Melliss
• Stephen Williams
• Simon Barratt (Secretary)
Richard Baker
Chairman, Nomination 
Committee
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 60 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Nomination 
Committee report 61
Susan Taylor Martin’s first three–year term came to an end in January 2015. It was 
recommended that she be reappointed for a further three–year period. The only  
non–executive directors of the Board that have been directors for a term longer than  
six years are Simon Melliss, Wendy Becker and Stephen Williams.
Length of tenure of directors
Richard Baker
Andy Harrison
Nicholas Cadbury
Christopher Rogers
Louise Smalley
Wendy Becker
Sir Ian Cheshire
Simon Melliss
Susan Taylor Martin
Stephen Williams
          
Chief Executive succession
Following Andy Harrison’s decision to retire as Chief Executive, a key focus for the  
Nomination Committee is to find his successor. Full details of the process will be disclosed  
in next year’s report.
 
Richard Baker
Chairman, Nomination Committee
27 April 2015
Chairman succession
Sir Ian Cheshire
Sir Ian Cheshire
Senior Independent Director
27 April 2015
Following an announcement in January 2014 concerning chairman 
succession, Anthony Habgood stepped down from the Board  
on 1 September after nine years as Chairman. The process to find  
his successor was led by myself with the Nomination Committee  
and supported by Louise Smalley, the Group HR Director.
Following a selection process, JCA Group were appointed as 
advisers to the Committee in the search for external candidates.  
JCA Group has no other connections to the Company. A detailed 
specification for the role of Whitbread Chairman was prepared, 
taking into account the knowledge, experience and skills required  
for the role. A preliminary list of candidates was prepared for 
consideration by the Nomination Committee which then selected 
those to be interviewed.
Richard Baker was identified at the beginning of the search as an 
internal candidate. He joined the interview and assessment process 
and was treated on equal terms to the external candidates. Each 
member of the Nomination Committee met all of the candidates  
and gave written feedback which was collated by JCA Group.
A final meeting of the Nomination Committee concluded that 
Richard Baker was the best choice from a strong field of candidates 
and a recommendation was made to the Board that he be  
appointed as Chairman with effect from 1 September 2014. 
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Nomination  
Committee report 
continued  Statement from 
Stephen Williams
Remuneration report
Statement from 
Stephen Williams
Introduction
Last year, we asked shareholders to approve our directors’ remuneration policy and I would 
like to thank them for their strong support for the policy, with more than 99% of votes being 
cast in favour of the resolution at our AGM in June.
The approval lasts for three years and expires at our AGM in 2017. The Remuneration 
Committee has reviewed the policy this year and I am pleased to say that we believe it 
continues to be fit for purpose. It remains aligned to and supports the delivery of the Group’s 
business strategy and the creation of value for our shareholders.
Whitbread is, and must remain, competitive in the employment market in order to attract  
and retain a high calibre of person as appropriate to the specific role. This is true across the 
organisation and not just at executive level. Our Winning Teams make everyday experiences 
special for our customers and they deserve and need high quality leadership.
The leadership talent challenge
Whitbread’s Premier Inn and Costa brands are growing rapidly. In order to meet the demands of this growth, we need to fill  
our talent pools with leaders who have developed the right skills and qualities. With this in mind, we have chosen to adjust  
the WINcard measures to be used for the 2015/16 incentive scheme, within the framework of the policy approved last year. 
We will do this by adding a new measure to incentivise talent development. Executives will be able to earn up to 10% of base 
salary for the achievement of the new WINcard target, but the overall level of potential reward to executives under the Annual 
Incentive Scheme will remain unchanged. Further details can be found on page 46.
Remuneration linked to strategy
Whitbread’s strategy is to invest in growing its leading brands, Premier Inn and Costa. We have developed stretching targets 
which, if delivered successfully, will create significant shareholder value. The Committee believes that the executive team 
should be rewarded for the achievement of this strategy and that incentives should be clearly aligned to delivering earnings 
growth and returns above our cost of capital.
Along with profit and returns targets, as well as the new leadership talent target outlined above, the WINcard is a key element 
of our remuneration structure. It measures performance against both financial and non–financial targets and executives are 
incentivised based on the achievement of these targets. Further details can be found on page 76. 
The Whitbread Business Model, which is described on page 4 shows how we intend to deliver our strategic aims by providing  
a great place to work for our people, so that they care for our customers and provide them with an experience that will make 
them come back time and time again. We intend to deliver these aims whilst being a force for good in the communities  
in which we operate. The diagram on page 63 shows how elements of the remuneration package are linked to this model.
For some years now a significant proportion of the incentives available to executives has been paid in shares, a material 
element of which is deferred. This remains core to our remuneration arrangements. The Remuneration Committee believes that 
executives should use the incentive schemes to build a significant shareholding in the Company in order to provide greater 
alignment between executives and shareholders. New strengthened shareholding requirements were introduced in 2013/14.
Annual Incentive Scheme
As well as meeting the leadership talent challenge as described above, we have made a minor change to the Annual Incentive 
Scheme rules during the year, with the addition of a new clawback provision. This gives the Company the right, in certain 
circumstances, to recover cash incentive payments made under the Scheme. This brings Whitbread into line with the new 
governance requirements in this area.
Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’)
At the AGM in 2014 a new Long Term Incentive Plan was approved following a shareholder consultation. The new LTIP allows  
for awards to be made up to a maximum of 200% of salary. As we reported last year however, the actual awards to be made this 
year will be based on 125% of salary. The awards will, for the first time, be subject to a two–year post–vesting holding period.
Whitbread continues to be a fast–growing, capital–intensive business. The Group’s growth, which is based on a five–year 
business plan and the delivery of our growth milestones along with strong returns, is vital for the future success of the Company. 
It is for this reason that the LTIP performance conditions, a combination of ROCE and EPS, have been selected and we believe 
that they continue to be appropriate. We reviewed the targets for the 2015 LTIP awards, and concluded that the targets set in 
2014 continue to be stretching, particularly in light of the level of recent freehold hotel acquisitions. Further details can be found 
on page 69.
Stephen Williams
Chairman, Remuneration 
Committee
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 62 Scheme Measure
• 
Annual Incentive Scheme
• 
Team turnover
• 
Development of leadership talent
• 
Health and safety (hurdle)
• 
Annual Incentive Scheme
• 
Premier Inn guest survey — reduction 
in zero to six out of ten scores
• 
Costa Listen & Learn net  
recommend score
• 
Health and safety (hurdle)
• 
LTIP
• 
Annual Incentive Scheme
• 
Underlying basic EPS
• 
Return on capital
• 
Underlying profit
• 
Market performance
• 
Brand expansion
• 
Like for like sales
• 
Total system sales
• 
Annual Incentive Scheme
• 
Carbon consumption
• 
Community engagement
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Statement from 
Stephen Williams 63
Performance linked to reward
Whitbread has produced another excellent set of results in 2014/15, with underlying profit before tax up by 18.5% to  
£488.1 million, underlying basic EPS up by 19.4% to 213.67p and Group return on capital up from 15.3% to 15.7%. The Company  
is still on track to meet its growth milestones and has now introduced new milestones for 2020. As a result, the executives  
have been deservedly rewarded for this performance with incentive payments towards the top end of the range.
Patrick Dempsey 
We announced in December last year that Patrick Dempsey would be leaving Whitbread, after more than ten years in which  
he made a fantastic contribution to the Company. You will see later in this report that the Committee exercised its discretion  
to treat him as a ‘good leaver’ for share scheme purposes. All of the remuneration arrangements agreed in relation to Patrick’s 
departure were in accordance with the policy approved last year.
Andy Harrison 
You will be aware that Andy Harrison has decided to retire from his position as Chief Executive. He will continue to be entitled to 
his salary, benefits and incentives in the usual way until he leaves the Company. As he will not be taking up a full time executive 
role elsewhere, it has been agreed in principle that he will be a ‘good leaver’ in accordance with the rules of the Annual  
Incentive Scheme and LTIP. Andy will, however, not be eligible for a 2015 LTIP award. This has been reflected in this report.
Looking ahead
The new UK Corporate Governance Code principle states that remuneration arrangements should promote the long–term 
success of the Company and that performance–related elements of remuneration packages should be transparent, stretching 
and rigorously applied. I strongly support this principle and believe that our current structure already achieves this. However,  
I think it is important that we take time to reflect on our current arrangements and I have arranged a day later in the year for  
the Remuneration Committee to discuss all elements of our remuneration structure to ensure that they remain appropriate  
to the Company as it continues to grow.
Stephen Williams
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
27 April 2015
 The statement below, the summary remuneration policy report and the annual report on 
remuneration form the directors’ remuneration report, which was approved by the Board  
and signed on its behalf by Stephen Williams on 27 April 2015.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Remuneration 
report 
continued  Summary remuneration  
policy report
Introduction
The Company’s remuneration policy was approved at the 2014 AGM and is effective until the 2017 AGM. 
For executives, our approach is designed to:
• 
align with the business strategy and the achievement of planned business goals;
• 
support the creation of sustainable long–term shareholder value;
• 
provide an appropriate balance between remuneration elements that attract, retain and motivate the highest calibre  
of executive talent; and
• 
encourage a high–performance culture by ensuring performance–related remuneration constitutes a substantial proportion 
of the remuneration package and by linking maximum payout opportunity to outstanding results.
The policy table below is an extract from the approved remuneration policy and provides detail on each key element of 
remuneration, including the maximum potential value of each element, a brief summary of how it works and details of any 
performance metrics. The full remuneration policy is available on the Company’s website at www.whitbread.co.uk
Future policy table
Element
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation
Maximum  
potential value
Performance 
metrics
Base 
salary
• Base salaries are set so as to 
be sufficient to attract and 
retain the calibre of executive 
talent needed to support the 
long–term interests of the 
business.
Salaries are reviewed annually 
taking account of:
• the salary review across  
the Group;
• trading circumstances;
• personal performance  
against agreed objectives;  
and
• market data for an 
appropriate comparator 
group of companies.
• Annual salary increases will 
not normally exceed average 
increases for employees  
in other appropriate parts  
of the Group. 
• On occasion, increases  
may be larger where the 
Committee considers this to 
be necessary. Circumstances 
where this may apply include 
growth into a role, to reflect  
a change in scope of role and 
responsibilities, where market 
conditions indicate a level of 
under competitiveness and the 
Committee judges that there  
is a risk in relation to attracting 
or retaining executives. 
• Where the Committee 
exercises its discretion to 
award increases above the 
average for other employees, 
the resulting salary will not 
exceed the competitive 
market range.
• None
Benefits • Benefits are intended to be 
competitive in the market so 
as to assist the recruitment 
and retention of executives.
• Executive directors are 
entitled to benefits relating  
to car/participation in the 
Sharesave scheme/
healthcare/personal 
insurances. Assignee 
allowances or local market 
terms may be necessary for 
directors based overseas. 
• In 2013/14 the benefits 
received by the executive 
directors amounted to 
between 3.5% and 6.5% of 
salary. We do not anticipate 
that the maximum payable 
would exceed 10% of salary. 
However, the Committee  
may provide benefits above 
this level in certain situations 
where it deems it necessary. 
This may include, for  
example, the appointment  
of a director based overseas 
or a significant increase  
in the cost of the benefits.
• None
Summary 
remuneration 
policy report
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 64 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Summary remuneration  
policy report 65
Element
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation
Maximum  
potential value
Performance 
metrics
Annual 
Incentive 
Scheme
• To provide a direct link 
between annual performance 
and reward.
• To incentivise the 
achievement of outstanding 
results across appropriate  
key stakeholder measures.
• To align with the long–term 
interests of shareholders  
and help participants build  
a significant stake in the 
business over time, by 
awarding a material part  
of the annual incentive  
in deferred equity.
• Targets for both financial  
and non–financial measures 
set at the beginning of the 
incentive year.
• Cash awards paid following 
the end of the financial year.
• Deferred shares awarded and, 
under normal circumstances, 
released three years after  
the date of award.
• Malus and clawback 
provisions apply to unvested 
deferred shares in the event  
of a material misstatement  
of results.
• 167% of base salary  
(73% of salary paid in cash  
and 94% of salary paid  
in deferred shares).
• A maximum of 137% of  
base salary is payable  
based on underlying profit 
performance, calculated  
on a straight–line basis 
between 95% of target 
(threshold) to 100% of 
target and from 100% to  
110% of target (maximum).
• A maximum of 30% of base 
salary is payable based  
on performance against 
WINcard and/or other 
appropriate stakeholder 
measures.
Long 
Term 
Incentive 
Plan
• To align the interests of  
senior executives closely  
with sustainable long–term 
shareholder value creation.
• To focus rewards on both the 
sustained delivery of absolute 
long–term earnings growth 
and the efficient use of  
capital over the long term.
• To retain executives over  
the performance period  
of the awards and beyond.
• Awards made annually.
• Awards vest after three years 
subject to performance 
conditions.
• Two–year holding period  
post vesting.
• Subject to clawback and 
malus provisions.
• Annual awards to a maximum 
of 200% of base salary.
• 75% of award based on  
EPS growth.
• No element of the award will 
vest unless a minimum level  
of ROCE, as determined by 
the Remuneration Committee 
on an annual basis, is achieved 
in the final year of the 
performance period.
• ROCE also acts as a multiplier 
on a straight–line sliding scale 
to increase the EPS element 
by up to a further third.
Pension • Pension benefits are provided 
in order to offer a market 
competitive remuneration 
package that is sufficient  
to attract and retain  
executive talent.
• Executive directors are 
entitled to participate  
in the Company’s pension 
scheme (or other pension 
arrangements relevant to their 
location if based overseas).
• Defined contribution scheme.
• Can elect for cash in lieu  
of pension contributions.
• If cash is taken, the amount  
is reduced by the value  
of the employer’s national 
insurance liability.
• 27.5% of base salary. • None
Performance measures
With the exception of base salary, benefits, pension and participation in the Sharesave scheme, all other elements of the 
remuneration packages of the executive directors are linked to performance.
Full directors’ remuneration policy
The full directors’ remuneration policy can be found on the Company’s website www.whitbread.co.uk
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Summary  
remuneration  
policy report 
continued  Summary remuneration  
policy report
Summary  
remuneration  
policy report 
continued 
Illustration of application of remuneration policy
Although the charts below do not form part of the approved policy report, they have been included to show how the 
remuneration policy will be applied in 2015/16, with details of expected remuneration levels for each director for below 
threshold performance, for on–target performance and for maximum performance. The charts that do form part  
of the approved policy are available on the Company’s website.
Executive directors — potential value of 2015/16 package
0500 1000 1500 2000 2500
0500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 0500 1000 1500 2000
0500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000
Nicholas Cadbury
Below threshold

On–target

Maximum

£m     
Andy Harrison
Key
Fixed elements
Salary
Below threshold

On–target

Maximum

£m
Christopher Rogers
Below threshold

On–target

Maximum

£m
Below threshold

On–target

Maximum

£m
       
           
Louise Smalley
Pension
Variable elements
LTIP Deferred shares Cash incentive payment Taxable beneﬁts not included

 
 




 
 
 
   
    
 
    
    
On–target performance assumes on–target profit, a mix of green and amber WINcard scores and threshold vesting under the LTIP. Maximum performance 
assumes maximum profit, all green WINcard scores and maximum LTIP vesting. In both cases, for simplicity, no share price growth is assumed.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 66 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Annual report  
on remuneration 67
Annual report 
on remuneration
Remuneration Committee —  
membership, key duties and advisers
Members of the Remuneration Committee
• 
Stephen Williams 
(Chairman)
• 
Sir Ian Cheshire
• 
Richard Baker
• 
Simon Barratt (Secretary)
• 
Wendy Becker
Key duties
Full terms of reference are available on the Company’s 
website.
Remuneration Committee — key duties
• 
Set the broad policy for the remuneration of the  
Chairman and the executive directors.
• 
Within the terms of the agreed policy, to determine  
the total individual remuneration package (including 
incentive payments, share awards and other benefits)  
of the Chairman and each executive director.
• 
Monitor the structure and level of remuneration of 
Executive Committee members.
• 
Approve the design of, and determine the targets for, 
incentive schemes.
• 
Approve awards to be made to executive directors  
and other senior executives under incentive schemes.
• 
Ensure that contractual terms on termination, and  
any payments made, are fair to the individual and the 
Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the  
duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
Internal advisers
Simon Barratt — General Counsel 
Louise Smalley — Group HR Director
External advisers
Towers Watson were appointed remuneration consultants  
by the Committee following a rigorous tender process.  
A separate part of Towers Watson provides investment  
advice and actuarial services in relation to the pension fund. 
Fees paid to Towers Watson in respect of advice received  
by the Committee amounted to £66,853.
Slaughter and May — legal advisers (Slaughter and May  
also provide legal services to the Company). Fees paid  
to Slaughter and May in respect of remuneration issues 
amounted to £8,450.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice received  
is independent and objective.
Remuneration Committee agenda — 2014/15
• 
Approval of Annual Incentive Scheme targets for 2014/15.
• 
Approval of awards of cash and deferred shares to 
executive directors under the Annual Incentive Scheme.
• 
Executive directors’ salary review.
• 
Approval of 2014 LTIP awards.
• 
Confirmation of the performance conditions for  
the 2014 LTIP awards.
• 
Confirmation of the vesting percentages for the LTIP 
award made in 2011 and vesting in 2014.
• 
Approval of the 2014 remuneration report including  
the Policy Report approved by shareholders at the  
2014 AGM.
• 
Approval of updated terms of reference.
• 
Approval of new LTIP.
• 
Remuneration principles and structure for 2015/16.
• 
Increase in maximum savings limit under the Sharesave 
Scheme to £500 per month.
• 
Introduction of new clawback provision into the Annual 
Incentive Scheme.
• 
Approval of a new, more relevant, comparator group  
for benchmarking purposes.
• 
Approval of fees for Richard Baker as the new Chairman.
• 
Approval of leaving terms for Patrick Dempsey.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Single total figure of remuneration (audited information) — executive directors
Basic salary Benefits
Annual Incentive 
Scheme LTIP Pension Total
 2014/15 2013/14 2014/15 2013/14 2014/15 2013/14 2014/15 2013/14 2014/15 2013/14 2014/15 2013/14 
Director £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Andy Harrison 747 731 26 26 1,087 1,012 2,530 4,845 
1, 2
 164 161 4,554 6,775
Nicholas Cadbury 469 460 21 21 681 635 795 — 107 107 2,073 1,223
Patrick Dempsey 476 446 21 21 633 566 1,185 931 
1
 111 113 2,426 2,077
Christopher Rogers 526 514 22 22 736 702 1,779 1,426 
1
 127 124 3,190 2,788
Louise Smalley 325 300 19 19  478 414 552 138 
1
 76 72 1,450 943
1  The values of the vesting LTIP awards for 2013/14 have been restated to show the actual prices at the date of vesting.
2 Includes £2.81 million in respect of a one–off matching award made to Andy Harrison on appointment.
Annual report  
on remuneration
Details of each of the elements included in the table above  
are as follows:
Base salary
The base salary numbers shown in the table include two 
months’ pay based on the director’s salary from 1 May 2013  
(or at the date of appointment as applicable) and ten  
months’ pay based on the director’s salary from 1 May 2014.
Benefits
The benefits received by each executive director include 
family private healthcare and a cash allowance in lieu  
of a company car.
Annual Incentive Scheme
The Annual Incentive Scheme payments shown above include 
both a cash payment to be made in May 2015 and deferred 
shares to be issued in April 2015. The awards were calculated 
as described below.
Awards based on profit measure
Whilst many of our non–financial targets are disclosed 
prospectively on pages 38 to 41, the profit targets  
for 2014/15 have not been disclosed, because the Board 
considers them to be commercially sensitive. Many of 
Whitbread’s competitors are private companies and not 
therefore subject to the same disclosure requirements.  
We believe that it would give those companies an advantage 
if they were able to see our profit targets. The Committee  
will keep this disclosure under review.
The awards to be made based on the 2014/15 profit measure 
are as follows: 
Director
% of salary 
in cash
% of salary in 
deferred shares
Total % 
of salary
Andy Harrison 47.5 85.4 132.9
2013/14 39.5 71.5 111.0
Nicholas Cadbury 47.5 85.4 132.9
2013/14 39.5 71.5 111.0
Patrick Dempsey 45.1 81.2 126.3
2013/14 36.7 66.7 103.4
Christopher Rogers 43.3 78.2 121.5
2013/14 38.3 69.3 107.6
Louise Smalley 47.5 85.4 132.9
2013/14 39.5 71.5 111.0
Awards based on WINcard measures
The WINcard targets in 2014/15 were appropriate to the 
director’s role. For example, Patrick Dempsey had WINcard 
measures specific to Hotels & Restaurants and Christopher 
Rogers had Costa specific measures. Nicholas Cadbury,  
Andy Harrison and Louise Smalley each had Group targets, 
some of which are a combination of the Costa and Hotels  
& Restaurants measures.
The WINcard results are as shown in the table below:
WINcard measure
Andy Harrison 
Nicholas Cadbury 
Louise Smalley 
% of salary
Patrick 
Dempsey 
% of salary
Christopher 
Rogers 
% of salary
Winning Teams
Team turnover 0 3.75 0
Health and safety
1
n/a n/a n/a
Customer Heartbeat
Family measure n/a 0 n/a
Brand performance 4.50 0 6.00
Profitable Growth
Brand growth 1.50 1.5 0
Market performance 0 0 6.00
Like for like sales growth 3.00 3.00 3.00
Good Together
Energy consumption/
wastage
3.00 3.00 3.00
Total 12.00 11.25 18.00
Total 2013/14 27.00 22.50 28.50
1  The health and safety measure acts as a hurdle. If the health and safety 
score had been red, payouts for the other WINcard measures would 
have been reduced by 20%. If the score had been amber, a 10% 
reduction would have applied.
More information on the actual targets and outcomes for 
these measures can be found on pages 38 to 41.
Annual report  
on remuneration  
continued 
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 68 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Annual report  
on remuneration 69
Long Term Incentive Plan
The amounts shown in the table on page 68 refer to the  
value of the LTIP awards made in 2012 and vesting in 2015.  
For Louise Smalley, the amount is pro–rated based on the 
proportion of the performance period that she has been  
a director (i.e. 28 months out of 36).
The value given for the LTIP awards is based on the average 
market value over the last quarter of the financial year  
(4812.7p), as the awards will not vest until after the date  
of this Report.
The LTIP awards made to executives in 2012 were subject  
to EPS and ROCE measures on a matrix basis as shown below:
 ROCE 2014/15
Threshold
  Sliding
  scale
Maximum
Threshold Maximum Sliding scale
<4%
4%
6%
8%
10%
EPS growth above 
RPI per annum










































The actual EPS growth achieved was in excess of RPI plus  
10% with the 2014/15 ROCE, which is calculated using an 
average of the previous 13 months’ net assets, being 16.8%.  
As a result, 100% of the shares awarded under the 2012 LTIP 
will vest. The awards vesting to the executive directors are  
as follows:
Director
Number of 
shares vested 
2015
Number of 
shares vested 
2014
Andy Harrison 52,565 48,953
Nicholas Cadbury 16,527 —
Patrick Dempsey 24,616 22,378
Christopher Rogers 36,975 34,267
Louise Smalley 11,469
1
3,380
1
1  The numbers shown represent the shares vesting based on the 
proportion of the performance period that Louise Smalley was a director 
as required by the regulations. This was 28 months out of 36 for the 
award vesting in 2015 and 16 months out of 36 for the award vesting  
in 2014. The total number of shares vesting to Louise will be 14,746.  
The total number that vested to her in 2014 was 7,606.
As a result, the awards to be made based on WINcard 
measures are as follows:
Director
% of salary 
in cash
% of salary in 
deferred shares
Total % 
 of salary
Andy Harrison 9.6 2.4 12.0
2013/14 21.6 5.4 27.0
Nicholas Cadbury 9.6 2.4 12.0
2013/14 21.6 5.4 27.0
Patrick Dempsey 9.0 2.25 11.25
2013/14 18.0 4.5 22.5
Christopher Rogers 14.4 3.6 18.0
2013/14 22.8 5.7 28.5
Louise Smalley 9.6 2.4 12.0
2013/14 21.6 5.4 27.0
Total awards
The split between cash and deferred shares is as follows:
Director
Cash award 
£’000
Cash value 
of deferred 
shares award 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Andy Harrison 428 659 1,087
2013/14 448 564 1,012
Nicholas Cadbury 268 413 681
2013/14 281 354 635
Patrick Dempsey 249 384 633
2013/14 246 320 566
Christopher Rogers 305 431 736
2013/14 315 387 702
Louise Smalley 188 290 478
2013/14 183 231 414
The deferred shares will, under normal circumstances, vest  
on 1 March 2018, subject to continued employment within the 
Group. No further performance conditions apply to these 
awards. Malus provisions apply to the deferred share awards 
in the event, for example, of a material misstatement of results 
with clawback provisions applying to the cash awards. The 
share price used to calculate the awards was the average 
closing price of a Whitbread share for the five business days 
preceding 1 March 2015 (i.e. 5195p). 
The number of deferred shares awarded to each director  
will be as follows:
Director
Number of deferred 
shares awarded 
2015
Number of deferred 
shares awarded 
2014
Andy Harrison 12,674 13,151
Nicholas Cadbury 7,946 8,246
Patrick Dempsey 7,393 7,463
Christopher Rogers 8,304 9,028
Louise Smalley 5,575 5,377
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Annual report  
on remuneration  
continued  Annual report  
on remuneration
Annual report  
on remuneration  
continued 
Pension
The percentage of salary received by the executive directors 
in pension contributions is shown in the table below.
Director % of salary
Andy Harrison 25.0
Nicholas Cadbury 25.0
Patrick Dempsey 27.5
Christopher Rogers 27.5
Louise Smalley 25.0
Executives are able to elect to receive a monthly amount  
in cash (less an amount equal to the employer’s national 
insurance contribution) in lieu of the pension contribution. 
Currently, Andy Harrison and Christopher Rogers have 
elected to receive a cash payment, while Nicholas Cadbury, 
and Louise Smalley each receive a pension contribution  
and a cash supplement representing the balance over  
and above the annual allowance set by HMRC for pension 
contributions. With effect from March 2014, Patrick Dempsey 
elected to receive a cash payment in lieu of his pension 
contribution.
Single total figure of remuneration (audited information) — Chairman and non–executive directors
Base fee
Senior Independent 
Director fee
Fee as Chairman 
of a Board Committee
Fee as a member 
of a Board Committee Total
 2014/15 2013/14 2014/15 2013/14 2014/15 2013/14 2014/15 2013/14 2014/15 2013/14 
Director £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Richard Baker 203 55 — — — — 5
2
 10 208 65
Anthony Habgood
1
 163 325 — — — — — — 163 325
Wendy Becker 55 55 — — — — 10 10 65 65
Sir Ian Cheshire 55 55 10 2 — 12 5 1 70 70
Simon Melliss 55 55 — — 15 15 — — 70 70
Susan Taylor Martin 55 55 — — — — 5 5 60 60
Stephen Williams 55 55 — 8  15 3 — 4 70 70
1 Fees for part year. Anthony stepped down from the Board on 1 September 2014.
2 Fees for part year. Since becoming Chairman, Richard is no longer entitled to a fee for being a member of a Board Committee.
Service contracts and external appointments
The key terms of the executive directors’ service contracts are as follows:
• 
notice period — six months by the director and 12 months by the Company;
• 
termination payment — see policy on payment for loss of office below;
• 
sickness — full salary for a maximum of 12 months in any three–year period or for a maximum of nine consecutive months; and
• 
non–compete — for six months after leaving.
The dates of the executive directors’ service contracts, which can be found on the Company’s website, are as follows:
Andy Harrison 3 March 2010
Nicholas Cadbury 3 September 2012
Christopher Rogers 18 February 2013
Louise Smalley 25 October 2012
The executive directors are entitled to retain fees from external directorships. 
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 70 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Annual report  
on remuneration 71
period will not be counted for the purpose of calculating 
whether an executive has met his or her requirement. When 
determining whether a director has met the requirement,  
both the current market price and the price at the point  
the shares were acquired will be taken into consideration. 
All of the executive directors except for Nicholas Cadbury, 
who was appointed in November 2012, have already met  
the increased requirement. Nicholas has continued to build  
a holding in the Company in advance of the first vesting  
of an award, which is due in 2015.
During the year, shareholding requirements were introduced 
for the Chairman and the non–executive directors. They are 
each required to build a holding to the value of 100% of their 
annual fee over a three–year period. Progress to date against 
this new requirement is shown below. Sir Ian Cheshire has 
requested and received permission to purchase shares to the 
value of £100,000 on 28 April 2015, after which he will have 
met the requirement in full.
Statement of directors’ shareholding and share interests 
(audited information)
The Committee believes that the shareholding requirements 
for executives, which have replaced the previous guidelines, 
play an important role in the alignment of the interests of 
executives and shareholders and help to incentivise 
executives to deliver sustainable long–term performance.
The Chief Executive is required to build and hold a 
shareholding at least equal to 200% of salary, whilst the other 
executive directors are expected to reach a holding to the 
value of 125% of salary and other senior executives 75%  
of salary. Until they reach this level, executives are expected  
to retain 100% of vested awards (after the deduction of 
income tax, national insurance contributions and dealing  
fees). In addition, a newly appointed executive director is 
expected to build a shareholding in the Company in advance 
of any share awards vesting. The failure to adhere to these 
requirements may lead to the executive being excluded  
from participation in future share scheme awards. It should  
be noted that any vested LTIP awards subject to a holding 
The table below shows the holdings of directors as at 26 February 2015:
Counting towards requirement Performance versus requirement Additional awards
  Value Value      
 Number based on based on  % of salary % of salary Awards Awards not 
 of purchase market Shareholding based on based on subject to subject to 
 ordinary price price requirement purchase market performance performance 
Director shares £’000 £’000 % of salary price price conditions
1
 conditions
2
Chairman 
Richard Baker 15,189 357 731 100 102  209 — —
Anthony Habgood 50,275 
3
 646 2,420 100 199  744 — —
Executive directors 
Andy Harrison 254,187 6,306 12,233 200 841 1,631 56,855 114,482
Nicholas Cadbury 2,025 75 97 125 16 21 36,149 36,391
Patrick Dempsey 57,590 1,535 2,772 125 334 603 34,191 57,487
Christopher Rogers 75,000 2,457 3,610 125 466 684 39,993 80,959
Louise Smalley 23,000 654 1,107 125 198  335 23,575 38,201
Non–executive directors 
Wendy Becker 6,100 61 294 100 100 452 — —
Sir Ian Cheshire 313 5 15 100 8 22 — —
Simon Melliss 3,000 41 144 100 59 206 — —
Susan Taylor Martin 1,490 50 72 100 77 110 — —
Stephen Williams 11,054 169 532 100 233  760 — —
1 Includes outstanding LTIP awards for which performance has not yet been tested.
2  Includes unvested/unexercised deferred shares under the Annual Incentive Scheme and unexercised LTIP awards for which the performance 
targets have already been met.
3 As at 1 September 2014.
There has been no change to the interests in the tables shown on this page between the end of the financial year and the  
date of this Report. However, the column showing awards not subject to performance conditions do include the deferred 
shares issued under the incentive scheme in 2015 even though these awards were actually made after the year–end. 
Please see tables on the following pages for details of LTIP awards, deferred shares and Sharesave options.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Annual report  
on remuneration  
continued  Annual report  
on remuneration
Annual report  
on remuneration  
continued 
Long Term Incentive Plan (‘the Plan’) (audited information)
Potential share awards held by the executive directors under the Plan at the beginning and end of the year, and details of 
awards vesting during the year and their value, are as follows:
           Monetary 
        Market Date  value of 
 Balance at    Balance at Conditional Performance price at vested Price at exercised 
 28 February    26 February award period award award exercise award 
Director 2014 Awarded Lapsed Exercised 2015 granted concludes p exercised p £’000
Andy Harrison 48,953  —  — 48,953  —  01/03/2011 28/02/2014 1787.4 30/05/2014 4161.9 2,037 
 67,468
 1
  —  — 67,468  —  01/03/2011 28/02/2014 1787.4 30/05/2014 4161.9 2,808 
 52,565 —   —  —   52,565  01/03/2012 28/02/2015 1687.0 — — — 
 35,474  —  — —  35,474  01/03/2013 28/02/2016 2554.0 — — — 
 —   21,381 — — 21,381  01/03/2014 28/02/2017 4487.0 — — —
 204,460  21,381  — 116,421  109,420       4,845 
Nicholas Cadbury 16,527 — — —  16,527 01/03/2012 28/02/2015 1687.0 — — — 
 22,743 — — —  22,743 01/03/2013 28/02/2016 2554.0 — — — 
 — 13,406 — —  13,406 01/03/2014 28/02/2017 4487.0 — — —
 39,270 13,406 —  — 52,676      —
Patrick Dempsey 22,378 — — 22,378  — 01/03/2011 28/02/2014 1787.4 30/05/2014 4161.9 931 
 24,616  —  — — 24,616 01/03/2012 28/02/2015 1687.0 — — — 
 21,077 —  — — 21,077 01/03/2013 28/02/2016 2554.0 — — — 
 —  13,114 — —  13,114  01/03/2014 28/02/2017 4487.0 — — —
 68,071 13,114 — 22,378 58,807      931
Christopher Rogers 39,334  — 4,024 35,310  — 01/03/2010 28/02/2013 1414.8 30/05/2014 4161.9 1,470 
 34,267  — — 34,267  — 01/03/2011 28/02/2014 1787.4 30/05/2014 4161.9 1,426 
 36,975 — — — 36,975 01/03/2012 28/02/2015 1687.0 — — — 
  24,953  —  — —  24,953  01/03/2013 28/02/2016 2554.0 — — — 
 —  15,040 — —  15,040  01/03/2014 28/02/2017 4487.0 — — —
 135,529   1 5,040  4,024 69,577 76,968      2,896 
Louise Smalley 7,606  — — 7,606  —  01/03/2011 28/02/2014 1787.4 30/04/2014 4074.1 310 
 14,746  — — —  14,746  01/03/2012 28/02/2015 1687.0 — — — 
 14,832  — — — 14,832 01/03/2013 28/02/2016 2554.0 — — — 
 —  8,743 — — 8,743  01/03/2014 28/02/2017 4487.0 — — —
 37,184 8,743  — 7,606 38,321      310
1  As explained in the 2010/11 Annual Report, under the terms of Andy Harrison’s appointment, he received a matching award over 67,468 shares  
on 1 March 2011. The award was subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions and the retention of the same number of shares previously 
purchased by Andy. The performance conditions were the same as those for the general 2010 LTIP award, except that the performance period ran for 
three years up to the end of the 2013/14 financial year and that there would have been no vesting at median performance. The award vested in full.
LTIP performance conditions — past awards
  Performance metrics TSR condition EPS condition
2010 and  
2011 awards
50% TSR and 50% EPS. TSR growth against selected FTSE 51—150 
constituents — median (25% vests) to upper 
quartile (100% vests).
Underlying basic EPS growth must be at least 
equal to or exceed RPI + 4% per annum (25% 
vests) to RPI + 10% per annum (100% vests).
2012 award Based on underlying basic EPS growth above RPI per annum of 4% to 10% on a sliding scale with a one–third multiplier  
based on ROCE in 2014/15 of 12% to 16.7%. ROCE also acts as a hurdle and is calculated using an average of the previous  
13 months’ net assets.
2013 award Based on underlying basic EPS growth above RPI per annum of 4% to 10% on a sliding scale with a one–third multiplier  
based on ROCE in 2015/16 of 12% to 17.0%. ROCE also acts as a hurdle and is calculated using an average of the previous  
13 months’ net assets.
2014 award Based on underlying basic EPS growth above RPI per annum of 4% to 10% on a sliding scale with a one–third multiplier  
based on ROCE in 2016/17 of 12% to 18.0%. ROCE also acts as a hurdle and is calculated using an average of the previous  
13 months’ net assets.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 72 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Annual report  
on remuneration 73
LTIP performance conditions — future awards
Details of the performance conditions for the awards to be made in 2015 can be found on page 76.
Annual Incentive Scheme (‘the Scheme’) (audited information)
At 26 February 2015 the directors held the following deferred shares under the Plan:
           Monetary 
        Market  Market value of 
  Balance at    Balance at  price at Date price at vested 
 Year of 28 February    26 February Release award award vesting award 
Director award 2014 Awarded Lapsed Exercised 2015 date p exercised p £’000
Andy Harrison 2011 18,281 — — 18,281 — 29/04/2014 
1
 1787.4 30/05/14 4161.9 761 
 2012 16,618 — — — 16,618 28/04/2015 
1
 1687.0 — — — 
 2013 19,484 — — — 19,484 01/03/2016 2554.0 — — — 
 2014 13,151 — — — 13,151 01/03/2017 4487.0 — — — 
 2015 — 12,674 — — 12,674 01/03/2018 5255.0 — — —
  67,534 12,674 — 18,281 61,927     761
Nicholas Cadbury 2013 3,672 — — — 3,672 01/03/2016 2554.0 — — — 
 2014 8,246 — — — 8,246 01/03/2017 4487.0 — — — 
 2015 — 7,946 — — 7,946 01/03/2018 5255.0 — — —
  11,918 7,946 — — 19,864     —
Patrick Dempsey 2011 19,698 — — 19,698 —  29/04/2014 
1
 1787.4 30/05/14 4161.9 820 
 2012 7,291 — — — 7,291 28/04/2015 
1
 1687.0 — — — 
 2013 10,724 — — — 10,724 01/03/2016 2554.0 — — — 
 2014 7,463 — — — 7,463 01/03/2017 4487.0 — — — 
 2015 — 7,393 — — 7,393 01/03/2018 5255.0 — — —
   4 5,176 7,393 —  19,698  32,871     820
Christopher Rogers 2011 25,316 — — 25,316 — 29/04/2014 
1
 1787.4 30/05/14 4161.9 1,054 
 2012 11,689 — — — 11,689 28/04/2015 
1
 1687.0 — — — 
 2013 14,963 — — — 14,963 01/03/2016 2554.0 — — — 
 2014 9,028 — — — 9,028 01/03/2017 4487.0 — — — 
 2015 — 8,304 — — 8,304 01/03/2018 5255.0 — — —
  60,996 8,304 — 25,316  43,984     1,054
Louise Smalley 2011 11,393 — — 11,393 — 29/04/2014 
1
 1787.4 30/04/14 4074.1 464 
 2012 5,302 — — — 5,302 28/04/2015 
1
 1687.0 — — — 
 2013 7,201  — — — 7,201 01/03/2016 2554.0 — — — 
 2014 5,377 — — — 5,377 01/03/2017 4487.0 — — — 
 2015 — 5,575 — — 5,575 01/03/2018 5255.0 — — —
  29,273 5,575 —  11,393 23,455     464
1  Under the rules of the Scheme awards cannot vest during a close or prohibited period. The normal release dates for the 2011 and 2012 awards  
would have been 1 March 2014 and 1 March 2015 respectively. However, as these dates were during close periods the 2011 awards actually released  
on 29 April 2014 and the 2012 awards will become exercisable on the next day on which dealings are permitted. It is anticipated that this will be  
28 April 2015, the date on which the full–year results are released.
  The awards are not subject to performance conditions and will vest in full on the release date subject to the director remaining an employee  
of Whitbread at that date. If the director ceases to be an employee of Whitbread prior to the release date by reason of redundancy, retirement, 
death, injury, ill health, disability or some other reason considered to be appropriate by the Remuneration Committee the awards will be released 
in full. If the director ceases to be an employee of Whitbread for any other reason the proportion of award which vests depends upon the year in 
which the award was made and the date the director ceases to be an employee. If the director leaves within the first year after an award is made 
none of the award vests, between the first and second anniversary 25% vests and between the second and third anniversary 50% vests.  
              
    .
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Annual report  
on remuneration  
continued  Annual report  
on remuneration
Annual report  
on remuneration  
continued 
Share options (audited information)
Executive directors may participate in the Company’s Savings–related Share Option Scheme (the ‘Scheme’), which is open  
to all employees on the same terms. The exercise periods shown below are the normal exercise periods at the date of grant. 
Actual exercise periods are subject to change in accordance with the rules of the Scheme if a director ceases to be employed 
by the Company. At 26 February 2015 the directors held the following share options under the Scheme, with the latest exercise 
date being July 2020. Savings–related share options have a six–month exercise period.
 Number  Exercise price 
Director of shares Date of grant p Exercise date Last exercise date
Andy Harrison  5 13  02/12/2014 3507.2 01/02/2018 31/07/2018
 513 (672 at 27/02/2014)   
Nicholas Cadbury  3 27  29/11/2013 2746.4 01/02/2017 31/07/2017
 256  02/12/2014 3507.2 01/02/2018 31/07/2018
 583 (nil at 27/02/2014)   
Patrick Dempsey  1 ,076 03/12/2010 1414.0 01/02/2016 31/07/2016
 1,076  (1,076 at 27/02/2014)   
Christopher Rogers  1 ,076  03/12/2010 1414.0 01/02/2016 31/07/2016
 431  02/12/2014 3507.2 01/02/2020 31/07/2020
  1 ,507  (1,076 at 27/02/2014)   
Louise Smalley  4 70  30/11/2012 1913.6 01/02/2016 31/07/2016
 256  02/12/2014 3507.2 01/02/2018 31/07/2018
 726 (470 at 27/02/2014)   
Options exercised (audited information)
Savings–related Share Option Scheme
 Date of Number Option Exercise Exercise Number Price on Gain 
Director grant granted price period date exercised exercise
 
£’000
Andy Harrison 02/12/2011 672 1339.2p February 2015 02/12/2015 672 4983.0p 24 
    to July 2015
Total shareholder return
The chart looks at the value over ﬁve years of £ invested in Whitbread PLC on 26 February 2009 compared, on a consistent basis, with that of £ invested in the FTSE  index
based on 30 trading day average values. The FTSE 100 Index has been used because, given the Company’s position within that index, the Committee believes it to be the most appropriate.
Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream.








 February

 March

 March

 March

 February

 February

 February


Key
Whitbread PLCFTSE  Index
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 74 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Annual report  
on remuneration 75
Remuneration Committee discretion 
During the year, it was announced that Patrick Dempsey 
would leave the Company and step down as a director on  
28 February 2015. The Committee exercised its discretion, in 
accordance with the approved policy, to apply ‘good leaver’ 
terms to Patrick. A disclosure under Section 403 (2B) of the 
Companies Act 2006 has been made and is available on the 
Company’s website. 
Payments to past directors (audited information)
Alan Parker, who retired as Chief Executive in November 2010, 
exercised an award over 27,901 shares under the Annual 
Incentive Scheme on 30 May 2014 at a price of 4161.9p per 
share. With the exception of this and regular pension 
payments and dividends on Whitbread shares, no other 
payments were made during the year to past directors. 
Information relating to payments made to Patrick Dempsey 
following his departure from the Company is available on the 
Company’s website and will be included in next year’s report.
Chief Executive’s remuneration 
The Chief Executive’s remuneration (including base salary, 
benefits and annual incentive payment) increased by 4.9%  
in the year, compared with an increase of 3.2% for the Group’s 
employees as a whole.
The following table shows the Chief Executive’s pay over  
the last five years, with details of the percentage of maximum 
paid out under the Annual Incentive Scheme and the LTIP 
vesting percentage for each year.
Year Chief Executive
Single total 
figure of 
remuneration 
£’000
% of maximum 
incentive 
achieved
% of LTIP 
award vesting
2014/15 Andy Harrison 4,554 86.8 100.0
2013/14
1
Andy Harrison 6,374 82.6 100.0
2012/13 Andy Harrison 3,432 74.9 89.8
2011/12 Andy Harrison 1,444 45.6 n/a
2010/11 Andy Harrison 534 94.4 n/a
Alan Parker 2,509 94.4 82.4
Combined 3,043 94.4 82.4
2009/10 Alan Parker 2,634 100.0 75.9
1  The single total figure of remuneration for Andy Harrison in 2013/14 
included a one–off matching award, valued at £2.58 million. This 
award was given to Andy on his appointment.
Fees from external directorships
Christopher Rogers is a non–executive director of Travis 
Perkins Plc and retained a fee of £55,183 in respect of that 
directorship. Louise Smalley became a non–executive director 
of DS Smith Plc with effect from 23 June 2014 and retained  
a fee of £34,333. Andy Harrison became a non–executive 
director of Dunelm Group plc with effect from 1 September 
2014 and retained a fee of £20,400. None of the other 
executive directors received any fees from external 
directorships during the year.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The graph below compares the change in total expenditure 
on employee pay during the year to the changes in profit  
after tax and dividend payments.
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700







Proﬁt
after tax
Dividends Employee
costs

Key
 
£m







Proﬁt
after tax

£m
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2015/16
Base salary
The base salaries of the executive directors with effect from  
1 May 2015 will be as follows:
 
 
Director
Base salary at  
1 May 2015 
£’000
Base salary at  
1 May 2014 
£’000
Andy Harrison 767 750
Nicholas Cadbury 494 470
Christopher Rogers 540 528
Louise Smalley 347 330
Nicholas Cadbury and Louise Smalley will each receive  
a salary increase of 5% to recognise their significant 
contribution to the Company’s success and additional 
responsibilities. Andy Harrison and Christopher Rogers will 
each receive an increase of 2.25% which is the same as the 
general increase being given to employees across the Group.
Benefits
The benefits received by each executive director will continue 
to include family private healthcare and a cash allowance  
in lieu of a company car.
Annual Incentive Scheme
The Annual Incentive Scheme will continue to operate  
on broadly the same terms as it did in 2014/15. Executive 
directors will be able to earn up to 137% of salary based on 
performance against a profit target and a further 30% of 
salary based on performance against WINcard and other 
stakeholder targets. The profit measures set for the executive 
directors for 2015/16 are appropriate to each director’s role. 
Nicholas Cadbury, Andy Harrison and Louise Smalley have a 
Group underlying PBT measure. Christopher Rogers will have  
a profit measure split on a 40:60 basis between Group 
underlying PBT and Costa underlying PBIT.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Annual report  
on remuneration  
continued  Annual report  
on remuneration
Annual report  
on remuneration  
continued 
As explained on page 68, the profit targets are commercially 
sensitive and, for that reason, are not disclosed. The 
Committee will keep this disclosure under review.
Profit performance (% of salary)





Threshold On–target Stretch
(maximum)

Key
TotalDeferred shares Cash
Each executive director will be incentivised based on WINcard 
and other stakeholder targets appropriate to the director’s 
role. The targets include upweighted measures and standard 
measures. 80% of any awards made in relation to these 
measures are made in cash, with the remaining 20% being 
deferred equity. The measures and the percentage of salary 
payable based on each measure are outlined below and 
further detail on the specific targets can be found on pages 
38 to 41.
 
 
WINcard measure
Andy Harrison 
Nicholas Cadbury 
Louise Smalley 
% of salary
Christopher Rogers 
% of salary
Winning Teams
Team turnover 6 3 0 6 3 0
Leadership talent 
development 10 5 0 10 5 0
Health and safety
1
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Customer Heartbeat
Guest recommend 6 3 0 6 3 0
Profitable Growth
Market 
performance 2 1 0 2 1 0
Brand growth 2 1 0 2 1 0
Like for like  
sales growth 2 1 0 n/a n/a n/a
Total systems  
sales growth n/a n/a n/a 2 1 0
Good Together
Carbon 
consumption 2 1 0 n/a n/a n/a
Community 
engagement n/a n/a n/a 2 1 0
1  The health and safety measure is a hurdle. If the health and safety score  
is amber, payouts for the other WINcard measures will be reduced  
by 10% and if it is red they will be reduced by 20%.
Cash awards will be made in May 2016, with deferred  
equity issued in April 2016 and due to vest on 1 March 2019, 
with no further performance conditions applying.
Long Term Incentive Plan
The awards to be made in 2015 will be based on 125%  
of base salary calculated by reference to the average of 
the closing price of a Whitbread share for the five business  
days preceding 1 March 2015 (i.e. 5195.0p). They will vest  
in April 2018, subject to the continued employment within  
the Group of the director and satisfaction of the performance 
conditions. The awards will be subject to a two–year holding 
period post vesting. Following his decision to retire, Andy 
Harrison will not be eligible to receive an LTIP award in 2015.
The matrix below shows how the performance conditions  
will operate.
 ROCE 2017/18
Threshold
  Sliding
  scale
Maximum
Threshold Maximum Sliding scale
<4%
4%
6%
8%
10%
EPS growth above 
RPI per annum










































The number of shares awarded under the LTIP to each 
director will be as follows:
 
Director
Number of  
shares awarded
Value of  
award 
£’000
Nicholas Cadbury 11,317 588
Christopher Rogers 12,696 660
Louise Smalley 7,940 412
Pension
There will be no changes to the pension arrangements  
in 2015/16.
Statement of shareholder voting
At the Annual General Meeting in 2014 the resolution  
to approve the remuneration policy was passed, with  
99.4% of votes received being in favour of the resolution.  
In total 104,268,540 votes were cast on the resolution,  
with 103,635,370 in favour and 633,170 against. There  
were 1,723,600 votes withheld. The advisory resolution to  
approve the annual report on remuneration was also passed.  
In total 104,470,373 votes were cast on the resolution,  
with 103,549,177 in favour and 921,196 against. There were 
1,519,201 votes withheld. One question, on the ability to match 
variable incentives foregone when an executive joins from 
another company was asked in relation to the Company’s 
remuneration policy.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 76 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Directors’ 
report 77
Directors’ 
report
The directors present their Report and Accounts for  
the year ended 26 February 2015
Certain information required for disclosure in this Report is 
provided in other appropriate sections of the Annual Report 
and Accounts. These include the corporate governance and 
remuneration reports and the Group financial statements  
and Notes to those financial statements and accordingly  
these are incorporated into the report by reference.
Results and dividends
Group underlying profit before tax £488.1 million
Group profit before tax £463.8 million
Interim dividend paid on 9 January 2015 25.20p per share
Recommended final dividend 56.95p per share
Total dividend for the year 82.15p per share
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting (AGM),  
the final dividend will be payable on 3 July 2015 to the 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on  
29 May 2015.
Board of Directors
The directors at the date of this Report are listed on pages  
50 and 51. All these directors served throughout the year.  
On 1 September 2014, Anthony Habgood resigned as 
Chairman of the Company and Richard Baker was appointed 
Chairman of the Company. Patrick Dempsey resigned as a 
director of the Company with effect from 28 February 2015.
Details of the directors’ service contracts are given in the 
remuneration report on page 70. None of the non–executive 
directors has a service contract.
Details of directors’ training are given in the corporate 
governance report on pages 53 and 54.
Powers of directors
The business of the Company is managed by the directors 
who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to 
the Company’s Articles of Association, any relevant legislation 
and any directions given by the Company by passing a special 
resolution at a general meeting. In particular, the directors 
may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow 
money, issue shares, appoint and remove directors and 
recommend and declare dividends.
Appointment and replacement of directors
Directors shall be no less than two and no more than  
20 in number. Directors may be appointed by the Company,  
by ordinary resolution or by the Board of Directors.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 
all directors will stand for annual re–election at each AGM.
The Company may, by special resolution, remove any 
directors before the expiration of his/her term of office.
Directors automatically stop being directors if:
i. they give the Company a written notice of resignation  
(at the date such notice expires);
ii.  they give the Company a written notice in which they  
offer to resign and the other directors decide to accept  
the offer;
iii. all of the other directors (who must comprise at least three 
people) pass a resolution or sign a written notice requiring 
the director to resign;
iv. they are or have been suffering from mental or physical  
ill health and the directors pass a resolution removing the 
director from office;
v. they have missed directors’ meetings (whether or not  
an alternate director appointed attends those meetings) 
for a continuous period of six months without permission 
from the directors and the directors pass a resolution 
removing the director from office;
vi. a bankruptcy order is made against them or they make 
any arrangement or composition with their creditors 
generally;
vii. they are prohibited from being a director under any 
applicable legislation; or
viii. they cease to be a director under any applicable legislation 
or are removed from office under the Company’s Articles 
of Association.
Directors’ indemnity
A qualifying third–party indemnity provision (as defined  
in Section 236 (1) of the Companies Act 2006) is in force  
for the benefit of the directors.
Compensation for loss of office
There are no agreements between the Company and  
its directors or employees providing for compensation  
for loss of office or employment that occurs as a result  
of a takeover bid.
Directors’ share interests
Details regarding the share interests of the directors in  
the share capital of the Company, including with respect  
to options to acquire ordinary shares, are set out in the 
remuneration report on pages 71 to 74.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Directors’  
report
Share capital
Details of the issued share capital can be found in Note 27  
to the accounts.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and  
speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint one  
or more proxies and, if they are corporations, corporate 
representatives to attend general meetings and to exercise 
voting rights. Holders of ordinary shares may receive a 
dividend and on a liquidation, may share in the assets of the 
Company. Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive 
the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts. Subject to 
meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares  
may requisition a general meeting of the Company or the 
proposal of resolutions at AGMs.
Voting rights
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, 
every holder of ordinary shares present, in person or by  
proxy and entitled to vote, has one vote (unless the proxy is 
appointed by more than one member in which case the proxy 
has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been 
instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution 
and by one or more members to vote against the resolution) 
and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy 
and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share 
held. Voting rights for any ordinary shares held in treasury  
are suspended. None of the ordinary shares carry any special 
rights with regard to control of the Company. Electronic and 
paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be 
received by the Company’s registrars not later than (i) 48 
hours before a meeting or adjourned meeting (excluding 
non–working days), or (ii) 24 hours before a poll is taken,  
if the poll is not taken on the same day as the meeting or 
adjourned meeting.
Unless the directors decide otherwise, a shareholder cannot 
attend or vote at any general meeting of the Company or at 
any separate general meeting of the holders of any class of 
shares in the Company or upon a poll or exercise any other 
right conferred by membership in relation to general meetings 
or polls if he or she has not paid all amounts relating to those 
shares which are due at the time of the meeting.
Where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in a class  
of shares has been served with a disclosure notice in relation 
to a particular holding of shares and has failed to provide the 
Company with information concerning those shares, those 
shares will no longer give that shareholder any right to vote  
at a shareholders’ meeting.
Restrictions on transfer of shares
There are the following restrictions on the transfer of  
shares in the Company:
• 
certain restrictions which may from time to time be 
imposed by laws and regulations (for example, insider 
trading laws);
• 
pursuant to the Company’s share dealing code, the 
directors and senior executives of the Company require 
approval to deal in the Company’s shares;
• 
where a person with at least a 0.25% interest in a class  
of shares has been served with a disclosure notice and  
has failed to provide the Company with information 
concerning interests in those shares;
• 
the subscriber ordinary shares may not be transferred 
without the prior written consent of the directors;
• 
the directors can, without giving any reason, refuse to 
register the transfer of any shares which are not fully paid;
• 
transfers cannot be in favour of more than four joint  
holders; and
• 
the directors can refuse to register the transfer of an 
uncertificated share in the circumstances set out in the 
uncertificated securities rules (as defined in the Company’s 
Articles of Association).
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer  
of shares or on voting rights.
B shares and C shares
Holders of B shares and C shares are entitled to receive an 
annual non–cumulative preferential dividend calculated at a 
rate of 75% of six month LIBOR on a value of 155p per B share 
and 159p per C share respectively, but are not entitled to any 
further right of participation in the profits of the Company. 
They are also entitled to payment of 155p per B share and 
159p per C share respectively on a return of capital on 
winding–up (excluding any intra–group reorganisation on  
a solvent basis).
Except in limited circumstances, the holders of the B shares 
and C shares are not entitled in their capacity as holders of 
such shares, to receive notice of any general meeting of the 
Company nor to attend, speak or vote at any such general 
meeting. 
Directors’ 
report 
continued
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 78 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Directors’  
report 79
Purchase of own shares
The Company is authorised to purchase its own shares  
in the market. Approval to renew this authority will be sought 
from the shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares  
during the year. 13.3 million shares are held as treasury  
shares (27 February 2014: 13.3 million). The Company did  
not transfer any shares from treasury to the Employee Share 
Ownership Trust during the year.
Employee share schemes
Whitbread does not have any employee share schemes with 
shares which have rights with regard to the control of the 
Company that are not exercisable directly by the employees.
Major interests
As at the end of the financial year, the Company had received 
formal notification, under the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules, of the following material holdings in its shares (the 
percentages shown are the percentages at the time of the 
disclosure and have not been re–calculated based on the 
issued share capital at the year–end):
Number  
of shares
% of issued 
share capital
FMR LLC 9,177,791 5.05
The Company was informed on 31 March 2015 that BlackRock 
Inc. had increased its holding to 9,206,796 of voting rights, 
being 5.07% of the total voting rights. No other changes to the 
above have been disclosed to the Company in accordance 
with rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules between 
the end of the financial year and 27 April 2015.
Employment policies
Whitbread has a range of employment policies covering  
such issues as diversity, employee wellbeing and equal 
opportunities.
The Company takes its responsibilities to the disabled 
seriously and seeks not to discriminate under any 
circumstances (including in relation to training, career 
development and promotion) against current or prospective 
employees because of any disability. Fair and full 
consideration is given to applications for employment made 
by disabled persons, having regard to their aptitudes and 
abilities. Employees who become disabled during their  
career at Whitbread will be retained in employment wherever 
possible and given help with rehabilitation and training.
Employee involvement
The importance of good relations and communications with 
employees is fundamental to the continued success of our 
business. Each of the Group’s operating businesses maintains 
employee relations and consults employees as appropriate  
to its own particular needs. In addition, our employee opinion 
survey, ‘Your Say’, is conducted twice a year to provide insight 
into the views of employees.
Our employees are actively encouraged to take part in our 
Sharesave scheme, which is available to all employees and 
offers an option price discounted by 20%.
Regular internal communications are made to all employees 
to ensure that they are kept well informed of the performance 
of the Group and of financial and economic factors that may 
affect the Company’s performance.
Further information on employee involvement can be  
found in the Winning Teams sections on pages 14 to 16 and  
26 and 27.
Mandatory Greenhouse Gas (‘GHG’) reporting 
Our environmental reporting complies with the requirements 
of the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic and Directors’ Report) 
Regulations 2013. 
We have considered the six main GHGs and report in CO
2
e  
for our Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) CO
2
 emissions. 
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard methodology to calculate our emissions 
and DEFRA GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting. 
Scope 1 includes emissions from the fuels we use in our hotels, 
restaurants, offices and coffee shops such as natural gas  
and liquid petroleum gas. It also includes CO
2
e from owned 
vehicles which include company cars but excludes logistics  
as this is an outsourced operation. Refrigerant gas, F–Gas, 
losses are captured for UK operations only due to reporting 
capabilities.
Scope 2 relates to the indirect emissions associated with  
the generation of the electricity consumed in our sites. 
When defining the scope of our data we do not report on 
operations under Joint Venture agreements where we do not 
have operational control such as Costa Beijing and Premier 
Inn (UAE). For reasons of materiality, small, one man offices  
in Australasia and the Far East have been excluded. All other 
sites throughout the world are included. 
Where possible we have reported billed or AMR data  
which now represents 88% of our total global emissions.  
For those operations which are currently beyond our 
reporting capabilities, such as Costa Shanghai, we have used 
an estimation approach using known sales data and local 
conversion factors. For further information about our 
estimation techniques and the number and location of 
Whitbread sites please view the Corporate Responsibility 
pages on our website.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Directors’ 
report 
continued Directors’  
report
Directors’ 
report 
continued
  
Source of emissions
Tonnes 
of CO
2
e 
2013/14
Tonnes 
of CO
2
e 
2014/15
Change 
%
Direct 
emissions
Scope 1 Natural Gas 53,857 52,993 –1.60
 Fuel Oil 400 197 –50.70
  LPG 3,245 3,175 –2.16
 F–gas 7,573 5,033 –33.54
  Owned Transport 1,864 1,534 –17.70
Indirect 
emissions
Scope 2 Electricity 187,733 211,733 +12.78
Gross 
emissions
  254,673 274,665 +7.85
  Turnover (£m) 2,294.30 2,608.10 +13.68
  Tonnes CO
2
e per 
£1 million turnover 111.00 105.31 –5.13
Amendment of the Company’s Articles of Association 
Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the 
Company may be made in accordance with the provisions  
of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution.
Significant agreements
The Company’s facility agreements and the private  
placement loan notes agreement, details of which can  
be found in Note 21 to the accounts, contain provisions 
entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other 
rights in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Contractual arrangements
The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous  
third–parties in support of its business activities, none  
of which are considered individually to be essential to its 
business and, accordingly, it has not been considered 
necessary for an understanding of the development, 
performance or position of the Group’s business to disclose 
information about any of those third parties.
Financial instruments
Information on the Company’s use of financial instruments, 
financial risk management objectives and policies and 
exposure is given in Note 24 and Note 25 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
Political donations
The Company has not made any political donations during  
the year and intends to continue its policy of not doing so  
for the foreseeable future.
Auditor
In March 2015, the Company announced that Deloitte LLP  
will be appointed as the Company’s statutory auditor, subject 
to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 16 June 2015.  
The Audit Committee has considered what work should not 
be carried out by the external auditor and has concluded  
that certain services will not be carried out by Deloitte LLP,  
as outlined in the Committee’s terms of reference. Further 
details on the tender process conducted by the Company  
can be found on page 59.
Disclosure of information to auditor
The directors have taken all reasonable steps to make 
themselves aware of relevant audit information and to 
establish that the auditor is aware of that information. The 
directors are not aware of any relevant audit information 
which has not been disclosed to the auditor.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors  
likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position are set out in the strategic report on pages 4 to 47. 
The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, net debt 
and borrowing facilities and the maturity of those facilities  
are set out in the Finance Director’s review on pages 42  
to 45. In addition there are further details in the financial 
statements on the Group’s financial risk management, 
objectives and policies (Note 24) and on financial instruments 
(Note 25).
A combination of the strong operating cash flows generated 
by the business and the significant headroom on its credit 
facilities supports the directors’ view that the Group has 
sufficient funds available for it to meet its forseeable working 
capital requirements. The directors have concluded that the 
going concern basis remains appropriate.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 80 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Directors’  
report 81
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held at 2pm on 16 June 2015 at Church  
House Conference Centre, Dean’s Yard, Westminster, London 
SW1P 3NZ. The Notice of Meeting is enclosed with this  
report for shareholders receiving hard copy documents,  
and is available at www.whitbread.co.uk for those who elected 
to receive documents electronically. At the 2015 AGM, all 
voting will be by poll. Electronic handsets will be utilised  
and results will be displayed on the screen at the meeting.
Approved by the Board on 27 April 2015 and signed.
 
Simon Barratt
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Registered Office: 
Whitbread Court 
Houghton Hall Business Park 
Porz Avenue 
Dunstable 
Bedfordshire 
LU5 5XE
Registered in England: No. 4120344
The directors’ report that has been drawn up and presented in 
accordance with and in reliance upon applicable English company law 
and any  
liability of the directors in connection with this Report shall be subject  
to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
The Annual Report and Accounts contain certain statements about  
the future outlook for the Group. Although the Company believes that  
the expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any statements 
about future outlook may be influenced by factors that could cause  
actual outcomes and results to be materially different.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Directors’ 
report 
continued  Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 83
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Consolidated 
accounts 
2014/15
84  Directors’ responsibility statement 
85  Independent auditor’s report
88  Consolidated income statement 
89  C onsolida t ed s ta t ement  
of comprehensive income
90  C onsolida t ed s ta t ement  
of changes in equity 
91  Consolidated balance sheet 
92  Consolidated cash flow statement 
93  Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Directors’ responsibility 
statement
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and Accounts in accordance with applicable UK laws and 
regulations. UK company law requires the directors to prepare 
financial statements for each financial year. Under that law, 
the directors have prepared the Group financial statements  
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union (EU) 
and applicable UK law. Further, they have elected to prepare 
the Company financial statements in accordance with  
United Kingdom Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP) 
and applicable UK law.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they  
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group 
and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for  
that period. 
In preparing the Group financial statements, the directors  
are required to:
• 
select suitable accounting policies in accordance with  
IAS 8 Accounting Policies, changes in accounting  
estimates and errors, and then apply them consistently;
• 
present information, including accounting policies,  
in a manner which presents relevant, reliable, comparable 
and understandable information;
• 
provide additional disclosures when compliance with  
the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable 
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, 
other events and conditions on the Group’s financial 
position and financial performance; 
• 
state that the Group financial statements comply with  
IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements;
• 
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent; and
• 
prepare the consolidated financial statements on  
a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to  
presume that the Group will continue in its business.
In preparing the Company financial statements, the  
directors are required to:
• 
select suitable accounting policies and apply them 
consistently;
• 
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
• 
state whether applicable UK accounting standards  
have been followed, subject to any material departures  
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
• 
prepare the financial statements on the going concern  
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that disclose, with reasonable accuracy  
at any time, the financial position of the Company and  
the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, with 
regard to the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the  
IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for the system  
of internal control for safeguarding the assets of the Group  
and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps  
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for preparing the strategic 
report (including the corporate governance report), the 
directors’ remuneration report and the directors’ report  
in accordance with The Companies Act 2006 and  
applicable regulations, including the Listing Rules and 
Transparency Rules.
A copy of the financial statements of the Group is posted  
on the Group’s website. The directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report included  
on the website. Information published on the Group’s  
website is accessible in many countries with different legal 
requirements. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, the names and functions of whom  
are set out on pages 50 and 51, confirms that, to the best  
of their knowledge, they have complied with the above 
requirements in preparing the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable accounting standards and that 
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the  
assets, liabilities, financial position and result of the Group.  
In addition, each of the directors confirms that the strategic 
report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group 
and together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. Having 
taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Board considers 
the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be  
fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the 
information necessary for the shareholders to assess the 
Group’s and Company’s performance, Business Model  
and strategy.
Signed on behalf of the Board
Andy Harrison Nicholas Cadbury
Chief Executive Finance Director
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 84 Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of Whitbread PLC
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 85
Opinion on the consolidated financial statements
In our opinion:
• 
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the  
state of the Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs  
as at 26 February 2015 and of the Group’s profit for the  
year then ended;
• 
the Group financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the  
European Union;
• 
the parent Company financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
• 
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and,  
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
We have audited the financial statements of Whitbread PLC 
for the year ended 26 February 2015 which comprise the 
consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement  
of changes in equity, the consolidated balance sheet, the 
consolidated cash flow statement, the parent Company 
balance sheet, Group related notes 1 to 33 and the parent 
Company related notes 1 to 11. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
Group financial statements is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union. The financial reporting framework that  
has been applied in the preparation of the parent Company 
financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members,  
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken  
so that we might state to the Company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted  
by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as  
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions  
we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities 
statement set out on page 84, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility 
is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards 
for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or  
error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read 
all the financial and non–financial information in the Annual 
Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement and 
response to that risk
The section below shows the risks of material misstatement 
we identified that had the greatest effect on the overall audit 
strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing 
the efforts of the engagement team together with our audit 
response to those risks:
The risk of inappropriate revenue recognition — 
Note 3/page 102
Focus We focused on this area due to the significant value  
of revenue for the Group, £2.6bn (2013/14: £2.3bn), the risk  
of revenues being recognised in incorrect periods through 
cut–off errors and the risk of inappropriate management 
override of the amount of revenue recorded.
Response We carried out testing relating to controls over 
revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue 
recognition.
We performed detailed testing on a sample of sales transactions 
from origination through to the general ledger and in the reverse 
direction to ensure that revenue recognised was complete and 
was recorded in the appropriate period to address the risk  
of cut off errors. These procedures were performed for each 
of the Group’s significant revenue streams of:
• 
sale of food, beverages and merchandise;
• 
revenue from room sales and other guest services; and
• 
franchise fees.
We performed analytical procedures on revenue across  
each significant stream across the year.
We performed cut–off testing on deliveries and services 
provided around the year–end.
We looked for and tested journal entries relating to revenue  
for transactions close to the period end to ensure they were 
valid entries. We also analysed and selected journals for testing 
which appeared unusual in nature either due to size, preparer 
or being manually posted. We verified the journals to 
originating documentation to confirm that the entry was valid. 
We evaluated the controls in the IT systems that support the 
recording of revenue.
We ensured that the financial statement disclosures were  
in accordance with accounting standards, IAS 1 Presentation 
of financial statements and IAS 18 Revenue.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Valuation of the defined benefit pension obligation — 
Note 31/page 130
Focus The actuarial assumptions used to value the defined 
benefit pension scheme obligation are judgemental and 
sensitive. Due to the significance of the value of the pension 
obligation, a small change in assumptions outside of the 
requirements of IAS 19(R) may result in a material difference 
to amounts reported.
Response Using external data, we verified the 
appropriateness of the key actuarial assumptions used  
by management in determining the pension obligation  
to ensure their assumptions were appropriate, met  
the requirements of IAS 19(R) and were in line with  
market practice. 
This included a comparison of life expectancy with relevant 
mortality tables, benchmarking inflation and discount  
rates against external market data, considering changes  
in historical assumptions and evaluating management’s 
expertise as required under auditing standards.
We used our pensions specialists to assist us with these 
procedures.
We ensured that the financial statement disclosures were  
in accordance with IAS 19(R).
The risk of management override — 
Note 23/page 121
Focus We focused on the risk of management override of 
internal control in areas of judgement over property related 
provisions, assumptions relating to the valuation of the 
defined benefit pension obligation and revenue recognition.
Response We performed tailored procedures, including 
analytical procedures and journal entry testing, sufficient to 
address the identified risk in respect of subjective areas which 
were considered to be most susceptible to management 
override which we considered to be property provisions, 
defined benefit pension liabilities and revenue recognition.
See points above for our response in relation to the risk of 
inappropriate revenue recognition and the valuation of the 
defined benefit pension obligation.
We agreed amounts of property provisions to underlying 
contractual agreements and performed sensitivity analysis  
on the assumptions in determining the final outcome 
including the discount rate, estimates of future sub–let  
rental income and periods of non–use. 
In 2014 we also focused on the accounting for current and 
deferred taxation balances and assessment of uncertain 
taxation positions. Although this has remained an area of 
audit focus in the current year, this has had a lesser effect  
on our overall audit strategy, due to the closure of a number 
of uncertain tax positions and the implementation of a new 
deferred tax calculation model. 
Within International Standard on Auditing (UK&I) 240 there  
is a presumption that there are risks of fraud in revenue 
recognition. We have therefore evaluated which types of 
revenue, revenue transactions or assertions give risk to such 
risk in the current year and these are documented in the 
section above.
Our application of materiality
Materiality is a key part of planning and executing our audit 
strategy. For the purposes of determining whether the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement,  
we define materiality as the magnitude of an omission or 
misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, in light  
of the surrounding circumstances, could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of 
the financial statements. As we develop our audit strategy, we 
determine materiality at the overall financial statement level 
and at the individual account level. Performance materiality  
is the application of materiality at the individual account level.
Planning the audit solely to detect individually material 
misstatements overlooks the fact that the aggregate of 
individually immaterial misstatements may cause the financial 
statements to be materially misstated, and leaves no margin 
for possible undetected misstatements.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determine  
a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged 
would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £23.2 million 
which is approximately 5% of pre–tax profit (2013/14: £18.0 
million). This provided the basis for determining the nature, 
timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying 
and assessing the risk of material misstatement and 
determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit 
procedures.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our 
assessment of the Group’s overall control environment,  
our judgement was that overall performance materiality  
(i.e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account  
or balance) for the Group should be 75% (2013/14: 75%)  
of planning materiality, namely £17.4 million (2013/14:  
£13.5 million). Our objective in adopting this approach was  
to ensure that the total uncorrected and undetected audit 
differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality  
of £23.2 million for the financial statements as a whole.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would  
report to the Committee all audit differences in excess  
of £1.0 million (2013/14: £0.9 million), as well as differences 
below that threshold that, in our view warranted reporting  
on qualitative grounds. 
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both  
the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above  
and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of Whitbread PLC 
continued 
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 86
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 87
An overview of the scope of our audit 
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the 
consolidated financial statements, our Group audit scope 
focused on the two operating segment locations in the UK, 
which were subject to full scope audits for the year ended  
26 February 2015. The Group operates from head office  
and the audit of the Group is undertaken by one audit team.  
The audit of these two operating segment locations was 
performed at a materiality level calculated by reference to a 
proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the relevant 
scale and risk of the individual business unit. Together with the 
Group functions, which were also subject to a full scope audit, 
these locations represent the principal business units of the 
Group and account for 97% of the Group’s total assets, 97% of 
the Group’s revenue and 95% of the Group’s profit before tax.
For the remaining components we performed review 
procedures to confirm that there were no significant risks  
of material misstatement in the Group financial statements.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:
• 
the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be  
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with  
the Companies Act 2006; 
• 
the information given in the strategic report and the 
directors’ report for the financial year for which the  
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements; and
• 
the information given in the corporate governance report 
set out on pages 55 and 56 with respect to internal control 
and risk management systems in relation to financial 
reporting processes and about share capital structures  
is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report  
to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: 
• 
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or 
• 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired 
in the course of performing our audit; or 
• 
is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have 
identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge 
acquired during the audit and the directors’ statement that 
they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately 
discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit 
Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report  
to you if, in our opinion:
• 
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have  
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• 
the parent Company financial statements and the part  
of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not 
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• 
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified  
by law are not made; or
• 
we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit; or
• 
a corporate governance report has not been prepared  
by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• 
the directors’ statement, set out on page 80, in relation  
to going concern; and
• 
the part of the corporate governance report relating to  
the Company’s compliance with the ten provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Richard Wilson
(Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP 
Statutory Auditor 
London
27 April 2015
Notes
1  The maintenance and integrity of the Whitbread PLC website is the 
responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors  
does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly,  
the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may  
have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially 
presented on the website.
2  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Consolidated income statement
Year ended 26 February 2015
     Year to Year to  
     26 February 27 February 
     2015 2014 
    Notes £m £m 
Revenue    3, 4 2,608.1  2,294.3  
Operating costs    5 (2,110.6) (1,905.3)
Operating profit     497.5  389.0 
Share of profit from joint ventures    16 2.6 1.6 
Share of profit from associate    17 0.8  0.9 
Operating profit of the Group, joint ventures and associate     500.9  391.5 
Finance costs    8 (39.4) (45.2) 
Finance revenue    8 2.3  0.7 
Profit before tax    4 463.8  347.0 
Analysed as:       
Underlying profit before tax    4 488.1  411.8  
 Exceptional items and non underlying adjustments    6 (24.3) (64.8) 
Profit before tax    4 463.8 347.0 
Tax expense     (97.7) (23.6)
Analysed as:       
 Underlying tax expense    9 (104.9)  (94.1)  
 Tax on exceptional items and non underlying adjustments    6 7.2 70.5
Tax expense    9 (97.7) (23.6) 
Profit for the year     366.1 323.4
Attributable to:       
 Parent shareholders     370.1  327.9  
 Non–controlling interest     (4.0) (4.5)
     366.1  323.4 
Earnings per share 
(Note 11) 
 
     Year to Year to  
     26 February 27 February 
     2015 2014 
     pence pence 
Earnings per share 
Basic     204.81 182.98 
Diluted     202.79 181.06
Underlying earnings per share 
Basic     213.67 179.02 
Diluted     211.56 177.14
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 88
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 89
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Year ended 26 February 2015
     Year to Year to  
     26 February 27 February 
     2015 2014 
    Notes £m £m 
Profit for the year     366.1 323.4 
Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement:   
Re–measurement loss on defined benefit pension scheme    31 (76.3) (37.7) 
Current tax on pensions    9 15.4  14.4  
Deferred tax on pensions    9 0.8 (5.7)  
Deferred tax: change in rate of corporation tax on pensions    9 — (11.8)
     (60.1) (40.8)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement: 
Net (loss)/gain on cash flow hedges    25 (3.0)  1.4 
Deferred tax on cash flow hedges    9 0.6  (0.3)  
Deferred tax: change in rate of corporation tax on cash flow hedges   9 — (0.5)
     (2.4)  0.6
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations     1.7 (7.8)
Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax     (60.8) (48.0)
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax     305.3  275.4 
Attributable to:    
 Parent shareholders     309.3  279.9  
 Non–controlling interest     (4.0) (4.5)
     305.3  275.4 
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Year ended 26 February 2015
   Capital  Currency      
 Share Share redemption Retained translation Treasury Merger Hedging  Non–  
 capital premium reserve earnings reserve reserve reserve reserve  controlling Total 
 (Note 27) (Note 28) (Note 28) (Note 28) (Note 28) (Note 28) (Note 28) (Note 28) Total interest equity 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 28 February 2013  148.3   5 5.1   1 2.3   3 ,408.8   4 . 7   ( 219.9)  ( 1,855.0)  ( 19.8)  1 ,534.5   1 0.8   1,545.3 
Profit for the year — — —  3 27.9  — — — — 327.9   ( 4.5)  3 23.4  
Other comprehensive loss — — —   (41.6) (7.8) — —  1 .4 (48.0) — (48.0)
Total comprehensive income — — —  286.3   ( 7.8) — —  1 .4  279.9   ( 4.5) 275.4 
Ordinary shares issued 0.2   2 .2  — — — —  — —  2 .4  —  2 .4 
Loss on ESOT shares issued  — — —  (7.3) —  7 .3  — — — — — 
Accrued share–based  
 payments —  — —  1 0.6  — —  — —  1 0.6  — 10.6  
Tax on share–based payments — — —   6 .6  — — — —  6 .6  —  6 .6  
Tax rate change on historical  
 revaluation — — —  1 .9  — — — —  1 .9  —  1.9  
Equity dividends — — —   ( 106.9) — — — —  ( 106.9) — (106.9) 
Scrip dividends 1.1   (1.1) —  4 4.5  — — — —  44.5  —  44.5  
Additions — — — — — — — — —  3 .2  3 .2 
At 27 February 2014  149.6   5 6.2   1 2.3   3,644.5   (3.1)   (212.6)  (1,855.0)  (18.4)  1 ,773.5   9.5   1,783.0 
Profit for the year —  — — 370.1 — — — — 370.1 (4.0) 366.1 
Other comprehensive loss —  — — (59.5) 1.7 — — (3.0) (60.8) — (60.8)
Total comprehensive income —  — — 310.6 1.7 — — (3.0) 309.3 (4.0) 305.3
Ordinary shares issued 0.2 3.0 — — — — — — 3.2 — 3.2 
Loss on ESOT shares issued —  — — (8.1) — 8.1 — — — — — 
Accrued share–based  
 payments —  — — 13.5 — — — — 13.5 — 13.5 
Tax on share–based payments —  — — 3.1 — — — — 3.1 — 3.1 
Equity dividends —  — — (130.6) — — — — (130.6) — (130.6) 
Additions —  — — — — — — — — 0.4 0.4
At 26 February 2015 149.8  59.2 12.3 3,833.0 (1.4) (204.5) (1,855.0) (21.4) 1,972.0 5.9 1,977.9
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 90
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 91
Consolidated balance sheet
At 26 February 2015
     26 February 27 February 
     2015 2014 
    Notes £m £m 
ASSETS   
Non–current assets    
Intangible assets    13 248.1   223.0  
Property, plant and equipment    14 3,278.4   2,894.1  
Investment in joint ventures    16 30.3 24.9  
Investment in associate    17 2.0  2.0  
Derivative financial instruments    25 2.2 —  
Trade and other receivables    19 7.3  6.0
     3,568.3   3,150.0 
Current assets    
Inventories    18 37.1  30.5 
Derivative financial instruments    25 1.2 —  
Trade and other receivables    19 124.0  124.1  
Cash and cash equivalents    20 2.1  41.4 
     164.4 196.0 
Assets held for sale    14 1.1  1.5 
Total assets    4 3,733.8   3,347.5 
LIABILITIES   
Current liabilities    
Financial liabilities    21 73.1  —  
Provisions    23 6.7  12.9  
Derivative financial instruments    25 4.8 4.3  
Income tax liabilities    9 35.4  35.1  
Trade and other payables    26 464.1 423.0 
     584.1 475.3
Non–current liabilities    
Financial liabilities    21 512.2  433.0  
Provisions    23 27.8  32.7  
Derivative financial instruments    25 13.8  24.7  
Deferred income tax liabilities    9 43.7  4 6.8  
Pension liability    31 553.8  534.3  
Trade and other payables    26 20.5  17.7 
     1,171.8 1,089.2 
Total liabilities    4 1,755.9  1,564.5 
Net assets    4 1,977.9  1,783.0 
EQUITY   
Share capital    27 149.8  149.6  
Share premium    28 59.2   56.2  
Capital redemption reserve    28 12.3   12.3  
Retained earnings    28 3,833.0  3,644.5  
Currency translation reserve    28 (1.4)   (3.1)  
Other reserves    28 (2,080.9)  (2,086.0)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent      1,972.0  1,773.5 
Non–controlling interest     5.9  9.5 
Total equity     1,977.9  1,783.0 
Andy Harrison Nicholas Cadbury
Chief Executive Finance Director
27 April 2015
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Consolidated cash flow statement
Year ended 26 February 2015
     Year to Year to  
     26 February 27 February 
     2015 2014 
    Notes £m £m 
Profit for the year     366.1  323.4 
Adjustments for:       
 Taxation charged on total operations    9 97.7  23.6  
 Net finance cost    8 37.1 44.5  
 Total income from joint ventures    16 (2.6)  (1.6)  
 Total income from associate    17 (0.8) (0.9) 
 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and property reversions  6 3.3  11.7 
 Depreciation and amortisation    13, 14 168.4  1 52.5  
 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangibles    13, 14, 15 (3.4) 20.2  
 Share–based payments    30 13.5  10.6  
 Other non–cash items     7.9  7.0
Cash generated from operations before working capital changes    687.2  591.0 
Increase in inventories     (6.6) (4.2) 
Increase in trade and other receivables     (7.4)  (25.5) 
Increase in trade and other payables     41.0  45.1
Cash generated from operations     714.2  6 06.4 
Payments against provisions    23 (12.3)  (5.1) 
Pension payments    31 (81.4)  (71.2) 
Interest paid     (18.6)  (19.8) 
Interest received     0.3 0.7 
Corporation taxes paid     (82.8) (81.4)
Net cash flows from operating activities     519.4  429.6 
Cash flows from investing activities       
Purchase of property, plant and equipment     (518.5) (286.3) 
Purchase of intangible assets     (27.3) (19.9) 
(Costs)/proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment    (0.1)  1.0 
Business combinations, net of cash acquired    10 (19.5)  — 
Capital contributions and loans to joint ventures     (0.6)  (1.6) 
Dividends from associate     0.8  0.7 
Net cash flows from investing activities     (565.2) (306.1)
Cash flows from financing activities       
Proceeds from issue of share capital     3.2  2.4  
Capital contributions from non–controlling interests     —  4.0  
Increase/(decrease) in short–term borrowings    22 71.2  (9.0)  
Increase in/(repayments of) long–term borrowings    22 63.9 (54.9) 
Renegotiation costs of long–term borrowings    22 (0.4) (1.7) 
Dividends paid    12 (130.6) (62.4)
Net cash flows from financing activities     7.3 (121.6)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents    22 (38.5)  1.9 
Opening cash and cash equivalents    22 41.4  40.8  
Foreign exchange differences    22 (0.8)  ( 1.3) 
Closing cash and cash equivalents shown within current assets on the balance sheet  20 2.1 41.4
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 92
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 93
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
1  Authorisation of consolidated financial statements
The consolidated financial statements of Whitbread PLC for the year ended 26 February 2015 were authorised for issue  
by the Board of directors on 27 April 2015. Whitbread PLC is a public limited company incorporated and fully domiciled  
in England and Wales. The Company’s ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The significant activities of the Group are described in Note 4, Segment information.
2 Accounting policies
Basis of accounting and preparation
The consolidated financial statements of Whitbread PLC and all its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted for use in the European Union and as applied in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest hundred 
thousand except when otherwise indicated. The significant accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are consistent with those 
followed in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 27 February 2014, except for a change 
in presentation and the adoption of the new Standards and Interpretations that are applicable for the year ended 26 February 
2015 detailed as follows:
Change in presentation
There have been some minor changes to the presentation of the consolidated income statement and the consolidated cash 
flow statement.
The consolidated income statement has been amended to remove the ‘profit before tax and exceptionals’ subtotal. The 
directors do not use this definition anymore to manage the business and therefore references to ‘before exceptional’ in the 
statements have been removed. 
Certain categories in the consolidated cash flow statement have been reclassified and the corresponding comparatives re–
presented. Interest received has moved from ‘investing activities’ to ‘operating activities’, bringing it in line with interest payable. 
Payments against provisions and pension payments have been reclassified from ‘cash generated from operations’ to ‘net cash 
flows from operating activities’. This is more representative of the nature of the cash flows. 
Amendment to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non–Financial Assets
This amendment addresses the disclosure of information about the recoverable amount of impaired assets if that amount  
is based on fair value less costs of disposal. Whilst applicable to the Group, the impairment values for this year are immaterial 
and therefore no further disclosure is necessary.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Involvement with Other Entities
Identifies the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, 
structured entities and other off balance sheet vehicles. Additional disclosure has been provided where relevant in the financial 
statements.
The Group has adopted the following standards and interpretations which have been assessed as having no financial impact 
or disclosure requirements at this time:
• 
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (as revised in 2011);
• 
IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Liabilities—Amendments to IAS 32;
• 
IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting—Amendments to IAS 39;
• 
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements; and
• 
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
2 Accounting policies continued 
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the accounts of Whitbread PLC and all its subsidiaries, together with  
the Group’s share of the net assets and results of joint ventures and associate incorporated using the equity method  
of accounting. These are adjusted, where appropriate, to conform to Group accounting policies. The financial statements  
of principal subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent Company except for Yueda Costa (Shanghai) 
Food & Beverage Management Company Limited which has a year–end of 31 December as per Chinese legislation.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group. Control is the power to direct the relevant activities of the subsidiary which 
significantly affect the subsidiary’s return so as to have rights to the variable return from its activities.
Apart from the acquisition of Whitbread Group PLC by Whitbread PLC in 2000/01, which was accounted for using merger 
accounting, acquisitions by the Group are accounted for under the acquisition method and any goodwill arising is capitalised  
as an intangible asset. The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated 
financial statements from, or up to, the date that control passes respectively. All intra–Group transactions, balances, income 
and expenses are eliminated on consolidation. Unrealised losses are also eliminated, unless the transaction provides evidence  
of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Significant accounting policies
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on acquisition is capitalised and represents the excess of the fair value of consideration over the Group’s  
interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is reviewed for 
impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. 
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried initially at cost. An intangible asset acquired as part of a 
business combination is recognised outside of goodwill if the asset is separable, or arises from contractual or other legal rights, 
and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight–line basis over the estimated life of the asset as follows:
• 
trading licences have an indefinite life;
• 
reacquired franchise rights are amortised over the life of the acquired franchise agreement;
• 
IT software and technology is amortised over periods of three to six years;
• 
the asset in relation to acquired customer relationships is amortised over 15 years; and
• 
operating rights agreements are amortised over the life of the contract.
The carrying values are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that they may not be recoverable.
Property, plant and equipment
Prior to the 1999/2000 financial year, properties were regularly revalued on a cyclical basis. Since this date, the Group policy 
has been not to revalue its properties and, whilst previous valuations have been retained, they have not been updated. As 
permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has elected to use the UK GAAP revaluations before the date of transition to IFRS as deemed 
cost at the date of transition. Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed cost at transition to IFRS, less 
accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. Gross interest costs incurred on the financing of qualifying assets  
are capitalised until the time that the assets are available for use. Depreciation is calculated on a straight–line basis over  
the estimated useful life of the asset as follows:
• 
freehold land is not depreciated;
• 
freehold buildings do not depreciate where the residual value is the same, or exceeds, net book value;
• 
long leasehold buildings are depreciated to their estimated residual values over periods up to 50 years; and
• 
plant and equipment is depreciated over three to 30 years.
The residual values are reviewed annually.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that their carrying values may not be recoverable. Any impairment in the values of property, plant and equipment is 
charged to the income statement.
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 94
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 95
2 Accounting policies continued
Profits and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment reflect the difference between net selling price and carrying 
amount at the date of disposal and are recognised in the income statement.
Payments made on entering into, or acquiring, leaseholds that are accounted for as operating leases represent prepaid lease 
payments. These are amortised on a straight–line basis over the lease term.
Impairment
The Group assesses assets or groups of assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Individual assets are grouped for impairment assessment purposes, at the 
lowest level at which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets 
(cash generating units or CGUs). If such indication of impairment exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset group 
is required, the Group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment 
losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such an indication exists, the CGU’s recoverable amount is estimated.  
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the 
asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case, the carrying amount of the  
asset is increased to its recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have  
been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Such a reversal  
is recognised in the income statement. After such a reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to 
allocate the asset’s carrying amount, less any residual value, on a straight–line basis over its remaining useful life.
The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the greater of its fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. In assessing 
value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value, using a pre–tax discount rate that reflects 
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate 
largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined with reference to the CGU to which the asset belongs. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement within operating costs.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. 
Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated 
to the units and then to reduce the carrying amounts of other assets in the CGU, on a pro–rata basis.
For the purposes of impairment testing, all centrally held assets are allocated in line with IAS 36 to CGUs based on 
management’s view of the consumption of the asset. Any resulting impairment is recorded against the centrally held asset.
Goodwill and intangibles
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to groups of CGUs at the level management monitor goodwill, 
which is at strategic business unit level. The Group performs an annual review of its goodwill to ensure that its carrying amount 
is not greater than its recoverable amount. In the absence of a comparable recent market transaction that demonstrates that 
the fair value, less the costs of disposal, of goodwill and intangible assets exceeds their carrying amount, the recoverable 
amount is determined from value in use calculations. An impairment is then made to reduce the carrying amount to the higher 
of the fair value less the costs of disposal and the value in use.
Property, plant and equipment
For the purposes of the impairment review of property, plant and equipment, the Group considers each trading outlet to be  
a separate CGU.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Consideration is also given, where appropriate, to the market value of the asset either from independent sources or, in 
conjunction with, an accepted industry valuation methodology.
Investments in joint ventures and associates
The Group assesses investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value 
may not be recoverable. If any such indication of impairment exists, the carrying amount of the investment is compared with  
its recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. Where the carrying amount 
exceeds the recoverable amount, the investment is written down to its recoverable amount.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
2 Accounting policies continued
Assets held for sale
Non–current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale only if available for immediate sale in their present 
condition and a sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within one year from the date of classification. Such 
assets are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value, less the cost to sell, and are not depreciated or amortised.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is calculated on the basis of first in, first out and  
net realisable value is the estimated selling price less any costs of disposal.
Provisions
Provisions for warranties, onerous contracts and restructuring costs are recognised when: the Group has a present legal  
or constructive obligation as a result of a past event; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle  
the obligation; and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. 
Provisions are discounted to present value, using a pre–tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the  
time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. The amortisation of the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
Non underlying performance measure
To monitor the financial performance of the Group, certain items are excluded from the profit measure. This measure is  
called ‘underlying’ and represents the business performance excluding items that the directors consider could distort the 
understanding of the performance or the comparability between periods. The face of the income statement presents 
underlying profit before tax and reconciles this to profit before tax as required to be presented under the applicable  
accounting standards. 
Underlying earnings per share is calculated having adjusted profit after tax on the same basis. The term underlying profit  
is not defined under IFRSs and may not be comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other companies.  
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measurements of profit. The adjustments made to reported  
profit in the consolidated income statement, in order to present an underlying performance measure, include:
Exceptional items 
The Group includes in non underlying performance measures those items which are exceptional by virtue of their size or 
incidence so as to allow a better understanding of the underlying trading performance of the Group. The Group includes  
within exceptional items the profit or loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, property reversions, profit or loss  
on the sale of a business, impairment and exceptional interest and tax;
IAS 19 income statement finance charge/credit for defined benefit pension schemes
Underlying profit excludes the finance cost/revenue element of IAS 19 as this does not relate to the Group’s ongoing activities 
as the schemes are closed to future accrual;
Amortisation charge on acquired intangible assets
Underlying profit excludes the amortisation charge on acquired intangible assets as this relates to transactions outside  
of the underlying business; and
Taxation
The tax impact of the items above is also excluded in arriving at underlying earnings.
Foreign currency translation
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange quoted  
at the balance sheet date. Non–monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated 
using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Trading results are translated into the functional currency (generally sterling) at average rates of exchange for the year. Day–to–
day transactions in a foreign currency are recorded in the functional currency at an average rate for the month in which those 
transactions take place, which is used as a reasonable approximation to the actual transaction rate. Translation differences  
on monetary items are taken to the income statement. The differences that arise from translating the results of foreign entities  
at average rates of exchange, and their assets and liabilities at closing rates, are also dealt with in a separate component of 
equity. On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign 
operation is recognised in the income statement. All other currency gains and losses are dealt with in the income statement.
A number of subsidiaries within the Group have a non–sterling functional currency. The financial performance and end position 
of these entities are translated into sterling in the consolidated financial statements. Balance sheet items are translated at the 
rate applicable at the balance sheet date. Transactions reported in the income statement are translated using an average rate 
for the month in which they occur.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 96
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 97
2 Accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of the goods or services provided have transferred to the buyer, 
the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction 
will flow to the Group. 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration receivable from the sale of goods and services to third parties after 
deducting discounts, allowances for customer loyalty and other promotional activities. Revenue includes duties which the 
Group pays as principal, but excludes amounts collected on behalf of other parties, such as value added tax. All sales between 
Group businesses are eliminated on consolidation.
Revenue of the Group comprises the following streams:
Sale of goods
Revenue from the sale of food, beverages and merchandise is recognised at the point of sale, with the exception of wholesale 
transactions which are recognised on delivery.
The Group operate some customer loyalty programmes. Where award credits are granted as part of a sale transaction,  
a portion of revenue equal to the fair value of the award points earned is deferred until redemption. The fair value of points 
awarded is determined with reference to the discount received upon redemption and the level of redemption;
Rendering of services
Revenue from room sales and other guest services is recognised when rooms are occupied and as services are provided; and
Franchise fees
Revenue from fees received in connection with the franchise of the Group’s brand names is recognised when earned.
Leases
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating 
leases. Rental payments in respect of operating leases are charged against operating profit on a straight–line basis over  
the period of the lease. Lease incentives are recognised as a reduction of rental costs over the lease term.
Finance revenue
Interest income is recognised as the interest accrues, using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred, except for gross interest costs  
incurred on the financing of major projects, which are capitalised until the time that the projects are available for use.
Retirement benefits
In respect of the defined benefit pension scheme, the obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value 
of the defined benefit obligation, reduced by the fair value of the scheme assets. The cost of providing benefits is determined 
using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method. Re–measurements are recognised in full in the period in which  
they occur in the statement of comprehensive income and are not reclassified to the income statement in subsequent periods.
For defined benefit plans, the employer’s portion of the past and current service cost is charged to operating profit, with net 
interest costs reported within finance costs. In addition, all administration costs, other than those relating to the management 
of plan assets or taxes payable by the plan itself, are charged as incurred to operating costs in the income statement. Net 
interest is calculated by applying the opening discount rate to the opening net defined benefit obligation taking into account 
the expected contributions and benefits paid.
Curtailments and settlements relating to the Group’s defined benefit plan are recognised in the period in which the curtailment 
or settlement occurs.
Payments to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
2 Accounting policies continued
Share–based payment transactions
Equity–settled transactions
Certain employees and directors of the Group receive equity–settled remuneration in the form of share–based payment 
transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares. The cost of equity–settled 
transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value, determined using a stochastic model, at the date  
at which they are granted. The cost of equity–settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in 
equity, over the period in which the performance conditions or non–vesting conditions are fulfilled, ending on the relevant 
vesting date. Except for awards subject to market–related conditions for vesting, the cumulative expense recognised for  
equity–settled transactions, at each reporting date until the vesting date, reflects the extent to which the vesting period  
has expired, and is adjusted to reflect the directors’ best available estimate of the number of equity instruments that will 
ultimately vest. The income statement charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense 
recognised as at the beginning and end of that period. If options are subject to market–related conditions, awards are not 
cumulatively adjusted for the likelihood of these targets being met. Instead, these conditions are included in the fair value 
of the awards.
Where an equity–settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense  
not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately. Where an equity–settled award is forfeited, the related expense 
recognised to date is reversed. 
Cash–settled transactions
The cost is fair–valued at grant date and expensed over the period until the vesting date, with recognition of a corresponding 
liability. The liability is re–measured to fair value at each reporting date, up to and including the settlement date, with changes  
in fair value recognised in the income statement for the period.
Tax
The income tax charge represents both the income tax payable, based on profit for the year and deferred income tax.
Deferred income tax is recognised in full, using the liability method, in respect of temporary differences between the tax base 
of the Group’s assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts that have originated but have not been reversed by the balance 
sheet date. No deferred tax is recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill, or the initial recognition of an asset 
or liability, in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting 
profit nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is recognised in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with 
investments in associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences 
can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which  
the deductible temporary differences can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow 
all, or part of, the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is 
realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited to other comprehensive income if it relates to items that are charged or credited to other 
comprehensive income. Similarly, income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are charged  
or credited directly to equity. Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the income statement.
Treasury shares
Own equity instruments which are held by the Group (treasury shares) are deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognised 
in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Group’s own equity instruments.
Investments in joint ventures and associates
Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual  
rights and obligations of each investor. The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined them  
to be joint ventures.
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a 
shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given, 
including acquisition charges associated with the investment.
After initial recognition, investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 98
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 99
2 Accounting policies continued
Recognition and derecognition of financial assets and liabilities 
The recognition of financial assets and liabilities occurs when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the 
instrument. The derecognition of financial assets takes place when the Group no longer has the right to cash flows, the risks 
and rewards of ownership, or control of the asset. The derecognition of financial liabilities occurs when the obligation under  
the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Financial assets
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Some assets held by the Group are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. On initial recognition these 
assets are recognised at fair value. Subsequent measurement is also at fair value, with changes recognised through finance 
revenue or costs in the income statement.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non–derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available–
for–sale. Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant. 
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well 
as through the amortisation process.
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less any uncollectable amounts. An estimate for 
doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. Bad debts are written off when identified.
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and short–term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank, cash in hand and short–term deposits with an 
original maturity of three months or less. For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist  
of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group enters into derivative transactions with a view to managing interest and currency risks associated with underlying 
business activities and the financing of those activities. Derivative financial instruments used by the Group are stated at fair 
value on initial recognition and at subsequent balance sheet dates. Cash flow hedges mitigate exposure to variability in cash 
flows that are either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.  
Fair value hedges mitigate exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm 
commitment and include foreign currency swaps.
Hedge accounting is only used where, at the inception of the hedge, there is formal designation and documentation of the 
hedging relationship, it meets the Group’s risk management objective strategy for undertaking the hedge and it is expected  
to be highly effective.
The fair value of derivative instruments is calculated by discounting all future cash flows by the applicable market yield curves 
at the balance sheet date.
The portion of any gains or losses on cash flow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting and are determined  
to be effective, is recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income. The gains or losses relating to the ineffective 
portion are recognised immediately in the income statement. 
The change in fair value, of derivatives designated as part of a fair value hedge, is recognised in the income statement in 
finance costs. The change in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability, that is attributable to the hedged risk, is also 
recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
When a firm commitment that is hedged becomes an asset or a liability recognised on the balance sheet, then, at the time  
the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised in equity are included in 
the initial measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability. For all other cash flow hedges, 
the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the 
transaction that results from a firm commitment that is hedged affects the income statement.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, are recognised 
immediately in the income statement.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
2 Accounting policies continued
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. At that point in time, for cash flow hedges, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument 
recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to 
occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement. When a fair value hedge  
item is derecognised, the unamortised fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, net of any directly associated issue costs. 
Borrowings are subsequently recorded at amortised cost, with any difference between the amount initially recorded and the 
redemption value, recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Significant accounting judgements and estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect  
the amounts reported as assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported as revenues and expenses 
during the year. However, the nature of estimation means that the actual outcomes could differ from those estimates. In the 
process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management has made the following judgements which have the most 
significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements:
Impairment
An impairment test of tangible and intangible assets is undertaken each year on both an EBITDA multiple approach and a 
discounted cash flow approach. Note 15 describes the assumptions used together with an analysis of the sensitivity to changes 
in key assumptions;
Residual values and asset lives
The residual value is the net realisable value of an asset at the end of its useful economic life. The Group has taken an 
assessment of the residual values that are appropriate for the business and reviews this assessment annually. 
Asset lives are based upon the management’s estimation at the point of capitalisation. Periodically these are reviewed to ensure 
that the estimated life of the assets are accurate and if not the assets are re–lifed prospectively;
Onerous contracts provisions
Judgement involving estimates is used in determining the value of provisions carried for onerous contracts. This is primarily 
based around assumptions on rent and property–related costs for the period the property is vacant as well as assumptions of 
future rental incomes or potential reverse lease premiums paid. Note 23 provides details of the value of the provisions carried;
Defined benefit pension
Defined benefit pension plans are accounted for in accordance with actuarial advice using the projected unit credit method. 
Note 31 describes the assumptions used together with an analysis of the sensitivity to changes in key assumptions; and
Taxation
The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain 
items, where the tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority. 
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material income statement and/or cash flow variances.
Corporation tax is calculated on the basis of income before taxation, taking into account the relevant local tax rates and 
regulations. For each operating entity, the current income tax expense is calculated and differences between the accounting 
and tax base are determined, resulting in deferred tax assets or liabilities.
Assumptions are also made around the assets which qualify for capital allowances and the level of disallowable expenses and 
these affect the income tax calculation. Provisions may be made for uncertain exposures or recoveries, which can have an 
impact on both deferred and current tax. 
Assumptions are also made around the tax net book value of assets to which capital allowances apply, the level of capital 
allowances, the extent of rollover gains, indexation thereon and the tax base into which they have been rolled.
A deferred tax asset shall be recognised for the carry forward of unused tax losses, pension deficits and unused tax credits  
to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the unused tax losses and unused tax 
credits can be utilised. 
Detailed amounts of the carrying value of corporation and deferred tax can be found in Note 9.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 100
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 101
2 Accounting policies continued
Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) not effective for the current year and not  
early adopted by the Group
The following standards and interpretations, which have been issued by the IASB and are relevant for the Group, subject  
to EU ratification, become effective after the current year–end and have not been early adopted by the Group:
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was first issued in November 2009 and had since been amended several times. A complete 
version of the standard was issued in July 2014 and is a replacement of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement. IFRS 9 covers the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, 
together with a new hedge accounting model and a new expected credit loss model for calculating impairment. The new 
standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, subject to EU adoption. The Group is 
currently considering the impact of IFRS 9 on its consolidated results and financial position.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
The IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014. The new standard provides a single, five–step 
revenue recognition model, applicable to all sales contracts, which is based upon the principle that revenue is recognised  
when control of goods or services is transferred to the customer. It replaces all existing revenue recognition guidance  
under current IFRS and becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017, subject to EU adoption.  
The Group is currently considering the impact of IFRS 15 on its consolidated results and financial position.
Whilst the following standards and interpretations are relevant to the Group, they have been assessed as having minimal  
or no financial impact or additional disclosure requirements at this time
1
:
• 
IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative — Amendments to IAS 1;
• 
IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation — Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38;
• 
IAS 16 and IAS 41 Bearer Plants — Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41;
• 
IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions — Amendment to IAS 19;
• 
IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements — Amendments to IAS 27;
• 
IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies (IFRIC 21);
• 
IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture  
(issued on 11 September 2014) — Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28;
• 
IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception — Amendments to IFRS 10,  
IFRS 12 and IAS 28;
• 
IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations — Amendments to IFRS 11;
• 
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts;
• 
The IASB’s annual improvement process, 2010—2012;
• 
The IASB’s annual improvement process, 2011—2013; and
• 
The IASB’s annual improvement process, 2012—2014.
1  As the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the adoption date  
is as per the EU, not the IASB.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
3 Revenue
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
     2014/15 2013/14 
     £m £m 
Rendering of services     1,116.4  967.9  
Franchise fees     31.4  25.6  
Sale of goods     1,460.3  1,300.8 
Revenue     2,608.1  2,294.3
4 Segment information
For management purposes, the Group is organised into two strategic business units (Hotels & Restaurants and Costa)  
based upon their different products and services:
• 
Hotels & Restaurants provide services in relation to accommodation and food; and
• 
Costa generates income from the operation of its branded, owned and franchised coffee outlets.
The UK and International Hotels & Restaurants segments have been aggregated on the grounds that the International  
segment is immaterial.
Management monitors the operating results of its strategic business units separately for the purpose of making decisions  
about allocating resources and assessing performance. Segment performance is measured based on underlying operating 
profit. Included within the unallocated and elimination columns in the tables below are the costs of running the public  
company. The unallocated assets and liabilities are cash and debt balances (held and controlled by the central treasury 
function), taxation, pensions, certain property, plant and equipment, centrally held provisions and central working  
capital balances.
Inter–segment revenue is from Costa to the Hotels & Restaurants segment and is eliminated on consolidation. Transactions  
are entered into on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third–parties.
The following tables present revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding business 
operating segments for the years ended 26 February 2015 and 27 February 2014.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 102
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 103
4 Segment information continued
     Unallocated  
   Hotels &   and Total 
   Restaurants Costa elimination operations 
Year ended 26 February 2015    £m £m £m £m
Revenue 
Underlying revenue from external customers   1,659.2 948.9 — 2,608.1 
Inter–segment revenue    — 3.0 (3.0) —
Total revenue (Note 3)   1,659.2  951.9 (3.0) 2,608.1
Underlying operating profit   401.4  132.5 (29.5) 504.4 
Underlying interest   — — (16.3) (16.3)
Underlying profit before tax   401.4 132.5 (45.8) 488.1 
Exceptional items and non underlying adjustments (Note 6): 
 Amortisation of acquired intangibles   — (2.5) — (2.5) 
 IAS 19 income statement charge for pension finance cost   — — (21.6) (21.6) 
 Net loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 
  and property reversions   (0.5) (2.8) — (3.3) 
 Impairment   (2.9) (2.3) — (5.2) 
 Impairment reversal   8.1 0.5 — 8.6 
 Share of impairment in fixed assets in joint venture   (1.1) — — (1.1) 
 Exceptional interest   — — 0.8 0.8
Profit before tax    405.0 125.4 (66.6) 463.8 
Tax expense (Note 9)      (97.7) 
Profit for the year      366.1 
Assets and liabilities 
Segment assets   3,293.0 395.8 — 3,688.8  
Unallocated assets   — — 45.0 45.0
Total assets    3 ,293.0 395.8 45.0 3,733.8
Segment liabilities   (308.7) (109.7) — (418.4) 
Unallocated liabilities   — — (1,337.5) (1,337.5)
Total liabilities   (308.7) (109.7) (1,337.5) (1,755.9)
Net assets   2,984.3 286.1 (1,292.5) 1,977.9
Other segment information 
Share of profit from joint ventures (Note 16)   2.6 — — 2.6
Share of profit from associate (Note 17)   0.8 — — 0.8
Investment in joint ventures and associate   29.3 3.0 — 32.3
Total property rent (Note 5)   107.5 101.0 0.2 208.7
Capital expenditure: 
 Property, plant and equipment — cash basis   451.1 67.4 — 518.5 
 Property, plant and equipment — accruals basis (Note 14)   449.5 71.2 — 520.7 
 Intangible assets (Note 13)   22.7  4.4 0.2 27.3
Depreciation (Note 5)   (102.3)  (53.4) — (155.7) 
Amortisation (Note 5)    (7.5) (4.5) (0.7) (12.7)
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
4 Segment information continued
     Unallocated  
   Hotels &   and Total 
   Restaurants Costa elimination operations 
Year ended 27 February 2014   £m £m £m £m
Revenue 
Underlying revenue from external customers   1,494.0 804.9 — 2,298.9  
Inter–segment revenue   — 2.8 (2.8) —  
Exceptional revenue   (4.6) — — (4.6) 
Total revenue (Note 3)   1,489.4 807.7 (2.8) 2,294.3 
Underlying operating profit   348.1 109.8 (27.2) 430.7  
Underlying interest   — — (18.9) (18.9) 
Underlying profit before tax   348.1 109.8 (46.1) 411.8  
Exceptional items and non underlying adjustments (Note 6): 
 Amortisation of acquired intangibles   — (2.7) — (2.7)  
 IAS 19 income statement charge for pension finance cost   — — (23.6) (23.6)  
 VAT on gaming machine income   (4.6) — — (4.6)  
 Net loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 
  and property reversions   (1.2) (3.7) (6.8) (11.7)  
 Impairment   (15.5) (10.6) — (26.1)  
 Impairment reversal   5.4 0.5 — 5.9  
 Exceptional interest   — — (2.0) (2.0) 
Profit before tax    332.2 93.3 (78.5) 347.0  
Tax expense (Note 9)      (23.6) 
Profit for the year      323.4 
Assets and liabilities 
Segment assets   2,914.5 350.9 — 3,265.4  
Unallocated assets   — — 82.1 82.1 
Total assets   2,914.5 350.9 82.1 3,347.5 
Segment liabilities   (293.0) (79.5) — (372.5)  
Unallocated liabilities   — — (1,192.0) (1,192.0) 
Total liabilities   (293.0) (79.5) (1,192.0) (1,564.5) 
Net assets   2,621.5 271.4 (1,109.9) 1,783.0 
Other segment information 
Share of profit/(loss) from joint ventures (Note 16)   2.2 (0.6) — 1.6 
Share of profit from associate (Note 17)   0.9 — — 0.9 
Investment in joint ventures and associate   24.2 2.7 — 26.9 
Total property rent (Note 5)   89.0 92.5 0.2 181.7
Capital expenditure: 
 Property, plant and equipment — cash basis   214.2 72.0 0.1 286.3 
 Property, plant and equipment — accruals basis (Note 14)   245.1 71.6 — 316.7  
 Intangible assets (Note 13)   16.9 2.2 0.8 19.9 
Depreciation (Note 5)   (94.8) (48.5) — (143.3)  
Amortisation (Note 5)   (4.9) (3.8) (0.5) (9.2) 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 104
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 105
4 Segment information continued
Revenues from external customers are split geographically as follows:
     2014/15 2013/14 
     £m £m
United Kingdom
1
     2,519.8  2 ,211.8  
Non United Kingdom     88.3  82.5 
     2,608.1  2,294.3 
1  United Kingdom revenue is revenue where the source of the supply is the United Kingdom. This includes Costa franchise income invoiced from the UK.
Non–current assets
2
 are split geographically as follows:
     2015 2014 
     £m £m
United Kingdom     3,477.1 3,084.6  
Non United Kingdom     89.0  65.4 
     3,566.1 3,150.0 
2 Non–current assets exclude derivative financial instruments.
5 Group operating profit
This is stated after charging/(crediting):
     2014/15 2013/14 
     £m £m
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense     332.8 304.5 
Employee benefits expense (Note 7)     667.9 607.8 
Operating lease payments net of sublease receipts     214.5  189.1  
Amortisation of intangible assets (Note 13)     12.7 9.2 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (Note 14)      155.7 143.3  
Utilities, rates and other site related costs      615.8 517.3  
Net foreign exchange differences      1.2 0.5  
Other operating charges      110.1 101.7  
Exceptional items (Note 6)     (0.1) 31.9
      2,110.6 1,905.3
     2014/15 2013/14 
     £m £m
Minimum lease payments attributable to the current period     191.0 169.0 
IAS 17 impact of future minimum rental uplifts     3.0 (0.2)
Minimum lease payments recognised as an operating expense     194.0  168.8  
Contingent rents     14.7 12.9
Total property rent      208.7 181.7  
Plant and machinery operating lease payments      7.8 8.8  
Operating lease payments — sublease receipts      (2.0) (1.4)
Total operating lease payments net of sublease receipts     214.5 189.1
Fees paid to the auditor during the period consisted of:
     2014/15 2013/14 
     £m £m
Audit of the consolidated financial statements     0.4  0.3  
Audit of subsidiaries     0.2  0.2 
Total audit fees     0.6  0.5  
Non–audit services     — 0.1 
Included in other operating charges     0.6  0.6 
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
6 Exceptional items and non underlying adjustments
     2014/15 2013/14 
     £m £m
Exceptional items before tax and interest:
Revenue 
 VAT on gaming machine income
1
      — (4.6) 
Operating costs 
 Net loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and property reversions
2
   (3.3)  (11.7)  
 Impairment of property, plant and equipment (Note 15)     (5.2)  (22.4) 
 Impairment reversal (Note 15)     8.6  5 .9  
 Impairment of other intangibles (Note 13)     — (3.7)
Exceptional operating costs      0.1  (31.9)
Share of impairment in fixed assets in joint venture
3
     (1.1)  —
Exceptional items before interest and tax     (1.0) (36.5)
Exceptional interest: 
Interest on exceptional tax
1, 4
     1.6 (1.1) 
Unwinding of discount rate on provisions
5
     (0.8) (0.9)
     0.8 (2.0)
Exceptional items before tax     (0.2) (38.5) 
Non underlying adjustments made to underlying profit before tax to arrive at reported profit before tax: 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (Note 13)     (2.5)  (2.7) 
IAS 19 income statement charge for pension finance cost (Note 31)    (21.6)  (23.6)
     (24.1)  (26.3)
Items included in reported profit before tax, but excluded in arriving at underlying profit before tax  (24.3)  (64.8)
Tax adjustments included in reported profit after tax, but excluded in arriving at underlying profit after tax:
     2014/15 2013/14 
     £m £m
Tax on continuing exceptional items     0.4  5.6 
Exceptional tax items — tax base cost
6
     2.0  40.2  
Deferred tax relating to UK tax rate change      —  18.6  
Tax on non underlying adjustments     4.8  6.1 
     7.2  70.5
1  In the year ended 3 March 2011, the Group received a refund of VAT charged on gaming machine income of £4.6m together with some associated 
interest. HMRC appealed against the original ruling and the decision was overturned on 30 October 2013. Hence, a liability was booked in the  
prior year for £4.6m of revenue and £1.1m of associated interest costs.
2  In 2014/15, a £3.3m loss on disposal was recorded mainly relating to Costa store closures in the international business (2013/14: £4.9m). The non–
controlling interest portion of this cost was £0.4m (2013/14: £0.7m). Additionally, in 2013/14, a £6.8m provision was raised, for previously sublet 
properties that had reverted to Whitbread.
3 Share of impairment of fixed assets in the Gulf joint venture.
4 Interest calculated and settled on closure of prior tax periods.
5  The interest arising from the unwinding of the discount rate within provisions is included in exceptional interest, reflecting the exceptional nature  
of the provisions created.           
6 Reduction in the deferred tax liability due to differences between the tax deductible cost and accounts’ residual value of assets.
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 106
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 107
7 Employee benefits expense
     2014/15 2013/14 
     £m £m
Wages and salaries      617.3  559.9  
Social security costs      43.3  40.4  
Pension costs      7.3  7.5
     667.9  607.8 
Included in wages and salaries is a share–based payments expense of £13.6m (2013/14: £11.2m), which arises from transactions 
accounted for as equity–settled and cash–settled share–based payments.
The average number of people directly employed in the business segments on a full–time equivalent basis was as follows:
     2014/15 2013/14 
     Number Number
Hotels & Restaurants      26,111  24,957  
Costa      12,645  11,432  
Unallocated      60  58 
Total operations     38,816  36,447 
Excluded from the above are employees of joint ventures and associated undertakings.
Directors’ remuneration is disclosed below:
     2014/15 2013/14 
     £m £m
Directors’ remuneration      3.9 3.8  
Aggregate contributions to defined contribution pension schemes    0.1 0.1 
Aggregate gains on the exercise of share options     12.1 6.9
     2014/15 2013/14 
     Number Number
Number of directors accruing benefits under defined contribution schemes    2 3
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
8 Finance (costs)/revenue
     2014/15 2013/14 
     £m £m
Finance costs 
Bank loans and overdrafts      (21.3)  (20.9) 
Other loans     — (0.4) 
Interest capitalised (Note 14)     4.3  2.6 
Impact of ineffective portion of cash flow and fair value hedges  (Note 25)    — (0.9) 
     (17.0)  (19.6) 
Finance revenue 
Bank interest receivable      0.1  0.1  
Other interest receivable     0.1  0.6  
Impact of ineffective portion of cash flow and fair value hedges  (Note 25)    0.5  —
     0.7  0.7 
Underlying interest     (16.3)  (18.9)
Exceptional and non underlying interest 
IAS 19 income statement charge for pension finance cost (Note 31)    (21.6)  (23.6)  
Exceptional finance revenue/(costs)     1.6  (1.1)  
Unwinding of discount rate on provisions (Note 23)     (0.8)  (0.9)
     (20.8)  (25.6)
Total net interest     (37.1)  (44.5) 
 
Total finance costs      (39.4)  (45.2)  
Total finance revenue     2.3 0.7 
Total net interest     (37.1)   (44.5)
9 Taxation
     2014/15 2013/14 
Consolidated income statement     £m £m
Current tax: 
 Current tax expense      110.3  100.1  
 Adjustments in respect of previous periods      (6.2) (4.6)
     104.1 95.5 
Deferred tax: 
 Origination and reversal of temporary differences      (6.3) (13.0) 
 Adjustments in respect of previous periods     (0.1) (40.3) 
 Change in UK tax rate in prior year to 20%     —  (18.6)
     (6.4)  (71.9)
Tax reported in the consolidated income statement     97.7  23.6
     2014/15 2013/14 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income     £m £m
Current tax: 
 Pensions     (15.4) (14.4)
Deferred tax: 
 Cash flow hedges     (0.6) 0.3 
 Pensions     (0.8)  5.7 
 Change in UK tax rate in prior year to 20% — pensions     —  11.8  
 Change in UK tax rate in prior year to 20% — cash flow hedges    —  0.5 
Tax reported in other comprehensive income     (16.8)  3.9
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 108
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 109
9 Taxation continued 
A reconciliation of the tax charge applicable to underlying profit before tax and profit before tax at the statutory tax rate,  
to the actual tax charge at the Group’s effective tax rate, for the years ended 26 February 2015 and 27 February 2014 
respectively is as follows:
 2014/15 2013/14
 
 
 
 
   Tax on  Tax on  
   underlying Tax on underlying Tax on 
   profit profit profit profit 
   £m £m £m £m
Profit before tax as reported in the consolidated income statement   488.1 463.8 411.8 347.0
Tax at current UK tax rate of 21.17% (2013/14: 23.08%)    103.3 98.2  95.1 80.1  
Effect of different tax rates and unrecognised losses in overseas companies   4.6 5.2 3.8 6.2  
Effect of joint ventures and associate   (1.0) (0.8) (0.6) (0.6) 
Expenditure not allowable   2.0 1.4  0.5 1.4  
Adjustments to current tax expense in respect of previous years  (4.5) (6.2) (4.6) (4.6) 
Adjustments to deferred tax expense in respect of previous years
1
  0.5 (0.1) (0.1) (40.3)  
Impact of change in tax rate on deferred tax balance   — —  — (18.6)
Tax expense reported in the consolidated income statement    104.9 97.7 94.1 23.6 
1 The £40.3m in the prior year includes £40.2m exceptional item which is disclosed in Note 6.
The corporation tax balance is a liability of £35.4m (2014: liability of £35.1m).
Deferred tax
Deferred tax relates to the following:
 Consolidated Consolidated   
 balance sheet income statement
 
 
 
 
   2015 2014 2014/15 2013/14 
   £m £m £m £m
Deferred tax liabilities 
Accelerated capital allowances   52.0  50.3  (0.3)  (7.5) 
Rolled over gains and property revaluations    82.6  86.0 (3.3)  (59.0) 
Gross deferred tax liabilities    134.6  136.3   
Deferred tax assets 
Pensions    (82.6)  (78.7) (3.1)  (4.0) 
Other    (8.3)  (10.8) 0.3  (1.4) 
Gross deferred tax assets    (90.9)  (89.5)
Deferred tax expense     (6.4)  (71.9)
Net deferred tax liability    43.7  4 6.8
Total deferred tax liabilities released as a result of disposals during the year was £nil (2014: £nil).
The Group has incurred overseas tax losses which, subject to any local restrictions, can be carried forward and offset against 
future taxable profits in the companies in which they arose. The Group carries out an annual assessment of the recoverability  
of these losses and does not think it is appropriate at this stage to recognise any deferred tax assets. If the Group were  
to recognise these deferred tax assets in their entirety, profits would increase by £10.0m (2014: £6.2m), of which, the share 
attributable to the parent shareholders is £7.8m (2014: £5.0m).
At 26 February 2015, there was no recognised deferred tax liability (2014: £nil) for taxes that would be payable on any 
unremitted earnings, as all such amounts are permanently reinvested or, where they are not, there are no corporation tax 
consequences of such companies paying dividends to parent companies.
Tax relief on total interest capitalised amounts to £0.8m (2014: £0.6m).
Factors affecting the tax charge for future years
The Finance Act 2013 reduced the main rate of UK corporation tax to 21% from 1 April 2014 and to 20% from 1 April 2015.  
The effect of the new rate was included in the accounts for 2013/14.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
10 Business combinations
On 30 January 2015, Costa Limited acquired the entire share capital of Life Coffee Café Limited for a total cash consideration  
of £9.9m. Life Coffee Café Limited was a franchise partner and operated 16 Costa franchise operations.
On 26 February 2015, Premier Inn Hotels Limited acquired two trading hotels for a cash consideration of £9.3m.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired businesses at the date of acquisition were:
      Provisional 
      fair value 
      to Group 
      £m
Property, plant and equipment (Note 14)       11.4  
Cash      0.4  
Trade and other receivables      0.3 
Loans      (0.7) 
Trade and other payables      (1.6)
Net assets       9.8 
Intangible assets in relation to the reacquired franchise agreement with Life Coffee Café Limited (Note 13)  9.4 
Deferred tax liability in relation to the intangible asset      (1.9) 
Goodwill arising on acquisition (Note 13)      1.9 
Total consideration      19.2 
Cash flow on acquisition: 
Cash acquired      0.4  
Loans acquired      (0.7) 
Cash paid      (19.2)
Net cash outflow      (19.5)
Fair values are described as provisional due to the proximity of the acquisitions to the year–end.
The goodwill arising on acquisition relates to the Life Coffee Café Limited acquisition and arises as a result of the expected 
synergies from the business combination.
Included in the acquisition was £0.7m of loans. These were immediately repaid.
From the date of acquisition, the business combination contributed £0.7m revenue and £0.1m profit to the Group. If the 
acquisitions had taken place at the beginning of the year, the profit for the Group would have been increased by £1.7m and  
the revenue by £11.1m.
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 110
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
11 Earnings per share
The basic earnings per share (EPS) figures are calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary 
shareholders, therefore before non–controlling interests, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue  
during the year after deducting treasury shares and shares held by an independently managed employee share ownership  
trust (ESOT).
The diluted earnings per share figures allow for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares of the weighted 
average number of options outstanding during the year. Where the average share price for the year is lower than the option 
price, the options become anti–dilutive and are excluded from the calculation. The number of such options was nil (2014: nil).
The numbers of shares used for the earnings per share calculations are as follows:
     2014/15 2013/14 
     million million
Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares      180.7  179.2  
Effect of dilution — share options      1.8  1.9 
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares     182.5  181.1 
The total number of shares in issue at the year–end, as used in the calculation of the basic weighted average number  
of ordinary shares, was 195.0m, less 13.3m treasury shares held by Whitbread PLC and 0.6m held by the ESOT (2014: 194.7m,  
less 13.3m treasury shares held by Whitbread PLC and 1.2m held by the ESOT).
The profits used for the earnings per share calculations are as follows:
     2014/15 2013/14 
     £m £m
Profit for the year attributable to parent shareholders     370.1  327.9  
Exceptional items and non underlying adjustments — gross     24.3  64.8 
Exceptional items and non underlying adjustments — taxation     (7.2) (70.5) 
Exceptional items and non underlying adjustments — non–controlling interest   (1.1) (1.4)
Underlying profit for the year attributable to parent shareholders    386.1  320.8 
     2014/15 2013/14 
     pence pence
Basic on profit for the year     204.81  1 82.98  
Exceptional items and non underlying adjustments — gross     13.45 36.16 
Exceptional items and non underlying adjustments — taxation     (3.98) (39.34) 
Exceptional items and non underlying adjustments — non–controlling interest   (0.61) (0.78)
Basic on underlying profit for the year     213.67  179.02 
Diluted on profit for the year     202.79  181.06  
Diluted on underlying profit for the year     211.56  177.14
 
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 111 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
12 Dividends paid and proposed
 2014/15 2013/14
 
 
 
 
   pence  pence 
   per share £m per share £m
Final dividend relating to the prior year   47.00 85.1  37.90   6 7.7 
Settled via scrip issue (Note 27)    —   (28.2)
Paid in the year    85.1   39.5
Interim dividend for the current year    25.20 45.5 21.80 39.2 
Settled via scrip issue (Note 27)    —   (16.3)
Paid in the year    45.5   22.9 
Total equity dividends paid in the year    130.6   62.4 
Dividends on other shares: 
 B share dividend   0.70 — 1.30 —  
 C share dividend   0.70 — 0.70 — 
    —  — 
Total dividends paid     130.6  62.4
Proposed for approval at Annual General Meeting:
 Final equity dividend for the current year   56.95 103.1 47.00 84.7
13 Intangible assets
    IT software 
   Customer  and  
 Goodwill Brand relationships technology Other Total 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost 
At 28 February 2013  177.6   5 .1   5 .9   4 8.4   5 .8   2 42.8  
Additions  — — —  1 8.5  1.4   1 9.9  
Assets written off  — — —  ( 3.1)   —   ( 3.1)  
Transfers —  — —  0.2  0.5  0 .7 
Foreign currency adjustment —  — —  —  (0.1)  ( 0.1) 
At 27 February 2014 177.6   5 .1   5 .9   6 4.0   7 .6   260.2
Additions  — — — 27.2 0.1 27.3 
Businesses acquired (Note 10)  1.9 — — — 9.4 11.3 
Assets written off — — — (4.7) — (4.7) 
Transfers — — — (0.9) — (0.9) 
Foreign currency adjustment (0.1) — — (0.1) 0.1 (0.1)
At 26 February 2015 179.4 5.1 5.9 85.5 17.2 293.1
Amortisation and impairment 
At 28 February 2013  —   ( 1.0) (1.0)  (24.1)  ( 1.3) (27.4) 
Amortisation during the year —  ( 0.4)  ( 0.4)  ( 7.9)  (0.5)  (9.2) 
Amortisation on assets written off — — — 3.1 — 3.1 
Impairment —  ( 3.7) — — — (3.7)
At 27 February 2014 —  ( 5.1)  ( 1.4)  (28.9)  ( 1.8) (37.2)
Amortisation during the year — — (0.4) (11.3) (1.0) (12.7) 
Amortisation on assets written off — — — 4.7 — 4.7 
Transfers — — — 0.1 — 0.1 
Foreign currency adjustment — — — 0.1 — 0.1
At 26 February 2015 — (5.1) (1.8) (35.3) (2.8) (45.0)
Net book value at 26 February 2015  179.4 — 4.1 50.2 14.4 248.1
Net book value at 27 February 2014 177.6   —   4 .5  3 5.1   5 .8   223.0 
Included in the amortisation for the year is amortisation relating to acquired intangibles amounting to £2.5m (2013/14: £2.7m).
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 112
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 113
13 Intangible assets continued
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated by segment is presented below:
     2015 2014 
     £m £m
Hotels & Restaurants     112.6  112.6  
Costa     66.8  65.0 
Total     179.4  177.6 
The carrying amount of goodwill at 26 February 2015 comprised £112.6m for Hotels & Restaurants and £66.8m for Costa.  
The Hotels & Restaurants CGU and the Costa CGU are also operating segments and represent the lowest level within the  
Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
The customer relationships asset arose with the acquisition of Coffee Nation in a previous financial year. It is being amortised 
over a period of 15 years.
IT software and technology has been assessed as having finite lives and is amortised under the straight–line method over 
periods ranging from three to six years from the date the asset became fully operational. 
Other intangibles
Other intangibles comprise Costa overseas trading licences, territory fees, reacquired franchise rights, Costa Express operating 
rights agreements and development costs.
The trading licences, which have a carrying value of £1.8m (2014: £1.8m), are deemed to have indefinite useful lives as there  
is no foreseeable limit to the period over which they are expected to contribute to the Group’s net cash inflow. The operating 
rights agreements are being amortised between six years and ten years and have a carrying value of £1.7m (2014: £2.0m). 
Development costs have a carrying value of £1.3m (2014: £1.7m) and are being amortised over six years. The reacquired 
franchise right arose from the acquisition of Life Coffee Café Limited in the year and is being amortised over five years and  
has a carrying value of £9.2m at the year–end. The balance of £0.4m (2014: £0.4m) relates to territory fees which are being 
amortised over 20 years.
Capital expenditure commitments
Capital expenditure commitments in relation to intangible assets at the year–end amounted to £4.2m (2014: £2.7m).
14 Property, plant and equipment
    Land and Plant and 
    buildings equipment Total 
    £m  £m  £m
Cost 
At 28 February 2013    2,227.9  1,078.9   3,306.8 
Additions     141.9 174.8 316.7 
Interest capitalised     2.6 — 2.6 
Assets written off    (2.4) (82.9) (85.3) 
Foreign currency adjustment    (4.4) (3.6) (8.0) 
Transfers    (0.5) (0.2) (0.7) 
Movements to held for sale in the year     (6.0) (1.3) (7.3) 
Disposals    (7.4) (3.4) (10.8)
At 27 February 2014    2,351.7  1,162.3   3,514.0 
Additions     331.0 189.7 520.7 
Businesses acquired (Note 10)     9.3 2.1 11.4 
Interest capitalised     4.3 — 4.3 
Reclassified    1.5 (1.5) — 
Assets written off    (4.9) (83.9) (88.8) 
Foreign currency adjustment    0.6 0.6 1.2 
Transfers    — 0.9 0.9 
Disposals    (2.4) (8.8) (11.2)
At 26 February 2015    2,691.1 1,261.4 3,952.5
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
14 Property, plant and equipment continued
    Land and Plant and 
    buildings equipment Total 
    £m  £m  £m
Depreciation and impairment 
At 28 February 2013     (146.8)  (411.1) (557.9) 
Depreciation charge for the year     (14.9) (128.4) (143.3) 
Impairment (Note 15)    (14.8) (1.3) (16.1) 
Depreciation on assets written off    2.4 82.9 85.3 
Foreign currency adjustment    0.6 1.4 2.0 
Movements to held for sale in the year    2.0 0.6 2.6 
Disposals    5.3 2.2 7.5
At 27 February 2014    (166.2) (453.7) (619.9)
Depreciation charge for the year     (16.8) (138.9) (155.7) 
Impairment (Note 15)    5.1 (1.3) 3.8 
Reclassified    0.5 (0.5) — 
Depreciation on assets written off    4.9 83.9 88.8 
Foreign currency adjustment    0.6 (0.5) 0.1 
Transfers    — (0.1) (0.1) 
Disposals    1.5 7.4 8.9
At 26 February 2015    (170.4) (503.7) (674.1)
Net book value at 26 February 2015    2,520.7 757.7 3,278.4
Net book value at 27 February 2014    2,185.5  708.6  2,894.1
Included above are assets under construction of £263.5m (2014: £158.6m).
There is a charge in favour of the pension scheme over properties with a market value of £408.0m (2014: £408.0m).  
See Note 31 for further information. 
     2015 2014 
Capital expenditure commitments     £m £m
Capital expenditure commitments for property, plant and equipment  
 for which no provision has been made      123.5   52.3 
In addition to the capital expenditure commitments disclosed above, the Group has also signed agreements with certain  
third–parties to develop new trading outlets within the Hotels & Restaurants strategic business unit as part of its pipeline.  
These developments are dependant upon the outcome of future events, such as the granting of planning permission, and 
consequently do not represent a binding capital commitment at the year–end. The directors consider that developments  
likely to proceed as planned will result in further capital investment of £440.0m over the next five years (2014: £210.0m).
Capitalised interest
Interest capitalised during the year amounted to £4.3m, using an average rate of 4.1% (2013/14: £2.6m, using an average  
rate of 4.1%).
Assets held for sale
Three sites with a combined net book value of £1.1m (2014: £1.5m) continued to be classified as held for sale at the year–end.  
An impairment loss of £0.4m (2013/14: £0.4m) was recognised in the year. During 2013/14, certain property assets with 
combined book value of £4.7m were reclassified as assets held for sale and property assets sold during the same year had  
a net book value of £4.3m.
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 114
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 115
15 Impairment
During the year, impairment losses of £5.2m (2013/14: £22.4m) and impairment reversals of £8.6m (2013/14: £5.9m) were 
recognised.
     2014/15 2013/14 
     Property,  Property, 
     plant and plant and 
     equipment equipment 
     £m £m
Impairment losses 
Hotels & Restaurants     2.9  1 5.5  
Costa      2.3  6.9
Total impairment losses      5.2 22.4
Impairment reversals 
Hotels & Restaurants     (8.1)  (5.4) 
Costa      (0.5) (0.5)
Total impairment reversals      (8.6) (5.9)
Total net impairment (reversal)/charge     (3.4) 16.5 
Property, plant and equipment
The Group considers each trading site to be a CGU and each CGU is reviewed annually for indicators of impairment.
In assessing whether an asset has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU is compared to its recoverable amount.  
The recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. In the absence of any 
information about the fair value of a CGU, the recoverable amount is deemed to be its value in use. 
The Group estimates value in use using a discounted cash flow model, which applies a pre–tax discount rate of 8.6%  
in the UK (2013/14: 9.9%), 9.5% in China (2013/14: 10.6%) and 9.9% in Poland (2013/14: 11.1%). The future cash flows are  
based on assumptions from the business plans and cover a five–year period. These business plans and forecasts include 
management’s most recent view of medium–term trading prospects. Cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated  
using a growth rate based upon the relevant country’s inflation target, ranging from 1.5% to 6.0% with the UK, the most 
significant country, being 2.0% (2013/14: 2.0%).
The events and circumstances that led to the impairment charge of £5.2m are set out below:
Hotels & Restaurants
The impairment of £2.9m at eight sites in this strategic business unit was driven by a number of factors:
• 
changes in the local competitive environment in which the hotels are situated;
• 
decisions to exit some sites where current market values are lower than book values; and
• 
high asset prices in the market at the point of acquisition for acquired sites and also anticipated higher growth rates  
at that time than are now expected.
Costa
The £2.3m impairment charge includes two UK and 31 international sites, where stores are to be closed or are underperforming. 
The non–controlling interest portion of this cost was £0.7m (2013/14: £0.7m).
Impairment reversals
Following an improvement in trading performance and an increase in amounts of estimated future cash flows of previously 
impaired sites, reversals of £8.6m have been recognised, £8.1m in Hotels & Restaurants and £0.5m in Costa.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
The level of impairment is predominantly dependent upon judgements used in arriving at future growth rates and the discount 
rates applied to cash flow projections. The impact on the impairment charge of applying different assumptions to the growth 
rates used in the five–year business plans and in the pre–tax discount rates would be an incremental impairment charge of:
    Hotels & 
    Restaurants Costa Total 
Incremental impairment charge    £m £m £m
Impairment if business plan growth rates were reduced by 1% pt   2.4 — 2.4 
Impairment if discount rates were increased by 1% pt    2.2 — 2.2
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
15 Impairment continued
Goodwill
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to groups of CGUs at strategic business unit level, being  
the level at which management monitor goodwill.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. In the absence of a recent market 
transaction, the recoverable amount is determined from value in use calculations. The future cash flows are based on 
assumptions from the business plans and cover a five–year period. These business plans and forecasts include management’s 
most recent view of medium–term trading prospects. Cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using a 2.0% growth  
rate (2013/14: 2.0%). The pre–tax discount rate applied to cash flow projections is 8.6% (2013/14: 9.9%).
The resultant impairment review required no impairment of goodwill allocated to either the Hotels & Restaurants CGU  
or the Costa CGU.
16 Investment in joint ventures
  % equity interest
  
 
Principal joint ventures Investment held by Principal activity Country of incorporation 2015 2014
Premier Inn Hotels LLC  PTI Middle East Limited Hotels  United Arab Emirates  49.0   49.0 
Hualian Costa (Beijing)  Costa Beijing Limited Coffee shops China 50.0   50.0 
Food & Beverage  
Management 
Company Limited
 
The following table provides summarised information of the Group’s investment in joint ventures:
     2015 2014 
Share of joint ventures’ balance sheets     £m £m
Current assets     10.4  8.7  
Non–current assets      49.6  4 6.4 
Share of gross assets      60.0  55.1 
Current liabilities      (6.1) (5.4) 
Non–current liabilities      (26.1) (27.1)
Share of gross liabilities      (32.2) (32.5)
Loans to joint ventures     2.5 2.3
Share of net assets      30.3 24.9 
     2014/15 2013/14 
Share of joint ventures’ revenue and expenses     £m £m
Revenue      27.0  2 1.5  
Operating costs      (22.3)  (18.8) 
Finance costs      (1.0)  (1.1)
Operating profit before tax and exceptionals      3.7 1.6
Impairment of fixed assets      (1.1) —
Profit before tax      2.6 1.6 
Tax     — — 
Net profit     2.6 1.6
At 26 February 2015, the Group’s share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures amounted to £2.9m (2014: £2.9m).
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 116
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 117
17 Investment in associate
  % equity interest
  
 
Principal associate Investment held by Principal activity Country of incorporation 2015 2014
Morrison Street Whitbread Group PLC Hotels  Scotland  40.0 40.0  
Hotel Limited
The associate is a private entity which is not listed on any public exchange and, therefore, there is no published quotation price 
for the fair value of this investment.
The following table provides summarised information of the Group’s investment in the associated undertaking:
     2015 2014 
Share of associate’s balance sheet     £m £m
Current assets      2.2  2.2  
Non–current assets      5.1  5.1 
Share of gross assets      7.3  7.3 
Current liabilities      (0.7) (0.7) 
Non–current liabilities      (4.6) (4.6)
Share of gross liabilities      (5.3) (5.3)
Share of net assets      2.0 2.0 
     2014/15 2013/14 
Share of associate’s revenue and profit     £m £m
Revenue      2.8  2.9  
Profit      0.8  0.9 
18 Inventories
     2015 2014 
     £m £m
Raw materials and consumables (at cost)      6.7 2.4  
Finished goods (at cost)      30.4  28.1 
Total inventories at lower of cost and net realisable value      37.1  30.5 
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
19 Trade and other receivables
     2015 2014 
     £m £m
Trade receivables      78.4  66.9  
Prepayments and accrued income     35.6  46.5  
Other receivables      17.3  16.7
     131.3  130.1
Analysed as: 
 Current     124.0 124.1  
 Non–current — other receivables     7.3 6.0 
     131.3 130.1 
Trade and other receivables are non–interest bearing and are generally on 30–day terms.
The provision for impairment of receivables at 26 February 2015 was £3.9m (2014: £2.8m).
The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows:
     2015 2014 
     £m £m
Neither past due nor impaired     67.4 54.6  
Less than 30 days     8.9  8.5  
Between 30 and 60 days     1.8  2.8  
Greater than 60 days     0.3  1.0 
     78.4 66.9 
20 Cash and cash equivalents
     2015 2014 
     £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand      1.9 41.3  
Short–term deposits     0.2 0.1
     2.1 41.4
Short–term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and one month depending on the immediate cash 
requirements of the Group. They earn interest at the respective short–term deposit rates. The fair value of cash and cash 
equivalents is £2.1m (2014: £41.4m).
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following:
     2015 2014 
     £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand      1.9 41.3  
Short–term deposits      0.2 0.1
     2.1  41.4 
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 118
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 119
21 Financial liabilities
 Current Non–current
 
 
 
 
  2015 2014 2015 2014 
 Maturity £m £m £m £m
Bank overdrafts  On demand  —  —  — — 
Short–term borrowings  On demand  71.2  — — —
  71.2 —  — —
Other loans 2015 1.9 — — —  
Revolving credit facility (£650m) 2019 — — 249.1 186.4  
Private placement loan notes 2017 to 2022 — — 263.1  246.6 
   73.1  —  512.2 433.0 
Short–term borrowings
Short–term borrowings are typically overnight borrowings, repayable on demand. Interest rates are variable and linked  
to LIBOR.
Revolving credit facility (£650m)
The revolving facility was entered into on 4 November 2011 and originally ran until November 2016. In 2013/14, an extension  
was agreed to take the loan to November 2018. In 2014/15, a further year has been agreed taking the loan to November 2019. 
Loans have variable interest rates linked to LIBOR. The facility is multi–currency.
Private placement loan notes
The Group holds loan notes with coupons and maturities as shown in the following table:
Title Year issued Principal value Maturity Coupon
Series A loan notes 2010 US$40.0m 13 August 2017 4.55%
Series B loan notes  2010 US$75.0m 13 August 2020 5.23%
Series C loan notes  2010 £25.0m 13 August 2020 5.19%
Series A loan notes  2011 US$60.0m 26 January 2019 3.92%
Series B loan notes  2011 US$56.5m 26 January 2019 4.12%
Series C loan notes 2011 US$93.5m 26 January 2022 4.86%
Series D loan notes 2011 £25.0m 06 September 2021 4.89%
The Group entered into a number of cross–currency swap agreements in relation to the loan notes to eliminate any foreign 
exchange risk on interest rates or on the repayment of the principal borrowed. These swaps expire in line with the loan notes 
and are discussed in Note 25.
An analysis of the interest rate profile and the maturity of the borrowings, together with related interest rate swaps, is as follows:
  Within  1 to 2  2 to 5  Over 
  1 year  years  years  5 years  Total 
Year ended 26 February 2015  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Fixed rate   — — 101.0 162.1 263.1 
Fixed to floating interest rate swaps  — — — (50.1) (50.1) 
Floating to fixed interest rate swaps   — — 50.0 50.0 100.0
  — — 151.0 162.0 313.0
Floating rate   73.1 — 249.1 — 322.2 
Fixed to floating interest rate swaps  — — — 50.1 50.1 
Floating to fixed interest rate swaps   — — (50.0) (50.0) (100.0)
  73.1 — 199.1 0.1 272.3
   73.1 — 350.1 162.1 585.3
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
21 Financial liabilities continued
  Within  1 to 2  2 to 5  Over 
  1 year  years  years  5 years  Total 
Year ended 27 February 2014  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Fixed rate    —   —   9 3.8   1 52.8   2 46.6  
Fixed to floating interest rate swaps   —   —   —   ( 50.1)  ( 50.1) 
Floating to fixed interest rate swaps   —   —   50.0   50.0   1 00.0 
   —   —  143.8   1 52.7   296.5 
Floating rate   —   —   1 86.4   —   1 86.4  
Fixed to floating interest rate swaps   —   —   —   5 0.1   5 0.1  
Floating to fixed interest rate swaps    —  —   ( 50.0)  ( 50.0) (100.0)
  —  —   1 36.4   0 .1   136.5 
  —   —   2 80.2  152.8   433.0 
The maturity analysis is grouped by when the debt is contracted to mature rather than by repricing dates, as allowed under IFRS.
There are £50.0m of swaps (2014: £50.0m) with maturities beyond the life of the current revolving credit facility (2019), which 
are in place to hedge against the core level of debt the Group will hold.
The carrying amount of the Group’s borrowings is denominated in sterling and US dollars.
At 26 February 2015, the Group had available £398.0m (2014: £460.0m) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect 
of revolving credit facilities on which all conditions precedent had been met.
22 Movements in cash and net debt
     Fair value Amortisation 
 27 February Cost of   Foreign adjustments of premiums 26 February 
 2014 borrowings Cash flow exchange to loans and discounts 2015 
Year ended 26 February 2015 £m  £m £m  £m  £m  £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand  41.3      2.1  
Short–term deposits 0.1      — 
Overdrafts —      —
Cash and cash equivalents  41.4 — (38.5) (0.8) — — 2.1
Short–term bank borrowings  — — (71.2) — — — (71.2)
Loan capital under one year  —       (1.9) 
Loan capital over one year  (433.0)      (512.2)
Total loan capital  (433.0) 0.4 (63.9) (12.3) (3.9) (1.4) (514.1)
Net debt   (391.6) 0.4 (173.6) (13.1) (3.9) (1.4) (583.2)
     Fair value Amortisation 
 28 February Cost of   Foreign adjustments of premiums 27 February 
 2013 borrowings Cash flow exchange to loans and discounts 2014 
Year ended 27 February 2014 £m  £m £m  £m  £m  £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand   39.2          4 1.3  
Short–term deposits  1.6       0 .1 
Overdrafts  —       —
Cash and cash equivalents   40.8   —  1.9  (1.3)   —   —   4 1.4 
Short–term bank borrowings   (9.0)   —  9.0  —  —   —   —
Loan capital under one year   —        —  
Loan capital over one year   (502.9)      (433.0)
Total loan capital   (502.9)  1 .7  54.9  8 .2   6 .5  ( 1.4) (433.0)
Net debt   (471.1)  1 .7  65.8  6 .9   6 .5  ( 1.4) (391.6)
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 120
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 121
23 Provisions
    Onerous 
    contracts Other Total 
    £m £m  £m
At 28 February 2013     35.5 7.4 42.9  
Created    6.8 0.1 6.9  
Unwinding of discount rate    0.9 — 0.9  
Utilised     (5.0)  ( 0.1)   (5.1)
At 27 February 2014     38.2 7.4 45.6 
Created    0.4 — 0.4 
Unwinding of discount rate    0.8 — 0.8 
Utilised     (12.2) (0.1) (12.3)
At 26 February 2015    27.2 7.3 34.5
Analysed as: 
 Current      6.7 — 6.7 
 Non–current      20.5 7.3 27.8
At 26 February 2015    27.2 7.3 34.5
Analysed as: 
 Current     12.9 — 12.9  
 Non–current     25.3 7.4   32.7 
 At 27 February 2014    38.2 7.4   45.6
Onerous contracts
Onerous contract provisions relate primarily to property reversions. Provision is made for rent and other property–related  
costs for the period that a sublet or assignment of the lease is not possible. Where the property is deemed likely to be assigned, 
provision is made for the best estimate of the reverse lease premium payable on the assignment.
Where the property is deemed likely to be sublet, the rental income and the timing of the cash flows are estimated by  
both internal and external property specialists and a provision is maintained for the estimated cost incurred by the Group.
Onerous lease provisions are discounted using a discount rate of 3.74% (2014: 3.74%) based on an approximation for the time 
value of money.
The amount and timing of the cash outflows are subject to variations. The Group utilises the skills and expertise of both  
internal and external property experts to determine the provision held. Provisions are expected to be utilised over a period  
of up to 25 years.
Other
Other provisions relate to warranties given on the disposal of businesses. These are expected to be used over periods  
of up to two years.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
24 Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group’s principal financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise bank loans, private placement loans, cash,  
short–term deposits, trade receivables and trade payables. The Group’s financial instruments policy can be found in Note 2.  
The Board agrees policies for managing the financial risks summarised below:
Interest rate risk 
The Group’s exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s long–term sterling debt 
obligations. Interest rate swaps are used to achieve the desired mix of fixed and floating rate debt in conjunction with private 
placement loan notes. The Group’s policy is to maintain fixed rate debt between 35% and 65% of total debt. Some transactions 
can lead to a deviation from this policy but not without prior approval from the Group Finance Director. This policy reduces the 
Group’s exposure to the consequences of interest rate fluctuations. At the year–end, £313.0m (61.1%) of the Group’s long–term 
debt was fixed for an average of 4.88 years at an average interest rate of 5.0% (2014: £296.5m, (68.5%), for 5.88 years, at 5.0%). 
Although the private placement loan notes are US dollar denominated, cross–currency swaps mean that the interest rate  
risk is effectively sterling only.
In accordance with IFRS 7, the Group has undertaken sensitivity analysis on its financial instruments which are affected by 
changes in interest rates. This analysis has been prepared on the basis of a constant amount of net debt, a constant ratio  
of fixed to floating interest rates, and on the basis of the hedging instruments in place at 26 February 2015 and 27 February 
2014 respectively. Consequently, the analysis relates to the situation at those dates and is not representative of the years then  
ended. The following assumptions were made:
• 
balance sheet sensitivity to interest rates applies only to derivative financial instruments, as the carrying value of debt  
and deposits does not change as interest rates move;
• 
gains or losses are recognised in equity or the income statement in line with the accounting policies set out in Note 2; and
• 
cash flow hedges were effective.
Based on the Group’s net debt position at the year–end, a 1% pt change in interest rates would affect the Group’s profit before  
tax by approximately £2.0m (2013/14: £1.4m), and equity by approximately £16.6m (2014: £5.2m).
Liquidity risk
In its funding strategy, the Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between the continuity of funding and flexibility through 
the use of overdrafts and bank loans. This strategy includes monitoring the maturity of financial liabilities to avoid the risk  
of a shortage of funds.
Excess cash used in managing liquidity is placed on interest–bearing deposit where maturity is fixed at no more than three 
months. Short–term flexibility is achieved through the use of short–term borrowing on the money markets. 
The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 26 February 2015 and 27 February 2014 
based on contractual undiscounted payments, including interest:
 On Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 More than 
 demand 3 months months years 5 years Total 
26 February 2015 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest–bearing loans and borrowings 71.2 0.3 13.4 383.4 174.7 643.0 
Derivative financial instruments — 1.8 1.8 6.9 4.1 14.6 
Trade and other payables — 166.8 — 20.5 — 187.3 
Accrued financial liabilities — — 177.6 — — 177.6 
Provisions in respect of financial liabilities — 1.7 5.0 9.6 17.6 33.9
 71.2 170.6 197.8 420.4 196.4 1,056.4
 On Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 More than 
 demand 3 months months years 5 years Total 
27 February 2014 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest–bearing loans and borrowings —   0 .3   1 1.5   3 33.1   1 73.0   5 17.9  
Derivative financial instruments —   2 .1  2.1   1 2.2   6 .1   22.5  
Trade and other payables —   1 56.4   —   1 7.7   —   1 74.1  
Accrued financial liabilities —   —   1 58.2   —   —   1 58.2  
Provisions in respect of financial liabilities —   3 .2   9 .6   1 2.6   1 6.9   4 2.3 
 —   162.0   1 81.4   375.6   1 96.0  915.0 
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 122
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 123
24 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Credit risk
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
The Group is exposed to a small amount of credit risk that is primarily attributable to its trade and other receivables.  
This is minimised by dealing with counterparties with high credit ratings. The amounts included in the balance sheet are  
net of allowances for doubtful debts, which have been estimated by management based on prior experience and any  
known factors at the balance sheet date which may indicate that a provision is required. The Group’s maximum exposure  
on its trade and other receivables is the carrying amount as disclosed in Note 19.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents,  
the Group’s exposure arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying value of  
these instruments. The Group seeks to minimise the risk of default in relation to cash and cash equivalents by spreading 
investments across a number of counterparties.
In the event that any of the Group’s banks get into financial difficulty, the Group is exposed to the risk of withdrawal of  
currently undrawn committed facilities. This risk is mitigated by the Group having a range of counterparties to its facilities  
and by maintaining headroom.
Foreign currency risk
Foreign exchange exposure is currently not significant to the Group. Although the Group has US dollar denominated loan  
notes, these have been swapped into sterling thereby eliminating foreign currency risk. Sensitivity analysis has therefore  
not been carried out.
The Group monitors the growth and risks associated with its overseas operations and will undertake hedging activities  
as and when they are required.
Capital management
The Group’s primary objective in regard to capital management is to ensure that it continues to operate as a going concern  
and has sufficient funds at its disposal to grow the business for the benefit of shareholders. The Group seeks to maintain 
a ratio of debt to equity that balances risks and returns and also complies with lending covenants. See pages 42 to 45 of  
this Report for the policies and objectives of the Board regarding capital management, analysis of the Group’s credit facilities 
and financing plans for the coming years.
The Group aims to maintain sufficient funds for working capital and future investment in order to meet growth targets.  
The Group has adopted a framework to keep leverage (debt divided by EBITDAR) on a pensions and lease adjusted basis  
at 3.5 times or below, which was achieved for the year ended 26 February 2015. This calculation takes account of net debt, 
the pension deficit and the capital value of leases. The management of equity through share buy backs and new issues  
is considered as part of the overall leverage framework balanced against the funding requirements of future growth.  
In addition, the Group may carry out a number of small sale and leaseback transactions to provide further funding for growth.
The Group’s financing is subject to financial covenants. These covenants relate to the measurement of EBITDA against 
consolidated net finance charges (interest cover) and total net debt (leverage ratio, on a not–adjusted–for pension and 
property lease basis). The Group has complied with all of these covenants.
The above matters are considered at regular intervals and form part of the business planning and budgeting processes.  
In addition, the Board regularly reviews the Group’s dividend policy and funding strategy.
25 Financial instruments
Fair values
As in the prior year, the carrying value of financial assets and liabilities disclosed in Notes 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 26 are  
considered to be reasonable approximations of their fair values.
The fair value of derivative instruments is calculated by discounting all future cash flows by the market yield curve at the 
balance sheet date using level 2 techniques.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
25 Financial instruments continued
Hierarchical classification of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value
IFRS 13 requires that the classification of financial instruments at fair value be determined by reference to the source of inputs 
used to derive the fair value. The classification uses the following three–level hierarchy:
Level 1
Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2
Other techniques for which all inputs, which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value, are observable, either directly  
or indirectly.
Level 3
Techniques which use inputs, which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value, that are not based on observable 
market data.
   Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 
26 February 2015   £m £m £m £m
Financial assets 
Derivative financial instruments     — 3.4 — 3.4
Financial liabilities 
Derivative financial instruments    — 18.6 — 18.6
   Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 
27 February 2014   £m £m £m £m
Financial assets 
Derivative financial instruments    —   —  —   — 
Financial liabilities 
Derivative financial instruments    —   2 9.0   —   29.0 
During the year ended 26 February 2015, there were no transfers between fair value measurement levels. Derivative financial 
instruments include £2.2m assets (2014: £nil) and £13.8m liabilities (2014: £24.7m) due after one year.
Derivative financial instruments 
Hedges 
Cash flow hedges
At 26 February 2015, the Group has interest rate swaps in place to swap a notional amount of £100.0m (2014: £100.0m) 
whereby it receives variable interest rates based on LIBOR on the notional amount and pays fixed rates of between 5.145%  
and 5.372% (2014: 5.145% and 5.372%). The swaps are being used to hedge the exposure to changes in future cash flows  
from variable rate debt. The Group also has cross–currency swaps in place whereby it receives a fixed interest rate of  
between 3.92% and 4.86% (2014: 3.92% and 4.86%) on a notional amount of US$250.0m (2014: US$250.0m) and pays  
an average of 4.72% on a notional sterling balance of £158.2m (2014: 4.72% on £158.2m).
There are £50.0m of swaps (2014: £50.0m) with maturities beyond the life of the current revolving credit facility (2019)  
which are in place to hedge against the core level of debt the Group will hold. 
The ineffectiveness recorded within finance costs in the income statement for 2014/15, a debit of £14.0k, and 2013/14,  
a credit of £6.0k was immaterial.
The cash flow hedges were assessed to be highly effective at 26 February 2015 and a net unrealised loss of £3.0m  
(2013/14: net unrealised gain of £1.4m) has been recorded in other comprehensive income. 
Fair value hedges
At 26 February 2015, the Group has cross–currency swaps in place whereby it receives a fixed interest rate of 5.23%  
(2014: 5.23%) on a notional amount of $75.0m (2014: $75.0m) and pays a spread of between 1.715% and 1.755% (2014: 1.715% 
and 1.755%) over 6m GBP LIBOR on a notional sterling balance of £50.1m (2014: £50.1m).
The fair value hedges were also assessed to be highly effective at 26 February 2015.
An increase in the fair value of the interest rate swap of £4.4m (2013/14: a reduction of £7.3m) offset by a loss in the fair value  
of the hedged items of £3.9m (2013/14: gain of £6.4m) led to a credit of £0.5m recorded within finance revenue in the income 
statement (2013/14: a debit of £0.9m in finance costs in the income statement).
Cash flow and fair value hedges are expected to impact on the income statement in line with the liquidity risk table shown  
in Note 24. 
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 124
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 26 Trade and other payables
     2015 2014 
     £m £m
Trade payables        121.6  109.3  
Other taxes and social security       56.1   56.4  
Deferred income       63.6 52.0 
Accruals       177.6  158.2  
Other payables       65.7  64.8 
      484.6  440.7 
Analysed as: 
 Current      464.1  423.0  
 Non–current      20.5  17.7 
      484.6  440.7 
27 Share capital
Ordinary share capital
 
Allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary shares of 76.80p each (2014: 76.80p each)   million  £m
At 28 February 2013       193.0   148.3  
Issued       0.2   0.2  
Issued in lieu of dividends: 
 2012/13 final       1.0   0.8  
 2013/14 interim     0.5   0.3 
At 27 February 2014      194.7 149.6
Issued      0.3 0.2
At 26 February 2015      195.0 149.8
At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, the Company was authorised to purchase up to 18.1m of its own shares on the open market. 
During the year, no ordinary shares were acquired (2013/14: nil). No shares were cancelled in the year (2013/14: nil).  
The remainder are being held in the treasury reserve (Note 28).
During the year, options over 0.3m ordinary shares, fully paid, were exercised by employees under the terms of various share 
option schemes (2013/14: 0.2m).
The total number of shares in issue at the year–end, as used in the calculation of the basic weighted average number  
of ordinary shares, was 195.0m, less 13.3m treasury shares held by Whitbread PLC and 0.6m held by the employee share 
ownership trust (ESOT) (2014: 194.7m, less 13.3m treasury shares held by Whitbread PLC and 1.2m held by the ESOT).
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 125
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 27 Share capital continued
Preference share capital
 B shares C shares
 
 
 
 
Allotted, called up and fully paid shares of 1p each (2014: 1p each)   million £m million £m
At 28 February 2013, 27 February 2014 and 26 February 2015   2.0 — 1.9 —
B shareholders are entitled to an annual non–cumulative preference dividend paid in arrears on or around 2 July each year  
on a notional amount of 155 pence per share.
C shareholders are entitled to an annual non–cumulative preference dividend paid in arrears on or around 14 January each  
year on a notional amount of 159 pence per share.
Other than shares issued in the normal course of business as part of the share–based payments schemes and those issued  
in respect of scrip dividends, there have been no transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares since  
the reporting date and before the completion of these consolidated financial statements.
28 Reserves
Share premium
The share premium reserve is the premium paid on the Company’s 76.80p ordinary shares. The issue of shares in lieu of cash 
dividends was treated as a bonus issue, with the nominal value of the shares being charged against the share premium account. 
Capital redemption reserve
A capital redemption reserve was created on the cancellation of the Group’s B and C preference shares (Note 27) and also 
includes the nominal value of cancelled ordinary shares.
Retained earnings
In accordance with IFRS practice, retained earnings include revaluation reserves which are not distributable under UK law.
Currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the consolidated 
financial statements of foreign subsidiaries and other foreign currency investments.
Treasury reserve
This reserve relates to shares held by an independently managed employee share ownership trust (ESOT) and treasury shares 
held by Whitbread PLC. The shares held by the ESOT were purchased in order to satisfy outstanding employee share options 
and potential awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and other incentive schemes.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve arose as a consequence of the merger in 2000/01 of Whitbread Group PLC and Whitbread PLC.
Hedging reserve
This reserve records movements for effective cash flow hedges measured at fair value.
The total of the treasury, merger and hedging reserves equals other reserves in the consolidated balance sheet.
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 126
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 127
28 Reserves continued
The movement in treasury shares during the year is set out in the table below:
 Treasury shares held by 
 Whitbread PLC ESOT shares held
 
 
 
 
   million £m million £m
At 28 February 2013     13.8   201.5   1 .1   1 8.4  
Transferred    (0.5) (6.8) 0.5   6 .8  
Exercised during the year    —   —   ( 0.4)  (7.3)
At 27 February 2014    13.3   194.7   1 .2   1 7.9 
Exercised during the year    — — (0.6) (8.1)
At 26 February 2015    13.3 194.7 0.6 9.8
The treasury shares reduce the amount of reserves available for distribution to shareholders by £204.5m (2014: £212.6m).
29 Commitments and contingencies
Operating lease commitments
The Group leases various buildings which are used within the Hotels & Restaurants and Costa businesses. The leases are  
non–cancellable operating leases with varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The Group also leases various  
plant and equipment under non–cancellable operating lease agreements.
Contingent rents are the portion of the lease payment that is not fixed in amount but based upon the future amount of a factor 
that changes other than with the passage of time (e.g. percentage of future sales, amount of future use, future price indices, 
future market rates of interest).
Future minimum rentals payable under non–cancellable operating leases, on an undiscounted basis, are as follows:
     2015 2014 
     £m £m
Due within one year      196.6  173.0  
Due after one year but not more than five years      671.1  598.2  
Due after five years but not more than ten years     629.4  543.3  
Due after ten years     1,335.6  1,263.2 
     2,832.7  2,577.7 
Future minimum rentals payable under non–cancellable operating leases disclosed above includes £78.6m in relation to  
privity contracts (2014: £109.7m). Future lease costs in respect of these privity contracts are included within the onerous 
contracts provision (Note 23). Onerous contracts are under constant review and every effort is taken to reduce this obligation.
The weighted average lease life of future minimum rentals payable under non–cancellable operating leases is 13.3 years  
(2014: 14.0 years).
Group companies have sublet space in certain properties. The future minimum sublease payments expected to be received 
under non–cancellable sublease agreements as at 26 February 2015 are £58.5m (2014: £67.3m) of which £45.9m (2014: 
£53.7m) relates to privity contracts.
Contingent liabilities
There are no contingent liabilities to be disclosed in the year ended 26 February 2015 (2014: £nil).
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
30 Share–based payment plans
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The LTIP awards shares to directors and senior executives of the Group. Vesting of all shares under the scheme will depend  
on continued employment and meeting earnings per share (EPS) performance targets over a three–year period (the vesting 
period). In addition, awards from 2012 onwards are dependent on meeting a return on capital employed (ROCE) target over 
the vesting period. Grants prior to this were dependent on meeting a total shareholder return (TSR) target over the vesting 
period. Details of the performance targets for the LTIP awards can be seen in the remuneration report on pages 62 to 76.
The awards are settled in equity once exercised.
Movements in the number of share awards are as follows:
     2015 2014 
     Awards Awards
Outstanding at the beginning of the year      977,348   958,874  
Granted during the year      202,809  320,130  
Exercised during the year      (329,389)  (250,299) 
Expired during the year      (33,126) (51,357)
Outstanding at the end of the year      817,642  977,348 
Exercisable at the end of the year      5,497  35,310 
Deferred equity awards
Awards are made under the Whitbread Leadership Group Incentive Scheme implemented during 2004/05.
The awards are not subject to performance conditions and will vest in full on the release date subject to continued employment 
at that date. If the director or senior executive of the Group ceases to be an employee of Whitbread prior to the release date, 
normally three years after the award, by reason of redundancy, retirement, death, injury, ill health, disability or some other 
reason considered to be appropriate by the Remuneration Committee, the awards will be released in full. If employment ceases 
for any other reason, the proportion of awards which vest depends upon the year in which the award was made and the date 
that employment ceased. If employment ceases in the first year after an award is made none of the awards vest, between the 
first and second anniversary, 25% vest and between the second and third anniversary, 50% vest.
Movements in the number of share awards are as follows:
     2015 2014 
     Awards Awards
Outstanding at the beginning of the year     478,494   503,887  
Granted during the year     141,751  187,693  
Exercised during the year     (191,917)  (192,120) 
Expired during the year     (13,064) (20,966)
Outstanding at the end of the year     415,264 478,494 
Exercisable at the end of the year     —  — 
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 128
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 129
30 Share–based payment plans continued
Employee sharesave scheme
The employee sharesave scheme is open to all employees and provides for a purchase price equal to the market price on the 
day preceding the date of invitation, with a 20% discount. The shares can be purchased over the six–month period following  
the third or fifth anniversary of the commencement date, depending on the length chosen by the employee.
Movements in the number of share options and the related weighted average exercise price (WAEP) are as follows:
 2015 2014
 
 
 
 
    WAEP  WAEP 
   Options £ per share Options £ per share
Outstanding at the beginning of the year    1,099,022 19.58   1,125,508   1 6.27  
Granted during the year    535,621 35.07   385,072   2 7.46  
Exercised during the year    (249,888) 12.75  (225,863) 10.79  
Expired during the year    (160,211) 23.48   ( 185,695) 16.84 
Outstanding at the end of the year    1,224,544 27.30  1,099,022 19.58 
Exercisable at the end of the year    60,083 13.01  23,226 10.93 
The weighted average contractual life of the share options outstanding as at 26 February 2015 is between two and three years. 
Outstanding options to purchase ordinary shares of 76.80 pence between 2014 and 2019 are exercisable at prices between 
£10.08 and £35.07 (2014: between 2013 and 2018 at prices between £7.28 and £27.46). 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for employee share scheme options exercised during the year was 
£49.01 (2014: £37.62).
The following table lists the inputs to the model used for the years ended 26 February 2015 and 27 February 2014:
      Price at  Expected  Risk– 
  Number Fair Fair Exercise grant Expected dividend Expected free  
 Grant of shares value value price date term yield volatility rate Vesting 
 date granted % £ £ £ Years % % % conditions
LTIP 01/05/2014 202,809 94.2 7,773,665 — 40.69 3.00 2.0 n/a n/a Non–market
 1, 2, 3
 
awards 02/05/2013 320,130 92.8 7,783,513 — 26.20 3.00 2.5 n/a n/a Non–market
 1, 2, 3
Deferred 29/04/2014 141,751 94.2 5,449,337 — 40.81 3.00 2.0 n/a n/a Service
 3
 
equity 30/04/2013 187,693 92.8 4,450,276 — 25.55 3.00 2.5 n/a n/a Service
 3
 
awards           
SAYE —  02/12/2014 427,177 24.9 4,924,795 35.07 46.30 3.25 2.0 20.0 1.04 Service
 3
 
3 years 29/11/2013 311,010 22.8 2,529,370 27.46 35.67 3.25 2.5 20.0 0.97 Service
 3
SAYE — 02/12/2014 108,444 26.6 1,335,575 35.07 46.30 5.25 2.0 20.0 1.47 Service
 3
 
5 years 29/11/2013 74,062 24.6 649,881 27.46 35.67 5.25 2.5 20.0 1.71 Service
 3
1 Return on capital employed.
2 Earnings per share.
3 Employment service.
The fair value of share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a stochastic model, taking into account the 
terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
Expected volatility reflects the assumption that historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily  
be the actual outcome.
The risk–free rate is the rate of interest obtainable from government securities over the expected life of the equity incentive.
The expected dividend yield is calculated on the basis of publicly available information at the time of the grant date which,  
in most cases, is the historic dividend yield.
No other features relating to the granting of options were incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
30 Share–based payment plans continued
Employees share ownership trust (ESOT)
The Company funds an ESOT to enable it to acquire and hold shares for the LTIP. The ESOT held 0.6m shares at 26 February 2015 
(2014: 1.2m). All dividends on the shares in the ESOT are waived by the Trustee.
Total charged to the income statement for all schemes
     2014/15 2013/14 
     £m £m
Long Term Incentive Plan     6.8   5.4  
Deferred equity      4.5  4.0  
Employee sharesave scheme      2.3  1.8 
     13.6  11.2 
Equity–settled     13.5   10.6  
Cash–settled     0.1  0.6 
     13.6 11.2 
31 Retirement benefits
Defined contribution schemes
The Group operates a contracted–in defined contribution scheme under the Whitbread Group Pension Fund. Contributions  
by both employees and Group companies are held in externally invested, trustee–administered funds. The Group also had  
a contracted–out defined contribution pension scheme which was wound up during 2012.
The Group contributes a specified percentage of earnings for members of the above defined contribution scheme, and thereafter 
has no further obligations in relation to the scheme. The total cost charged to income in relation to the defined contribution 
scheme in the year was £7.2m (2013/14: £6.8m).
At the year–end, 26,673 employees (2014: 25,770) were active members of the scheme, which also had 4,282 deferred members 
(2014: 4,172).
Defined benefit scheme
The defined benefit (final salary) section of the principal Group pension scheme, the Whitbread Group Pension Fund, was closed  
to new members on 31 December 2001 and to future accrual on 31 December 2009. The Whitbread Group Pension Fund is set up 
under UK trust law, registered with Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs and regulated by the Pensions Regulator. The Whitbread 
Group Pension Fund is governed by a corporate trustee which operates the scheme in accordance with the requirements of UK 
pensions legislation.
At the year–end, the scheme had no active members (2014: nil), 23,543 deferred pensioners (2014: 24,161) and 16,696 pensions  
in payment (2014: 16,681).
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme is the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The IAS 19(R) pension cost relating  
to the defined benefit section of the Whitbread Group Pension Fund is assessed in accordance with actuarial advice from, and 
calculations provided by Lane Clark & Peacock, using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit 
obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds 
that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. Actuarial gains and losses arising from 
experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income  
in the period in which they arise. As the scheme is closed to future accrual, there is no future service cost.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 17.5 years  
(2014: 17.5 years). 
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 130
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 131
31 Retirement benefits continued
Funding
Expected contributions to be made in the next reporting period total £76.5m (2014: £76.4m). In 2014/15, contributions were 
£81.4m with £72.4m from the employer, £8.9m from Moorgate Scottish Limited Partnership (SLP) and £0.1m of benefits settled  
by the Group in relation to an unfunded scheme (2013/14: £71.2m, with £62.4m from employer, £8.7m from Moorgate SLP  
and £0.1m of benefits settled by the Group in relation to an unfunded scheme).
A scheme specific actuarial valuation for the purpose of determining the level of cash contributions to be paid into the 
Whitbread Group Pension Fund was undertaken as at 31 March 2014. A deficit recovery plan and some protection whilst  
the scheme remains in deficit, have been agreed with the Trustee. The Group made a £70.0m payment in 2014/15 and will  
make the following payments to the Fund: £65.0m in August 2015; £70.0m in August 2016; £80.0m in August 2017; £80.0m  
in August 2018; £80.0m in August 2019; £80.0m in August 2020; £80.0m in August 2021 and £17.0m in August 2022. For the 
period of the deficit, the Group has agreed to give undertakings to the Trustee similar to some of the covenants provided  
in respect of its banking agreements, up to the value of any outstanding recovery plan payments or the remaining deficit,  
if lower. Until the next valuation, the Trustee has also been given a promise of accelerated payments of up to £5.0m per annum  
where increases in ordinary dividends exceed RPI and the right to consultation before any special distributions can be made.
In addition to the scheduled deficit contribution payments described above, the Pension Scheme will receive a share of the 
income, profits and a variable capital payment from its investment in Moorgate SLP, which was established by the Group in  
the year ended 4 March 2010 (the share in profits is accounted for by the Group as contributions when paid). The partnership 
interests in Moorgate SLP are held by the Group, the general partner and by the Pension Scheme. 
Moorgate SLP holds an investment in a further partnership, Farringdon Scottish Partnership (SP), which was also established 
by the Group during 2009/10. Property assets with a market value of £221.0m have been transferred from other Group 
companies to Farringdon SP and leased back to Whitbread Group PLC and Premier Inn Hotels Limited. The Group retains 
control over these properties, including the flexibility to substitute alternative properties. However, the Trustee has first  
charge over the property portfolio and certain other assets with an aggregate value of £228.0m. The Group retains control 
over both partnerships and, as such, they are fully consolidated in these consolidated financial statements. 
The Pension Scheme is a partner in Moorgate SLP and, as such, is entitled to an annual share of the profits of the partnership 
over the next ten years. At the end of this period, the partnership capital allocated to the Pension Scheme partner will, 
depending on the funding position of the Pension Scheme at that time, be transferred in cash to the Pension Scheme up  
to a value of £150.0m (2014: £150.0m). 
Under IAS 19(R), the investment held by the Pension Scheme in Moorgate SLP, a consolidated entity, does not represent  
a plan asset for the purposes of the consolidated financial statements. Accordingly the pension deficit position in these 
consolidated financial statements does not reflect the £165.8m (2014: £141.0m) investment in Moorgate SLP held by the 
Pension Scheme. 
During the year ended 28 February 2013, the Group entered into a charge in favour of Whitbread Pension Trustees Limited  
over properties with a market value totalling £180.0m at that date. The charge was to secure the obligations of the Group  
to make payments to the Pension Fund as part of the recovery plan to reduce the deficit. This, together with the properties 
secured as a consequence of the arrangement surrounding the partnerships, secures properties totalling £408.0m in favour  
of the Pension Scheme.
Risks
Through its defined benefit scheme, the Group is exposed to a number of risks in relation to the IAS 19(R) deficit, the most 
significant of which are detailed below:
Risk Description
Principal impact on assets  
and obligation reconciliations
Market volatility The defined benefit obligation is linked to AA–rated corporate bonds whilst scheme 
assets are invested in equities, gilts, bonds, property and cash. This exposes the  
Group to risks including those relating to interest rates, equity markets, property 
markets and foreign exchange. Changing market conditions, in conjunction with 
discount rate fluctuations, will lead to volatility in the Group’s net pension liability on 
the balance sheet, pension expense in the income statement and re–measurement 
movements in other comprehensive income.
Return on plan assets
Inflationary risk Due to the link between the scheme obligation and inflation, an increased rate  
of inflation will lead to higher scheme liabilities. 
Actuarial movements in financial 
assumptions
Accounting 
assumptions
The defined benefit obligation is calculated by projecting the future cash flows  
of the scheme for many years into the future. Consequently, the assumptions used  
can have a significant impact on the balance sheet position and income statement 
charge. In practice, future scheme experience may not be in line with the assumptions 
adopted. For example, an increase in the life expectancy of members would increase 
scheme liabilities.
Discount rate: interest income on 
scheme assets and cost on liabilities
Mortality: actuarial movements  
in demographic assumptions
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
31 Retirement benefits continued
The principal assumptions used by the independent qualified actuaries in updating the most recent valuation carried out as at 
31 March 2014 of the UK scheme to 26 February 2015 for IAS 19(R) purposes were:
     At At 
     26 February 27 February 
     2015 2014 
     % %
Pre–April 2006 rate of increase in pensions in payment      2.80 3.10 
Post–April 2006 rate of increase in pensions in payment       2.00 2.20 
Pension increases in deferment     2.80 3.10 
Discount rate      3.30 4.30 
Inflation assumption      2.90 3.25
The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables which allow for future mortality improvements. The 
assumptions are that a member currently aged 65 will live on average for a further 21.2 years (2014: 20.0 years) if they are male 
and for a further 24.3 years (2014: 22.6 years) if they are female. For a member who retires in 2035 at age 65, the assumptions 
are that they will live on average for a further 22.7 years (2014: 21.9 years) after retirement if they are male and for a further  
25.6 years (2014: 24.4 years) after retirement if they are female.
The amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the defined benefit scheme are as follows:
     2014/15 2013/14
 
 
     £m £m
Net interest on net defined benefit liability     21.6  23.6  
Administrative expenses     3.0  2.5 
Total expense recognised in the income statement (gross of deferred tax)    24.6  26.1
Amounts recognised in operating profit for service costs or curtailment are £nil (2013/14: £nil).
The amounts taken to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows:
     2014/15 2013/14
 
 
     £m £m
Actuarial losses     339.7  77.7  
Return on plan assets greater than discount rate     (263.4) (40.0)
Re–measurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income    76.3 37.7
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:
     2015 2014 
     £m £m
Present value of defined benefit obligation      (2,447.8) (2,104.9) 
Fair value of scheme assets      1,894.0 1,570.6 
Liability recognised in the balance sheet      (553.8) (534.3)
During the year, the accounting deficit increased from £534.3m at 27 February 2014 to £553.8m at 26 February 2015. The 
principal reasons for this deterioration were a reduction in the discount rate and updated mortality assumptions partially offset 
by asset returns exceeding the assumed interest on the assets and employer contributions in excess of the pension expense for 
the year.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
     2015 2014
 
 
     £m £m
Opening defined benefit obligation      2,104.9 2,021.6 
Interest cost      88.7 91.1 
Re–measurement due to: 
 Changes in financial assumptions     276.4 74.0 
 Changes in demographic assumptions     84.5 — 
 Experience adjustments     (21.2) 3.7 
Benefits paid      (85.4) (85.4) 
Benefits settled by the Group in relation to an unfunded pension scheme
1 
    (0.1) (0.1)
Closing defined benefit obligation      2,447.8 2,104.9
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 132
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 133
31 Retirement benefits continued
Changes in the fair value of the scheme assets are as follows:
     2015 2014 
     £m £m
Opening fair value of scheme assets      1,570.6  1,479.9 
Interest income on scheme assets     67.1 67.5 
Return on plan assets greater than discount rate     263.4 40.0 
Contributions from employer
1
     72.4 62.4 
Additional contributions from Moorgate SLP
1
     8.9 8.7 
Benefits paid      (85.4) (85.4) 
Administrative expenses     (3.0) (2.5)
Closing fair value of scheme assets      1,894.0 1,570.6
The major categories of plan assets are as follows:
 2015 2014
 
 
 
 
 Quoted and   Quoted and 
 pooled Unquoted Total pooled Unquoted Total 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Equities
2
 869.0 88.4 957.4 787.5 88.4 875.9 
Government bonds  532.3 — 532.3 322.8 — 322.8 
Corporate bonds
2
  124.6 25.4 150.0 154.5 — 154.5 
Property  123.6 46.4 170.0 105.3 34.7 140.0 
Other
3
  84.3 — 84.3 77.4 — 77.4
 1,733.8 160.2 1,894.0 1,447.5 123.1 1,570.6
The assumptions in relation to discount rate, inflation and mortality have a significant effect on the measurement of scheme 
liabilities. The following table shows the sensitivity of the valuation to changes in these assumptions:
  (Increase)/decrease 
  in liability
  
 
   2015 2014 
   £m £m
Discount rate 
0.25% increase to discount rate     103.0 88.0 
0.25% decrease to discount rate     (114.0) (88.0) 
Inflation 
0.25% increase to inflation rate     (86.0) (84.0) 
0.25% decrease to inflation rate     82.0 84.0 
Life expectancy 
Additional one year increase to life expectancy     (83.0) (75.0)
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption whilst holding all other assumptions constant.  
In practice, this is unlikely to occur and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the  
sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions, the same method (projected unit credit 
method) has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised within the balance sheet. The methods and 
types of assumption did not change.
1 The total of these three items equals the cash paid by the Group as per the consolidated cash flow statement. 
2  Certain quoted and unquoted property funds have been reclassified from equity to property this year and therefore use have restated the prior  
year to be consistent.
3 Other relates to assets held in respect of cash and net current assets.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
At 26 February 2015
32 Related party disclosure
The Group’s principal subsidiaries are listed in the following table:
  % equity interest 
  and votes held
  
 
Principal subsidiaries Principal activity Country of incorporation 2015 2014
Whitbread Group PLC  Hotels & Restaurants England  100.0  100.0 
Premier Inn Hotels Limited  Hotels  England  100.0   100.0 
Whitbread Restaurants Limited  Restaurants  England 100.0   100.0 
Premier Inn Limited Hotels England 100.0  100.0 
Costa Limited  Operators of coffee shops England  100.0  100.0 
and roasters and wholesalers  
of coffee beans
Yueda Costa (Shanghai)  Operators of coffee shops China 51.0  51.0 
Food & Beverage Management  
Company Limited  
Coffeeheaven International Limited  Operators of coffee shops  England 100.0  100.0 
in Eastern Europe  
Coffee Nation Limited  Operators of customer–facing, England  100.0  100.0 
espresso–based self–serve 
coffee bars  
Due to a Group reorganisation, Premier Inn Limited and Whitbread Restaurants Limited have sold all of their trade and assets  
to Whitbread Group PLC and Premier Inn Hotels Limited and therefore, as from 27 February 2015, will no longer be principal 
subsidiaries of the Group. 
The Group holds 6% as a general partnership interest in Moorgate Scottish Limited Partnership (SLP) with Whitbread Pension 
Trustees holding the balance as a limited partner. Moorgate SLP holds a 67.8% investment in a further partnership, Farringdon 
Scottish Partnership (SP), which was established by the Group to hold property assets. The remaining 32.2% interest in 
Farringdon SP is owned by the Group. The partnerships were set up in 2009/10 as part of a transaction with Whitbread 
Pension Trustees and the Group retains control over both partnerships and, as such, they are fully consolidated  
in these consolidated financial statements. Further details can be found in Note 31.
Shares in Whitbread Group PLC are held directly by Whitbread PLC. Shares in the other subsidiaries are held directly or 
indirectly by Whitbread Group PLC. All principal subsidiary undertakings have the same year–end as Whitbread PLC, with the 
exception of Yueda Costa (Shanghai) Food & Beverage Management Company Limited which has a year–end of 31 December 
as required by Chinese legislation. All of the above companies have been included in the Group consolidation and are those 
which materially affect the amount of profit and the assets of the Group.
Related parties
      Amounts Amounts 
    Sales to owed by owed to 
    related related related 
    parties parties parties 
    £m £m £m
Joint ventures 
2014/15    3.7 1.2 — 
2013/14    3.1   1.2   — 
Associate 
2014/15    3.5 0.3 — 
2013/14    3.8   0.7   — 
Compensation of key management personnel (including directors):
     2014/15 2013/14 
     £m £m
Short–term employee benefits       7.0 6.8  
Post employment benefits       0.2  0.2  
Share–based payments       5.5  4.5 
      12.7  11.5 
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 134
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Consolidated  
accounts 2014/15 135
32 Related party disclosure continued
Joint ventures
For details of the Group’s investments in joint ventures see Note 16.
Associate
For details of the Group’s investment in associate see Note 17.
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
Sales to, and purchases from, related parties are made at normal market prices. Outstanding balances at year–end are 
unsecured and settlement occurs in cash. There have been no guarantees provided, or received, for any related party 
receivables. For the year ended 26 February 2015, the Group has raised a provision for doubtful debts of £0.1m relating  
to amounts owed by related parties (2014: £nil). An assessment is undertaken, each financial year, through examining  
the financial position of the related parties and the markets in which the related parties operate.
Transactions with other related parties
Details of transactions with directors are detailed in the remuneration report on pages 67 to 76.
33 Events after the balance sheet date
A final dividend of 56.95p per share (2014: 47.00p) amounting to a dividend of £103.1m (2014: £84.7m) was recommended  
by the directors at their meeting on 27 April 2015. A dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) alternative will be offered. These 
consolidated financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
 
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142  Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Company 
accounts 
2014/15
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Company  
accounts 2014/15 137
138  Balanc e sheet
139  Notes to the accounts Company  
accounts 2014/15
Balance sheet
At 26 February 2015
     26 February 27 February 
     2015 2014 
    Notes £m £m 
Fixed assets    
Investment in subsidiaries     5 2,256.1  2,256.1
Total non–current assets     2,256.1 2,256.1 
Current assets    
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year     6 —  74.9 
Current liabilities    
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year    7 (59.9)  (7.9)
Net current (liabilities)/assets     (59.9)  67.0 
Net assets     2,196.2  2,323.1 
Capital and reserves    
Share capital     8 149.8  149.6  
Share premium    9 59.2  56.2  
Capital redemption reserve    9 12.3  12.3  
Distributable reserves    9 2,169.6  2,299.7  
Other reserves     9 (194.7) (194.7)
Shareholders’ funds     9 2,196.2  2,323.1 
Andy Harrison Nicholas Cadbury
Chief Executive Finance Director
27 April 2015   
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 138 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Company  
accounts 2014/15 139
Notes to the accounts
At 26 February 2015
1 Basis of accounting
The financial statements of Whitbread PLC for the year ended 26 February 2015 were authorised for issue by the Board  
of directors on 27 April 2015.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK  
Accounting Standards.
The Company has taken advantage of the provisions of FRS 1 (revised) which exempts companies which are part of a group  
for which a consolidated cash flow statement is prepared, from preparing a cash flow statement. The required consolidated 
cash flow statement has been included within the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies
Investments
Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment. The carrying value of investments are 
reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
3 Profit earned for ordinary shareholders
The profit and loss account of the parent Company is omitted from the Company’s accounts by virtue of the exemption 
granted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. The profit earned for ordinary shareholders and included in the financial 
statements of the parent Company amounted to £0.5m (2013/14: £3.2m).
4 Dividends paid and proposed
 2014/15 2013/14
 
 
 
 
   pence  pence 
   per share £m per share £m
Final dividend relating to the prior year   47.00 85.1 37.90 67.7 
Settled via scrip issue    —  (28.2)
Paid in the year    85.1  39.5
Interim dividend for the current year   25.20 45.5 21.80 39.2 
Settled via scrip issue    —  (16.3)
Paid in the year    45.5  22.9
Total equity dividends paid in the year    130.6  62.4
Dividends on other shares: 
 B share dividend     0.70 — 1.30 — 
 C share dividend     0.70 — 0.70 —
    —  —
Total dividends paid    130.6  62.4
Proposed for approval at Annual General Meeting:
 Final equity dividend for the current year   56.95 103.1 47.00 84.7
A final dividend of 56.95p per share (2014: 47.00p) amounting to a dividend of £103.1m (2014: £84.7m) was recommended  
by the directors at their meeting on 27 April 2015. A dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) alternative will be offered. These 
financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 5 Investment in subsidiary undertakings
     2015 2014 
Investments at cost     £m £m 
At 27 February 2014 and 26 February 2015      2,256.1  2,256.1
   Country of Country of % of 
   incorporation principal equity and 
Principal subsidiary undertakings  Principal activity or registration operations votes held
Whitbread Group PLC  Hotels & Restaurants England  England  100.0
Premier Inn Hotels Limited  Hotels  England  England  100.0
Whitbread Restaurants Limited  Restaurants  England  England  100.0
Premier Inn Limited Hotels England England 100.0
Costa Limited   Operators of coffee shops and roasters England  England  100.0 
and wholesalers of coffee beans 
Yueda Costa (Shanghai)  Operators of coffee shops China China 51.0 
Food & Beverage Management  
Company Limited
Coffeeheaven International Limited  Operators of coffee shops in Eastern Europe England  Poland 100.0
Coffee Nation Limited  Operators of customer–facing  England England 100.0 
espresso–based self–serve coffee bars  
Due to a Group reorganisation, Premier Inn Limited and Whitbread Restaurants Limited have sold all of their trade and assets  
to Whitbread Group PLC and Premier Inn Hotels Limited and therefore, as from 27 February 2015, will no longer be principal 
subsidiaries of the Company. 
Whitbread Group PLC, in which the Company has an investment, holds 6% as a general partnership interest in Moorgate 
Scottish Limited Partnership (SLP) with Whitbread Pension Trustees holding the balance as a limited partner. Moorgate SLP 
holds a 67.8% investment in a further partnership, Farringdon Scottish Partnership (SP), which was established by the Group  
to hold property assets. The remaining 32.2% interest in Farringdon SP is owned by Whitbread Group PLC. The partnerships 
were set up in 2009/10 as part of a transaction with Whitbread Pension Trustees. Further details can be found in Note 31  
of the Whitbread PLC consolidated financial statements.
Shares in Whitbread Group PLC are held directly by Whitbread PLC. Shares in the other subsidiaries are held directly  
or indirectly by Whitbread Group PLC or its subsidiaries. All principal subsidiary undertakings have the same year–end as 
Whitbread PLC, with the exception of Yueda Costa (Shanghai) Food & Beverage Management Company Limited which  
has a year–end of 31 December as required by Chinese legislation. The companies listed above are those which materially  
affect the amount of profit and the assets of the Group.
6 Debtors
     2015 2014 
Amounts falling due within one year     £m £m 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings      — 74.9
      — 74.9
7 Creditors
     2015 2014 
Amounts falling due within one year     £m £m 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings     53.8 — 
Unclaimed dividends       6.0 6.9  
Corporation tax payable      0.1 1.0
      59.9 7.9
Company  
accounts 2014/15
Notes to the accounts
At 26 February 2015
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 140 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Company  
accounts 2014/15 141
8 Share capital
 
Allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary shares of 76.80p each (2014: 76.80p each)    million  £m
At 28 February 2013      193.0 148.3  
Issued      0.2   0.2  
Issued in lieu of dividends: 
 2012/13 final     1.0 0.8  
 2013/14 interim     0.5 0.3 
At 27 February 2014     194.7 149.6 
Issued      0.3  0.2
At 26 February 2015     195.0 149.8
At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, the Company was authorised to purchase up to 18.1m of its own shares on the open market. 
During the year, no ordinary shares were acquired (2013/14: nil). No shares were cancelled in the year (2013/14: nil).  
The remainder are being held in the treasury reserve (Note 9).
During the year, options over 0.3m ordinary shares, fully paid, were exercised by employees under the terms of various share 
option schemes (2013/14: 0.2m).
Preference shares
 B shares C shares
 
 
 
 
Allotted, called up and fully paid shares of 1p each (2014: 1p each)   million £m million £m
At 28 February 2013, 27 February 2014 and 26 February 2015   2.0 — 1.9 —
At 26 February 2015 there were outstanding options for employees to purchase up to 1.2m (2014: 1.1m) ordinary shares  
of 76.80 pence each between 2014 and 2019 at prices between £10.08 and £35.07 per share (2014: between 2013 and 2018  
at prices between £7.28 and £27.46 per share).
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Company  
accounts 2014/15
9 Shareholders’ funds
    Capital 
 Share Share   redemption Distributable Treasury 
 capital premium reserve   reserves  shares Total 
 £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m
At 28 February 2013  148.3 55.1 12.3 2,365.7 (201.5) 2,379.9  
Ordinary shares issued   0.2 2.2 — — — 2.4  
Transfer of shares  —   —   —   ( 6.8)  6 .8   —  
Scrip dividends  1.1  ( 1.1)  —   44.5   —  44.5  
Profit for the financial year   —   —   —  3.2   —  3.2  
Equity dividends  —   —   —   ( 106.9)  —  (106.9)
At 27 February 2014  149.6   5 6.2   1 2.3   2 ,299.7   ( 194.7)  2,323.1 
Ordinary shares issued  0.2  3.0 — — — 3.2 
Profit for the financial year  — — — 0.5 — 0.5 
Equity dividends — — — (130.6) — (130.6)
At 26 February 2015 149.8 59.2 12.3 2,169.6 (194.7) 2,196.2
The movement in treasury shares during the year is set out in the table below:
  Treasury shares held 
  by Whitbread PLC
  
 
      million £m
At 27 February 2014      13.3   194.7 
Movement during the year     — —
At 26 February 2015     13.3 194.7
10 Related parties
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption given in FRS 8 not to disclose transactions with other Group companies 
that are wholly owned.
11 Contingent liabilities
Whitbread PLC is a member of the Whitbread Group PLC VAT group. All members are jointly and severally liable for the liability.  
At the balance sheet date the Group liability stood at £39.0m (2014: £27.5m).
Notes to the accounts
At 26 February 2015
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 142 Shareholder 
information
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Shareholder 
information 143
144  Shar eholder servic es 
146 Glossary
148   Our charities
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Shareholder  
services
Shareholder 
services
Contact details 
Registrars
Capita Asset Services 
Whitbread Share Register 
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent 
BR3 4TU
The website address is 
www.capitaassetservices.com
For enquiries regarding your shareholding please telephone 
+44 (0)344 855 2327. Alternatively you can email: 
whitbread@capita.co.uk
You can also manage your shareholding by visiting  
www.whitbread–shares.com. This is a secure online site  
where you can:
• 
sign up to receive shareholder information by emails  
instead of post;
• 
buy and sell shares via the Capita Share Dealing Service
1
;
• 
view your holding and get an indicative valuation; and
• 
change your personal details. 
Please have your investor code to hand which can be found 
on any of the following documentation: share certificate; 
dividend voucher; or proxy card.
Please ensure that you advise Capita promptly of any  
change of address.
Share Dealing Service
1
Capita Share Dealing Services, telephone 0371 664 0446 
(calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras, lines are open  
8am to 4.30pm, Monday to Friday) www.capitadeal.com
1
1  These details have been provided for information only and any action  
you take is at your own risk. If you are in any doubt about what action  
to take, please consult your own financial adviser. Should you not wish  
to use these services you could find a broker in your local area, on  
the internet or enquire about share dealing at any high street bank  
or building society. The availability of this service should not be taken  
as a recommendation to deal.
Registered office
Whitbread PLC 
Whitbread Court 
Houghton Hall Business Park 
Porz Avenue 
Dunstable 
Bedfordshire 
LU5 5XE
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Simon Barratt
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
To reinvest your dividend you will need to sign up for  
the Dividend Reinvestment Plan (the ‘DRIP’). The Terms  
and Conditions of the DRIP and a Shareholder Dividend  
Form are available at www.whitbread-shares.com or can  
be requested from Capita Asset Services. For enquiries  
regarding the DRIP please telephone +44 (0)371 664 0381.
Dividend payments by BACS
We can pay your dividends direct to your bank or building 
society account using the Bankers’ Automated Clearing 
Service (BACS). This means that your dividend will be  
in your account on the same day we make the payment.  
Your tax voucher will be posted to your home address.  
If you would like to use this method please ring the  
registrars on +44 (0)344 855 2327. 
Dividend history 


p

p
p
p
p
Dividend diary 2015/16 
Ex dividend date for final dividend 28 May 2015
Record date for final dividend 29 May 2015
DRIP election date 7 June 2015
Payment of final dividend 3 July 2015
Ex dividend date for interim dividend 3 December 2015
Record date for interim dividend 4 December 2015
DRIP election date 14 December 2015
Payment of interim dividend 8 January 2016
Financial reporting calendar
Dates subject to confirmation
Half year–end 3 September 2015
Announcement of half–year results 20 October 2015
End of financial year 3 March 2016
Capital gains tax
For further information on:
• 
the market value of shares in the Company as at  
31 March 1982;
• 
the reduction of Capital on 10 May 2001; and
• 
the special dividend and share consolidation  
in May 2005,
or if you require any further information on capital gains  
tax allocations, please refer to the investors’ section  
of the Company’s website www.whitbread.co.uk
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 144 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Shareholder  
services 145
Analysis of shares at 26 February 2015
    % of 
 Number % of Number share 
Band of holders holders of shares capital
1—100 23,957 52.07 875,043 0.45
101—500 15,566 33.83 3,721,205 1.91
501—1,000  3 ,466 7.53 2,444,847 1.25
1,001—5,000  2 ,141 4.65 3,961,448 2.03
5,001—10,000 210 0.46 1,465,158 0.75
10,001—50,000 332 0.72 7,888,220 4.04
50,001—100,000 107 0.23 7,576,726 3.88
100,001—500,000 157 0.34 33,535,555 17.19
500,001—1,000,000 35 0.08 23,782,130 12.19
1,000,001—5,000,000 36 0.08 77,273,745 39.62
5,000,001+ 3 0.01 32,512,518 16.67
Total 46,010 100.00 195,036,595 100.00
Share price history 

p
p
p
p

p
p
p
p

p
p
Key
High
Low
Annual General Meeting 2015
The 2015 AGM will be held at 2pm on Tuesday  
16 June 2015 at Church House Conference Centre,  
Dean’s Yard, Westminster, London SW1P 3NZ.
Shareholder FAQs
 
Where can I find information about B and C shares?
As outlined in the original Circulars, the Company made  
two separate purchase offers for the B and C shares. There  
will be no further purchase offers. The Company does have 
the right to convert the B and C shares to ordinary shares  
but there is no current intention to do so. The B and C shares 
will continue to attract an annual dividend payment.
How can I find the current share price?
It is easy to keep up to date with the current share price  
at the Company’s website www.whitbread.co.uk
I have lost my share certificate, how can I get  
a replacement?
If you have lost your certificate please contact the Company’s 
registrars, Capita Asset Services, on the shareholder helpline 
+44 (0)344 855 2327. They will be able to assist you in 
arranging a replacement.
Unsolicited mail
We are aware that some shareholders have had occasion  
to complain of the use, by outside organisations, of 
information obtained from Whitbread’s share register. 
Whitbread, like other companies, cannot by law refuse  
to supply such information provided that the organisation 
concerned pays the appropriate statutory fee.
If you are a resident in the UK and wish to stop receiving 
unsolicited mail then you should register with the Mailing 
Preference Service, telephone: 0845 703 4599 or you  
may prefer to register online: www.mpsonline.org.uk
Warning to shareholders — boiler room scams
In recent years, many companies have become aware that 
their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls  
or correspondence concerning investment matters. These  
are typically from overseas based ‘brokers’ who target UK 
shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to  
be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments. 
These operations are commonly known as ‘boiler rooms’. 
These ‘brokers’ can be very persistent and extremely 
persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) reported that the average amount lost  
by investors is around £20,000, with around £200m lost  
in the UK each year.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped  
in this way; many of the victims had been successfully 
investing for several years. Shareholders are advised  
to be wary of unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares  
at a discount or offers of free company reports. If you  
receive any unsolicited investment advice:
• 
make sure you get the correct name of the person  
or organisation;
• 
check that they are properly authorised by the  
FCA before getting involved by visiting www.fca.org.uk  
and contact the firm using the details on the register;
• 
report the matter to the FCA either by calling  
0800 111 6768 or visiting www.fca.org.uk/scams;
• 
if the calls persist, hang up; and
• 
REMEMBER if it sounds too good to be true,  
it probably is!
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be  
eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) if things go wrong.  
The FCA can be contacted by completing an online form  
at www.fca.org.uk/scams or you can call the FCA Consumer 
Helpline on 0800 111 6768 or Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company 
endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can  
be found on the FCA website, www.fca.org.uk/consumer
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Glossary
Glossary
Average Room Rate (ARR)
Hotel accommodation income divided by the number  
of rooms occupied by guests.
Barista
An individual with specific training to expertly prepare  
and serve hand–made espresso–based coffees.
Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR)
The year–on–year growth rate of an annualised gain over  
a specified number of years.
Co–location
A site which has both a Premier Inn and a pub restaurant  
in one location where the pub restaurant is not a Whitbread–
owned brand or business.
Costa at Home
Costa have teamed up with Tassimo to bring a range  
of Costa at Home drinks for customers to enjoy at home.
Costa for schools
This is a comprehensive human and physical geography 
resource for students aged 11 to 14. It explores coffee–growing 
communities around the world and how the coffee trade 
affects their lives.
Directors’ forum
A group of Whitbread’s senior leaders.
Dynamic pricing system
The system which we deploy to vary our prices according  
to demand levels and room availability within certain 
prescribed limits.
Earnings
Profit after tax which is attributable to the parent 
shareholders.
Earnings per share (EPS)
Earnings divided by the weighted average of ordinary  
shares in issue during the year after deducting treasury  
shares and shares held by an independently managed  
share ownership trust (‘ESOT’).
EBITDAR 
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation  
and rent. 
Engagement score
The engagement score is calculated by adding together the 
positive responses to the ‘Your Say’ questions regarding pride 
in the organisation, advocacy recommending the Company  
as a place of work and intention to stay and motivation.  
These scores are then averaged to produce an overall 
engagement score. 
Equity stores
Costa stores leased or owned by Whitbread, as opposed 
to those leased or operated under franchise agreements.
IAS 
International Accounting Standards.
IFRS 
International Financial Reporting Standards. 
Income before fixed costs (IBFC)
Hotels & Restaurants’ operating profit before directly 
attributable fixed costs (such as rent, rates, insurance, etc.), 
head office and central costs. To obtain the IBFC margin  
IBFC is divided by sales.
Income after fixed costs (IAFC)
Hotels & Restaurants’ operating profit after directly 
attributable fixed costs but before allocating head office  
and central costs. To obtain the IAFC margin, IAFC is  
divided by sales.
Joint sites
A site which has both a Premier Inn and Whitbread–owned 
pub restaurant in one location. 
Like for like sales
Period over period change in total sales, less sales  
generated by businesses acquired or disposed of and  
retail outlets opened or closed during the current year  
and the previous year.
Net Guest Score
Based on the fundamental perspective that every company’s 
customers can be divided into three categories when 
completing a survey with ten score choices: Promoters (score 
nine to ten), Passives (score seven to eight), and Detractors 
(score zero to six). The net guest score can be calculated  
by taking the percentage of customers who are Promoters 
and subtract the percentage who are Detractors.
Occupancy
Number of hotel bedrooms occupied by guests expressed  
as a percentage of the number of bedrooms available  
in the period.
Operating margin
Operating profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue.
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 146 Glossary
Profit per outlet
Operating profit (after allocation of overheads but before 
exceptional items) divided by the average of the opening  
and closing number of outlets.
RevPAR/yield
Revenue per available room is also known as ‘yield’.  
This hotel measure is achieved by multiplying the ARR  
by the occupancy rate. This measure ignores non–room 
income such as food and beverage.
Returns, Return on Capital Employed or ROCE
Dividing the underlying profit before interest and tax for  
the year by net assets at the balance sheet date, adding  
back debt, taxation liabilities and the pension deficit.
Solus sites
Consist of standalone Premier Inn hotels with an  
integrated restaurant.
System sales
Retail sales from Costa outlets irrespective of whether  
it is an equity or a franchise store.
Tassimo
The Tassimo Hot Beverage System is a consumer  
single–serve coffee system that prepares one–cup  
servings of espresso, regular coffee, tea, hot chocolate  
and various other hot drinks.
Total Shareholder Return (TSR)
The total return of a stock to an investor (capital gain  
plus dividends).
Turnover per outlet
Turnover in a period divided by the average of opening  
and closing outlets.
Underlying basic EPS 
Underlying profit attributable to the parent shareholders 
divided by the basic weighted average number of ordinary 
shares. 
Underlying operating profit 
Underlying operating profit is operating profit excluding the 
amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items 
before tax and interest. 
Underlying profit before tax 
Underlying operating profit excluding exceptional interest  
and tax and the impact of the pension finance cost  
accounted for under IAS 19(R). 
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 147  The Costa Foundation 
We don’t just make coffee; we make a difference 
We are committed to looking after coffee–growers and  
that is why we established the Costa Foundation in 2007. 
Originally it worked under the registration of Charities Trust, 
an independently registered charity with the UK Charity 
Commission. In 2012 the Costa Foundation registered  
as a stand–alone charity.
The Costa Foundation was set up to give something  
back to coffee–growing communities and since 2008,  
we have committed to 63 schools or school projects in 
Colombia, Costa Rica, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Honduras, 
Nicaragua, Peru, Uganda and Vietnam. At the date  
of this Report, ten projects are still under construction  
and seven projects have been approved and are at 
the planning stage with committed funding in place.
The Costa Foundation’s objectives are the relief of  
poverty and the advancement of education, health and 
environmental protection within coffee–growing 
communities and surrounding areas.
The money raised through the Costa Foundation has given 
thousands of children access to education and ensured that 
the people who grow coffee receive the long–term support 
needed to ensure sustainable and improved futures.
In 2014/15 alone we raised over £1.7 million as a result  
of dedicated fundraising and generous donations.  
We have an aspiration to provide educational facilities  
to 100,000 children. 
Help us to continue the good work by donating: 
http://www.costafoundation.com/donations
Registered charity number 1147400.
 Great Ormond Street Hospital  
 Childr en’ s Charity
Raise a smile and help a child
In May 2012, Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants chose  
Great Ormond Street Hospital Children’s Charity as  
its long–term charity partner.
Each year, Great Ormond Street Hospital responds to  
over 240,000 patient visits from children all over the  
UK who suffer from rare, complex and often life–
threatening conditions.
The charity’s mission is to support the hospital’s work  
and the very special children it cares for. The hospital is  
in the process of redeveloping and replacing some of its 
oldest clinical buildings so that families can benefit from 
world class care in 21st century facilities and have more 
space to be together at the bedside.
In June 2013, we announced that Whitbread Hotels  
& Restaurants had pledged £7.5 million towards the 
construction of a new clinical building at Great Ormond 
Street Hospital, which is to be called The Premier Inn 
Clinical Building. The building will provide more spacious, 
modern inpatient wards where a parent or carer can  
sleep by their child’s bedside. It will contain a new  
surgery centre, respiratory ward and a specialist ward  
for children with auto–immune disorders, skin conditions 
and infectious diseases.
At the date of this Report we have raised over £4 million 
towards the £7.5 million target.
Help us to continue the good work by donating: 
https://donate.gosh.org/?utm_source=whitbread&utm_
medium=referral&utm_campaign=whitbread_annual_
report
Registered charity number 235825.
Our charities
Our 
charities
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 148 Designed and produced by  
Bostock and Pollitt Limited, London
Main photography by George Brooks 
Board photography by Ian Phillips–McLaren
Printed by Park Communications
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk 100;  
process chlorine–free (PCF) paper containing  
100% recycled fibre approved by the FSC®. Whitbread Court
Houghton Hall Business Park
Porz Avenue
Dunstable
Bedfordshire
LU5 5XE
 www.whitbread.co.uk/investors
