 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Turning knowledge into advantage
201 5
Wilmington plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements 
for the year ended 30 June 2015
Stock Code: WIL Welcome to  
Our Annual Report 2015
24212-04   Document Shell   14-08-15
Wilmington focuses on key knowledge areas organised into four divisions: 
Risk & Compliance, Finance, Legal and Insight.
We aim to be recognised as the knowledge leader and partner of choice 
for information, education and networking in the Risk & Compliance, 
Finance and Legal areas, as well as the Insight leader in a number of 
chosen industries.
Read more in our Chairman’s Statement page 6
Read more in the  
Chief Executive Officer’s Review page 12
Reasons to invest:
 z Clear vision and focus
 z Emphasis on organic growth
 z Increasing international opportunities
 z Strong positions in well-funded professional markets
 z High conversion of operating profits into free cash flows
 z High proportion of subscription and repeatable revenues 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
02
Strategic Report
Giving a comprehensive 
picture of the business 
and where it is going
23
Our Governance
Presents information on the 
Board and its activities and 
those of the Committees
54
Financial Statements
The fully audited results 
for the year
Financial and Operational Highlights 02
At a Glance 04
Chairman’s Statement 06
Group Strategy 08
Key Financial Indicators and Operational Measures 10
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 12
Corporate, Environment and Social Responsibility 16
Financial Review 18
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 20
Board of Directors 23
Directors’ Report 26
Corporate Governance Report 28
Audit Committee Report 34
Nomination Committee Report 36
Directors’ Remuneration Report 37
Directors’ Responsibility Statement 53
Independent Auditors’ Report 54
Financial Statements 58
Pro Forma Five Year Financial Summary 97
Advisers and Corporate Calendar 98
Shareholder Notes 99
Investor website
Our corporate website at  
www.wilmingtonplc.com contains a wide  
range of information of interest to institutional  
and private investors including:
 z Latest news and press releases
 z Annual reports and investor presentations
Read more online
Read more in this report
Getting around this report
01
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Contents 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Financial and Operational Highlights
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
95.1
90.0
85.0
85.3
83.8
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
16.42
14.79
13.06
11.71
11.38
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
20.4
18.7
16.9
15.7
15.8
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
18.4
16.6
14.7
13.2
12.9
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
8.96
7.59
4.17
5.81
5.20
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
10.3
8.6
5.1
6.3
6.1
Group Revenue £m
Adjusted Earnings per Share
3
Adjusted EBITA margins
4
 
improved to
Cash flow conversion
5
  
strong at
Adjusted EBITA
1
 £m Adjusted Profit before Tax
2
 £m
Basic Earnings per Share
Final dividend increased
Profit before tax £m
95.1
16.42p
21.5% 107%
20.4 18.4
8.96p
8% to 4.0p
10.3
+6%
+ 11%
+9% + 11%
+ 11%
+20%
(2014: £90.0m)
(2014: £14.79p)
(2014: 20.8%) (2014: 108%)
(2014: £3.7p) 
Total dividends up 5.5% to 7.7p (2014: 7.3p)
(2014: £18.7m) (2014: £16.6m)
(2014: £7.59p) (2014: £8.6m)
1 
 Adjusted EBITA – see note 2 to the financial 
statements
2 
 Adjusted Profit before Tax – see note 2 to the 
financial statements
3 
 Adjusted Earnings per Share – see note 9 to the 
financial statements
4 
 Adjusted EBITA margins – Adjusted EBITA 
divided by Revenue
5 
 Cash flow conversion – see note 28 to the 
financial statements
Financial Highlights
Strengthening the Quality  
of our Income Streams
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
02
Read more in the Financial
Review page 18 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Operational Highlights
 z New strategic vision implemented
 z Restructured business into four knowledge based 
divisions 
 z Strong momentum from Risk & Compliance 
(revenue up 13%) and Finance divisions  
(revenue up 10%) 
 z Ongoing structural change in the legal market, 
focus on integration and improving margins
 z Good growth from the Insight division (revenue up 
4% in constant currency terms)
 z Subscription and repeatable information sales at 
76% of total revenue (2014: 79%)
 z International revenues increased to 39% of total 
revenue in 2015 (2014: 37%)
 z Completed acquisition of Financial Research 
Associates (‘FRA’), strengthening our presence in 
North America on 7 July 2015
Outlook and current trading
 z Trading in line with management expectations and 
on track for the full year
 z Acquisition of FRA announced on 7 July 2015 is 
expected to be earnings enhancing in its first year
 z Disposal of media assets from Insight division on 
31 July 2015 provides greater focus
 z Extension of five year debt facility provides longer 
term financial stability
“I am pleased to present my first set of full-
year results since I joined Wilmington. This 
year we have completed a thorough review 
of the businesses and restructured to align 
people processes and products with our 
new knowledge-based model. We have at 
the same time delivered organic growth and 
margin improvement, and have positioned the 
business for further future success.”
Pedro Ros
Chief Executive Officer
Bond Solon
THE ANNUAL BOND SOLON ExPERT WITNESS 
CONFERENCE, THE LARGEST GATHERING OF 
ExPERT WITNESSES IN THE UK
Stock Code: WIL www.wilmingtonplc.com
03 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
At a Glance
Information, education and networking.
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
04
At Wilmington plc, our vision is simple –  
we transform knowledge into advantage, keeping 
our clients at the centre of everything we do. In 
today’s knowledge economy, where differentiation 
using traditional criteria is often difficult, we help our 
clients better understand their challenges and to 
use information to improve their businesses. 
We aspire to treat every client as we would 
treat our only client; we equip our businesses 
accordingly and provide best-in-class support 
and infrastructure. We are innovative, adopting 
new technologies and embracing the digital 
environment; we understand that today’s 
organisations are as concerned with sustaining 
the pace of change in business generally as they 
are with competition. 
Throughout Wilmington plc, we are fortunate 
to have highly talented people working in our 
businesses. People whose energy and shared 
commitment to success drives exceptional 
performance. Wherever in Wilmington plc 
you look, the power of our people, working 
towards common objectives, is immense; we 
set ourselves demanding goals and we achieve 
them. Consequently, we deliver consistent 
growth – both personal and financial – and aim 
to deliver increased stakeholder value for clients, 
employees and shareholders alike.
Risk &  
Compliance
£36.4m
(2014: £32.4m)
Revenue 
Use blocks woth hero image for each
Finance
This division includes Wilmington’s financial training businesses and 
contains our Adkins Matchett & Toy (‘AMT’) and Mercia businesses. 
The consolidated offerings of its finance areas should drive good 
revenue growth as well as exploit growing international markets. 
The Finance division provides expert and technical training and 
support services to professionals in corporate finance and capital 
markets and to qualified accountants in the UK and Ireland in both 
the profession and industry. This division serves primarily tier 1 
banks, the international financial services industry and professional 
accountancy firms.
£18.7m
(2014: £17.0m)
Revenue 
This division provides in depth regulatory and compliance 
accredited training and information, market intelligence and 
analysis. It focuses on the international financial services and 
international insurance markets as well as the UK pensions industry 
and contains our International Compliance Training (‘ICT’), Axco, 
Pendragon, International Company Profile (‘ICP’), Compliance 
Week and Inese businesses. The main users of our offerings are 
risk and compliance officers globally. This is an area which has 
demonstrated strong organic growth which should be enhanced as 
we combine the various opportunities into an integrated offering. 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Revenue can be analysed 
by segment as follows:
Total Revenue
% of Group revenue
Revenue can be analysed 
by division as follows:
Total Revenue
% of Group revenue
61%
17%
11%
11%
● UK 
● Europe (excluding the UK)
● North America
● Rest of the World
38%
20%
17%
25%
● Risk & Compliance
● Finance
● Legal
● Insight
05
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Strategic Report
Use blocks woth hero image for each
Legal
Insight
£16.3m
(2014: £17.4m)
£23.7m
(2014: £23.3m)
Revenue Revenue 
The Legal division provides a range of training, professional 
support services and information including Continuing Legal 
Education, expert witness training, databases and magazines to 
legal professionals. This division includes Ark & Legal Information, 
Central Law Training and Bond Solon.
See the companies in each division at www.wilmingtonplc.com Read about the trends in each sector in our Chief Executive Officer’s 
Review page 12
operating in 8 COUNTRIES with 23 OFFICES  
serving clients in 150+ COUNTRIES
The Insight division provides analysis and clarity to customer-
focused organisations, enabling them to better understand and 
connect with their markets. This division includes our UK healthcare 
information businesses, our French language medical news agency, 
our data suppression and charity information businesses. This 
division includes our Charities Choice, Caritas, Millennium, Agence 
de Presse Médicale (‘APM’), Binley’s and NHiS businesses. 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
I am pleased to present my report on 
Wilmington’s results for the twelve months 
ended 30 June 2015. It has been a very 
positive financial performance providing the 
platform from which we are implementing 
our new vision and strategy. This new vision 
builds on the successful transformation of 
the business over the last few years and 
underpins our ambitions. The Board, our 
management team and our staff are excited 
and energised about the opportunities to 
drive Wilmington to the next stage in its 
development. 
The trends reported at the half year 
continued throughout the year, with 
continued strong growth reported from our 
largest and highest margin division, Risk 
& Compliance, supported by excellent 
revenue and contribution growth from 
our Finance division. The Insight division 
performed satisfactorily recording growth 
in both revenue and contribution albeit 
adversely affected by currency movements. 
As has been well documented we have 
continued to experience challenging trading 
conditions in our Legal division and as a 
result saw underlying revenue decline at the 
same rate that we saw at the half year. 
Revenue in the year ended 30 June 2015 
was up £5.1m (6%) to £95.1m (2014: 
£90.0m) and adjusted EBITA up £1.7m 
(9%) to £20.4m (2014: £18.7m). On a 
constant currency basis revenue was also 
up 6% and Adjusted EBITA was up by 
9%. The stronger relative growth from our 
higher margin businesses, combined with 
control of overheads has resulted in an 
improvement of 70 basis points in Adjusted 
EBITA Margin to 21.5% (2014: 20.8%). The 
growth in Adjusted EBITA combined with 
a reduced interest charge translated into 
Adjusted Profit before Tax up a pleasing 
£1.8m (11%) to £18.4m (2014: £16.6m).
Business strategy
As announced in December 2014 after 
an in-depth review of its assets and 
the associated market opportunities, 
Wilmington is further developing its 
business into a knowledge-based model 
and structure. This new structure will 
maximise Wilmington’s opportunities to 
help its clients to meet their information, 
education and networking requirements. 
As part of this evolution to a knowledge-
based model, Wilmington has become 
more focussed on its core offerings that 
provide high quality of earnings. This focus 
is reflected in the disposal on 31 July 2015 
of certain media assets from its Insight 
division and in the acquisition of Financial 
Research Associates (‘FRA’) on 6 July 2015.  
Vision
The vision which will act as our guide and 
underpins our strategy is:
“To be the recognised knowledge leader 
and partner of choice for information, 
education and networking in Risk & 
Compliance, Finance and Legal as well as 
the Insight leader in a number of chosen 
industries.”  
We have successfully reorganised our 
businesses into four distinct knowledge 
centres, and agreed ambitious but 
achievable objectives. We have also 
allocated and invested in dedicated 
resources to support the implementation 
of our new strategy to ensure we have the 
personnel, support and systems we need.  
I am particularly pleased with the transition 
of the role of Chief Executive Officer 
passing from Charles Brady to Pedro Ros 
which has been smoothly and professionally 
executed.  As evidenced by these excellent 
results, the business momentum within 
Wilmington has continued unabated. The 
new strategy and vision is focussed on 
maintaining the fundamental objectives 
of high quality income streams in areas 
where we excel from a people and products 
perspective in markets we understand and 
with customers we want to establish and 
develop long term relationships with.  
Creating an increasingly 
integrated business 
This new focus, together with a new 
corporate website, the Wilmington hub, 
associated rebranding and vision will help 
Wilmington create an even more compelling 
offering through a knowledge-based 
model. The business will prosper through 
an evolving portfolio of world class digital 
products and services. The promotion of a 
stronger unified Wilmington brand will bring 
together its market leading positions, other 
Wilmington brands and will emphasise 
Wilmington as an increasingly integrated 
business.
To reflect the new vision, and as part of 
our branding and development as a unified 
business rather than a group of companies, 
we changed the name of the company from 
Wilmington Group plc to Wilmington plc in 
February 2015. 
This branding and focus will better inform 
our clients about our range of expertise 
and breadth of coverage which will in turn 
enhance our market positions, this will also 
help to drive further international expansion 
and develop an integrated organisation 
supported by best in class technology and 
exceptional talent. 
Digital hub
Central to our integrated offering is the 
Wilmington hub. Stage one was launched 
in February 2015 which showcased the 
uniform branding and simplified business 
structure. Stage two was launched in 
August 2015 with the creation of an 
innovative corporate website and network 
of navigational tools that helps connect 
professionals to all our areas of expertise 
and enhances customer awareness for our 
clients across the globe.
Our people
As a digital information, education 
and networking business operating in 
dynamic and competitive markets, we are 
fundamentally reliant on the quality and 
professionalism of our people. I would once 
again like to express my own and my fellow 
Board members’ appreciation of the hard 
work and dedication of our Wilmington 
colleagues across the world.
Financial and operational 
targets
I am pleased to report further success and 
good progress in all of our key financial 
and operational targets. We have seen 
continued growth in Adjusted Profit before 
Tax, Adjusted Earnings per Share, Return 
on Sales and Return on Equity. We also 
monitor cash conversion which we expect 
to exceed 100% on an annual basis. We 
will continue to maintain a high proportion 
of our revenue derived from quality and 
Chairman’s Statement
“This year has seen Wilmington deliver a very positive financial performance. 
Our new strategy and vision have been successfully implemented, creating 
a more compelling offering through a knowledge-based business structure 
and customer offering. This offering continues to meet customer demand 
in products and services and in international territories and provides a solid 
platform for future growth.”
Mark Asplin
Non-Executive Chairman
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
06 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
sustainable income streams. In this year 
revenue from subscriptions and repeatable 
revenue was 76% of Group revenue (2014: 
79%). We continue to seek to increase each 
year our proportion of revenue generated 
outside the UK where we see good 
prospects for long term sustainable growth 
in many of the major professional markets 
we operate in. Revenue outside the UK has 
grown again and was 39% of total revenue 
compared to 37% last year. The acquisition 
of FRA is expected to increase still further 
this proportion of overseas revenue.
This financial and operational performance 
is reflective of the quality of our portfolio of 
offerings which benefit from a significant 
proportion of revenues derived from 
subscriptions and from products which 
disseminate content-rich, high-value 
information digitally along with certificated 
education and compliance programmes.
Acquisitions 
In support of our growth strategy, we 
will continue to review selective earning 
enhancing acquisition opportunities to 
add additional growth and expertise in our 
chosen markets.
In this context we were delighted to 
announce the acquisition, on 7 July 2015, 
of FRA, a leading US conference and 
networking provider of specialist events 
in healthcare and finance, for a maximum 
consideration of up to $20.6m (£13.2m). 
The recent acquisition of FRA is consistent 
with our strict investment criteria and 
enhances our networking capabilities in 
Finance and Insight.
FRA will work closely with other Wilmington 
companies in the US, including Compliance 
Week (the provider of governance, risk 
and compliance events and information 
acquired in August 2013), and with UK 
companies seeking US market access in 
particular NHiS (the provider of business 
intelligence and data analysis to the 
pharmaceutical industry) and AMT (the 
provider of corporate finance and capital 
markets training to major international 
investment banks). 
FRA’s business provides Wilmington with 
additional networking expertise and will 
support in particular the Wilmington Insight 
and Finance divisions. FRA’s established 
relationships will provide Wilmington’s 
international businesses with networking 
opportunities, enabling closer access to a 
wider pool of North American customers 
and markets. In turn, Wilmington sees 
opportunities to ‘geo-clone’ FRA events 
internationally and is already investigating 
opportunities in the UK and Europe. 
Disposals
As part of the review of our portfolio we 
announced on 31 July 2015 the disposal 
of certain media assets for £0.5m from our 
Insight division.
In the near term, the Board’s primary focus 
remains on driving our new strategy and 
vision and maximising the many organic 
opportunities open to us to enhance our 
operational and financial returns.
Balance sheet
Net debt, which includes cash and 
cash equivalents, bank loans (excluding 
capitalised facility fees) and bank 
overdrafts, was £28.6m (30 June 2014: 
£33.7m) a decrease of £5.1m on last year 
during a period of considerable growth 
and change. The group continues to 
demonstrate excellent cash generative 
characteristics with cash conversion
1
 of 
107% (2014: 108%). These characteristics 
were recently recognised by the continued 
support from our principal bank debt 
providers who extended the multicurrency 
£65m debt facility on 1 July 2015 until 1 
July 2020. The facility, as well as providing 
longer term security, flexibility and reduced 
interest costs is structured so it can be 
increased to £100m if required with majority 
lending bank consent.
Dividend
I am proud of the Group’s record of 
maintaining its dividend over recent 
years and the resumption in 2013/14 
of a progressive dividend reflecting our 
improving financial performance. The 
dividend payment policy remains the same 
and underpins our confidence in the new 
strategy and vision and the resilience of our 
business models. I am pleased to confirm 
that the final dividend for this year will be 
increased again to 4.0p (2014: 3.7p) per 
share an increase of 8% on last year. This 
together with an increased interim dividend 
makes a total dividend of 7.7p up 5.5% 
from 2014 (7.3p). It is the Board’s intention 
to maintain its progressive dividend policy 
whilst ensuring that suitable dividend cover 
of at least two times adjusted earnings per 
share is maintained. 
The final dividend of 4.0p per share will be 
paid on 16 November 2015 to shareholders 
on the share register as at 23 October 2015.
Board changes
As announced in December 2014, Neil 
Smith, Chief Operating Officer, decided to 
leave the Group, effective from 1 January 
2015, to pursue other opportunities. 
Following the formation of an Executive 
Committee this position has not been 
replaced.
Wilmington is pleased to announce the 
appointment of Paul Dollman as a Non-
Executive Director and as designated 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. Paul will 
join the Board on 16 September 2015 and 
succeed Terry Garthwaite as Chairman of 
the Audit Committee in November 2015. 
Paul Dollman was Group Finance Director 
of John Menzies plc for over ten years 
until May 2013, where he played a key 
role in the turnaround of the business and 
is currently Chairman of Smart Metering 
Systems plc, a Non-Executive Director of 
Scottish Amicable (part of Prudential plc) 
and a Member of the Audit Committee of 
the National Library of Scotland.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to 
thank Terry for his valued contribution 
over his ten year tenure, during which time 
he has been instrumental in achieving 
significant improvements to our reporting 
procedures. We wish him well in his future 
endeavours.
Current trading and 
outlook
I am pleased to report that the new financial 
year has started well and trading is in line 
with our expectations. Challenging market 
conditions remain for our Legal division 
and our Insight division has had a mixed 
start to the new financial year with lower 
sales of lower margin marketing data to 
pharmaceutical clients being offset by 
continued good momentum from NHiS 
which enjoys a solid pipeline of sales 
prospects. Meanwhile our Finance and Risk 
& Compliance divisions which represented 
just under 60% of our revenue in 2015 have 
both enjoyed good initial trading. Our latest 
acquisition FRA has also had a good start 
and we expect it to be earnings enhancing 
in this financial year.
We continue to see tighter regulatory control 
and more complex legislation implemented 
in most of our key markets and we remain 
confident that these changes will continue 
to drive the demand for our products and 
services globally. The recent acquisition 
of FRA provides further opportunities for 
continued profitable growth.
Wilmington has articulated its strategy, 
vision and ambition and is progressing 
with confidence in the next stage of its 
development. We continue to widen our 
geographical presence, strengthen our 
back office and operational management 
teams and invest in new strategic systems 
including our new digital hub. The business 
continues to offer good opportunities 
for us to generate attractive returns for 
shareholders over the long term.
The outlook for 2016 remains unchanged 
and we are on track to meet our 
expectation for the year.
Mark Asplin
Non-Executive Chairman
14 September 2015
1
 Cash conversion – see note 28.
07
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Strategic Report 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
We aim to increase shareholder value by delivering sustainable and increasing profit and cash from servicing the information, education 
and networking needs for professional markets. We set out below our strategic objectives that aim to achieve this and in so doing 
increased shareholder value.
Strategic Objective
To accelerate growth through our knowledge based model
2015 Progress z Four knowledge centres have been created, Risk & Compliance, Finance, Legal and Insight, each with an appointed 
Divisional Director serving on a newly formed Executive Committee (‘Execo’). The Execo are responsible for 
achieving key objectives in the delivery of the strategy.
 z Wilmington was rebranded removing ‘group’ from the name emphasising the move from a group of companies to a 
company with a vision.
 z The recent acquisition of Financial Research Associates (‘FRA’) expanded our Insight and Finance knowledge 
centres with a particular focus on networking.
Focus 2016-2018 z To further unlock the potential across the knowledge centres.
 z Connect our Wilmington brands enabling clients to better reach all of our available and appropriate services.
 z Acquire new clients by identifying opportunities from greater collaboration and combined product offerings.
 z Drive our expertise in information, education and networking.
 z Selected acquisitions meeting our strategic criteria.
 z Our people are key to our success; provide an environment for them to achieve.
Successful implementation  
will achieve
 z Revenue growth.
 z Improved employee engagement.
 z Increased client satisfaction.
Strategic Objective
To build a truly international business
2015 Progress z Further invested in our US business by recruiting a North America Managing Director.
 z In July 2015 we acquired the trade and assets of FRA a US based events business increasing our US footprint.
 z Built strategic partnerships with our global clients to review expansion into Europe and Asia, bringing teams together 
to create hubs in our focused regions.
Focus 2016-2018 z Continue to invest in the infrastructure of our North American operations to allow for continued expansion.
 z Work closely with our clients globally following their expansion and work together across the geographical borders, 
growing partnerships further to expand in Europe, South America and Asia.
 z To develop a global culture and attract talent to support these ambitions.
 z Target acquisitions that meet our strategic criteria and fill strategic gaps.
 z Cross-pollination of our recently acquired and existing businesses between knowledge centres and geographies.
Successful implementation  
will achieve
 z Growth in International revenue as a % of total revenue.
 z Equip divisions with information, education and networking capabilities.
Strategic Objective
To create a fully digital enterprise
2015 Progress z The launch of the Wilmington hub at www.wilmingtonplc.com, a central hub to reflect our knowledge based model 
and to exploit more of our content.
 z Connecting our websites giving our clients greater visibility of all our services that could assist them to grow their 
business.
 z Introducing a social media sharing tool and culture with our people utilising our employee reach in social media.
Focus 2016-2018 z Keep our digital delivery at the cutting edge of technology ensuring efficiency and flexibility for our clients.
 z Develop a blended provision of knowledge which is flexible and meets the needs of our clients.
 z Continue to develop the Wilmington hub connecting and engaging our clients.
 z Use technology such as our Client Relationship Management development with Salesforce.com
©
 to understand our 
clients’ needs to further assist them to create advantage for their business.
Successful implementation  
will achieve
 z Improve our clients’ experience.
 z Improve efficiency for Wilmington and our clients.
 z Increase web traffic and an enhanced visitor experience.
Group Strategy
3
2
1
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
08 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
The creation of 
the Wilmington 
Hub, an innovative 
corporate website 
and network of 
navigational tools, 
helps connect 
professionals to  
all our areas  
of expertise.
Case Study
See more content at:  
www.wilmingtonplc.com
Wilmington’s clients rely on our specialist 
knowledge, delivered through our 
information, education and networking 
services. Following our 2014 corporate 
review, we embarked on an ambitious 
project to better define the knowledge 
areas in which we operate and create more 
links between them. 
The Wilmington Hub brings a new approach 
to our online presence.
Corporate websites are evolving; forward-
thinking companies now use their websites 
to demonstrate thought leadership and 
to increase engagement with clients and 
potential clients. The Wilmington Hub is a 
showcase for Wilmington’s expertise and 
acts as a portal to our collective knowledge 
base.
The Hub is home to our huge portfolio 
of high-quality content. It links all our 
individual websites, encouraging two-way 
traffic. With only a few clicks, Hub visitors 
can access content that satisfies their 
immediate needs; navigating any of our four 
Areas of Knowledge – Risk & Compliance, 
Finance, Legal and Insight – quickly and 
easily. It’s a destination for business users 
seeking information and expertise.
On each individual company website, 
dynamic navigational tools present content 
relevant to a visitor’s interests, providing 
easy access to our central knowledge base. 
In turn, the Hub guides visitors directly to the 
specialist skills of our individual businesses, 
delivering the following benefits:
 z Making clients and potential clients 
aware of the products and services of 
the different Wilmington brands and 
encouraging cross-selling.
 z Using the strength of established 
Wilmington brands to build trust in our 
entire portfolio.
 z Engaging with clients and potential 
clients by highlighting the collaborative 
expertise of our businesses.
For example, the Wilmington Hub can:
 z Connect a compliance professional to 
governance news in Compliance Week, 
professional training from International 
Compliance Training (‘ICT’) and global 
insurance reports from Axco.
 z Help a lawyer discover continuing 
professional development solutions from 
Central Law Training, a management 
strategies conference through Ark, and 
keep abreast of professional news from 
Solicitors Journal.
 z Enable a learning and development 
manager to identify compliance training 
from ICT and financial learning from 
Adkins Matchett & Toy (‘AMT’)
The Hub will grow in line with our clients’ 
needs, strengthening the Wilmington 
brand, raising our profile across all our 
geographies and developing customer 
awareness throughout our areas of 
expertise. Accessible wherever and 
whenever users choose, it epitomises the 
strength of our knowledge-based business 
for clients around the globe.
ENGAGING 
CLIENTS 
EvERYWHERE
09
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Strategic Report 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
1 Adjusted Profit before Tax
This measure indicates the trading profits of the Group, after bank 
and interest charges, but before amortisation and impairment 
of intangible assets – publishing rights, titles and benefits and 
goodwill, adjusting items, the unwinding of discounts on the 
provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests and 
share based payments. Amortisation of publishing rights, titles and 
benefits and impairment are non-cash technical adjustments which 
do not necessarily reflect the inherent value of assets remaining 
in the balance sheet. This is particularly the case where the value 
of assets has been enhanced as a consequence of management 
action. See note 2 for the calculation of Adjusted Profit before Tax.
In the year ended 30 June 2015, Adjusted Profit before Tax 
increased by 11% to £18.4m (2014: £16.6m).
2
 Adjusted EBITA
This measure also indicates the trading profits of the Group. This 
measure is the same as Adjusted Profit before Tax excluding 
finance costs. See note 2 for the calculation of Adjusted EBITA.
In the year ended 30 June 2015, Adjusted EBITA increased by 9% 
to £20.4m (2014: £18.7m).
3
 Adjusted Earnings per Share
This key measure indicates the underlying profit after tax 
attributable to individual shareholders. It measures not only trading 
performance, but also the impact of treasury management, capital 
structure, bank and interest charges, as well as the efficient 
structuring of the Group to appropriately manage tax. Our business 
and financial strategies are directed at delivering consistent 
adjusted earnings per share growth and our incentive programmes 
are designed to support this strategy.
For the year ended 30 June 2015, Adjusted Earnings per Share 
increased by 11% to 16.42p per share (2014: 14.79p). The increase 
was due to better overall financial performance achieved by the 
businesses and the efficient use of debt finance.
1 4
 Free Cash Flow
1
Free Cash Flow is an important indicator of resources available for 
payment of the dividend and for support of our acquisition strategy. 
Free Cash Flow, which is calculated after deduction from operating 
cash flow of capital expenditure, payment of corporation tax and 
payment of interest, increased by 4% to £13.7m (2014: £13.3m). 
Key Financial Indicators and 
Operational Measures
At a Group level, we have eight key financial and operational measures.
Adjusted Profit before Tax £m
+ 11%
(2014: +13%)
Adjusted Earnings per Share
 
pence
+ 11%
(2014: +13%)
2015 2014 2013
14.7 16.6 18.4
2015 2014 2013
16.9 18.7 20.4
2015 2014 2013
13.06 14.79 16.42
2015 2014 2013
12.4 13.3 13.7
Adjusted EBITA £m
+9%
(2014: +11%)
Free Cash Flow £m
+4%    
(2014: +7%)
1 
 Free cash flow – see note 28 to the financial statements
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
10 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
1 1 5
 Cash Conversion
The quality of the operating profits is underpinned by the 
associated cash flow. The Group’s business is strongly cash 
generative; Operating Cash Flow for the year ended 30 June 2015 
of £21.9m represented 107% of adjusted operating profit before 
interest and amortisation (2014: £20.2m, 108%).
Cash Conversion
107%
(2014: 108%)
1 1 1 6
 Adjusted operating margin  
 (‘Return on sales’)
Adjusted operating margin or return on sales (‘ROS’) is defined as 
Adjusted EBITA (see note 2) expressed as a percentage of revenue. 
During the year ended 30 June 2015 ROS was 21.5% compared to 
20.8% in the prior year. This is a measure of efficiency, albeit also 
a measure reflecting the mix of the business. We aim to maintain 
margins over 20.0%.
Adjusted operating margin (‘Return on Sales’)
21 .5%
(2014: 20.8%)
1 1 1 1 7 Return on equity (‘ROE’)
ROE is defined as the Adjusted Profit before Tax (see note 2) 
divided by the average equity attributable to owners of the parent. 
ROE was 34.4% for the year to 30 June 2015, compared to 31.9% 
in the prior year. This shows our ability to maintain an efficient 
equity base. When making investment decisions, we focus on the 
impact on our equity. One important measure is the ROE which we 
seek to maintain at over 30.0%
Return on equity (‘ROE’)
34.4%
(2014: 31.9%)
1 1 1 1 8
 Consistent and sustainable 
 revenue streams
The disposal of non-core, predominantly advertising based trade 
magazines, over recent years has allowed the Group to focus on 
a portfolio of assets based in key professional markets, with the 
emphasis on provision of information, education and networking 
to these markets. This push towards more robust and sustainable 
revenue streams has resulted in a strong portfolio of offerings, 
which includes:
 z data, information, intelligence and solution sales;
 z professional education, training, events and services; and
 z professional accreditation and assessment.
The Group has continued to increase the availability and variety 
of its products and services online and digitally, but remains 
conscious of the needs of markets, which continue to prefer 
some products produced in hard copy format or in person. Our 
businesses are supported by management and delivery systems 
utilising appropriate technology. We have continued to invest 
considerable resources in the improvement of our operating 
systems and online services which will deliver benefits in the 
current year and beyond.
Subscriptions and repeatable revenue represent 76% of Group 
turnover compared to 79% in the prior year.
Consistent and sustainable revenue streams
76%
(2014: 79%)
At divisional level we have a number of measures
At Divisional level we maintain a number of Key Performance Indicators (‘KPIs) specific to the performance of each business within the 
division. Each of the operating divisions monitors their own key performance measures. This year we delivered an improved performance 
against the majority of our divisional financial and operational targets. By continuing to focus on these benchmarks, we have been able 
to concentrate on mitigating the adverse effects of the downturn in some global markets and produce good results whilst establishing a 
more resilient and efficient platform to support future growth.
11
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Strategic Report 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
I am pleased to present my first set of 
annual results since joining Wilmington. 
Every day I am reminded of the quality 
of our business and of our people and 
this is reflected in the strong Revenue 
performance achieved during the year up 
6% at £95.1m compared to 2014. Adjusted 
EBITA was up by 9% (£1.7m) to £20.4m 
and Adjusted Profit before Tax was up 11% 
(£1.8m) to £18.4m. A robust performance 
overall was delivered across the Group 
not just from businesses enjoying strong 
demand but also from those businesses 
operating in challenging markets.
Since taking over the role of Chief Executive 
Officer on 1 October 2014 we have made 
great strides in reorganising and refocussing 
the business. Our new vision and strategy 
builds upon the legacy of Wilmington’s 
strong brands and market positions, 
creating a more compelling offering through 
a knowledge-based model underpinned by 
our evolving portfolio of world class digital 
products and services. Clients remain at 
the centre of everything we do and we are 
focussed on working more efficiently and 
increasingly as a more unified business. We 
have also strengthened the management 
teams and by creating an operational 
Executive Committee of senior managers 
we have both brought the businesses closer 
to each other and brought Wilmington plc 
closer to the businesses. 
The Capital Markets day in July 2015  
proved a good opportunity to give our 
investors, analysts and followers a better 
insight to the new structure and access to 
the divisional managers who are working 
to deliver a more integrated business 
which seeks to exploit opportunities across 
the many touch points we have with our 
customers.
As announced in December 2014 we 
now manage and report our business 
by reference to four knowledge-based 
divisions; Risk & Compliance, Finance, 
Legal and Insight. We are therefore 
presenting and commenting on our 
business and financial performance by 
reference to these new divisional structures.
Risk & Compliance 
38% 50%
% of  
Group revenue 
% of  
Group contribution
1
This division provides in depth regulatory 
and compliance accredited training and 
information, market intelligence, and 
analysis. It focuses on the international 
financial services and international 
insurance markets as well as the UK 
pensions industry and contains our 
International Compliance Training (‘ICT’), 
Axco, Pendragon, International Company 
Profile (‘ICP’), Compliance Week and 
Inese businesses. The main users of 
our offerings are risk and compliance 
officers globally. This is an area which has 
demonstrated strong organic growth which 
should be enhanced as we combine the 
various opportunities into an integrated 
offering. It also has the highest exposure to 
international markets of all our divisions. 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Movement
£’m %
Revenue 36.4 32.4 4.1 13
Contribution 11.9 10.7 1.2 11
Margin % 33 33
Divisional revenue increased by 13% 
(£4.1m) and 13% on an underlying constant 
currency basis adjusted for the acquisition 
of Compliance Week. 
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
1 1% to £18.4m
9% to £20.4m
6% to £95.1m
Adjusted profit before tax up
Adjusted EBITA up
Group revenue up
1 
 Group contribution of £23,829k (2014: £21,970k) 
– see note 3
“I would like take the opportunity to recognise the quality and 
commitment of our people at Wilmington; two attributes which 
underpin the year’s strong performance.”
Pedro Ros
Chief Executive Officer
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
12 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Our compliance training businesses (which 
represent c.40% of the division’s revenue) 
grew 30% in the year again supported by 
strong demand for in house face to face 
training particularly from tier 1 international 
banks where we continued to secure 
major training programmes. The growth 
has been particularly strong in this area 
over the last few years benefitting from 
the roll out of intensive organisation-wide 
training programmes. These large initial 
programmes are then followed up by less 
intensive maintenance programmes which 
leverage our ICT programmes that have 
become embedded in the organisation’s 
processes and culture.  
We have also seen increases in our 
public courses again driven by demand 
for accredited compliance training and 
supplied globally by ICT. ICT provides 
accredited training programmes in anti-
money laundering, compliance and financial 
crime and has developed compliance 
training programmes in Banking, Oil, 
Gambling and Gas and Pharmaceuticals. 
Growth in compliance despite the 
performance continues to be constrained 
to some extent by the availability of 
qualified trainers although we have been 
investing in our own trainer induction and 
conversion programmes. We still see many 
opportunities to launch new compliance 
products in most regulated markets and 
are focussing our efforts on an industry by 
industry basis.
Axco, the industry leading provider of 
insurance market intelligence, regulation 
and compliance information reported just 
over 3% constant currency revenue growth 
helped by the continued success of its new 
digital subscription products and market 
reports although its analytics and data 
services continued to experience slow 
growth and some revenue was affected 
by insurance  company merger activity. 
Axco completed the roll out of new insight 
products earlier in the year which will 
enhance our analytical insurance offerings 
going forward. Since the year end we have 
seen growing interest in the new Insight 
products reflected in deferred revenue for 
Axco increasing by 6% on the same period 
in 2014.   
Pendragon which provides compliance 
information and workflow tools for the UK 
pensions markets maintained its market 
leading position. We are beta testing the 
new pension legislation platform, “New 
Perspective”, which continues to see strong 
interest from existing and potential new 
clients. The new system represents a major 
revamp of the industry leading platform 
moving from a site licensed model to a 
cloud based hosting environment.
ICP which provides company credit reports 
aimed at credit risk managers had a 
record year last year but has seen a recent 
slowdown in demand for credit reports, 
particularly in the Middle East, resulting in a 
small revenue decline of 5%. The business 
has a strong pipeline of orders for 2015/16 
and demand is still robust for its product.
Compliance Week, our US governance, risk 
and compliance events and information 
business acquired in August 2013 
contributed revenue of £3.7m compared 
to last year‘s 10.5 month contribution of 
£3.2m. The Compliance Week Annual 
Conference held in Washington together 
with the second European Compliance 
Conference held in Brussel performed 
well and both provided natural showcases 
for other group offerings; servicing the 
increasing demand for risk and compliance 
products and services. A further 
Compliance Week event will be held in 
November 2015 in Dubai reflecting the geo-
clone opportunities from large scale events 
in our key markets. 
Inese our leading insurance information 
and events business serving the Spanish 
Insurance market and, increasingly, clients 
in South American markets grew revenue by 
a creditable 3% in constant currency terms.
Overall divisional contribution increased 
by £1.2m (11%) to £11.9m (2014: £10.7m) 
and 15% on an underlying constant 
currency basis adjusted for the acquisition 
of Compliance Week. Margins were level 
reflecting, inter alia, the  investment in 
infrastructure for our ICT compliance 
training business to support its rapid 
revenue growth and the related change in 
mix with a higher proportion of revenue 
from, lower margin, compliance training. 
This was supplemented by growth from our 
higher margin information businesses.
Finance
20% 18%
% of 
Group revenue 
% of 
Group contribution
This division includes Wilmington’s 
financial training businesses including 
Adkins Matchett & Toy (‘AMT’) and Mercia. 
The consolidated offerings of its finance 
areas should drive good revenue growth 
as well as exploit growing international 
markets. The Finance division provides 
expert and technical training and support 
services to professionals in corporate 
finance and capital markets and to 
qualified accountants in the UK in both the 
profession and industry. This division serves 
primarily tier 1 banks, the international 
financial services industry, and small to 
medium sized professional accountancy 
firms.
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Movement
£’m %
Revenue 18.7 17.0 1.7 10
Contribution 4.4 3.7 0.7 18
Margin % 23 22
The division continued its strong revenue 
growth reported at the half year with an 
increase of £1.7m (10%) compared to 2014. 
The growth in constant currency terms was 
also 10%. Growth drivers included strong 
demand from tier 1 banks for face to face 
graduate induction training, and from face 
to face training demands from professional 
accountants, particularly around the recent 
changes to UK accounting standards.
AMT which provides corporate finance 
and capital markets training to major 
international banks recorded another 
record year with revenue up over 10%. 
AMT, which generates most of its revenue 
and contribution in the summer months, 
benefited from its evolving e-training 
platforms and content initiatives. AMT 
continued to win market share in a 
competitive market based on its reputation 
for ‘best in class’ bespoke training and 
heavy investment in its e-delivery and 
support systems. The new year for AMT has 
already started well and the pipeline of new 
business again looks strong, although AMT, 
like other high quality training businesses, 
is being restricted by competition over the 
supply of quality trainers. 
13
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Strategic Report 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Mercia our accountancy training business 
had an excellent trading year as well 
as acquiring and integrating a small 
accountancy training business. It has also 
undergone a seamless change in senior 
management whilst continuing to trade well 
in a competitive and challenging market. 
Mercia has benefitted from a second UK 
fiscal budget in July 2015 which will help 
underpin to some extent its profit targets for 
2015/16. 
Overall divisional contribution was 18% 
(£0.7m) ahead of last year at £4.4m (2014: 
£3.7m) and 25% ahead on an underlying 
constant currency basis. Margins were up 
to 23% from 22%. 
Legal 
17% 9%
% of 
Group revenue 
% of 
Group contribution
The Legal division provides a range of 
training, professional support services 
and information including Continuing 
Legal Education, expert witness training, 
databases and magazines to legal 
professionals. The business which offered a 
wide range of services is now focussing on 
three basic offerings; providing law services 
to lawyers in the profession and industry 
and law services for non-lawyers. 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Movement
£’m %
Revenue 16.3 17.4 (1.1) (6)
Contribution 2.2 2.3 (0.1) (3)
Margin % 14 13
The division saw revenue reduce by 6% 
(£1.1m) continuing the trend reported at 
the half year. This continued reduction, 
although disappointing, reflects the 
challenging market conditions previously 
reported particularly surrounding reduced 
demand for face to face training and the 
proposed change to the Legal profession’s 
Continuing Professional Development 
rules. Our response has been to change 
the management team at the beginning 
of the year, to continue to rationalise our 
conference and course programmes to 
reflect the structural changes in the market, 
and to look at ways of integrating the 
various businesses and brands. We have 
also launched our new networking and 
resource platform for the legal industry; 
the Wilmington Legal Portal. There were, 
however, areas of the legal market showing 
continued growth including Bond Solon, 
servicing the needs for law for non-lawyers, 
which saw revenue grow by 4%.  
The new legal division management team 
and structure have bedded down and 
despite the market conditions, the overall 
division improved its contribution margins 
from 13% to 14%, although contribution 
was down £0.1m to £2.2m (2014: £2.3m).  
Insight 
25% 23%
% of 
Group revenue 
% of 
Group contribution
The Insight division increasingly provides 
analysis and clarity to customer-focused 
organisations, enabling them to better 
understand and connect with their markets. 
This division includes our UK healthcare 
information businesses, our French 
language medical news agency, our data 
suppression, media, and charity information 
businesses.
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Movement
£’m %
Revenue 23.7 23.3 0.4 2
Contribution 5.4 5.3 0.1 1
Margin % 23 23
Revenue was up 2% (£0.4m) to £23.7m 
(2014: £23.3m) and, adjusting for adverse 
currency movements was up 4% compared 
to 2014. The healthcare business which 
makes up 60% of the division had faced 
challenging market conditions over the 
last few years and to some extent the 
conditions had eased earlier in the year 
reflected in good growth from our Binley’s 
and Onmedica businesses (up 7%) but 
in particular growth from NHiS (up 25% 
albeit compared to a weak 2013/14). 
NHiS a provider of business intelligence 
and data analysis to the pharmaceutical 
industry is seeing more traction from one 
off assignments which focus on offering 
more analysis led insightful information 
albeit at lower margins. NHiS saw increased 
demand from other European clients 
interested in its Insight capabilities in the 
UK healthcare market. We also saw revenue 
growth within Onmedica Asia from a new 
business we set up to explore the provision 
of healthcare data and market intelligence 
to the Indian healthcare market. Agence 
de Presse Médicale (‘APM’), our French 
news agency business, reported revenue 
down 7% (2% down in constant currency) 
reflecting funding pressure in the French 
health sector.    
As expected the data suppression and 
charities businesses were down 2% in 
revenue terms compared to last year and 
the focus is on delivering higher margins 
through reorganisation and the review of 
marginal business operations. On 31 July 
2015 we disposed of our non-core media 
information business which contributed 
£1.1m to turnover (down 10% in the 12 
months to 30 June 2015) and £0.1m to 
profits.
Overall divisional contribution was 
adversely affected by currency but was 
up £0.1m to £5.4m and margins were 
flat at 23%. We did see good growth in 
margins and profits from our UK healthcare 
businesses but these were offset by lower 
margins from APM and as reported last year 
from the added investment in the Insight 
management team. Contribution was up 
£0.3m on an underlying constant currency 
basis.
Group overheads
Group overheads, which include Board 
costs, head office salaries as well as 
unallocated central overheads, increased by 
£0.1m (4%) to £3.4m (2014: £3.3m).
Pedro Ros 
Chief Executive Officer 
14 September 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
14 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Case Study
Beautifully Blended Learning
See more content at:  
www.wilmingtonplc.com
Adkins Matchett & Toy (‘AMT’) are global 
experts in financial training, supporting 
clients by delivering tailored learning and 
equipping employees with the skills and 
tools they require for success. Their own 
success is demonstrated by the long-
standing relationships they have built and 
boutique firms around the world. Clients 
rely on AMT not only as a training provider 
but as an adviser and partner that can 
develop complete solutions.
Over recent years AMT has invested 
heavily in their approach to blended 
learning. Combining classroom learning 
and publications with the power of online 
and digital delivery, blended learning 
provides a comprehensive experience that 
solves many of the issues associated with 
traditional programmes including lack of 
engagement and variations in quality. 
The benefits were realised for one major 
client when AMT introduced webinars 
to complement their in-class delivery. 
Attendance rates increased significantly, 
satellite offices were able to enjoy the 
same high quality training as their central 
locations and carefully scheduled webinars 
combined time zones to improve the 
programme’s cost-effectiveness. 
Today, AMT’s blended learning greatly 
transcends the use of webinars, although 
they still play a key part. In 2013 AMT 
launched their successive online learning 
platform, AMT Online (‘AMTO’). Utilising 
the latest technology, Massive Open 
Online Courses, AMTO is able to support 
numerous concurrent training programmes 
around the world. Students are seamlessly 
enrolled online where they can immediately 
engage in their pre-course curricula. 
Diagnostic testing and tailored content 
are utilised to ensure participants have the 
foundations required prior to reaching the 
classroom. AMTO enhances all classroom 
training, providing details of when and 
where training is taking place, enabling 
instant content delivery, instructor uploads 
and facilitating exams. Post-course 
AMTO provides continuing education 
opportunities, feedback reporting and a 
long-term reference point. Throughout these 
phases AMTO enables AMT and the client 
to evaluate the performance of individuals, 
groups or classes. These reports are used 
to tailor the learning dynamically, meaning 
participants develop exactly the skills they 
need.
AMTO is continuously evolving. Each year 
it is upgraded, enhancing the learning 
experience for students and the logistics of 
delivery. Bolstering AMT’s blended learning 
is the imminent launch of their digital books, 
bringing world class publications to all 
devices. AMT have now been developing 
critical digital solutions for over 11 years. 
This experience has established them as 
industry leaders and contributes towards 
AMT being the partner of choice for many 
organisations.
AMT’S BLENDED 
LEARNING 
ExPERIENCE
15
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Strategic Report 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
We seek to employ a workforce that reflects 
both the diversity of our customers and the 
communities where we have a presence. 
We do not discriminate on grounds of 
age, sex, race, ethnicity, religion, sexual 
orientation or disability. We strive to provide 
all our employees with the opportunity to 
grow and develop whilst at Wilmington. This 
opportunity providing excellent working 
conditions, the latest technology and 
appropriate training and development to 
help and encourage our employees fulfil 
their potential.
Our apprentice and intern programmes 
have also continued to grow during this 
time, across different businesses and key 
geographical locations, developing still 
further the Group’s community and people 
investment over and above the commitment 
we make to our employees.
Wilmington plays a role in supporting the 
charity community for example www.
charitychoice.co.uk, a website which 
supports charities and raises awareness 
of their fundraising activities. The online 
donation service saw donations during the 
year of £866k for various charities.
Environmental policies
The Board recognises that Wilmington’s 
business has an impact on the environment, 
principally through the use of energy, waste 
generation, and paper use and print and 
production technologies. We are committed 
to reducing the impact wherever possible 
and to utilising sustainable materials 
and technology. We seek to ensure that 
Wilmington’s divisions are compliant with 
relevant environmental legislation and 
require, where possible, our suppliers and 
contractors to meet the same objectives. 
Furthermore, our progress towards a 
digitally based business is reducing our 
environmental impact. Accordingly whilst 
environmental issues are important we do 
not believe that they constitute a risk for the 
Group.
The Head of Facilities Management is 
responsible for managing and monitoring 
environmental issues across the Group.
Our policies are to:
 z Meet or exceed the requirements of 
current environmental legislation that 
relates to the Group;
 z minimise energy and water usage in 
our buildings, vehicles and processes 
and improve the efficient use of those 
resources;
 z apply the principles of continuous 
improvement in respect of air, water, 
noise and light pollution from our 
premises, and reduce any impacts from 
our operations on the environment and 
local community;
 z minimise our waste and then reuse or 
recycle as much of it as possible;
 z as far as possible, purchase products 
and services that do the least damage to 
the environment and encourage others 
to do the same;
 z ensure environmental and energy 
performance issues are considered in 
the acquisitions, refurbishment, design, 
location and use of buildings;
 z assess the environmental impact of any 
new processes of products we intend to 
introduce in advance;
 z ensure understanding of our 
environmental policy internally and 
externally and communicate its 
performance on a regular basis, and 
encourage feedback;
 z set and monitor KPIs for our 
environmental performance at least 
annually; and
 z update our environmental policy 
regularly.
Paper
Paper is sourced from a chain of 
custody certified suppliers to ensure 
only sustainable raw materials are used 
within its production. The vast majority 
of paper is produced at mills with ISO 
14001 accreditation and Environmental 
Management System (‘EMAS’) registration.
Printers
All our major print suppliers are ISO 14001 
certified or encouraged to work towards 
a minimum of this standard. Many now 
also utilise Forest Stewardship Council or 
Programme for the Endorsement of Forest 
Certification. All our printers work in a digital 
environment, with the resultant reduction 
in transport, courier and energy utilising 
activities.
Packaging
For magazines we use recyclable polythene 
with a thickness of 25 microns. Where 
possible we are also converting to oxo-
biodegradable and potato starch forms of 
polythene.
Offices
The Group’s activities are primarily based 
in office accommodation and, wherever 
practicable, the Group adopts energy 
saving policies. Any new or replacement 
air-conditioning units are being sourced 
from the energy efficient range and show a 
70% saving in energy consumption. With 
regard to the office environment, the Group 
encourages the recycling of materials such 
as paper, cardboard, toners and cartridges 
wherever possible. The Group also ensures 
the correct disposal of electrical equipment 
and fluorescent tubes is compliant with the 
Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment 
Directive.
Over the past few years, we have reduced 
our property portfolio by 43,000 square 
feet, representing approximately a third of 
our previous occupancy space. We have 
also installed occupancy detection lighting 
and eco-friendly WCs and basin taps in a 
number of areas around the Group.
Corporate, Environment  
and Social Responsibility
Making a positive impact
Wilmington seeks to be socially responsible, having a positive impact on 
the communities within which it operates.
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
16 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Travel
The introduction of video conferencing 
technology in the Group’s offices has 
significantly reduced the requirements 
for travel, particularly when dealing with 
overseas offices and clients. The success 
of training webinars has also seen the 
additional benefit of reducing delegate 
travel to venues. Wilmington is also 
continuing its cycle incentive incorporating 
the Cycle to Work scheme which is 
within the guidelines of the Government’s 
green travel plan. As part of the scheme 
Wilmington provides employees with a 
loan for cycle and safety equipment up to 
a maximum of £1,000. To further support 
the cycle scheme, Wilmington has also 
arranged for free cycle parking facilities for 
employees based in its London offices.
Greenhouse gas emissions reporting
The release of greenhouse gases (GHG), notably carbon dioxide (CO2) generated by 
burning fossil fuels, has an impact on climate change which, either directly or indirectly, 
presents considerable risks both to the business and the planet. The Group is committed to 
monitoring and, where practically possible, reducing its GHG emissions.
Global CO
2
 emissions data 
30 June 
2015
Thousand 
Tonnes of CO
2
e
30 June 
2014
Thousand 
Tonnes of CO
2
e
Emissions from
Scope 1 – Direct CO
2
 emissions 73 66
Scope 2 – Indirect CO
2
 emissions 675 619
Total emissions 748 685
CO2 ratio (thousand tonnes of CO
2
 per employee) 0.92 0.85
Whilst the emissions per employee have increased during the year the Group is looking to 
reduce its carbon footprint by engaging with relevant professional advisers.
Methodology
Wilmington’s GHG emissions were calculated with the assistance of a specialist third party 
provider using activity data from the Group’s management accounting system (verified 
by third party supplier invoicing), and emission factors from Defra’s Conversion Factors 
for Company Reporting 2014 for converting energy usage to carbon dioxide equivalent 
(CO2e) emissions. The group followed the methodology in the GHG Protocol Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition). The analysis has used an operational 
control approach – please note that this means that certain sites which have a service 
agreement for utilities have not been included in the footprint.
This assessment takes into account of all of the emission sources required under the 
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013. 
17
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Reference is made in this financial review 
to adjusted results. Adjusted results in the 
opinion of the Directors provide a more 
comparable indication of the Group’s 
underlying financial performance and 
exclude adjusting items set out in note 5.
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Movement
£’m %
Revenue 95.1 90.0 5.1 6
Adjusted 
EBITA 20.4 18.7 1.7 9
Adjusted 
EBITA % 21.5 20.8
Revenue
For the twelve months ended 30 June 2015 
revenue increased by £5.1m (6%) to £95.1m 
(2014: £90.0m). On a constant currency 
basis underlying revenue was also up 6%.
Net operating expenses
Net operating expenses, excluding 
adjusting items, were £74.7m (2014: 
£71.3m) up 5%. This reflects an increase 
of 4% in cost of sales, a 6% increase in 
distribution costs and a 4% increase in 
administration costs.
Amortisation of intangible 
assets
Amortisation of intangible assets (excluding 
computer software) was £6.1m, compared 
to £6.3m in the previous year.
Net finance costs
Net finance costs which consist of interest 
payable and bank charges were down 
6% to £2.0m from £2.1m reflective of a 
reduction in net debt and lower applicable 
interest rates. Net debt in the twelve 
months to 30 June 2015 ended at £28.6m 
compared to £33.7m at the end of June 
2014; a reduction of £5.1m. On 1 July 2015 
Wilmington plc extended its loan facility for 
a further five years until 1 July 2020. The 
principal terms of the extended facility are 
provided in note 20.
Adjusting items
Adjusting items £1.1m (2014: £0.8m) 
include £0.5m in respect of loss of office 
compensation to Neil Smith a former 
Executive Director, and £1.0m in costs 
associated with the new vision, associated 
re-organisation of staff and rebranding. 
Offsetting this is £0.4m in respect of 
a reduction in the estimated deferred 
consideration liability for NHiS.
Share based payments
The share based payment expense in the 
year was level with 2013/14 at £0.9m and 
included £0.1m of additional cost in respect 
of compensation for loss of office due to a 
former Director.
Taxation
Taxation increased by £0.4m (19%) to 
£2.4m from £2.0m. The increase in the tax 
expense is due to an increase in adjusted 
profits before tax of 20% offset by a 
reduction to UK corporation tax rates. The 
effective tax rate is 23.6% compared to 
23.7% in 2014.
The underlying tax rate which ignores the  
tax effects of adjusting items decreased 
from 24.0% to 23.0%. This reduction 
reflects, inter alia, the reduction in UK 
corporation tax rates during the year. 
Operating profit
Operating profit was up £1.5m (14%) at 
£12.3m from £10.7m in 2014. Adjusted 
EBITA was up £1.7m (9%) at £20.4m (2014: 
£18.7m), offset by an increase in adjusting 
items of £0.3m. Adjusted EBITA margins 
were up 70 basis points to 21.5% (2014 
20.8%).
Profit before taxation 
Profit before taxation was up £1.7m to 
£10.3m from £8.6m in 2014. Adjusted Profit 
before Tax increased by 11% (£1.8m) to 
£18.4m from £16.6m.    
Earnings per share
Adjusted Basic Earnings per Share 
increased by 11% to 16.42p (2014: 14.79p).  
Basic earnings per share increased to 8.96p 
from 7.59p and diluted earnings per share 
increased to 8.84p from 7.39p.
Goodwill 
Goodwill increased by £0.2m to £77.1m due 
to exchange rate movements in the period, 
offset by a reclassification of media assets 
to assets of disposal group held for sale.
Financial Review
£0.5m  
to £13.7m
5.5% to 7 .7p
1 1% to 16.42p
Free cash flows up
Total dividend up
Adjusted Earnings per Share up
I am pleased to announce that for the twelve months ended 
30 June 2015 revenue increased by £5. 1m to £95. 1m, while 
Adjusted EBITA was up £1.7m at £20.4m.
Anthony M Foye
Chief Financial Officer
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
18 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Intangible assets 
Intangible assets declined by £5.1m 
reflecting amortisation, offset by £0.4m 
from acquisitions made in the year 
and other additions, mainly computer 
software, of £1.7m (2014: £0.9m). Software 
additions included investment in our new 
Salesforce.com© Customer Relationship 
Management (‘CRM’) and Perspective, 
our new Pendragon product platform. We 
also transferred £0.5m in net book value of 
assets from Property, Plant and Equipment 
to Intangible assets (note 13) as part of an 
internal capital reallocation exercise
Property, plant and 
equipment 
Property, plant and equipment decreased 
by £0.9m to £4.8m reflecting additions to 
tangible fixed assets of £0.8m (2014: £0.9m) 
offset by depreciation, disposals and the 
effects of exchange rate movements. During 
the year we reclassified £0.5m in net book 
value of assets to Intangible Fixed Assets 
as part of a review of the capital allocated to 
each new division (note 13).
Trade and other 
receivables
Trade receivables within trade and 
other receivables increased by £0.6m 
reflecting higher trading activity offset by a 
reclassification of media assets to assets of 
disposal group held for sale.
Trade and other  
payables, subscriptions 
and deferred revenue
Trade and other payables decreased by 
£0.6m to £20.4m (2014: £21.0m) reflecting, 
inter alia, the improved supplier payment 
processes implemented in the previous 
year. Subscriptions and deferred revenue 
decreased by £0.4m to £19.2m (2014: 
£19.6m) due to a reclassification of media 
liabilities to liabilities of disposal group held 
for sale. Adjusting for this deferred income 
at 30 June 2015 was flat on 2014. Within 
subscriptions and deferred revenue the 
balance attributable to the Legal division 
decreased by £0.5m offset by growth in the 
Risk & Compliance and Finance divisions.
Net debt
Net debt, which includes cash and 
cash equivalents, bank loans (excluding 
capitalised facility fees) and bank overdrafts, 
was £28.6m (30 June 2014: £33.7m) a 
decrease of £5.1m. Cash conversion which 
was 107% (2014: 108%) contributed to 
the reduction in net debt offset by one off 
costs. Net debt at June 2015 represented 
44% of our debt and overdraft facility of 
£65m. This facility was extended on 1 
July 2015 to 1 July 2020. Note 20 to the 
financial statements provides further details 
of the amended terms to 1 July 2020. In 
accordance with accounting standards all of 
the bank loans and overdrafts (‘borrowings’) 
are shown under Current Liabilities as 
the £65m debt facility at 1 July 2015 was 
repayable within one year. 
Financial risks 
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange 
risks, liquidity and capital risks and credit 
risks. The Group has policies that mitigate 
these risks (see note 20).
Treasury shares 
During the year 0.4m shares were reissued 
in settlement of shares vesting under the 
Group’s Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’). 
This resulted in a transfer to share capital at 
the weighted average cost of shares held in 
treasury. Further 0.4m new ordinary shares 
of £0.05 each were also issued under this 
scheme.
Dividend
It is the Board’s intention to pay a 
progressive dividend whilst ensuring a 
cover of at least two times the Group’s 
adjusted earnings per share over the 
dividend per share in respect of the year. 
A final dividend of 4.0p per share (2014: 
3.7p) will be paid on 16 November 2015 
to shareholders on the register as at 23 
October 2015.
Anthony M Foye 
Chief Financial Officer 
14 September 2015
case study?
See more content at:  
www.wilmingtonplc.com
Case Study
NHiS, a brand within the Wilmington Insight 
division, delivers valuable solutions to 
meet its pharmaceutical and healthcare 
clients’ needs. One such example has 
been the support of the approval, pricing 
and reimbursement processes for a novel 
treatment for alcohol misuse, a problem 
that creates long term health impact for 
sufferers, has a major cost to their families 
and society, and places a significant but 
partially hidden cost burden to the National 
Health Service (‘NHS’).
Historically, the management of alcohol 
misuse has followed traditional paths with 
little understanding of or openness to early 
detection and treatment. Working closely 
with its client the NHiS team developed 
an analytical model – the Alcohol Impact 
Model (AIM) - which drew on numerous 
data sources to present a true picture of the 
impact of alcohol misuse. 
The development of a pharmaceutical 
product which can help reduce alcohol 
dependency and tackle the problem in 
a different way required all stakeholders 
to understand its value and possible 
contribution prior to adoption by the 
NHS. ‘AIM’ presented key information 
to regulators and decision makers about 
the impact of alcohol misuse on patients’ 
hospital admissions, the wider cost of 
managing the condition and other key 
metrics all of which have contributed to 
support the new product introduction and 
improve the way alcohol misuse is now 
being tackled at a much earlier stage.
Wilmington Insight is proud to have 
delivered value to its client and contributed 
to the introduction of an updated approach 
to managing alcohol misuse that can make 
lives better for all involved and support the 
NHS in optimising its investment into early 
detection and prevention.
ALCOHOL 
IMPACT MODEL
Strategic Report 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Risk description Trend Potential impact Mitigation
Staff recruitment  
and retention
Wilmington is a people-based 
business; failure to attract or 
retain key employees could 
seriously impede future growth.
 z Failure to recruit or retain 
key staff could lead to 
reduced innovation and 
progress in the business
 z The Group operates a competitive remuneration 
package
 z Just as importantly, the Group operates a culture 
where each individual can maximise his or her 
potential
 z Management Development Programmes, enhance 
the skills of executives and managers needed in 
their current and future roles
 z The Group has recently appointed four HR 
representatives to each of the newly established 
knowledge centres to assist with specific people 
matters that arise
 z The introduction of the Senior Leadership Team to 
encourage motivation and engagement with the 
business
Competition
The Group operates in highly 
competitive markets that are 
constantly challenging the 
boundaries of technological 
advances, regulation and 
legislation, and which have 
new competitors entering the 
market.
 z Loss of market share due 
to changing markets
 z Reduced financial 
performance arising from 
competitive threats
 z By empowering and resourcing innovation in local 
operations to respond to changing market needs, 
the potential adverse effects of competition can be 
mitigated and growth can be maintained
 z The Group operates in specialised global niche 
markets offering high barriers to entry
Cyber security/
Information Technology/
Business interruption
Group and operational 
management depend on timely 
and reliable information from 
our software systems. We seek 
to ensure continuous availability, 
security and operation of those 
information systems.
 z Delay or impact on 
decision making through 
lack of availability 
of sound data 
 z Reduced service to 
customers due to poor 
information handling or 
interruption of business
 z Global threats to systems 
and critical information 
increase each year
 z During recent years the Group has outsourced 
the hosting of all websites improving resiliency, 
efficiency and scalability
 z There is back-up built into Group-wide systems and 
we are increasingly using Cloud based solutions
 z We have a central team, Wilmington Group Support, 
to provide day to day IT & Systems support for 
users
 z We provide and assist Group companies with 
strategic IT needs and to ensure adequate IT 
security policies are used across the Group
 z We carry out regular IT audits and we have 
comprehensive IT systems monitoring in place
 z We have a comprehensive IT induction for 
employees to ensure they are aware of security risks 
and how to combat them
 z We regularly test our network and we have 
comprehensive IT disaster recovery solutions in 
place should we, in the unlikely event, suffer a 
disaster at an office or location
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
KEY:
Lower risk   Higher Risk   No change   
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
20 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Risk description Trend Potential impact Mitigation
Acquisitions
The identification and purchase 
of businesses which meet our 
demanding financial and growth 
criteria are an important part 
of our strategy for developing 
the Group, as is ensuring the 
new businesses are rapidly 
integrated into the Group.
 z Failure to deliver 
expected results 
resulting from poor 
acquisition selection 
 z Reduced financial 
performance arising 
from failure to integrate 
acquisitions into the 
Group 
 z Unforeseen liabilities 
arising from a failure to 
understand acquisition 
targets fully
 z We acquire businesses whose technology and 
markets we know well. The Executive Committee 
together with individual Managing Directors are 
responsible for identifying acquisitions in their 
business sectors, subject to Board approval. We 
deploy detailed post-acquisition integration plans
 z Thorough due diligence is performed by a 
combination of in-house, and where needed, 
external experts to ensure that a comprehensive 
appraisal of the commercial, legal and financial 
position of every target is obtained
 z Incentives are aligned to encourage acquisitions 
which are value-enhancing from day one
Laws and regulations
Group operations are subject 
to wide-ranging laws and 
regulations including business 
conduct, employment, 
environmental and health and 
safety legislation. There is also 
exposure to product litigation 
and contractual risk. The laws 
and regulations we are exposed 
to as our businesses expand 
around the world increase 
each year.
 z Diversion of management 
resources creating 
opportunity costs 
 z Penalties arising from 
breach of laws and 
regulations
 z Loss of revenue and 
profit associated with 
contractual disputes
 z The Group’s emphasis on excellent internal controls, 
high ethical standards, the deployment of high-
quality management resources and the strong focus 
on quality control over products and processes in 
each operating business help to protect us from 
product failure, litigation and contractual issues
 z Health and Safety policies, guidance and monthly 
reporting requirements are updated to reflect 
changing reporting and governance requirements 
and to enhance compliance. Our well-established 
policies on bribery and corruption have been 
maintained during the year to ensure continued 
compliance with best practice internally, via 
the Group Code of Conduct and externally, 
via appropriate clauses included in third-party 
agreements
Research & 
Development and 
Intellectual Property 
strategy
New products are critical to our 
organic growth and underpin 
our ability to earn high margins 
and high returns over the long 
term.
Protection of our intellectual 
property builds competitive 
advantage by strengthening 
barriers-to-entry. Our intangible 
resources include data, 
processes, technological 
know-how, branding and our 
workforce.
 z Loss of market share 
resulting from product 
obsolescence and failure 
to innovate to meet 
customer needs
 z Loss of market share 
resulting from a failure to 
protect key intellectual 
property
 z New product development ‘best practice’ is 
shared between Group companies and return on 
investment of past and future innovation projects is 
tracked. This ensures that the collective experience 
and expertise of the Group can be utilised to 
maximum effect
 z Large R&D projects, especially those which are 
capitalised, require Head Office approval, ensuring 
that the Group’s significant projects are aligned 
to overall strategy. Such projects are overseen by 
the Chief Technology Officer
 z Workforce quality and retention is a central 
objective. This focus ensures that intangible 
resources stay and grow within the business.
 z Operating businesses are actively encouraged to 
develop and protect know-how in local jurisdictions.
 z Innovation is encouraged and fostered throughout 
the Group via the Senior Leadership Team and the 
Wilmington Awards
21
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Strategic Report 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Risk description Trend Potential impact Mitigation
Information availability
Freely available information 
principally via the internet 
poses a potential risk for the 
Group. The risk resides largely 
with government agencies and 
not-for-profit organisations that 
may make information publicly 
available at no cost.
 z Free to access or 
inexpensive information 
may compete directly 
with paid for, value added 
information supplied by 
the Group
 z Wilmington offers enriched, value added data and 
information in innovative ways that can be read in an 
easy to use format
Data confidentiality
The Group is increasingly 
required to comply with strict 
privacy and data protection 
legislation.
 z Adherence to an 
increasing compliance 
landscape can increase 
costs
 z Failure to comply with the 
regulations could result 
in a fine and/or a loss of 
reputation
 z The need to comply 
with the regulations can 
restrict the Group’s ability 
to create and utilise its 
databases
 z To ensure that the Group was compliant with 
the relevant data protection legislation, we 
commissioned an extensive external audit of the 
Group’s data management systems and we have 
adopted procedures to ensure compliance with best 
practice
 z We have a dedicated Data Compliance Manager 
who works alongside the businesses to monitor our 
adherence to the regulations
Remoteness of 
operations and 
globalisation
A key operational risk emanates 
from remoteness of operations 
from Head Office and the 
increasing global spread of our 
businesses.
 z Weakening of financial 
control and divergence 
from overall Group 
strategy in remote 
operations, leading to 
unexpected financial 
outcomes
 z Failure to comply with 
local laws and regulations 
in unfamiliar territories, 
leading to legal or 
regulatory disputes
 z Reputational risk 
 z Control is exercised locally in accordance with the 
Group’s policy of autonomous management. We 
seek to employ local high quality experts
 z The Group’s acquisition model ensures retention 
of management and staff in acquired businesses 
meaning that local expertise is maintained
 z Divisional Directors ensure that overall Group 
strategy is fulfilled through an on-going review of the 
businesses. The right balance between autonomy 
and adherence to the overall objectives of the Group 
is a key function of the Divisional Directors
 z Regular visits by senior management, finance staff 
and internal audit support local control
 z Working with established local partners
 z Appointment of a full time North America Managing 
Director who reports directly to Pedro Ros
Other matters
The Group has no known issues relating to human rights matters. The welfare of all the Group’s stakeholders, including the community, is 
carefully considered to ensure that such parties are not adversely affected by the Group’s actions in the course of its day to day business.
The information forming the strategic report on pages 2 to 22 was approved and authorised for issue by the Board and signed on their 
behalf on 14 September 2015.
Anthony M Foye 
Chief Financial Officer
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
22 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Mark Asplin
Non-Executive Chairman
Appointment to the Board: 
April 2005
Committee membership:
Audit Committee, Nomination Committee 
and Remuneration Committee 
Key areas of prior experience: 
Mark Asplin is a Chartered Accountant 
and joined the Board in April 2005. Mark 
was appointed Chairman in November 
2011. He was until 2002 a partner at 
KPMG. During his time at KPMG he 
helped build its Corporate Finance 
practice, undertaking roles which 
included Head of M&A and Head of 
valuations, both for the central region of 
the UK. He left KPMG to set up Jasper 
Corporate Finance, an independent 
corporate finance practice.
Pedro Ros
Chief Executive Officer
Appointment to the Board:
July 2014
Committee membership: 
Nomination Committee
Key areas of prior experience: 
Pedro Ros joined the board of Wilmington 
on 14 July 2014 and assumed the role 
of Chief Executive Officer on 1 October 
2014, succeeding Charles J Brady. Pedro 
joined Wilmington from Creston plc, 
where he was Head of Strategic Insight. 
Until June 2012 he was Chief Executive 
Officer and then Chairman of TNS, a 
world leader in market information and 
business analysis and a global subsidiary 
of WPP plc. Pedro has a degree in 
Economics from the Universidad 
Autonoma de Barcelona, and has 
completed Management Programmes at 
Michigan University/IESE and Stanford 
University.
Anthony M Foye
Chief Financial Officer
Appointment to the Board: 
September 2012
Committee membership: 
None
Key areas of prior experience: 
Anthony M Foye is a Chartered 
Accountant. Between 1987 and 2004 
Tony was Finance Director of Taylor & 
Francis Group plc. On a merger in May 
2004 with Informa plc, Tony became 
Group Finance Director of the enlarged 
Group, a position he held until December 
2007. From January 2008, Tony worked 
on a number of projects with various 
private equity Groups. Between May 
2009 and March 2011 Tony was Chief 
Finance Officer and Chief Operating 
Officer of Critical Information Group plc. 
He was also a Non-Executive Director 
of YouGov plc from March 2005 to June 
2009.
Board of Directors
Ensuring we remain a great place to work
23
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Our Governance 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Board of Directors
Ensuring we remain a great place to work
Charles J Brady
Executive Director
Appointment to the Board: 
November 1999
Committee membership: 
None
Key areas of prior experience: 
Charles J Brady is a solicitor and was 
a law lecturer before founding in 1985 
the business which is now Central 
Law Training. Central Law Training was 
acquired by Wilmington in June 1999. 
Charlie joined the Board in November 
1999 and was appointed Chief Executive 
Officer in February 2002. Charlie retired 
as Chief Executive Officer in October 
2014. Since then Charlie has remained 
as an Executive Director to assist the 
Risk and Compliance division and act as 
Chairman of the International Compliance 
Association.
Derek Carter
Non-Executive Director
Appointment to the Board: 
December 2011
Committee membership: 
Audit Committee, Nomination Committee 
(Chairman) and Remuneration 
Committee.
Key areas of prior experience: 
Derek Carter was previously Chief 
Executive of Emap Communications for 
11 years, where he led Emap’s growth 
into a market leading mixed media 
business built on powerful information, 
events and magazine brands and its 
subsequent sale to Apax/Guardian 
Media Group in 2008. Derek, who was 
previously Chairman of DocuGroup, a 
leading European information business 
serving the construction sector, is the 
Senior Independent Director (‘SID’).
Nathalie Schwarz
Non-Executive Director
Appointment to the Board: 
December 2011
Committee membership: 
Audit Committee, Nomination Committee 
and Remuneration Committee 
(Chairman).
Key areas of prior experience: 
Nathalie Schwarz was formally the 
Commercial and Corporate Development 
Director on the Board at Channel 
4 Television and was Strategy and 
Development Director on the Board of 
Capital Radio plc. Nathalie qualified as a 
solicitor with Clifford Chance.
Board composition at 30 June 2015
Executive Non-executive
43% 57%
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
24 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Terence B Garthwaite
Non-Executive Director
Appointment to the Board: 
June 2005
Committee membership: 
Audit Committee (Chairman), Nomination 
Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Key areas of prior experience: 
T erence B Garthwaite is a Chartered 
Accountant and enjoyed a distinguished 
career in finance and industry including a 
period as Finance Director of engineering 
group Senior plc. Previous experience 
includes being a Non-Executive Director 
of Brammer plc, a European power 
transmissions supplier and a Non-Executive 
Director of Renishaw plc, a global company 
with core skills in measurement, motion 
control, healthcare, spectroscopy and 
manufacturing. T erry Garthwaite has 
decided not to seek re-election at the next 
AGM in November 2015 in accordance 
with best practice under the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
Linda Wake
Company Secretary
Appointment as Company 
Secretary:
November 2014
Committee membership: 
N/A
Key areas of prior experience:
Linda Wake qualified as a Chartered 
management accountant in 2000, 
having worked in the media industry 
since 1995. She joined Wilmington in 
2004 and was quickly promoted to 
Divisional Finance Director. She joined 
the Executive Committee in October 
2010 in the role of Deputy Finance 
Director and more recently has been 
appointed as Corporate Development 
and Implementation Director. Linda Wake 
is also the Company Secretary having 
taken over from Richard Cockton on 6 
November 2014.
Paul Dollman
Non-Executive Director
Appointment to the Board:
To be appointed on 16 September 2015
Committee membership:
N/A
Key areas of prior experience: 
Paul Dollman is a Chartered Accountant 
and enjoyed a successful career in 
finance as the Group Finance Director 
of John Menzies plc, a FTSE 250 
company. Current roles include Non-
Executive Director of Scottish Amicable, 
part of Prudential plc, Non-Executive 
Chairman of Smart Metering plc, an 
AIM listed company, and a Member of 
the Audit Committee of The National 
Library of Scotland. Paul is expected to 
join the board on 16 September 2015 
and take over as the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee after the next AGM in 
November 2015.
Board Tenure at 30 June 2015
0–4 years 4+ years
57% 43%
25
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Our Governance 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
The Directors present their report together with the audited financial 
statements for the year ended 30 June 2015. The Directors’ report 
comprises pages 26 to 53 and the sections of the annual report 
incorporated by reference are set out below which, taken together, 
contain the information to be included in the annual report, where 
applicable, under Listing Rule 9.8.4.
Board membership pg 23 
Dividends pg 7
Directors’ long term incentives pg 40 
Share placing pg 33 
Corporate governance report pg 28
Future developments of the business of the group pg 3
Employee equality, diversity and involvement pg 28
Post balance sheet events pg 96
Information to the independent auditor pg 34
Subsidiaries of the Group pg 80
General information
The Company is public limited and is incorporated and domiciled 
in the UK. The Company is premium listed on the London Stock 
Exchange. The Company’s registered address is 6–14 Underwood 
Street, London, N1 7JQ.
Branches outside the UK
The Group operates one branch outside the UK in Singapore.
Future developments
Future developments have been incorporated in the Strategic 
Report on pages 2 to 23.
Dividends
The Directors recommend that a final dividend for the year of 4.0p 
per ordinary share be paid on 16 November 2015 to Shareholders 
on the register on 23 October 2015, which together with the interim 
dividend of 3.7p per ordinary share already paid makes a total 
dividend for the year of 7.7p (2014: 7.3p) an overall increase of 
5.5% per ordinary share.
Research and development activities
The Group has designed and developed a range of information, 
education and networking services to professionals and 
businesses. The Group has successfully transitioned the vast 
majority of its traditional print business publications to feature rich, 
online digital information and analysis services. This transition has 
been facilitated through the novel use of technology. The Group 
looks to continue to research and develop in technological areas 
that support the Group’s strategy. Initiatives included a cross 
divisional Massive Online Open Course system for a global client 
covering fundamental and advanced banking skills.
Political donations
No political donations were made during the year (2014: nil).
Events after the reporting period
On 1 July 2015 the Group extended its £65m revolving credit facility 
with Barclays Bank PLC, HSBC Bank plc and The Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc to 1 July 2020. Extending the facility also provides for 
an accordion option whereby the facility may be increased, subject 
to lender approval, by up to £35m to a total commitment of £100m 
if required with majority lending bank consent. More details can be 
found in note 20 to the financial statements.
On 6 July 2015 the Group acquired the trading assets and certain 
liabilities of Financial Research Associates (‘FRA’), a leading 
US conference and networking provider of specialist events in 
healthcare and finance, for a maximum consideration of up to 
$20.6m (£13.2m). More details can be found in note 29 to the 
financial statements.
On 31 July 2015 the Group disposed of certain Media brands that 
form part of the Insight segment.
Directors and Directors’ interests
The Directors who have served during the year and up to the date 
of this report are set out on pages 23 to 25 which include brief 
biographical details. Their remuneration and interests in the share 
capital of the Company are set out in the Report on Directors’ 
Remuneration on pages 37 to 52.
Executive and Non-Executive Directors will offer themselves for 
re-election at each Annual General Meeting as a result of the 
Company deciding to adopt best practice guidelines and the 2012 
UK Corporate Governance Code. 
None of the Directors had any material interest in any contract, 
other than an employment contract, that was significant in relation 
to the Group’s business at any time during the year.
Details of the Directors’ service contracts, letters of appointment 
and interests in the shares of the company are shown in the 
Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 and 52.
Directors’ third-party indemnity 
provisions
To preclude the possibility of the Company incurring expenses 
which might arise from the need to indemnify a Director or Officer 
from claims made against him or her or the cost associated with 
their defence, the Group has effected Directors’ and Officers’ 
qualifying third party liability insurance as permitted by the 
Companies Act 2006, which has been in force throughout the 
financial year and up to the date of approval of these financial 
statements.
Wilmington’s people
The Group’s policy is to consider all job applications on a fair 
basis free from discrimination in relation to age, sex, race, 
ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation or disability not related to 
job performance. Every consideration is given to applications for 
employment from disabled persons, where the requirements of 
the job may be adequately covered by a disabled person. Where 
existing employees become disabled, it is the Group’s policy 
wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under 
normal terms and conditions and to provide training and career 
development wherever appropriate.
Directors’ Report
Communicating our plans and objectives
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
26 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
The Group places a great deal of importance on communicating 
its plans and objectives to its entire staff and, where appropriate, 
consulting with them. Each of the Divisions is led by a Divisional 
Director, some of who are shareholders in the Company and whose 
remuneration is linked to revenue and profit targets.
Financial instruments
An explanation of the Group’s treasury policies and existing 
financial instruments are set out in note 20 of the financial 
statements. 
Purchase of own shares and sale of 
treasury shares
The Group has, in previous years, purchased its own shares and 
holds such shares in treasury. No shares have been purchased 
during the year to 30 June 2015. If a purchase of own shares is 
proposed the Company seeks authority from its shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting to purchase its own shares.
On 19 September 2014 404,324 ordinary shares were issued and 
379,006 treasury shares were reissued in respect of the vesting 
of the 2011 PSP Share Awards to employees (including Executive 
Directors).
At 30 June 2015, 46,584 shares were held in Treasury (2014: 
425,590), which represents 0.1% (2014: 0.5%) of the Called up 
Share Capital of the Company.
Contracts of significance with 
shareholders
The Company and its subsidiary undertakings do not have any 
contractual or other arrangements with any continuing shareholders 
which are essential to the business of the Company.
Takeover directive disclosures
As at 30 June 2015, the Company had only one authorised class 
of share, namely ordinary shares of 5p each, of which there were 
in issue 86,507,461 (2014: 86,103,137). There are no special 
arrangements or restrictions relating to any of these shares, 
whether in terms of transfers, voting rights, or relating to changes in 
control of the Company. The Company does not have any special 
rules in place regarding the appointment and replacement of 
Directors, or regarding amendments to the Company’s articles of 
association.
Under the terms of the Company’s banking arrangements, in the 
event that a person or group of persons acting in concert gains 
control of the Company, the lending banks may require, by giving 
not less than 30 days’ notice, the repayment and cancellation of the 
facilities.
Except for share awards, there are no special conditions or 
agreements in place which would take effect, alter or terminate 
in the event of a takeover. Subject to various conditions, if the 
Company is taken over, all share awards will vest and may be 
exercised. Apart from the interests of the Directors disclosed in the 
Report on Directors’ Remuneration and the substantial interests 
listed on page 33, there are no individuals or entities with significant 
holdings, either direct or indirect, in the Company.
Annual General Meeting
A separate notice convening the Annual General Meeting of the 
Company to be held at the offices of Canaccord Genuity, 88 Wood 
Street, London, EC2V 7QR on 5 November 2015 will be sent out 
with this Annual Report and financial statements.
Corporate governance
The Company’s statement on corporate governance can be found 
in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 28 to 33 of these 
financial statements. The Corporate Governance Report forms 
part of this Directors’ Report and is incorporated into it by cross-
reference.
Going concern
As highlighted in note 20 to the financial statements, the Group 
meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through an 
overdraft facility and a revolving credit facility which were extended 
on 1 July 2015 and are next due for renewal on 1 July 2020.
The current economic conditions create uncertainty, in particular, 
over:
 z the level of demand for the Group’s products; and
 z the exchange rate between Sterling and the US Dollar and the 
Euro.
The Group’s budgets and forecasts, taking account of reasonably 
possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group 
will be able to operate within the level of its current facility and 
covenants.
After reviewing the Group’s budget and forecasts for the 18 months 
to 31 December 2016 and its medium term plans, the Directors 
have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future. 
Therefore, they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing 
these financial statements.
Anthony M Foye
Chief Financial Officer
14 September 2015
27
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Our Governance 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Chairman’s introduction
Compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
The governance rules applicable to all UK companies admitted 
to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority are set out in the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), published by the 
Financial Reporting Council. The board fully supports the principles 
set out in the Code and confirms that it has complied with all of the 
provisions of the Code throughout the financial year ended 30 June 
2015.
This report sets out Wilmington’s governance policies and practices 
and includes details of how the group applies the principles and 
complies with the provisions of the Code.
Composition and independence
The board reviews Non-Executive Director independence on an 
annual basis and takes into account the individual’s professional 
characteristics, their behaviour at board meetings and their 
contribution to unbiased and independent debate. All of the non-
executive Directors are considered by the board to be independent.
The board consisted of a majority of independent non-executive 
Directors throughout the year.
Biographical details of all the current Directors are set out on pages 
23 to 25.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the 
Directors will stand for re-election at the AGM. Terry Garthwaite 
has decided not to seek re-election at the next AGM in November 
2015 in accordance with best practice under the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
Diversity
Wilmington believes that a diverse culture is a key factor in driving 
its success.
As at 30 June 2015, the Wilmington Board had one female Non-
Executive Director, Nathalie Schwarz, representing 14.0% of 
board membership. The Executive Committee previously known 
as the Executive Management Board (responsible for the day-
to-day management of the company) had two female members 
representing 25.0% of this Committee’s membership. The Group’s 
employees are split between 63% female and 37% male.
Board evaluation and re-election
The board undertakes a formal annual evaluation of its own 
performance and that of each individual Director. As in previous 
years, and in accordance with the recommendations of the Code, 
the Directors will be offering themselves for re-election at the AGM 
in November 2015. Terry Garthwaite has decided not to seek re-
election at the next AGM in November 2015 in accordance with 
best practice under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Shareholder engagement
The board regards it as important to maintain an active dialogue 
with our shareholders. Further details regarding this engagement 
with our shareholders are set out on page 33.
Corporate Governance Report
“The Directors and I see good 
governance as fundamental to effective 
management of the business and delivery 
of long-term shareholder value.”
Mark Asplin
Non-Executive Chairman
What does it  
mean to Wilmington?
The board of Wilmington is committed to maintain appropriate 
standards of corporate governance and have implemented 
in full the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code 
introduced in 2012.
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
28 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Leadership
The Board
The company is controlled through the board of Directors which, at 
30 June 2015, comprised three executive and four Non-Executive 
Directors. Short biographies of each Director are set out on pages 23 
to 25. The board focuses on formulation of strategy, management of 
effective business controls and review of business performance.
The Board meets as often as necessary to discharge its duties 
effectively. In the financial year ended 30 June 2015, thirteen main 
Board meetings were scheduled and the Directors’ attendance 
record is set out on page 31.
The Board has three formally constituted Committees, the Audit 
Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination 
Committee, each of which operates with defined terms of reference. 
The terms of reference of the three Committees are available on the 
Company’s website www.wilmingtonplc.com. The Audit Committee 
met twice during the year, the Remuneration Committee met twice 
during the year and the Nomination Committee met three times 
during the year.
There is an Executive Committee previously known as the 
Executive Management Board that is responsible for the day-to-
day management of the Company’s business within a framework 
of delegated responsibilities. It is chaired by the Chief Executive 
Officer and includes the Chief Financial Officer, Corporate 
Development & Implementation Director, Chief Technology Officer 
and the four Divisional Directors.
Governance framework 30 June 2015
CHAIRMAN
AUDIT 
COMMITTEE
NOMINATIONS 
COMMITTEE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE: Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, 
Corporate Development & Implementation Director, Chief Technology Ofﬁcer and the four Divisional Directors
DIVISIONAL OPERATING BOARDS*
BOARD: Non-executive chairman, three executive directors and three non-executive directors
* Each division has a divisional operating board
29
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Our Governance 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The roles of the Chairman and that of the Chief Executive Officer 
are held by separate individuals and the Board has clearly defined 
their responsibilities. The Chairman is primarily responsible for 
the effective working of the Board, ensuring that each Director, 
particularly the Non-Executive Directors, is able to make an 
effective contribution and provide constructive comments on the 
business. The Chief Executive Officer has responsibility for all 
operational matters which includes the implementation of Group 
strategy and policies approved by the Board.
Non-Executive Directors
All the Non-Executive Directors are independent of the Company’s 
executive management and free from any business or other 
relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of 
their independent judgment. The Non-Executive Directors are 
responsible for bringing independent and objective judgment and 
scrutiny of all matters before the Board and its Committees, using 
their substantial and wide-ranging experience.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive 
Directors are available for inspection at the Company’s registered 
office during normal business hours and at the Annual General 
Meeting.
Except as disclosed in note 26 in the financial statements, no 
Director has, or had at any time during the year, any interest in 
any contract with any Group company, except for their service 
arrangements.
All Directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship 
of the Company’s affairs, and all Directors, in accordance with the 
Articles of Association, submit themselves for re-election at least 
once every three years. At Wilmington Directors are submitted for 
re-election every year.
Senior Independent Director
Derek Carter is the Senior Independent Director (‘SID’). His role as 
SID includes:
 z Being available to shareholders if they have concerns which 
contact through the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief 
Financial Officer has failed to resolve (no such requests were 
received from shareholders during the year); and
 z Meeting with the other Non-Executive Directors on the Board 
once a year to assess the Chairman’s performance as Chairman, 
taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
Effectiveness
Meetings
There were thirteen meetings of the Board in the year. The 
Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved 
to it for decision which it reviews periodically. This schedule 
includes approval of acquisitions and disposals and major capital 
expenditure. The Board also reviews the Register of Risks. At each 
Board meeting the Chief Executive Officer provided a review of the 
business and how it was performing together with strategic issues 
arising. The Non-Executive Directors often meet spearately from the 
Executive Directors, usually, either before or after Board meetings 
Corporate Governance Report
Length of tenure of Directors
Number of complete years of service as a Director:
*  Terry Garthwaite has decided not to seek re-election at the next AGM in 
November 2015 in accordance with best practice under the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
Balance of Directors
The Directors
As at the date of this report the Directors of the company are:
Non-Executive Chairman
Mark Asplin
Executive Directors
Pedro Ros 
Anthony M Foye 
Charles J Brady
Non-Executive Directors
Derek Carter (Senior Independent Director) 
Terence B Garthwaite 
Nathalie Schwarz
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
Charles J Brady
Nathalie Schwarz
Terence B Garthwaite*
Derek Carter
Anthony M Foye
Pedro Ros
Mark Asplin
Male
Female
86%
14%
Non-Executive
Executive
43%
57%
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
30 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
to discuss relevant matters. In the year the range of subjects 
discussed by the Board included:
 z The strategy of the Group in response to changing economic 
conditions;
 z Key business areas, including the challenging market conditions 
in the Legal division;
 z The identification, execution and integration of acquisitions;
 z The Group’s debt and capital structure, including the recent 
extension of the debt facility;
 z The Group’s financial results;
 z Dividend policy;
 z Regulatory and governance issues;
 z The development of the Group’s people;
 z The Risk Assessment register; and
 z Insurance Policy and Cover.
In addition to the thirteen meetings described above, the Board 
has two off site strategy meetings each year at which the Group’s 
strategic direction, three year plan and significant projects are 
discussed.
Where meetings are required between Board meetings and a full 
complement of Directors cannot be achieved, a Committee of 
Directors considers the necessary formalities.
Attendance table
Main Board 
meetings 
attended
Main Board 
meetings 
eligible to 
attend
Mark Asplin (Non-Executive chairman) 13 13
Pedro Ros (Chief Executive Officer) 12 13
Anthony M Foye (Chief Financial Officer) 13 13
Neil E Smith* 6 7
Charles J Brady 13 13
Terence B Garthwaite (Non-Executive) 12 13
Derek Carter (Non-Executive) 13 13
Nathalie Schwarz (Non-Executive) 12 13
*  Neil E Smith resigned from the board on 31 December 2014.
Information flow
The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, ensures that 
the Directors receive clear information on all relevant matters in a 
timely manner. Board papers are circulated sufficiently in advance 
of meetings for them to be thoroughly digested to ensure clarity of 
informed debate. The Board papers contain the Chief Executive 
Officers and the Chief Financial Officers written report, high level 
papers on each business area, key metrics and specific papers 
relating to agenda items. The Board papers are accompanied 
by a management information pack containing detailed financial 
and other supporting information. The Board receives updates 
throughout the year and occasional ad hoc papers on matters of 
particular relevance or importance.
Time commitment
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the Non-
Executive Directors committed sufficient time during the year to 
enable them to fulfil their duties as Directors of the Company. None 
of the Non-Executive Directors has any conflict of interest.
Induction and professional development
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that induction and training 
are provided to each Director and for organising the induction 
process and regular updating and training of Board members.
Training and updating in relation to the business of the Group and 
the legal and regulatory responsibilities of Directors was provided 
throughout the year by a variety of means to Board members 
including presentations by executives, visits to business operations 
and circulation of briefing material. Individual Directors are also 
expected to take responsibility for identifying their training needs 
and to ensure they are adequately informed about the Group and 
their responsibilities as a Director. The Board is confident that all its 
members have the knowledge, ability and experience to perform 
the functions required of a Director of a listed company.
Access to independent advice
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary who ensures that Board processes are 
followed and good corporate governance standards are maintained. 
Any Director who considers it necessary or appropriate may take 
independent, professional advice at the company’s expense. None 
of the Directors sought such advice in the year.
Performance evaluation
The Board undertakes a formal annual evaluation of its own 
performance and that of each individual Director. As part of its 
evaluation, a questionnaire was approved by the Board. Directors 
submitted their completed questionnaires to the Company 
Secretary who reviewed their responses. These were subsequently 
discussed in an open session. The exercise, which is undertaken 
on a regular basis, was viewed positively by the Board. No major 
areas were highlighted within this review process but the Board 
intend to continue to develop themes arising from previous reviews, 
specifically on:
 z strategic messaging;
 z board information; and
 z succession.
31
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Our Governance 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
The Chairman has carried out a review of the performance of 
individual members of the Board. In all cases the performance of 
the Directors was considered to have reached a high standard.
The Board and its Committees will monitor progress and continue 
their critical review of its effectiveness during the year ahead. In 
accordance with the prevailing recommendations of the Code, it is 
the current intention of the Board that an external facilitation of the 
Board evaluation will be carried out in 2016.
Re-election of Directors
Notwithstanding that the Company’s articles of association require 
the Directors to offer themselves for re-election at least once every 
three years, in accordance with the recommendations of the Code 
the Directors will be offering themselves for re-election at the 
AGM in November 2015. In light of the performance evaluations 
summarised above and the provisions of the Company’s articles of 
association, the Board recommends that all of the Directors be re-
elected with the exception of Terry Garthwaite who has decided not 
to seek re-election at the next AGM in November 2015.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee and the Board seek to maintain an 
appropriate balance between the Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors. The Committee is chaired by Derek Carter as SID and 
comprises all the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, 
and the Chief Executive Officer. It has full responsibility for 
reviewing the Board structure and for interviewing and nominating 
candidates to serve on the Board as well as reviewing senior 
executive development. Suitable candidates, once nominated, 
meet with the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer. The 
candidates are then put forward for consideration and appointment 
by the Board as a whole. The Committee has access to external 
professional advice at the Company’s expense as and when 
required.
The Nomination Committee reviews on a continuing basis 
the composition of both the Board and the Executive 
Committee (formerly the Executive Management Board) making 
recommendations where appropriate. Further details of Nomination 
Committee’s activities can be found in the Nominations Committee 
Report on page 36.
The terms and conditions of the appointment of Non-Executive 
Directors is made available at the Company’s registered office 
during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is composed of all the Non-Executive 
Directors including the Chairman. The Audit Committee Chairman 
is Terry Garthwaite. Terry is expected to be succeeded by Paul 
Dollman who is due to be appointed to the board on 16 September 
2015.
The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are 
set out in written terms of reference and are available on the 
Company’s website www.wilmingtonplc.com/investors/corporate-
governance/roles-of-the-board.
Details of Audit Committee’s policies and activities can be found in 
the Audit Committee Report on pages 34 and 35.
Risk management and  
internal controls
Internal control
In line with the Turnbull Report recommendations, the Board 
maintains an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing significant risks faced by the Group. The Board regularly 
reviews this process, which has been in operation from the start 
of the year to the date of approval of this report. The Board 
is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control and 
risk management, and for reviewing the effectiveness of these 
systems. These systems are designed to manage, rather than 
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and to 
provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 
Also, in line with the Turnbull Report recommendations, the 
Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s systems 
of internal control. The Board’s monitoring covers all controls, 
including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk 
management. It is based principally on reviewing reports from 
management to consider whether significant risks are identified, 
evaluated, managed and controlled.
Further details of specific risks such as interest rate risk, liquidity 
risk and foreign currency risk are given in the financial statements 
in note 20. The Group has a Compliance Officer to co-ordinate the 
Group’s data protection activities.
The key features of the internal financial control system that 
operated throughout the period under review are as follows:
i) Financial reporting
The Board reviewed the Annual Report, together with the annual 
and half-year results announcements. The Board also reviews and 
approves the Interim Management Statements (as applicable).
The Board considered the appropriateness of the Group’s 
accounting policies, critical accounting estimates and key 
judgments. It reviewed accounting papers prepared by 
management on areas of financial reporting judgment. This 
included a consideration of the carrying value of goodwill based on 
executive management’s expectations of future performance.
The Board considered and is satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 
Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, and that it 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
ii) Management information systems
Effective planning, annual budgeting and monthly forecasting 
systems are in place, as well as a monthly review of actual results 
compared with budget and the prior year. The annual budget and 
monthly forecasts are reviewed by the Board. Risk assessment and 
evaluation takes place as an integral part of this process. Monthly 
reports on performance are provided to the Board and the Group 
reports results to shareholders twice a year.
Each area of the business carries out risk assessments of its 
operations, and ensures that the key risks are addressed.
Corporate Governance Report
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
32 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Insurance cover for the Group, as well as individual operating 
companies, has been procured where it is considered appropriate.
In addition, the Board has identified key strategic risks faced by the 
Group, which have been prioritised and are set out in the Strategic 
Report on pages 2 to 23.
iii) Internal audit
The Group continues to operate a limited internal audit process 
which performs relevant reviews as part of a programme approved 
by the Audit Committee. The Committee considers any issues or 
risks arising from internal audit in order that appropriate actions can 
be undertaken for their satisfactory resolution. The Internal Audit 
Manager has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee.
iv) Acquisitions, disposals and treasury
The Board also discusses in detail the projected financial impact 
of proposed acquisitions and disposals, including their financing. 
All such proposed investments are considered by all Directors. The 
Board is also responsible for reviewing and approving the Group’s 
treasury strategy, including mitigation against changes in interest 
rates and foreign exchange rates.
Organisations
There are well-structured financial and administrative functions 
at both the Group and at the operating company level staffed 
by appropriately qualified staff. The key functions at Group level 
include: Group accounting, corporate planning, Group treasury, 
Human resources, company secretarial, internal audit and Group 
taxation.
Remuneration
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Nathalie Schwarz 
and consists of all the Non-Executives and the Chairman. It is 
responsible for recommending to the Board the framework and 
policy for Executive Directors’ remuneration. Given the small size of 
the Board, the Committee recognises the potential for conflicts of 
interest, and has taken appropriate measures to minimise the risk. 
The Committee meets not less than once a year, and takes advice 
from the Chief Executive Officer as appropriate. In carrying out its 
work, the Board itself determines the remuneration of the Non-
Executive Directors. The Committee has the power to seek external 
advice, and to appoint consultants as and when required in respect 
of the remuneration of Executive Directors. Further details of the 
Group’s policies on remuneration and service contracts can be 
found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 52.
Relations with shareholders
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives 
between the Company and its institutional shareholders by 
means of a programme of meetings with major shareholders, 
fund managers and analysts each year. The company also makes 
presentations to analysts and fund managers following publication 
of its half-year and full-year results. A copy of the presentation 
slide show is available on the Company’s website https://www.
wilmingtonplc.com/investors/reports-presentations. As referred to 
earlier, the ’SID’ is available to shareholders if they have concerns 
which other contacts have failed to resolve.
The Chairman or one of the other Non-Executive Directors is 
available on request to attend meetings with major shareholders. 
In the past year, the Chairman attended such meetings. The Board 
regularly receives copies of analysts’ and brokers’ briefings.
The Group’s website includes a specific and comprehensive 
investor relations section containing all RNS announcements, share 
price information, annual documents available for download and 
similar materials.
Constructive use of the  
Annual General Meeting
A separate notice convening the Annual General Meeting is being 
sent out with this Report and financial statements. Separate votes 
are held for each proposed resolution. At the Annual General 
Meeting, after the formal business has been concluded, the 
Chairman will welcome questions from shareholders. All Directors 
attend the meeting at which they have the opportunity to meet with 
shareholders. Details of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual 
General Meeting on 5 November 2015 and an explanation of the 
items of special business can be found in the circular that contains 
the notice convening the Annual General Meeting.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 31 August 2015, the Company is aware of the following 
interests amounting to 3.0% or more in the Company’s issued 
ordinary share capital:
Number of 
ordinary shares %
Liontrust Asset Management 12,339,426 14.3
Aberdeen Asset Management 10,994,612 12.7
GVQ Investment Management 4,954,927 5.7
Mr Charles J Brady 4,493,819 5.2
Herald Investment Management 4,386,501 5.1
Schroder Investment Management 4,375,000 5.1
M&G Investment Management 3,689,585 4.3
Montanaro Investment Managers 3,665,500 4.2
Standard Life Investments 3,630,834 4.2
Columbia Threadneedle Investments 3,250,657 3.8
Mr Rory Conwell 3,083,170 3.6
Mr Brian David Gilbert 3,065,000 3.5
Baille Gifford 2,758,446 3.2
GMO 2,612,206 3.0
Approved by order of the Board
Mark Asplin 
Chairman
14 September 2015
33
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Our Governance 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Committee meetings
The Committee met twice during the year. The meetings are 
attended by Committee members and, by invitation, the Chief 
Financial Officer, Senior Management and representatives from the 
external auditors. Once a year, the Committee meets separately 
with the external auditors and with management without the other 
being present.
Roles and responsibilities
 z Monitoring the integrity of the annual and interim financial 
statements, the accompanying reports to shareholders and 
corporate governance statements;
 z Reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of our 
accounting policies and practices;
 z In conjunction with the Board reviewing and monitoring 
the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control and risk-
management systems, including reviewing the process for 
identifying, assessing and reporting all key risks;
 z Managing the limited internal audit process and approving their 
forward audit plan;
 z To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the 
appointment and removal of the external auditors and to 
approve their remuneration and terms of engagement;
 z To review and monitor the external auditor’s independence, 
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking 
into consideration, relevant UK professional and regulatory 
requirements;
 z To develop and implement policy on the engagement of the 
external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into 
account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of 
non-audit services by the external audit firm, and to report 
to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it 
considers that action or improvement is needed and making 
recommendations as the steps to be taken;
 z To report to the Board on how it has discharged its 
responsibilities; and
 z To oversee the whistle blowing provisions of the Group to ensure 
that they are operating effectively.
Activities of the Committee
 z Reviewed and discussed with the external auditors the key 
accounting considerations and judgments reflected in the 
Group’s results for the six month period ended 31 December 
2014;
 z Reviewed and agreed the external auditors’ audit plan in 
advance of their audit for the year ended 30 June 2015;
 z Discussed the report received from the external auditors 
regarding their audit in respect of the year ended 30 June 2015, 
which included comments on their findings on internal control 
and a statement on their independence and objectivity;
 z Reviewed the Group’s whistle blowing policy and satisfy 
themselves that this met FCA rules and good standards of 
corporate governance;
 z Received reports from internal audit covering various aspects of 
the Group’s operations, controls and processes; and
 z Reviewed and approved the non-audit assignments undertaken 
by the external auditors in the year ended 30 June 2015.
Significant areas
The significant areas considered by the Committee and discussed 
with the external auditors during the year were:
i) Goodwill impairment: 
The Committee received reports from management on the carrying 
value of Group’s businesses, including goodwill. The Committee 
reviewed management’s recommendations, which were also 
considered by the external auditors, including evaluation of the 
appropriateness of the assumptions applied in determining asset 
carrying values and the appropriateness of the identification of 
cash generating units. After review, the Committee was satisfied 
with the assumptions and judgments applied by management and 
concluded that no impairment of carrying values was required.
ii) Revenue recognition: 
The Committee considered the inherent risk of fraud in revenue 
recognition as defined by auditing standards and was satisfied that 
there were no issues arising.
Audit Committee Report
It is my pleasure to  
present the Audit Committee 
report for the year ended  
30 June 2015.
Terence B Garthwaite
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
34 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
External audit
The Group’s external auditors are PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP . 
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the independence 
and objectivity of the external auditors, and ensuring this is 
safeguarded notwithstanding any provision of any other services to 
the Group.
The Board recognises the importance of safeguarding auditor 
objectivity and has taken the following steps to ensure that auditor 
independence is not compromised:
 z The Audit Committee carries out each year a full evaluation of 
the external auditor as to its complete independence from the 
Group and relevant officers of the Group in all material respects 
and that it is adequately resourced and technically capable to 
deliver an objective audit to shareholders. Based on this review 
the Audit Committee recommends to the Board each year 
the continuation, or removal and replacement, of the external 
auditor;
 z The external auditors provided audit related services such as 
regulatory and statutory reporting as well as formalities relating 
to shareholders and other circulars;
 z The external auditors may undertake due diligence reviews and 
provide assistance on tax matters given its knowledge of the 
Group’s businesses. Such provision will however be assessed 
on a case-by-case basis so that the best placed adviser is 
retained. The Audit Committee monitors the application of policy 
in this regard and keeps the policy under review;
 z The Audit Committee reviews on a regular basis all fees paid 
for audit, and all consultancy fees, with a view to assessing the 
reasonableness of fees, value of delivery, and any independence 
issues that may have arisen or may potentially arise in the future;
 z The external auditors’ report to the Directors and the Audit 
Committee confirming their independence in accordance with 
Auditing Standards. In addition to the steps taken by the Board 
to safeguard auditor objectivity, the Audit Practice Board Ethical 
Standard 3 requires audit partner rotation every five years for 
listed companies; and
 z Different teams are utilised on all other assignments undertaken 
by the auditors. Before any such assignments can commence 
teams must obtain approval of the Audit Committee. This 
approval confirms that sufficient and appropriate safeguards are 
put in place to ensure that auditor independence is retained.
The Audit Committee give careful consideration before appointing 
the auditors to provide other services. The Group regularly use 
other providers to ensure that independence and full value for 
money are achieved. Other services are generally limited to work 
that is closely related to the annual audit or where the work is of 
such a nature that a detailed understanding of the business is 
necessary.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have remained in place as auditors 
for 7 years following a tender process in 2009. As part of its review 
the Committee notes that the Group Audit Partner was rotated 
in 2013 and the current audit partner’s five year term will end in 
2017. The Committee will continue to monitor the appropriateness 
of the need to tender for audit services currently provided by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP . During this year, £139,000 and 
£24,000 was paid by the Group to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
for taxation services and other assurance services respectively.
Attendance table
Committee 
meetings 
attended
Committee 
meetings 
eligible to 
attend
Mark Asplin (Non-Executive chairman) 2 2
Terence B Garthwaite (Non-Executive) 2 2
Derek Carter (Non-Executive) 2 2
Nathalie Schwarz (Non-Executive) 2 2
Approved on behalf of the board by:
Terence B Garthwaite
Chairman of the Audit Committee
14 September 2015
35
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Our Governance 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Key responsibilities
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to:
 z Review the size, balance and constitution of the Board including 
the diversity and balance of skills, knowledge and experience of 
the Non-Executive Directors;
 z Consider succession planning for Directors and other senior 
executives;
 z Identify and nominate for the approval of the Board candidates 
to fill Board vacancies;
 z Review annually the time commitment required of Non-
Executive Directors; and
 z Make recommendations for the Board, in consultation with the 
respective Committee chairman regarding membership of the 
audit and remuneration Committees.
Main activities of the Committee during 
the year and subsequent to the year end
The Committee met three times during the year to 30 June 2015. 
The key matters considered at these meetings were:
i) Board composition
Audit Committee Chairman 
Terry Garthwaite, who has been a Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee since June 2005, has decided 
not to seek re-election at the next AGM in November 2015 in 
accordance with best practice under the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and will be succeeded by Paul Dollman.
Chief Operating Officer
Neil Smith, Chief Operating Officer decided to leave the Group, 
effective from 1 January 2015, to pursue other opportunities. In 
light of the formation of the newly established Executive Committee 
this position has not been replaced.
Chief Executive Officer
As previously reported, the Committee successfully appointed 
Pedro Ros as the Chief Executive Officer following the 
announcement on 25 February 2014 that Charles J Brady intended 
to retire. 
The Committee reviewed the composition of the Board including 
the range of skills, level of experience and balance between 
executive and Non-Executive Directors. The Committee used 
Independent Search Partnership LLP , an External Search 
Consultancy, in assisting with the search for a successor for 
the Chief Executive Officer and Non-Executive Director roles. 
Independent Search Partnership LLP has no connection with the 
Group.
The Committee also reviewed the membership of the various Board 
Committees.
ii) Succession planning
The Committee kept under review the succession plans for both 
the Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the level of Senior 
Management immediately below Board level.
Chris Jelley resigned as Chief Technology Officer in July 2015. 
Chris has been succeeded by Mike Fraser who joined from Reed 
Business Information on 1 September 2015. 
As part of the business review Wilmington appointed four  
Divisional Directors to the Executive Committee.
Richard Cockton retired as Group Company Secretary at the 
Annual General Meeting on 6 November 2014. Linda Wake replaced 
Richard as the Group Company Secretary.
Attendance table
Committee 
meetings 
attended
Committee 
meetings 
eligible to 
attend
Mark Asplin (Non-Executive chairman) 3 3
Pedro Ros (Chief Executive Officer) 2 2
Terence B Garthwaite (Non-Executive) 3 3
Derek Carter (Non-Executive) 3 3
Nathalie Schwarz (Non-Executive) 3 3
Charles J Brady 1 1
Approved on behalf of the board by:
Derek Carter
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
14 September 2015
Nomination Committee Report
On behalf of the Board it is my  
pleasure to present the 
Nomination Committee report for 
the year ended 30 June 2015.
Derek Carter
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
36 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Remuneration 
report for the period ended 30 June 2015. 
To reflect the requirements of the remuneration reporting 
regulations, this report is presented in two sections: the Annual 
Report on Remuneration and the Directors’ Remuneration Policy. 
The Annual Report on Remuneration provides details on the 
amounts earned in respect of the year ended 30 June 2015 and 
how the Directors’ Remuneration Policy will be operated for the 
year commencing 1 July 2015. The Annual Report on Remuneration 
is subject to an advisory vote at the next Annual General Meeting 
due to be held on 5 November 2015. 
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy sets out the forward-looking 
remuneration, recruitment and termination policy. The Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy was approved by the shareholders at the 
last Annual General Meeting held on 6 November 2014. Unless a 
change is proposed the Directors’ Remuneration Policy will next 
need to be approved by the shareholders before 6 November 2017.
Review of 2015
As described in the Strategic Report section of this Annual 
Report, Wilmington has performed well across all key financial and 
operational measures. The Group has made progress as evidenced 
by the improved financial performance in 2015 and consequently 
an annual bonus to Executive Directors of 78.5% of base salary 
is due for performance against targets set by the Committee for 
the 2015 financial year. In addition given the financial performance 
in last three years; 100% of the 2012 PSP has vested based on 
performance to 30 June 2015.
Outlook for 2016
For the current financial year: 
 z An increase of 2.0% in annual salary is being awarded to the 
Executive Directors for the new financial year.
 z The annual bonus potential for Executive Directors remains 
unchanged at up to a maximum of 100% of base salary 
dependent on key financial performance indicators. There are 
clear financial targets based on the achievement of adjusted 
profit, return on equity and return on sales and the Committee 
is satisfied that these are challenging and, in order for the 
maximum bonus to be earned, will demonstrate significant 
further improvement in the profit performance of the business;
 z The Committee will continue to monitor the performance 
conditions for any future PSP awards to ensure that the 
conditions continue to be appropriate for the Company and 
the prevailing market and reflect the application of a ‘pay for 
performance’ philosophy in the best interests of the Company 
and shareholders; and
 z It is intended that PSP awards in 2015/16 will be made on a 
similar basis to the 2014/15 awards except that Pedro Ros 
will receive the equivalent of 75% of his salary (2014/15: 
50%), consistent with discretion exercised previously by the 
Committee and following a review of the reward structure for the 
Executive Directors in light of recent board changes.
 z Neil Smith decided to step down from the Board as Chief 
Operating Officer with effect from 31 December 2014.
 z Charles Brady remains on the Board in a part time capacity as 
an Executive Director. His remuneration consists of base salary 
and taxable benefits set at a level which reflects his part time 
status. Charles Brady does not participate in the annual bonus 
scheme or be eligible for future grants of awards under the PSP .
 z We are committed to providing appropriate incentivisation for 
senior management. During the year we have reviewed our 
offering and will be widening participation in long term incentive 
plans to a wider employee population. This change is expected 
to dilute the current shareholding by approximately 0.5% on an 
annual basis.
Approved on behalf of the board by:
Nathalie Schwarz
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
14 September 2015
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Remuneration Committee Chairman’s Annual Statement
On behalf of the Board I am  
pleased to present the 
Remuneration report for the 
period ended 30 June 2015.
Nathalie Schwarz
37
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Our Governance 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Certain details set out on pages 38 to 43 of this report have been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP .
Introduction (unaudited information)
The Committee has an established policy on the remuneration of Executive and Non-Executive Directors. The key principles are as follows:
 z Remuneration is directly aligned with the performance of the Group and the interests of shareholders. It is designed to reward, motivate, 
incentivise and retain Executives of the highest calibre, without paying more than is necessary.
 z A significant proportion of Executives’ potential remuneration is structured so as to link rewards to annual and long-term Group 
performance targets, which are reviewed annually. Targets are calibrated appropriately so as to ensure that they cannot encourage 
excessive risk.
Single total figure of remuneration for each Director (audited information)
The tables below report the total remuneration receivable in respect of qualifying services by each Director during the year.
2015
Total salary 
and fees
1
£’000
Taxable 
benefits
2
£’000
Annual 
bonus
3
£’000
Compensation 
for loss of 
office
4
£’000
PSP
5
£’000
Pensions 
related 
benefits
£’000
Total
£’000
Executive Directors
Pedro Ros 336 28 273 — — 34 671
Anthony M Foye 256 25 185 — 496 — 962
Neil E Smith 143 13 — 899 — — 1,055
Charles J Brady 243 17 — — 332 — 592
Non-Executive Directors
Mark Asplin 100 — — — — — 100
Terence B Garthwaite 41 — — — — — 41
Derek Carter 41 — — — — — 41
Nathalie Schwarz 41 — — — — — 41
2014
Total salary 
and fees
1
£’000
Taxable 
benefits
2
£’000
Annual 
bonus
3
£’000
Compensation 
for loss of 
office
4
£’000
PSP
5
£’000
Pensions 
related 
benefits
£’000
Total
£’000
Executive Directors
Charles J Brady 369 29 302 — 250 — 950
Anthony M Foye 252 25 205 — — — 482
Neil E Smith 283 23 231 — 159 — 696
Non-Executive Directors —
Mark Asplin 79 — — — — — 79
Terence B Garthwaite 41 — — — — — 41
Derek Carter 41 — — — — — 41
Nathalie Schwarz 41 — — — — — 41
1 
Total salary and fees — the amount of salary/fees received in the year. 
2 
Taxable benefits — the taxable value of benefits received in the year (i.e. car allowance and private medical insurance).
3 
 Annual bonus — the cash value of the bonus earned in respect of the year. A description of performance against the objectives which applied for the 
financial year is provided on page 39.
4 
Compensation for loss of office – the cash value of the compensation for the loss of office for Neil Smith as described further on page 42.
5 
PSP – the value of performance related incentives vesting in respect of the financial year.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Annual Report on Remuneration
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
38 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
For the year ended 30 June 2015:
 z EPS growth in excess of RPI was 11.1%, ROE (for PSP)
1
 was 32.4%, the Company’s TSR was positioned 17th out of 139 comparator 
companies for the three year performance period ending 30 June 2015 and 100.0% of maximum LTIP award will vest (these amounts 
represent the Group’s best estimates and are subject to final confirmation from the Committee’s adviser Aon Hewitt Limited due to be 
finalised shortly after the finalisation of these accounts);
 z The value shown for PSP includes the value of dividends that would have accrued on vested shares during the performance period that 
will subsequently be paid to the participants; and
 z The PSP awards will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant (vesting date), the estimated value of the vested shares shown 
above is based on the three month average share price to 30 June 2015.
For the year ended 30 June 2014 comparative figures:
 z EPS growth in excess of RPI was 7.1%, ROE (for PSP)
1
 was 30.0% the Company’s TSR was positioned 40th out of 156 comparator 
companies for the three year performance period ending 30 June 2014 and 91.8% of maximum LTIP award vested;
 z The value shown for PSP includes the value of dividends that would have accrued on vested shares during the performance period that 
were subsequently be paid to the participants; and
 z The PSP awards vested on the third anniversary of the date of grant (vesting date), the value of the vested shares shown above is 
based on the share price on 19 October at £2.13.
Total salary and fees 
For the year ended 30 June 2015 (audited information)
Total salary and fees are based on the need to retain the skills and knowledge that the Executive and Non-Executive Directors bring to the 
Company. Pedro Ros’ salary is included from the date of his appointment, 14 July 2014 to the end of the year. The salaries and fees are 
set at a level that is consistent in businesses of the Company’s size and nature. Executive Directors’ salaries increased by 2% in 2014/15 
compared to 2013/14. This increase was in line with base salary increases for the wide employee population.
For the year ended 30 June 2016 (unaudited information)
It is intended that the Executive Director salaries will be increased by 2.0% for 2015/16. This increase was in line with base salary 
increases for the wider employee population. The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are expected to increase by £5,000 per annum, 
except for the Mark Asplin, the Non-Executive Chairman, whose fees are expected to increase by £12,500 per annum. These increases 
reflect the increased workloads and to align the fees with those of similar roles across the market. These changes were effective from 1 
September 2015.
Annual bonus 
For the year ended 30 June 2015 (audited information)
Annual bonus payments were based on the Company’s performance against targets based on linear ranges of adjusted profit, ROE 
(for Annual bonus) and ROS, set at the start of the year. In relation to the bonuses payable, these were based on the following level of 
achievement against each of the three metrics:
 z Up to 60% of salary for the adjusted profit measure;
 z Up to 20% of salary for the ROE (for Annual bonus) measure; 
 z Up to 20% of salary for the ROS measure;
 z Linear scales of bonus for each metric were set at the start of the financial year;
 z Annual bonus payments are pro-rated to match service periods where a Director only served for part of the year;
 z Adjusted profit is profit before adjusting items, impairment of goodwill, amortisation of publishing rights, title and benefits, unwinding of 
the discount on the provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests, unwinding of the discount on deferred consideration, 
provision for the Executives’ bonuses, share based payments and after deducting the interest of non-controlling shareholders in such 
profits;
 z The profit element of ROE (for Annual bonus) is based on Adjusted Profit before Tax after other adjusting items; and
 z The profit element of ROS is based on Adjusted EBITA after impairment.
1 
 ROE (for PSP) – The three year average Adjusted EBITA less impairment divided by the average Equity attributable to the owners of the parent
39
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Our Governance 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Annual Report on Remuneration
The following provides the adjusted profit, ROE (for Annual Bonus) and ROS target reference points together with the bonus pay-outs to 
the Executive Directors for 2014/15:
Minimum 
target set
Maximum 
target set
Performance 
out-turn
Resulting 
payout as a % 
of base salary
Adjusted profit (for Annual bonus) £17,307,000 £19,903,000 £18,974,000 38.5%
ROE (for Annual bonus) 25.0% 27.0% 32.1% 20.0%
ROS 17.5% 19.5% 21.5% 20.0%
Total 78.5%
For the year ending 30 June 2016 (unaudited remuneration)
The Committee has agreed that the metrics used to determine the annual bonus for 2014/15 remain unchanged and the maximum bonus 
opportunity will remain at 100% of base salary. The bonus will be subject to stretching targets. The Committee believes that the targets for 
the financial measures for the forthcoming financial year are commercially sensitive and that to disclose them may damage the Company’s 
competitive position. Targets will be published retrospectively in next year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report or at such point that the 
Remuneration Committee considers that the performance targets are no longer commercially sensitive.
PSP 
Awards vesting in respect of the year ended 30 June 2015 (audited information)
The PSP awards granted on 17 October 2012 that are due to vest on 17 October 2015 were subject to EPS growth, ROE (for PSP) and 
relative TSR performance against the FTSE SmallCap over a three year period to 30 June 2015. The performance conditions for these 
awards were as shown in the table below:
One-third of award — Average annual EPS growth in excess of RPI Percentage of Award Vesting
Less than 3% per annum 0.0%
3% per annum 25.0%
Between 3% per annum and 9% per annum On a straight line basis between 25.0% and 100.0%
9% per annum or more 100.0%
One-third of award — ROE (for PSP) Percentage of Award Vesting
Less than 25.0% 0.0%
25.0% 25.0%
Between 25.0% and 29.0% On a straight line basis between 25.0% and 100.0%
29.0% or above 100.0%
One-third of award — TSR versus FTSE SmallCap Percentage of Award Vesting
Below median 0.0%
Median 25.0%
Between median and upper quartile On a straight line basis between 25.0% and 100.0%
Upper quartile or above 100.0%
The table below details the Company’s performance against these objectives for the three year performance period:
Element Target Range 
Performance 
out-turn
Shares vested 
as a % of 
maximum
EPS Growth 3.0% – 9.0% 11.1% 33.33%
ROE (for PSP) 25.0% – 29.0% 32.4% 33.33%
TSR
Median or 
above 17 out 139 33.33%
Total 100.00%
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
40 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Awards granted during the year
In respect of the year ended 30 June 2015 the following PSP awards were granted on 19 September 2014: 
Name
Type of 
award
Number of 
shares
Face value 
at grant
% of award 
vesting at 
minimum 
threshold
Pedro Ros PSP 79,542 £173,799 25.0%
Anthony M Foye PSP 54,089 £118,184 25.0%
Neil E Smith PSP 60,779 £132,802 25.0%
The face value is based on a price of 2.185 pence being the average share price from the five business days immediately preceding the 
award which was made on 19 September 2014. The awards vest on 19 September 2017. The performance conditions for these awards are 
the same as the performance conditions detailed in the table above. The number of shares awarded represents 50% of each individual’s 
salary.
The Committee determined that, all participants (including Executives) will be required to hold no less than 50% of any vested shares (net 
of taxes) for a minimum of two years.
For the year ending 30 June 2016 (unaudited remuneration)
It is intended that awards in 2015/16 will be made on a similar basis to the 2014/15 awards, except for Pedro Ros whose award is 
expected to represent 75% of his salary. No changes are proposed to the performance conditions detailed in the table above.
Shareholding guidelines and statement of Directors’ share awards (audited information)
Shareholding guidelines for Executives have been adopted, linked to the outturn from the PSP . At the time Awards vest under the PSP (or 
any other Executive plan established in the future), Executives will be expected to retain no fewer than 50% of vested shares (net of taxes) 
until such time as a total personal shareholding equivalent to 100% of pre-tax base salary has been achieved. This requirement will not 
apply to participants to the scheme other than the Executives.
It should be noted that at 30 June 2015 both Anthony M Foye and Charles J Brady held shares worth significantly more than the 
shareholding guideline level. As at 30 June 2015 Pedro Ros held approximately the equivalent of 17% of his pre-tax base salary in shares, 
which has been acquired since his appointment in July 2014. In addition to his own acquisition of shares, 50% of any vested PSP shares 
(net of tax) will be retained in line with the policy above.
The holdings of the Directors and their families as at 30 June 2015 are as follows:
Beneficial/
Non-Beneficial
At 1 July 
2014 
(or date of 
appointment)
Movement 
in year
At 30 June 
2015
At 30 June 
2015 
Percentage
Pedro Ros Beneficial — 22,425 22,425 0.03%
Charles J Brady Beneficial 3,076,429 1,417,390 4,493,819 5.20%
Anthony M Foye Beneficial 435,000 65,000 500,000 0.58%
Mark Asplin Beneficial 41,390 — 41,390 0.05%
Derek Carter Beneficial 10,000 — 10,000 0.01%
Terence B Garthwaite Beneficial 5,000 — 5,000 0.01%
No changes have occurred between the shareholdings as described above and the date of issuance of this report.
As at 30 June 2015 the Company’s share price was 255.00p and its highest and lowest share prices during the year ended 30 June 2015 
were 312.75p and 186.50p respectively. Interests are shown as a percentage of shares in issue at 30 June 2015.
41
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Our Governance 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Annual Report on Remuneration
Executive Directors’ interests under share schemes (audited information)
Awards held under the PSP by each person who was a Director at 30 June 2015 are as follows: 
Award date
Number of 
shares at 
 1 July 
2014
Granted during 
the year
Lapsed during 
the year
Exercised 
during 
the year
Number of 
shares at 
30 June 
2015*
Date which 
awards vest
Pedro Ros 19 Sep 2014 — 79,542 — — 79,542 19 Sep 2017
Charles J Brady 19 Oct 2011 112,301 — (7,154) (105,147) — 19 Oct 2014
Charles J Brady 17 Oct 2012 122,400 — — — 122,400 17 Oct 2015
Charles J Brady 19 Sep 2013 94,165 — — — 94,165 19 Sep 2016
Anthony M Foye 17 Oct 2012 183,111 — — — 183,111 17 Oct 2015
Anthony M Foye 19 Sep 2013 63,722 — — — 63,722 19 Sep 2016
Anthony M Foye 19 Sep 2014 — 54,089 — — 54,089 19 Sep 2017
Neil E Smith 19 Oct 2011 71,509 — (4,555) (66,954) — 19 Oct 2014
Neil E Smith 17 Oct 2012 93,528 — — — 93,528 17 Oct 2015
Neil E Smith 19 Sep 2013 71,953 — (17,283) — 54,670 19 Sep 2016
Neil E Smith 19 Sep 2014 — 60,779 (34,857) — 25,922 19 Sep 2017
* unvested and subject to performance conditions
Dilution (unaudited information)
Under the rules of the PSP , awards under the unvested Company’s discretionary schemes which may be satisfied by a new issue of shares 
must not exceed 5.0% of the Company’s issued share capital in any rolling 10 year period and the total of all awards satisfied via new 
issue shares under all plans (both discretionary and all-employee) over a ten year period must not exceed 10.0% of the Company’s issued 
share capital in any rolling 10 year period.
At 30 June 2015, the headroom under the Company’s 5.0% and 10.0% limits was 3,318,413 and 4,825,033 shares respectively, out of an 
issued share capital of 86,507,461 shares.
Pensions related benefits 
For the year ended 30 June 2015 (audited information)
The Company made pension contributions totalling £33,603 on behalf of Pedro Ros, reflective of 10% of his annual salary. The other 
Executive Directors did not participate in a contribution scheme.
For the year ending 30 June 2016 (unaudited)
The Company expects to continue making pension contributions on behalf of Pedro Ros. These contributions are expected to remain at 
10% of his annual salary. It is expected that the other Executive Directors will continue to not participate in a contribution scheme.
Payments for loss of office (audited information)
Payments for loss of office for Neil Smith who left the Company on 31 December 2014 totalling £899,000 can be analysed as i) £345,000 
for payment in lieu of notice together with other payments as defined on page 51 ii) £100,000 for a pro-rated bonus allowance (awarded at 
the discretion of the Committee after taking into account the performance to the 31 December 2014 and the expected performance, at the 
time of his departure, up to the period to 30 June 2015) and iii) £454,000 for unvested share awards as detailed below.
At the Remuneration Committee’s discretion, the unvested share awards were adjusted as follows:
 z 0%, or nil, share awards granted in Oct 2012 and vesting in Oct 2015 lapsed leaving 100%, or 93,528 outstanding
 z 24.02%, or 17,283, share awards granted in Sep 2013 and vesting in Sep 2016 lapsed leaving 75.98%, or 54,670 outstanding
 z 57.35%, or 34,857, share awards granted in Sep 2014 and vesting in Sep 2017 lapsed leaving 42.65%, or 25,922 outstanding.
The 174,120 total unvested and outstanding share awards are valued at approximately £454,496 based on the three month average share 
price to 30 June 2015.
The Committee exercised its discretion to pro-rata the bonus and unvested shares for time served up to the date of Neil’s departure on 31 
December 2014. This discretion was made having taken into account the company’s performance, the individual’s contribution and the 
long length of service given to the group.
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
42 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Payments to past Directors (audited information)
Payments totalling £20,487 were made to Elgin White Limited, a third party company, controlled by Neil Smith, subsequent to his departure 
as an Executive Director in respect of consultancy services provided in connection with an aborted acquisition. 
Performance graph and table (unaudited information)
The graph included in the annual report on the company website shows, for the year ended 30 June 2015 and for each of the previous 
four years, the total shareholder return (calculated in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Company and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) Regulations 2013) on a holding of the Company’s ordinary shares compared with a hypothetical holding of shares of the same 
kind and number as those by reference to which the FTSE All — Share Media Index and the FTSE Small Cap Index are calculated. These 
indices have been chosen as the appropriate comparators because it is these indices within which the Company’s shares are quoted.  
50
100
150
200
250
300
Wilmington FTSE Small Cap FTSE All Share Media
Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Jun-13 Dec-13 Jun-14 Dec-14 Jun-15
Wilmington
 
FTSE Small Cap
 
FTSE All Share Media 
 
Growth
 
132.7%
 
98.9%
 
145.0%
 
CAGR '10-'14 18.4% 14.7% 19.6%
Chief Executive Officer single figure (unaudited information)
Total 
remuneration 
£’000
Annual Bonus
 as a % of 
maximum 
opportunity
%
PSP as a % 
of maximum 
number of 
shares
%
2014/15 Pedro Ros 671 78.5% —
2013/14 Charles J Brady 943 88.6% 91.84%
2012/13 Charles J Brady 935 80.0% 55.00%
2011/12 Charles J Brady 580 55.2% —
2010/11 Charles J Brady 535 46.3% —
2009/10 Charles J Brady 393 2.8% —
Percentage change in remuneration of Chief Executive Officer and employees 
(unaudited information)
The percentage change in salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus between 2013/14 and 2014/15 for the Chief Executive Officer and for 
all employees in the Group was:
Salary
Taxable 
benefits
Annual 
bonus
Chief Executive Officer 2.0% 2.0% (9.6%)
Employee population 2.0% 0.0% 29.0%
43
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Our Governance 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Annual Report on Remuneration
Relative importance of spend on pay (unaudited information)
The difference in actual expenditure between 2013/14 and 2014/15 on remuneration for all employees in comparison to distributions to 
shareholders by way of dividend are set out in the table below:
2014/15
£’000
Expenditure on remuneration for all employees 35,582
Distributions to shareholders by way of a dividend 6,370
 
Details of the Remuneration Committee, advisers to the Committee and their fees 
(unaudited information)
Details of the Directors who were members of the Committee during the year are disclosed on pages 23 to 25. The Committee has 
also received assistance from the Chief Executive Officer with respect to the remuneration of the other Executive Directors and on the 
Company’s remuneration policy more generally. He is not in attendance when his own remuneration is discussed.
During the year, the Committee received independent advice from the following external consultants:
Committees advisers
2014/15
£’000
Aon Hewitt Limited provided advice to the Committee on market practice, governance and performance analysis. 7
Deloitte LLP provided advice to the Committee on the new regulations which impacts the presentation 
of the Remuneration Report. 28
Deloitte LLP was appointed by the Committee in 2013. Aon Hewitt Limited was appointed by the Committee in previous years. The 
Committee took into account the Remuneration Consultants Group’s Code of Conduct when reviewing the appointment of Aon Hewitt 
Limited and Deloitte LLP .
The Committee is satisfied that all advice received was objective and independent. 
Details of the attendance of the Committee are set out in the table below:
Committee member Member since
Committee 
Meetings 
attended
Committee 
Meetings 
eligible to 
attend
Nathalie Schwarz (Committee chairman) December 2011 3 3
Derek Carter December 2011 3 3
Mark Asplin April 2005 3 3
Terence B Garthwaite June 2005 3 3
Statement of voting at general meeting (unaudited information)
At the AGM held on 6 November 2014 the Directors’ Remuneration policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration received the following 
votes from shareholders:
Remuneration policy Total number of votes % of votes cast
For 69,286,584 99.96%
Against 5,340 0.01%
Total votes cast (for and against) 69,291,924 
Votes withheld 2,000 
Total votes (including withheld votes) 69,293,924
Annual Report on Remuneration Total number of votes % of votes cast
For 69,286,584 99.96%
Against 5,340 0.01%
Total votes cast (for and against) 69,291,924 
Votes withheld 2,000 
Total votes (including withheld votes) 69,293,924
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
44 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors Remuneration Policy
The table below sets out the Company’s Directors’ remuneration policy which was approved at the last AGM on 6 November 2014. No 
changes have been made to the policy since this approval.
Base Salary
Purpose and link 
to strategy
Core element of fixed remuneration set at a market competitive level with the aim to recruit, motivate and 
retain Directors of the calibre required.
Operation The Committee ordinarily reviews base salaries annually taking into account:
 z Performance of the Group and pay conditions elsewhere in the workforce;
 z Performance of the individual;
 z Changes in position or responsibility; and
 z Market competitiveness.
The Committee periodically takes external advice to benchmark salaries by reference to Executives with 
similar positions in comparator organisations. In considering relevant benchmarking the Committee is also 
aware of the risk of an upward pay ratchet through placing undue emphasis on comparator pay surveys.
Base salary is the only pensionable element of remuneration.
Opportunity While there is no maximum salary, increases will normally be in line with the typical level of salary increase 
awarded (in percentage of salary terms) to other employees in the Group. 
Salary increases above this level may be awarded in certain circumstances, such as:
 z where an Executive Director has been promoted or has had a change in scope or responsibility;
 z a new Executive Director being moved to market positioning over time; 
 z where there has been a significant change in market practice;
 z where there has been a significant change in the size and/or complexity of the business.
Such increases may be implemented over such time period as the Committee deems appropriate.
Performance Metric Not applicable.
Pension
Purpose and link  
to strategy
Helps recruit and retain executives.
Rewards sustained contribution and commitment to the Group.
Provides market competitive post-employment benefits.
Operation Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the defined contribution pension scheme. 
The Committee has the discretion to pay cash supplements in lieu of pension contributions in certain 
circumstances.
Opportunity The Company contributes up to 10% of salary to a pension scheme on behalf of the Executive Directors, and/
or as a salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions where appropriate. 
Executive Directors are entitled to elect to sacrifice part of their salary and bonus into a personal pension 
scheme.
Performance metric Not applicable.
45
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Our Governance 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors Remuneration Policy
Taxable benefits
Purpose and link  
to strategy
Fixed element of remuneration set at a market competitive level with the aim to recruit, motivate and retain 
Directors of the calibre required.
Operation Executive Directors receive benefits in line with market practice and principally include a fully expensed car 
or car allowance and private medical cover (for the Executive Director and his or her family), and permanent 
health insurance.
Other benefits may be provided based on individual circumstances and response to market pressures.
Opportunity Whilst the Committee has not set an absolute maximum on the level of benefits Executive Directors may 
receive, the value of the benefit is set at a level which the Committee considers to be appropriately positioned 
taking into account relevant market levels based on the nature and location of the role and individual 
circumstances.
Performance Metric Not applicable.
Annual Bonus
Purpose and link  
to strategy
Rewards the achievement of the Group strategy of sustainable growth.
Operation Targets are reviewed annually and any payout is determined by the Committee after the year-end based on 
targets set for the financial period.
The bonus plan rules contain provisions such that appropriate means of redress may be sought (i.e. claw 
back) if it transpires that a bonus was paid for performance in a year which later proves to have materially 
misstated.
There is no scope to make discretionary bonus payments outside of the scope of the bonus plan.
Opportunity The maximum bonus is 100% of base salary.
Performance metric Stretching targets are set each year reflecting the business priorities which underpin Group strategy and align 
to key performance indicators.
The annual bonus is determined based on performance against a mix of targets. The majority will be 
determined by financial measures and may include adjusted profit, return on equity (‘ROE’) and Return on 
Sale (‘ROS’) targets.
Vesting of financial metrics will apply on a sliding scale up to 100% of maximum potential for this element of 
the bonus based on the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Vesting of non-financial or individual metrics (where applicable) will apply on a scale between 0% and 100% 
based on the Committee’s assessment of the extent to which non-financial or individual performance metrics 
has been met.
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
46 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Performance share plan (‘PSP’)
Purpose and link 
 to strategy
Incentivises Executive Directors to achieve returns for shareholders over a longer timeframe.
Operation Executive Directors may receive awards in the form of conditional awards of shares, options to acquire 
shares for nil cost or as cash settled equivalents. Share awards may be settled in cash at the election of the 
Committee.
Vesting is dependent on the achievement of performance conditions normally over a three year measurement 
period.
The Committee will determine performance conditions prior to each Award, with performance measured over 
a single period of three years with no provision to re-test.
The Committee may operate clawback if, at any time before the later of (i) the second anniversary of the 
vesting of an award and (ii) the publication of the Company’s second set of audited financial accounts 
following such vesting, there has been a material misstatement of the Company’s financial accounts, an error 
occurred when assessing the number of shares over which a PSP award vests, or the participant has been 
guilty of gross misconduct. In these circumstances, there may be a proportionate reduction of future bonuses 
and/or share awards made under the PSP to reflect the overpayment of shares, or the participant may be 
required to repay the overpaid amounts from personal funds. 
An additional payment (in the form of cash or shares) may be made in respect of shares which vest under the 
PSP to reflect the value of dividends which would have been paid on those shares in respect of record dates 
during the vesting period. The Committee shall determine the basis on which the value of such dividends 
shall be calculated, and may assume the reinvestment of dividends in the Company’s shares on a cumulative 
basis.
Opportunity The maximum award limit under the PSP scheme will be 150% of base salary.
Performance Metric The awards under the PSP will be based on a mix of key longer term metrics for the Group. These will be 
metrics which the Committee considers to be the most appropriate measures of longer term performance and 
could include TSR, EPS and ROE. 
Where more than one performance condition applies, these will normally apply with an equal weighting.
The threshold payout level under the PSP is 25% of the maximum award.
There will usually be straight line vesting between threshold and maximum performance.
The Committee may amend the terms of awards under the PSP in accordance with the PSP rules in the event of a variation of the 
Company’s share capital, demerger, special dividend or other similar event. The Committee may amend the rules of the PSP and awards 
granted under it within the scope defined in the PSP rules as approved by shareholders. 
47
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Our Governance 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors Remuneration Policy
Explanation of performance  
metrics chosen
Performance measures for the annual bonus and PSP are reviewed 
annually to ensure they continue to reflect the business strategy 
and remain sufficiently stretching. 
The Committee considers that adjusted profit, Return on Equity 
(‘ROE’) and Return on Sale (‘ROS’) targets are closely aligned to the 
Group’s key performance metrics and in application to the annual 
bonus alone provide a balanced measure of performance that 
encourages sustainable growth. The application of TSR, EPS and 
ROE targets to the PSP align management’s objectives with those 
of shareholders for the following reasons:
 z The EPS target will reward significant and sustained increase 
in earnings that would be expected to flow through into 
shareholder value. For the participants, this will also deliver a 
strong ‘line of sight’ as it will be straightforward to evaluate and 
communicate;
 z The ROE performance condition will reward Executives for 
delivery of returns to shareholders but adding a further discipline 
of ensuring the most efficient use of shareholders’ funds; and
 z The TSR performance condition will provide a balance to the 
financial performance conditions by rewarding relative share 
price performance against the companies comprising the FTSE 
Small Cap Index and ensures that a share price-based discipline 
in the package (in the absence of options) is retained. This will 
ensure that management can be rewarded for delivering superior 
market returns.
The Committee considers that this blend of measures provides 
a link to the Company’s strategy, which is to create a sustained 
improvement in underlying performance and maximise returns to 
shareholders.
When setting the performance targets, the Committee will take 
into account a number of different reference points, which may 
include the Company’s business plans and strategy and market 
environment. Full vesting will only occur for what the Committee 
considers to be stretching performance.
The Committee may vary any performance measure if an event 
occurs which causes it to determine that it would be appropriate 
to vary the measure, provided that any such variation is fair and 
reasonable and (in the opinion of the Committee) the altered 
performance measure would be not materially less difficult to 
satisfy than the unaltered performance measure would have been 
but for the event in question. If the Committee were to make such 
a variation, a full explanation would be given in the next Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. 
Legacy matters
The Committee also retains discretion to make payments outside of 
this Policy:
 z to satisfy payments to Executive Directors made under 
contractual commitments made prior to (and not in 
contemplation of) the individual becoming an Executive Director; 
and
 z to satisfy contractual commitments under legacy remuneration 
arrangements.
Illustration of the application of the 
remuneration policy 
The charts included in the annual report on the company website 
set out for each of the Executive Directors an illustration of the 
application for 2015/16 of the remuneration policy set out above. 
The charts show the split of remuneration between fixed pay and 
variable pay in the Policy for:
 z minimum remuneration receivable — salary, fees, taxable 
benefits and pension;
 z the remuneration receivable if the Director was, in respect of any 
performance measures or targets, performing in line with the 
Company’s expectation; and
 z maximum remuneration receivable (not allowing for any share 
price appreciation).
0
400
200
600
800
1,000
1,200
Maximum
performance
In line with
expectations
Minimum
performance
177
152
354
303
405 405 405
Fixed Pay
Annual Bonus
PSP
Total remuneration (£000)
Pedro Ros
0
200
100
400
300
500
600
700
800
Maximum
performance
In line with
expectations
Minimum
performance
121
71
241
143
286 286 286
Fixed Pay
Annual Bonus
PSP
Total remuneration (£000)
Anthony M Foye
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Maximum
performance
In line with
expectations
Minimum
performance
56 56 56
Fixed Pay
Annual Bonus
PSP
Total remuneration (£000)
Charles J Brady
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
48 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
The Committee believes an appropriate proportion of the Executive Directors’ remuneration links reward to corporate and individual 
performance and is aligned to the Group’s strategic priorities.
In illustrating the potential reward the following assumptions have been made:
Basic Performance In line with expectations Maximum performance
Fixed pay Based on fixed pay effective as at 1 July 2015
Annual bonus No bonus 50% of salary 100% of salary
PSP No PSP vesting 37.5% of salary for Pedro Ros  
and 25% of salary for Anthony M 
Foye
75% of salary for Pedro Ros  
and 50% of salary for Anthony M 
Foye
Non-Executive Directors 
Purpose and link 
to strategy Operation Opportunity
Performance 
metrics
Non-
Executive 
Director 
Fees
Sole element of Non-
Executive Director 
remuneration set at 
a level that reflects 
market conditions 
and is sufficient to 
attract individuals with 
appropriate knowledge 
and experience.
Fees are reviewed periodically and amended 
to reflect any change in responsibilities and 
time commitments. Where appropriate 
external advice is taken on setting market 
competitive fees. 
The Non-Executive Directors do not 
participate in any of the Group’s share 
incentive plans nor do they receive any 
benefits or pension contributions. 
Non-Executive Directors may be eligible to 
receive benefits such as the use of secretarial 
support, travel costs or other benefits that 
may be appropriate.
Fees are based on the 
time commitment and 
responsibilities of the role.
Fees are subject to an 
overall cap as set out in 
the Company’s Articles of 
Association.
Not applicable
Differences in policy from the wider employee population
The Company values its wider workforce and aims to provide a remuneration package that is market competitive, complies with any 
statutory requirements and is applied fairly and equitably across the wider employee population. Where remuneration is not determined by 
statutory regulation, the Company operates the same core principles as it does for Executive Directors namely;
 z We remunerate people in a manner that allows for stability of the business and the opportunity for sustainable long term growth; and
 z We seek to remunerate fairly and consistently for each role with due regard to the market place, internal consistency and the 
Company’s ability to pay.
49
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Our Governance 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors Remuneration Policy
Recruitment remuneration policy
The objective of this policy is to allow the Committee to offer remuneration packages which facilitate the recruitment of individuals of 
sufficient calibre to lead the business and effectively execute the strategy for shareholders. When appointing a new Executive Director, the 
Committee seeks to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and not to pay more than is appropriate.
The Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including the calibre of the individual, the candidate’s existing remuneration 
package, and the specific circumstances of the individual including the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited.
When hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically align the remuneration package with the above Policy. The Committee 
may include other elements of pay which it considers are appropriate, however, this discretion is capped and is subject to the principles 
and the limits referred to below. 
 z Base salary will be set at a level appropriate to the role and the experience of the Director being appointed. This may include agreement 
on future increases up to a market rate, in line with increased experience and/or responsibilities, subject to good performance, where it 
is considered appropriate.
 z Pension and benefits will only be provided in line with the above Policy; and
 z The Committee will not offer non-performance related incentive payments (for example a ‘guaranteed sign-on bonus’). 
 z Other elements may be included in the following circumstances:
 — an interim appointment being made to fill an Executive Director role on a short-term basis;
 — if exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or a Non-Executive Director takes on an executive function on a short-term 
basis;
 — if an Executive Director is recruited at a time in the year when it would be inappropriate to provide a bonus or long-term incentive 
award for that year as there would not be sufficient time to assess performance. Subject to the limit on variable remuneration set out 
below, the quantum in respect of the months employed during the year may be transferred to the subsequent year so that reward is 
provided on a fair and appropriate basis; and
 — if the Director will be required to relocate in order to take up the position, it is the Company’s policy to allow reasonable relocation, 
travel and subsistence payments. Any such payments will be at the discretion of the Committee. 
 z The Committee may also alter the performance measures, performance period and vesting period of the annual bonus or PSP , subject 
to the rules of the PSP , if the Committee determines that the circumstances of the recruitment merit such alteration. The rationale will be 
clearly explained in the following Directors’ Remuneration Report.
 z The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted (excluding ‘buyout’ awards as referred to below) is 250% of salary. 
The Committee may make payments or awards in respect of hiring an employee to ‘buy out’ remuneration arrangements forfeited on 
leaving a previous employer. In doing so the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions 
attached to the forfeited arrangements and the time over which they would have vested. The Committee will generally seek to structure 
buy out awards or payments on a comparable basis to the remuneration arrangements forfeited. Any such payments or awards are 
excluded from the maximum level of variable remuneration referred to above. Where considered appropriate, such special recruitment 
awards will be liable to forfeiture or ‘clawback’ on early departure.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under the Company’s existing share plans. If necessary and 
subject to the limits referred to above recruitment awards may be granted outside of these plans as permitted under the Listing Rules 
which allow for the grant of awards to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director. Where a position is 
filled internally, any ongoing remuneration obligations or outstanding variable pay elements shall be allowed to continue in accordance with 
their terms. 
Fees payable to a newly appointed Chairman or Non-Executive Director will be in line with the policy in place at the time of appointment. 
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
50 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Payments for loss of office 
The Company has adopted the following policy on Executives’ service contracts:
Notice period 12 months’ notice period or less shall apply.
Termination payments 
and mitigation
Termination payments are limited to payment of 12 months’ salary, contractual pension amounts and benefits.
The policy is that, as is considered appropriate at the time, the departing Director may work, or be placed on 
garden leave, for all or part of his notice period, or receive a payment in lieu of notice in accordance with the 
service agreement. 
The Committee will consider mitigation to reduce the termination payment to a leaving Director when 
appropriate to do so, having regard to the circumstances.
Annual bonus The decision whether or not to award a bonus in full or in part will be dependent upon a number of factors 
including the circumstances of their departure and their contribution to the business during the bonus period 
in question. Any bonus payment would typically be pro-rated for time in service to termination and paid at the 
usual time (although the Committee retains discretion to pay the bonus earlier in appropriate circumstances). 
PSP Unvested awards held by the Director under the company’s PSP will lapse or vest in accordance with the rules 
of the plan, which have been approved by shareholders. In summary, the plan rules provide that awards can 
vest if employment ends by reason of redundancy, retirement, ill health or disability, death, sale of the Director’s 
employer out of the Group or any other reason determined by the Committee. The Committee shall determine 
whether the award will vest at cessation or the normal vesting date. In either case, the extent of vesting will be 
determined by the Committee taking into account the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions and, 
unless the Committee determines otherwise, applying a pro-rate reduction based on the period from the date of 
grant to the date of cessation relative to a three year period. 
Change of control Awards under the PSP will generally vest early on a takeover or other relevant corporate event. The Committee 
will determine the level of vesting taking into account the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions 
and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, a pro-rate reduction based on the period from the date of 
grant to the date of the relevant event relative to a three year period. 
Other payments In appropriate circumstances, payments may also be made in respect of accrued holiday, outplacement and 
legal fees.
Where a ‘buyout’ or other award is made outside the Company’s PSP in connection with the recruitment of an 
Executive Director, as permitted under the Listing Rules, the leaver provisions would be determined at the time 
of the award. 
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an 
existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation) or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim 
arising in connection with the termination of a Director’s office or employment. 
Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with the notice periods referred to below, with compensation limited to fees for the 
duration of the notice period.
51
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Our Governance 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors Remuneration Policy
Directors’ service agreements and letters of appointment 
The existing executive Directors’ contracts are on a rolling basis and may be terminated on 12 months’ notice by the Company or the 
Executive. All Non-Executive Directors have initial fixed term agreements with the Company of no more than three years. 
Details of the Directors’ service contracts and notice periods are set out below: 
Executive Directors
Contract 
commencement 
date Notice period
Pedro Ros July 2014 12 months
Anthony M Foye Sep 2012 12 months
Charles J Brady* Jan 2015 N/a
Non-Executive Directors
Date of initial 
appointment Notice period
Mark Asplin Apr 2005 6 months
Derek Carter Dec 2011 3 months
Nathalie Schwarz Dec 2011 3 months
Terence B Garthwaite
†
Jun 2005 3 months
*  Charles J Brady remains on the Board in a part time capacity as an Executive Director. Under a new contract his remuneration consists of base salary and 
taxable benefits set at a level which reflects his part time status. Charles Brady does not participate in the annual bonus scheme and is not eligible for future 
grants of awards under the PSP . Charles J Brady’s service contract expires in December 2015.
†
  On 8 September 2015 the Group announced that Terence B Garthwaite has decided not to seek re-election at the next AGM. Paul Dollman is expected to 
join the Board as a Non-Executive Director and as Chairman (designate) of the Audit Committee on 16 September 2016.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company
The Committee generally considers pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Company when considering the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration. When considering base salary increases, the Committee reviews overall levels of base pay increases offered to other 
employees. Employees are not actively consulted on Directors’ remuneration.
Non-Executive appointments at other companies
The Committee’s policy is that Executive Directors may, by agreement with the Board, serve as Non-Executives of other companies and 
retain any fees payable for their services.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views
The Company is committed to open and transparent dialogue with shareholders and welcomes feedback on Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors’ remuneration.
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
52 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the 
Report on Directors’ Remuneration and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have prepared 
the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union. Under company law the Directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the 
Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In 
preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
 z Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
 z Make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
 z State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union have been followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
 z Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements and the Report on 
Directors’ Remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006 
and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps 
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken 
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess a company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on 
pages 23 to 25 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
 z The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of 
the Group; and
 z The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Group, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces.
Each of the Directors also confirms that, to the best of their 
knowledge:
 z So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
 z He or she has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken 
as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
Approved on behalf of the board by:
Anthony M Foye
Chief Financial Officer
14 September 2015
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
53
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Our Governance 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Report on the financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion:
 z Wilmington plc’s Group financial statements and parent 
company financial statements (the “financial statements”) give 
a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent 
company’s affairs as at 30 June 2015 and of the Group’s profit 
and the Group’s and the parent company’s cash flows for the 
year then ended;
 z the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union;
 z the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
 z the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
Wilmington plc’s financial statements comprise:
 z the Group and parent company balance sheets as at 30 June 
2015;
 z the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
 z the Group and parent company cash flow statements for the 
year then ended;
 z the Group and parent company statement of changes in equity 
for the year then ended;
 z the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary 
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in 
the Annual Report and Financial Statements (the “Annual Report”), 
rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are 
cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as 
audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent 
company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach
Overview
Materiality:
 z Overall Group materiality: £900,000 which represents 5% of 
Group Adjusted Profit before Tax.
Audit scope: 
 z Each business segment comprises a number of legal entities 
or components. PwC UK performed audits of complete 
information for each of the Group’s significant components, 
with specified and analytical procedures being performed over 
remaining material and immaterial financial statement line items, 
respectively.
 z The full scope reporting units and group functions we 
conducted our work at accounted for 93% of the Group 
Adjusted Profit before Tax, and 84% of Group revenue.
Areas of focus:
 z Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment.
 z Revenue recognition.
The scope of our audit and areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing 
the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. 
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective 
judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future 
events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits we also 
addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, 
including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the 
Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to 
fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on 
our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are 
identified as “areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set 
out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in 
order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, 
and any comments we make on the results of our procedures 
should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks 
identified by our audit.
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the members of Wilmington plc
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
54 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Goodwill and intangible assets 
impairment assessment 
Refer to pages 34 and 35 (Audit Committee Report), page 64 
(Critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions) 
and pages 77 and 78 (notes 12 and 13).
The goodwill and intangible assets (excluding computer 
software) balances of £98.0 million, allocated across multiple 
cash-generating units (“CGUs”), are subject to an annual 
impairment review.
No impairment charge has been recorded by management 
against these balances in the current financial year. The risk 
that we focused on during the audit is that the goodwill and 
intangible balances may be overstated and that an impairment 
charge may be required. In particular we focused on:
 z The goodwill and intangibles in the ICT & Legal CGU in light 
of the challenging trading conditions experienced in this 
segment resulting from reduced demand for face to face 
training, strong price competition and the proposed change 
to the legal profession’s Continual Professional Development 
(CPD) rules;
 z The Compliance Week CGU due to the higher inherent risks 
associated with the Group’s recent US expansion; and
 z The UK Healthcare CGU, which, despite improvements in 
the reported results in the year, continues to experience 
some underlying challenges in the sale of data insights, 
principally arising due to the fall-off in lower margin mailing 
services and continued competitive pressures. 
For these balances we focused on the judgements made by 
the Directors in their assessment about the future results of 
the business including future revenues and growth rates, profit 
margins and also the discount factors applied in the impairment 
calculations.
We evaluated the Directors’ future cash flow projections for all four 
business segments with a particular focus on the Legal segment and 
the Healthcare and Compliance Week CGUs, and the process by 
which they were drawn up, including comparing them to the latest 
Board approved budgets, and testing the underlying calculations. 
We found the cash-flow projections appropriately prepared and 
consistent with the approved budgets.
We also compared the current year actual results with the figures 
included in the prior year forecasts for 2015 to consider whether, 
with hindsight, any assumptions had been optimistic. This analysis 
showed that retrospective application of actual results would not 
have resulted in an impairment charge.
For the Directors’ key assumptions we
 z Compared the growth rates in the forecasts against economic and 
industry forecasts; and
 z Assessed the discount rate by comparing the cost of capital for 
the Group with comparable organisations.
We found the Directors’ assumptions to be in line with the information 
we compared them to.
We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the 
cash flow projections including assumed profits, short and longer 
term growth rates and discount rates. In performing these sensitivities 
we considered the historical budgeting accuracy and how the 
assumptions compared to the actual values achieved in prior years. 
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that 
either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill or 
intangible assets to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such 
a movement in those key assumptions arising. We determined that 
headroom in the Compliance Week CGU was sensitive to movements 
in the key assumptions and that the disclosures made regarding the 
related assumptions and sensitivities appropriately draw attention to 
the significant areas of judgement.
Revenue recognition
Refer to pages 34 and 35 (Audit Committee Report), pages 66 
(note 1 Statement of accounting policies) and page 72 (note 3).
We focused on this area because the timing of revenue 
recognition and its presentation in the income statement has 
inherent complexities for Wilmington, some of which being  
industry related, in particular:
 z Significant or one-off contracts entered into near the year 
end which could contain multiple elements (such as the 
sale of publications accompanied by training) or for which 
revenue should be spread over the term of the contract 
rather than incorrectly recognised immediately.
 z Subscription revenues are partly managed in electronic 
worksheets and/or other legacy customer management 
systems, meaning that there is a higher risk of error or 
manipulation of the calculation of deferred revenue.
For revenue transactions close to the year end we tested that 
revenue cut-off was appropriately determined. We selected a sample 
of transactions, including larger transactions near the year end and 
agreed the details of these transactions to underlying contractual 
information or other supporting documents which demonstrated 
when obligations had been fulfilled by the parties to the transaction. 
No material exceptions were noted from our testing. 
We also tested a sample of transactions to check that the amount 
of revenue deferred was accurately calculated and appropriately 
recognised. This involved agreeing revenue to contractual and invoice 
terms as well as supporting calculations. No material exceptions were 
noted from our testing.
Further, as part of our other evidence obtained over the revenue 
recognised during the year, we also tested journal entries posted 
to revenue accounts to identify unusual or irregular items. In order 
to identify unexpected transaction flows we also used computer 
assisted auditing techniques on the accounting records held within 
the Group’s principal accounting system. Our work did not identify 
any items that could not be substantiated.
55
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
How we tailored our audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed 
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic 
structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and 
the industry in which the Group operates. 
The Group is structured into four business segments being Risk 
& Compliance, Finance, Legal and Insight. The Group financial 
statements are a consolidation of reporting units that make up the 
four business segments, spread across four geographic regions, 
being the United Kingdom, Europe (excluding the UK), North 
America and the Rest of the World, and the centralised functions. 
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we 
determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the 
reporting units by us as the Group engagement team.
Each business segment comprises a number of legal entities or 
components. PwC UK performed audits of complete information 
for each of the Group’s significant components, with specified and 
analytical procedures being performed over remaining material and 
immaterial financial statement line items, respectively.
The full scope reporting units and group functions we conducted 
our work at accounted for 93% of the Group Adjusted Profit before 
Tax, and 84% of Group revenue.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of 
materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. 
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to 
determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent 
of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, 
both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality 
for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall group 
materiality:
£900,000 (2014: £800,000)
How we 
determined it:
5% of Group Adjusted Profit before Tax (as 
defined on page 10 and note 2 on page 71)
Rationale for 
benchmark 
applied:
Consistent with last year, in arriving at this 
judgement we have had regard to Group 
Adjusted Profit before Tax, because, in our view 
this represents the most appropriate measure of 
underlying performance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them 
misstatements identified during our audit above £45,000 (2014: 
£35,000) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our 
view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ 
statement, set out on page 27, in relation to going concern. We 
have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded 
that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using 
the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis 
presumes that the Group and parent company have adequate 
resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them 
to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements 
were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that the 
Directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be 
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s 
and parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and 
the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
 z Information in the Annual Report is:
materially inconsistent with the information in 
the audited financial statements; or
apparently materially incorrect based on, or 
materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of 
the Group and parent company acquired in the 
course of performing our audit; or 
otherwise misleading.
We have no 
exceptions to 
report arising 
from this 
responsibility.
 z the statement given by the Directors on page 
53, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”), 
that they consider the Annual Report taken as a 
whole to be fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for 
members to assess the Group’s and parent 
company’s performance, business model and 
strategy is materially inconsistent with our 
knowledge of the Group and parent company 
acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no 
exceptions to 
report arising 
from this 
responsibility.
 z the section of the Annual Report on page 34, 
as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, 
describing the work of the Audit Committee 
does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no 
exceptions to 
report arising 
from this 
responsibility.
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the members of Wilmington plc
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
56 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Adequacy of accounting records and 
information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
 z we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
 z adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
 z the parent company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report - Companies 
Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent company’s 
compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Responsibilities for the financial 
statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 53, the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and 
only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other 
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom 
this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements 
involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: 
 z whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
and the parent company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
 z the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by 
the Directors; and
 z the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the 
Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our 
own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial 
statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other 
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide 
a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit 
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
David Snell (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London
14 September 2015
57
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Notes
Adjusted 
results 
June 2015
£’000
Adjusting 
items 
(note 5)
June 2015
£’000
Statutory 
results
June 2015
£’000
Adjusted
results
June 2014
£’000
Adjusting
items 
(note 5)
June 2014
£’000
Statutory 
results
June 2014
£’000
Continuing operations 
Revenue 3 95,087 — 95,087 90,024 — 90,024
Net operating expenses 4 (74,669) (1,112) (75,781) (71,320) (764) (72,084)
Amortisation 5 — (6,118) (6,118) — (6,286) (6,286)
Share based payments 5 — (918) (918) — (924) (924)
Operating profit 20,418 (8,148) 12,270 18,704 (7,974) 10,730
Net finance costs 6 (1,974) — (1,974) (2,099) (39) (2,138)
Profit before tax 18,444 (8,148) 10,296 16,605 (8,013) 8,592
Taxation 7 (2,429) (2,034)
Profit for the year 7,867 6,558
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 7,737 6,485
Non-controlling interests 24 130 73
7,867 6,558
Earnings per share attributable 
to the owners of the parent:
Basic (p) 9 8.96p 7.59p
Diluted (p) 9 8.83p 7.39p
Adjusted earnings per share 
attributable to the owners of the 
parent:
Basic (p) 9 16.42p 14.79p
Diluted (p) 9 16.19p 14.40p
The notes on pages 64 to 96 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated Income Statement 
for the year ended 30 June 2015
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
58 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit for the year 7,867 6,558
Other comprehensive income:
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement
Net fair value movements on interest rate swaps 116 381
Currency translation differences 578 (1,001)
Net investment hedges (265) 497
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of tax 429 (123)
Total comprehensive income for the year 8,296 6,435
Attributable to:
– Owners of the parent 8,166 6,362
– Non-controlling interests 130 73
8,296 6,435
Items in the statement above are disclosed net of tax. The notes on pages 64 to 96 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income 
for the year ended 30 June 2015
59
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Group Company
Notes
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 12 77,063 76,855 — —
Intangible assets 13 23,636 28,746 — —
Property, plant and equipment 14 4,841 5,727 776 951
Investments in subsidiaries 15  — — 49,420 49,193
Deferred tax assets 21 562 562 400 106
Trade and other receivables 16 — — 64,013 61,658
106,102 111,890 114,609 111,908
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 16 21,696 22,389 46 87
Cash and cash equivalents 9,194 5,020 62 19
Derivative financial instruments 17 338 37 338 37
31,228 27,446 446 143
Assets of disposal group held for sale 11 895 — — —
32,123 27,446 446 143
Total assets 138,225 139,336 115,055 112,051
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 18 (39,575) (40,635) (11,555) (3,882)
Current tax liabilities (793) (1,333) — —
Deferred consideration – cash settled — (343) — (56)
Derivative financial liabilities 17 — (78) — (78)
Borrowings 19 (37,655) (642) (20,705) (6,835)
(78,023) (43,031) (32,260) (10,851)
Liabilities of disposal group held for sale 11 (445) — — —
(78,468) (43,031) (32,260) (10,851)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 19 — (37,673) — (14,632)
Deferred consideration – equity settled (273) (728) (273) (728)
Derivative financial instruments 17 (423) (490) (423) (490)
Deferred tax liabilities 21 (3,762) (4,670) — —
Provisions for future purchase of non-controlling interests (100) (100) — —
(4,558) (43,661) (696) (15,850)
Total liabilities (83,026) (86,692) (32,956) (26,701)
Net assets 55,199 52,644 82,099 85,350
Equity
Share capital 22 4,325 4,305 4,325 4,305
Share premium 22 45,225 45,231 45,225 45,231
Treasury shares 22 (96) (878) (96) (878)
Share based payments reserve 1,052 911 1,052 911
Translation reserve (364) (942) — —
Retained earnings 4,780 3,782 31,593 35,781
Equity attributable to owners of the parent 54,922 52,409 82,099 85,350
Non-controlling interests 24 277 235 — —
Total equity 55,199 52,644 82,099 85,350
The notes on pages 64 to 96 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. The financial statements on pages 58 to 96 
were approved and authorised for issue by the Board and signed on their behalf on 14 September 2015.
Anthony M Foye Pedro Ros 
Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer
Registered number: 3015847
Balance Sheets 
as at 30 June 2015
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
60 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Share capital, 
share premium 
and treasury 
shares 
(note 22) 
£’000
Share based 
payments 
reserve 
£’000
Translation 
reserve 
£’000
Retained 
earnings 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Non-controlling 
interests 
(note 24) 
£’000
Total equity 
£’000
Group
At 1 July 2013 47,180 1,560 59 2,770 51,569 145 51,714
Profit for the year — — — 6,485 6,485 73 6,558
Other comprehensive 
income for the year — — (1,001) 878 (123) — (123)
47,180 1,560 (942) 10,133 57,931 218 58,149
Dividends — — — (6,058) (6,058) (26) (6,084)
Share based payments — 440 — 41 481 — 481
Reissue of treasury shares 1,478 (1,089) — (334) 55 — 55
Movement in non-
controlling interests — — — — — 52 52
Movements in offset of 
provisions for the future 
purchase of non-controlling 
interests — — — — — (9) (9)
At 30 June 2014 48,658 911 (942) 3,782 52,409 235 52,644
Profit for the year — — — 7,737 7,737 130 7,867
Other comprehensive 
income for the year — — 578 (149) 429 — 429
48,658 911 (364) 11,370 60,575 365 60,940
Dividends — — — (6,370) (6,370) (88) (6,458)
Issue of share capital 14 — — (20) (6) — (6)
Share based payments — 752 — (27) 725 — 725
Reissue of treasury shares 782 (611) — (173) (2) — (2)
At 30 June 2015 49,454 1,052 (364) 4,780 54,922 277 55,199
The notes on pages 64 to 96 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Statements of Changes in Equity 
for the year ended 30 June 2015
61
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Share capital, 
share premium 
and treasury 
shares 
(note 22) 
£’000
Share based 
payments 
reserve 
£’000
Retained 
earnings 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Company
At 1 July 2013 47,180 1,560 38,477 87,217
Profit for the year — — 3,007 3,007
Other comprehensive income — — 381 381
47,180 1,560 41,865 90,605
Dividends to shareholders — — (6,058) (6,058)
Reissue of treasury shares 1,478 (1,089) (334) 55
Share based payments — 440 308 748
At 1 July 2014 48,658 911 35,781 85,350
Profit for the year — — 2,119 2,119
Other comprehensive income — — 116 116
48,658 911 38,016 87,585
Dividends to shareholders — — (6,370) (6,370)
Issue of share capital 14 — (20) (6)
Share based payments — 752 140 892
Reissue of treasury shares 782 (611) (173) (2)
At 30 June 2015 49,454 1,052 31,593 82,099
The notes on pages 64 to 96 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Statements of Changes in Equity 
for the year ended 30 June 2015
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
62 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Group Company
Notes
Year ended 
30 June 
2015 
 £’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2014 
 £’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2015 
 £’000
Year ended
30 June
2014
 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations before adjusting items 28 21,880 20,204 12,014 16,741
Cash flows for adjusting items - operating activities (1,363) (372) (1,129) (108)
Cash flows for adjusting items - share based payments (230) (358) (39) (106)
Cash generated from operations 20,287 19,474 10,846 16,527
Net finance costs paid (1,883) (1,863) (1,129) (1,246)
Tax paid (3,680) (3,285) (2,315) (2,268)
Net cash generated from operating activities 14,724 14,326 7,402 13,013
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of businesses (173) (7,342) — (60)
Deferred consideration paid (343) (168) — —
Purchase of non-controlling interests — (58) — —
Cash flows for adjusting items - investing activities — (267) — (36)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (829) (883) — —
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 65 710 — 39
Purchase of intangible assets (1,738) (955) — —
Net cash used in investing activities (3,018) (8,963) — (57)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid to owners of the parent (6,370) (6,058) (6,370) (6,058)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (88) (26) — —
Share issuance costs (6) — (6) —
Reissue of treasury shares — 55 — 55
Decrease in bank loans (1,000) (1,748) (1,000) (5,286)
Net cash used in financing activities (7,464) (7,777) (7,376) (11,289)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents,  
net of bank overdrafts 4,242 (2,414) 26 1,667
Cash and cash equivalents, net of bank overdrafts at beginning 
of the year 4,378 6,913 (6,816) (8,483)
Exchange gains/(losses) on cash and cash equivalents 78 (121) — —
Cash and cash equivalents, net of bank overdrafts at end of 
the year 8,698 4,378 (6,790) (6,816)
Reconciliation of net debt
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 5,020  7,803 19  47 
Bank overdrafts at beginning of the year (642) (890) (6,835) (8,530) 
Bank loans at beginning of the year 19 (38,041) (40,286) (15,000) (20,286) 
Net debt at beginning of the year (33,663) (33,373) (21,816) (28,769) 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  
(net of bank overdrafts) 4,320 (2,535) 26  1,667 
Net repayment in bank loans 1,000  1,505  1,000  5,286 
Exchange (loss)/gain on bank loans (265)  740  —  — 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 9,194 5,020 62  19 
Bank overdrafts at end of the year (496) (642) (6,852) (6,835) 
Bank loans at end of the year 19 (37,306) (38,041) (14,000) (15,000) 
Net debt at end of the year (28,608) (33,663) (20,790) (21,816) 
The notes on pages 64 to 96 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Cash Flow Statements 
for the year ended 30 June 2015
63
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Notes to the  
Financial Statements
General information
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the UK. The address of its registered office is 6–14 Underwood 
Street, London, N1 7JQ.
The Company is listed on the main market on the London Stock Exchange. The company is the provider of information, education and 
networking to the professional services market across the globe.
1. Statement of accounting policies
The significant accounting policies applied in preparing the financial statements are outlined below. These policies have been consistently 
applied for all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
a) Basis of preparation
The Consolidated and Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRS’), including International Accounting Standards (‘IAS’) and interpretations (‘IFRICs’) issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (‘IASB’) and its Committees, and as adopted in the EU, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to 
Companies using IFRS.
The Consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historic cost convention, except for certain financial instruments that 
have been measured at fair value. The Consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, the functional currency of Wilmington 
plc, the Parent Company. All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds (£’000s) except where otherwise indicated.
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its bank facilities. The current economic conditions continue to 
create uncertainty, particularly over the level of demand for the Group’s products. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of 
reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facilities. 
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial 
statements. Further information on the Group’s borrowings is given in note 20.
Pursuant to Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the company’s own income statement and statement of other comprehensive income 
are not presented separately in the Company financial statements, but they have been approved by the Board.
b) Critical accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts 
reported for income and expenses during the year and that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities at the reporting date.
Business combinations
Management make judgments, estimates and assumptions in assessing the fair value of the net assets acquired on a business 
combination, in identifying and measuring intangible assets arising on a business combination, and in determining the fair value of the 
consideration. If the consideration includes an element of contingent consideration, the final amount of which is dependent on the future 
performance of the business, management assess the fair value of that contingent consideration based on their reasonable expectations 
of future performance. The sensitivity of the carrying amounts to the judgments, estimates and assumptions will vary depending on the 
nature and size of the acquisition.
Goodwill
Management make judgments, estimates and assumptions in measuring the carrying amount of goodwill. In considering whether goodwill 
has been impaired, the recoverable amount of cash generating units has been determined based on value in use calculations. These 
calculations require management to estimate future cash flows, a long-term growth rate and an appropriate discount rate. The sensitivity of 
the carrying amount of goodwill to these variables is considered in note 12.
Share based payments
Management make judgments, estimates and assumptions in calculating share based payment costs. Vesting conditions, other than 
market conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the grant date fair value, so are instead taken into account each period in 
revising the estimate of the number of shares expected to vest and thus in determining the charge to the Income Statement for the period. 
The share based payment charge can also be significantly impacted by share awards that do not vest. The sensitivity of the charge to the 
judgments, estimates and assumptions made is best ascertained by understanding the nature of the share based payment arrangements 
concerned, which is set out in note 23.
Notes to the  
Financial Statements
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
64 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
1. Statement of accounting policies continued 
c) Basis of consolidation
The group’s consolidated financial statements incorporate the results and net assets of Wilmington plc and all its subsidiary undertakings 
made up to 30 June each year. Subsidiaries are all entities over which the group has control. The group controls an entity when the 
group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns 
through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group. They are 
deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to 
bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the group. All inter-group transactions, balances, income and expenses 
are eliminated on consolidation; however for the purposes of segmental reporting, internal arm’s-length recharges are included within the 
appropriate segments. 
d) Business combinations
The acquisition method of accounting is applied in accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries. The acquiree’s identifiable assets and 
liabilities are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date. Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and measured 
at cost, representing the excess of the aggregate of the consideration, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and 
the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any) over the net of the fair values of the identifiable assets 
and liabilities at the date of acquisition. The consideration is measured at fair value, which is the aggregate of the fair values of the assets 
transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed and the equity instruments issued in exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related 
costs are expensed as incurred adjusted items.
e) Impairment of non-financial assets
Intangible assets with finite useful lives and property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. When an impairment test is performed, the recoverable amount of the asset is 
assessed and its carrying amount is reduced to that amount if lower, and any impairment losses are recognised in the Income Statement. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of the value in use and of the fair value less costs to sell, where the value in use is the present value 
of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases due to a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s 
recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed to the extent 
that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined (net of amortisation or 
depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. The reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the 
Income Statement.
Goodwill is not amortised, but it is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units (‘CGUs’) for 
the purpose of impairment testing, so that the value in use is determined by reference to the discounted cash flows of the CGU. The cash 
flows considered are the expected pre-tax cash flows of the CGU, for projections over a three year period extrapolated using estimated 
long-term growth rates. The recoverable amount the CGU, as for any asset, is the higher of the value in use and the fair value less costs to 
sell. If a CGU is impaired, the impairment losses are allocated firstly against goodwill, and then on a pro-rata basis against intangible and 
other assets. An impairment of goodwill cannot be reversed.
f) Foreign currencies
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The Consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which 
is the Company’s functional and the Group’s presentation currency.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of transactions and the translation of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at period end exchange rates are recognised in the Income Statement.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates. The results of foreign 
undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates of exchange for the year (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation 
of the cumulative effects of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates 
of the transactions). Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate component of equity, the 
translation reserve.
In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative translation 
difference in the translation reserve that is associated with the undertaking is charged or credited to the gain or loss on disposal 
recognised in the Income Statement.
65
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Notes to the  
Financial Statements
1. Statement of accounting policies continued 
f) Foreign currencies (continued)
Further information is provided in the financial instruments accounting policy in relation to loans and borrowings in foreign currencies that 
are designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
g) Revenue
Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods or services, net of discounts and sales 
taxes. Revenue is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with a transaction will flow to the Group and the 
amount of revenue and associated costs can be measured reliably. Subscription revenue is allocated to the relevant accounting periods 
covered by the subscription on a straight line basis or weighted in accordance with the timing of the service provided. Event revenue 
is recognised in the month that the event takes place, hard copy advertising revenue is recognised on publication, and online Directory 
advertising revenue is recognised over the period that the advertisement remains online. Subscriptions and fees in advance are carried 
forward in trade and other payables as ‘subscriptions and deferred revenue’ and are recognised over the period the service is provided.
Sales of goods are recognised when the Group has despatched the goods to the customer, the customer has accepted the goods, and 
collectability of the related receivables is reasonably assured.
h) Segmental reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Company’s Board of Directors 
(‘The Board’) which is considered as the Group’s chief operating decision maker and is responsible for allocating resources and 
assessing performance of the operating segments. The Board considers the business from both a geographic and product perspective. 
Geographically, management considers the performance of the Group between the UK, Europe (excluding the UK), North America and the 
Rest of the World.
i) Adjusting items
The Group’s Income Statement separately identifies adjusting items. Such items are those that in the Directors’ judgment are one-off in 
nature and need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size and incidence. In determining whether an item or transaction should be 
classified as an adjusting item, the Directors consider quantitative as well as qualitative factors such as the frequency, predictability of 
occurrence and significance. This is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and reported to the 
Board. Adjusting items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Disclosing adjusted items separately 
provides additional understanding of the performance of the Group.
j) Current and deferred income tax
Current and deferred income tax is recognised as income or an expense and included in profit or loss for the period, except to the extent 
that it relates to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income or equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive 
income or equity, respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in 
the countries where the Company’s subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluate positions taken 
in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where 
appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, the deferred income tax is not accounted for if it 
arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction 
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit nor loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and law) that have been enacted 
or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the 
deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the 
temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either 
the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
k) Dividends
Dividend distributions are recognised in the consolidated financial statements when the shareholders’ right to receive payment is 
established. Final dividend distributions are recognised in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders, whilst interim 
dividend distributions are recognised in the period in which they are declared and paid.
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
66 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
1. Statement of accounting policies continued 
l) Intangible assets
Intangible assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated amortisation.
Publishing rights, titles and benefits are classified as intangible assets. They are initially recorded at cost and are amortised through the 
Income Statement on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives not exceeding twenty years.
Computer software that is integral to a related item of hardware is classified as property, plant and equipment. All other computer 
software and also the cost of internally developed software and databases are classified as intangible assets. Computer software licences 
purchased from third parties are initially recorded at cost. Costs associated with the production of internally developed software are 
capitalised once it is probable that they will generate future economic benefits and satisfy the other criteria set out in IAS 38. Computer 
software intangible assets (including the cost of internally developed software and databases) are amortised through the Income Statement 
on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives not exceeding three years. Assets that are not in use at the reporting date (assets 
under construction) are recognised at cost and amortisation commences when those assets begin to generate economic benefit.
m) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. Cost includes the original purchase price of the 
asset plus any costs of bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. Depreciation is not provided on freehold land. On 
other assets it is provided at the following annual rates, on a straight-line basis, in order to write down each asset to its residual value over 
its estimated useful life.
The asset’s residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
Land and buildings (excluding freehold land) 2—10 per cent per annum
Fixtures and fittings 10—33 per cent per annum
Computer equipment 25—33 per cent per annum
Motor vehicles 25 per cent per annum
Leasehold improvements are included in land and buildings.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised, as adjusted items 
if significant, within the Income Statement.
n) Investments in subsidiaries
Fixed asset investments, which all relate to investments in subsidiaries, are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
o) Financial instruments
Financial assets
The Group classifies its non-derivative financial assets as ‘loans and receivables’ for the purposes of IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement’. Management determines the classification at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each 
reporting date.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs. They are subsequently carried at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value recognised in the Income Statement.
Loans and receivables are classified as current assets if they mature within 12 months of the balance sheet date, but are otherwise 
classified as non-current assets.The Group’s ‘loans and receivables’ comprise ‘trade and other receivables’ and ‘cash and cash 
equivalents’, for which further information is provided below.
Trade and other receivables
Financial assets within trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the invoiced amount. They are 
subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method (if the time value of money is significant), less provisions made 
for doubtful receivables. Provisions are made specifically, where there is evidence of a risk of non-payment taking into account ageing, 
previous losses experienced and general economic conditions. If collection is expected in 12 months or less (or in the normal operating 
cycle of the particular business if longer), the trade or other receivable is classified as a current asset. It is otherwise classified as a non-
current asset.
67
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Notes to the  
Financial Statements
1. Statement of accounting policies continued 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current balances with banks and similar institutions, and other short-term highly liquid 
investments which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have original maturities of three months or less. Cash and cash 
equivalents are offset against bank overdrafts and the net amount is reported in the Balance Sheet when there is a legally enforceable right 
to offset the recognised amounts. Bank overdrafts are otherwise shown as borrowings within current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
Impairment of financial assets
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or Group of financial assets is impaired. Where there is objective 
evidence that an impairment loss has arisen on an asset carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is reduced and the impairment loss 
is recognised in the Income Statement. The impairment loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the 
present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring 
after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the carrying amount of 
the financial asset does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised at the date the 
impairment is reversed. The reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement.
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the invoiced amount. They are 
subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method (if the time value of money is significant).
If due within 12 months or less, the trade or other payable is classified as a current liability. It is otherwise classified as a non-current 
liability.
Loans and other borrowings
Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the amounts received net of transaction costs. They are 
subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value recognised in the Income 
Statement.
Further information is provided below in relation to loans and borrowings in foreign currencies that are designated as a hedge of a net 
investment in a foreign operation.
Loans and other borrowings are classified as current liabilities if they mature within 12 months of the balance sheet date, but are otherwise 
classified as non-current liabilities.
Financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce its exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency risk, and it also has loans 
and borrowings in foreign currencies that correspond to investments in foreign operations.
Financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting:
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial trading purposes. However, derivative financial instruments 
that do not qualify for hedge accounting (e.g. certain forward currency contracts held by the Group) are classified as ‘held for trading’ for 
the purposes of IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, so are initially recognised and subsequently measured at 
fair value. The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised in the Income Statement.
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
68 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
1. Statement of accounting policies continued
o) Financial instruments (continued) 
Financial instruments that do qualify for hedge accounting:
To qualify for hedge accounting, a financial instrument must be designated as a hedging instrument at inception, hedge documentation 
must be prepared and the hedge must be expected to be highly effective. The effectiveness of the hedge is then tested at each reporting 
date, both prospectively and retrospectively, and hedge accounting may be continued only if the hedge remains highly effective. Hedge 
accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, or is sold, terminated or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, or if 
the Group chooses to end the hedge relationship.
A financial instrument designated for hedge accounting is initially recognised at fair value. For cash flow hedges (e.g. interest rate swaps), 
the gains or losses on re-measurement to fair value that correspond to the effective part of the hedge are recognised directly in equity; 
those that correspond to the ineffective part, if any, are recognised in the Income Statement. For net investment hedges (loans and 
borrowings in foreign currencies that are designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation), the translation differences that 
correspond to the effective part of the hedge are recognised directly in equity; those that correspond to the ineffective part, if any, are 
recognised in the Income Statement.
p) Provisions for future purchase of non-controlling interests
On the acquisition of less than 100% of certain subsidiary undertakings, the Group may enter into put and call options with the holders of 
the shares not owned by the Group, to purchase their interests at a later date.
These written put options are gross-settled (i.e. the entity pays cash in return for the counterparty delivering shares), and hence 
are recognised as a financial liability. The liability recognised may be subject to a cap based on the individual agreements with the 
counterparties.
Where the put option is ultimately exercised, the amount recognised as the financial liability at that date will be extinguished by the 
payment of the exercise price. Where the put option expires unexercised, the liability is reversed.
q) Retirement benefits
The Group does not operate a defined benefit pension scheme.
The Group contributes to defined contribution pension schemes for a number of employees. Contributions to these arrangements 
are charged in the Income Statement in the period in which they are incurred. The Group has no further payment obligation once the 
contributions have been paid.
r) Share based payments
The Group operates an equity-settled, share based compensation plan, under which the entity receives services from employees as 
consideration for equity instruments (share awards) of the Group. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the 
grant of share awards is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the 
share awards granted, excluding the impact of any non-market service and performance vesting conditions (for example, profitability and 
remaining as an employee of the entity over a specified time period). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the 
number of share awards that are expected to vest. The total amount expensed is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period 
over which all of the specified existing conditions are to be satisfied. At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the 
number of share awards that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to 
original estimates, if any, in the Income Statement, with a corresponding adjustment to the share based payments reserve within equity.
The grant by the Company of share awards over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiaries in the Group is treated as a capital 
contribution. The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the 
vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings with a corresponding credit to equity in the parent entity financial 
statements.
The social security contributions and payment in lieu of dividend payable in connection with the grant of the share awards is considered an 
integral part of the grant itself, and the charge will be treated as an equity-settled transaction. The cumulative share based payment charge 
held in reserves is recycled into retained earnings when the share awards lapse or are exercised.
s) Operating leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals incurred in respect of operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the Income Statement on a 
straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
69
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Notes to the  
Financial Statements
1. Statement of accounting policies continued 
t) Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as 
a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital (‘Treasury Shares’), the consideration paid, including any 
directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes), is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the 
shares are cancelled or reissued.
u) Assets held for sale or disposal groups
Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally 
through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable. They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less 
costs to sell.
v) New standards and interpretations applied
The following new amendments to standards and interpretations, which do not have a material impact, are mandatory for the first time for 
the financial year beginning 1 July 2014 and are relevant to the preparation of the Group’s financial statements:
 z IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated financial statements’ provides additional guidance in determining control where this is difficult to assess 
 z IFRS 11, ‘Joint arrangements’ provides a more realistic reflection of joint arrangements
 z IFRS 12, ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’ includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities
 z Amendments to IFRS 10, 11 and 12 provide additional transition relief in IFRSs 10, 11 and 12
 z Amendments to IFRS 10, 12 and IAS 27 exempt investment entities from consolidating controlled investees
 z Amendment to IAS 32 and IFRS 7 clarify “currently has a legally enforceable right of set-off”
 z Amendment to IAS 36, ‘Impairment of assets’ proposed changes to disclosure requirement when recoverable amount is determined 
based on fair value less costs of disposal
 z Amendment to IAS 39 ‘Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement’ provides relief from discontinuing hedge accounting on 
novation of a hedging instrument
 z IFRIC 21, ‘Levies’ addresses when a liability should be recognised to pay a levy charged by a public authority for operating in a 
specified market
w) New standards and interpretations not applied
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued, but are not effective (or not effective in the 
EU) for the financial year beginning 1 July 2014 and have not been early adopted:
 z Amendment to IAS 19,’Employee benefits’, regarding defined benefit plans.
 z Annual improvements 2012 (effective annual periods on or after 1 July 2014 although endorsed for annual periods on or after 1 
February 2015). These amendments include changes from the 2010-12 cycle of the annual improvements project, that affect 7 
standards: 
 — IFRS 2, ‘Share-based payment’
 — IFRS 3, ‘Business Combinations’
 — IFRS 8, ‘Operating segments’
 — IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’
 — IAS 16, ‘Property, plant and equipment’ and IAS 38, ‘Intangible assets’
 — Consequential amendments to IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’, IAS 37, ‘Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets’ and 
 — IAS 39, ‘Financial instruments – Recognition and measurement’
 z Annual improvements 2013 (effective annual periods on or after 1 July 2014 although endorsed for annual periods on or after 1 January 
2015). The amendments include changes from the 2011-2013 cycle of the annual improvements project that affect 4 standards:
 — IFRS 1, ‘First time adoption’
 — IFRS 3, ‘Business combinations’
 — IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’ and
 — IAS 40, ‘Investment property’
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
70 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
1. Statement of accounting policies continued 
 z Amendment to IFRS 11, ‘Joint arrangements’ on acquisition of an interest in a joint operation 
 z Amendments to IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated financial statements’ and IAS 28, ‘Investments in associates and joint ventures’ 
 z Annual improvements 2014. These set of amendments impacts 4 standards:
 — IFRS 5, ‘Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations’ regarding methods of disposal
 — IFRS 7, ‘Financial instruments: Disclosures’, (with consequential amendments to IFRS 1) regarding servicing contracts
 — IAS 19, ‘Employee benefits’ regarding discount rates
 — IAS 34, ‘Interim financial reporting’ regarding disclosure of information
 z Amendment to IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’ on the disclosure initiative
 z IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017
 z IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018
Management will assess the impact on the Group of these standards prior to the effective date of implementation. There are no other 
IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
2. Measures of profit
To provide shareholders with a better understanding of the trading performance of the Group, adjusted profit before tax has been 
calculated as profit before tax after adding back:
 z amortisation of intangible assets - publishing rights, titles and benefits;
 z impairment of goodwill;
 z unwinding of the discount on the provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests and deferred consideration;
 z share based payments; and
 z other adjusting items. 
Adjusted profit before tax, Adjusted EBITA and Adjusted EBITDA reconcile to profit on continuing activities before tax as follows:
Year ended 
30 June
2015
£’000
Year ended 
30 June
2014
£’000
Profit before tax 10,296 8,592
Amortisation of intangible assets - publishing rights, titles and benefits 6,118 6,286
Unwinding of the discounts — 39
Share based payments 918 924
Other adjusting items 1,112 764
Adjusted profit before tax (‘Adjusted Profit before Tax’) 18,444 16,605
Net finance costs (excluding the unwinding of the discounts above) 1,974 2,099
Adjusted operating profit (‘Adjusted EBITA’) 20,418 18,704
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 918 1,025
Amortisation of intangible assets - computer software 1,005 816
Adjusted EBITA before depreciation (‘Adjusted EBITDA’) 22,341 20,545
3. Segmental information
In accordance with IFRS 8 the Group’s operating segments are based on the figures reviewed by the Board, which represents the chief 
operating decision maker.
The Group now reports its results in four segments as this more accurately reflects the way the Group is now being managed. There is 
no change to any of the Group’s accounting policies and there is no restatement of either revenues or profitability, other than this revised 
segmentation by the four operating segment headings. 
The Group’s organisational structure reflects the knowledge areas to which it provides information, education and networking. The four 
new divisions (Risk & Compliance, Finance, Legal and Insight) are the Group’s segments and generate all of the Group’s revenue.
The Board considers the business from both a geographic and product perspective. Geographically, management considers the 
performance of the Group between the UK and overseas.
71
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Notes to the  
Financial Statements
3. Segmental information continued
a) Business segments
Revenue 
Year ended 
30 June 
2015
£’000
Contribution
 Year ended 
30 June
 2015 
£’000
Revenue 
Year ended 
30 June 
2014 
£’000
Contribution
 Year ended 
30 June 
2014 
£’000
Risk & Compliance 36,416 11,856 32,354 10,669
Finance 18,711 4,382 17,034 3,715
Legal 16,250 2,201 17,371 2,268
Insight 23,710 5,390 23,265 5,318
95,087 23,829 90,024 21,970
Unallocated central overheads — (3,411) — (3,266)
95,087 20,418 90,024 18,704
Amortisation of intangible assets - publishing rights, titles and benefits (6,118) (6,286)
Share based payments (918) (924)
Other adjusting items  (1,112) (764)
Net finance costs (1,974) (2,138)
Profit before tax 10,296 8,592
Taxation (2,429) (2,034)
Profit for the financial year 7,867 6,558
Unallocated central overheads represent head office costs that are not specifically allocated to segments.
Total assets and liabilities for each reportable segment are not presented, as such information is not provided to the Board.
Contribution is defined as Adjusted EBITA excluding unallocated central overheads.
b) Segmental information by geography
The UK is the Group’s country of domicile and the Group generates the majority of its revenue from external customers in the UK. The 
geographical analysis of revenue is on the basis of the country of origin in which the customer is invoiced:
Year ended 
30 June
2015
£’000
Year ended 
30 June
2014
£’000
UK 57,797 57,135
Europe (excluding the UK) 16,248 15,060
North America 10,683 10,467
Rest of the World 10,359 7,362
Total revenue 95,087 90,024
4. Net operating expenses
Year ended 
30 June
2015
£’000
Year ended 
30 June
2014
£’000
Cost of sales 27,992 26,918
Distribution and selling costs 17,679 16,650
Administrative expenses (excluding amortisation of intangible assets - computer software) 27,993 26,936
Amortisation of intangible assets - computer software 1,005 816
Net operating expenses before adjusting items 74,669 71,320
Other adjusting items 1,112 764
Net operating expenses 75,781 72,084
Other adjusting items are all classified as administration expenses.
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
72 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
5. Profit from continuing operations
Profit for the year from continuing operations is stated after charging/(crediting):
Year ended 
30 June
2015
£’000
Year ended 
30 June
2014
£’000
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  918 1,025
Amortisation of intangible assets - publishing rights, titles and benefits 6,118 6,286
Amortisation of intangible assets - computer software 1,005 816
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (21) 34
Rentals under operating leases 959 972
Other adjusting items (see below) 1,112 764
Share based payments 918 924
Foreign exchange loss/(profit) (including forward currency contracts) 282 (31)
Fees payable to the Auditors for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 65 65
Fees payable to the Auditors and its associates for other services:
– The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 211 200
– Audit-related assurance services 24 17
– Tax compliance services 23 23
– Tax advisory services 116 49
Adjusting items:
The following items have been charged/(credited) to profit or loss during the year but are of an unusual nature, size or incidence and so are 
shown separately:
Year ended 
30 June
2015
£’000
Year ended 
30 June
2014
£’000
Costs written off relating to both successful and aborted acquisitions 22 380
Business review, restructuring and rationalisation costs 992 275
Compensation for loss of office 500 —
(Decrease)/increase in liability for deferred consideration (402) 109
Other adjusting items (included in operating expenses) 1,112 764
Amortisation of intangible assets - publishing rights, titles and benefits 6,118 6,286
Share based payments 918 924
Total adjusting items (classified in operating profit) 8,148 7,974
Unwinding of discount on the provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests — 39
Total adjusting items (classified in profit before tax) 8,148 8,013
Business review costs relate to the in-depth review undertaken during the year as Wilmington evolves its business to a knowledge-based 
model and structure. The outcome of the business review included the development of a new corporate website (the Wilmington hub), the 
re-organisation of staff, a rebranding and a new vision that will help Wilmington create a more compelling offering through a knowledge-
based model. Restructuring and rationalisation costs comprise primarily of redundancy and termination costs. Offsetting these costs is a 
reduction in the estimated deferred consideration liability for NHiS.
Compensation for loss of office of £500,000 relates to Neil Smith, a former Director, who left the business on 31 December 2014. In 
addition, a further expense of £103,000 is included within share based payments for a compensation for loss of office.
The tax effect of the other adjusting items, amortisation of intangible assets – publishing rights, titles and benefits and share based 
payments is a £1,698,000 (2014: £1,868,000) decrease to the statutory taxation charge in the income statement.
73
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Notes to the  
Financial Statements
6. Net finance costs
Year ended 
30 June
2015
£’000
Year ended 
30 June
2014
£’000
Finance costs comprise:
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (including facility fees) (1,754) (1,931)
Amortisation of capitalised loan arrangement fees (220) (168)
Unwinding of the discount on the provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests 
and deferred consideration — (39)
(1,974) (2,138)
7. Taxation
Year ended 
30 June
2015
£’000
Year ended 
30 June
2014
£’000
Current tax:
UK corporation tax at current rates on profits for the year 2,392 2,036
Adjustments in respect of previous years 16 (64)
2,408 1,972
Foreign tax 895 1,045
Adjustment in respect of previous years 36 (47)
Total current tax 3,339 2,970
Deferred tax credit (715) (458)
Adjustments to deferred tax in respect of previous years — 11
Effect on deferred tax of change in corporation tax rate (195) (489)
Total deferred tax (910) (936)
Taxation 2,429 2,034
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year:
The tax assessed is higher (2014: higher) than the average rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.75% (2014: 22.50%). The differences are 
explained below:
Year ended 
30 June
2015
£’000
Year ended 
30 June
2014
£’000
Profit before tax 10,296 8,592
Profit multiplied by the average rate of corporation tax in the year of 20.75% (2014: 22.50%) 2,136 1,933
Tax effects of:
Depreciation and amortisation in excess of capital allowances 192 523
Foreign tax rate differences 242 358
Adjustment in respect of previous years 52 (111)
Other items not subject to tax 2 (180)
Effect on deferred tax of change of corporation tax rate from 21% to 20% (2014: 23% to 21%) (195) (489)
Taxation 2,429 2,034
On 2 July 2013, the UK corporation tax rate was reduced from 21% to 20% from 1 April 2015. This change has been substantively enacted 
at the balance sheet date and, therefore, is included in these financial statements. As deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the 
rates that are expected to apply in the periods of the reversal, deferred tax balances at 30 June 2015 have been calculated using a rate of 
20%, giving rise to a reduction in the net deferred tax liability of £195,000 (2014: £489,000). The Company’s profits for this accounting year 
are taxed at an effective rate of 20.75%.
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
74 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
8. Dividends
Amounts recognised as distributions to owners of the parent in the year:
Year ended 
30 June
2015 
pence per 
share
Year ended 
30 June
2014 
pence per 
share
Year ended 
30 June
2015
£’000
Year ended 
30 June
2014
£’000
Final dividends recognised as distributions in the year 3.7 3.5 3,082 2,974
Interim dividends recognised as distributions in the year 3.7 3.6 3,288 3,084
Total dividends paid 6,370 6,058
Final dividend proposed 4.0 3.7 3,458 3,170
9. Earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share has been calculated using adjusted earnings calculated as profit after taxation and non-controlling interests 
but before:
 z Amortisation of intangible assets – publishing rights, titles and benefits;
 z Impairment of goodwill;
 z Gain on the disposal of property;
 z Unwinding of the discount on the provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests and deferred consideration;
 z Share based payments; and
 z Other adjusting items.
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
Year ended 
30 June
2015
£’000
Year ended 
30 June
2014
£’000
Earnings from continuing operations for the purpose of basic earnings per share 7,737 6,485
Add/(remove):
Amortisation of intangible assets – publishing rights, titles and benefits 6,118 6,286
Other adjusting items 1,112 764
Share based payments 918 924
Unwinding of the discount on the provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests 
deferred consideration — 39
Tax effect (1,698) (1,868)
Adjusted earnings for the purposes of adjusted earnings per share 14,187 12,630
Number Number
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic and adjusted earnings per share 86,389,533 85,408,893
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Future exercise of share awards 1,154,643 1,950,638
Deferred consideration to be settled by equity 107,059 372,855
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted and adjusted diluted 
earnings per share 87,651,235 87,732,386
Basic earnings per share 8.96p 7.59p
Diluted earnings per share 8.83p 7.39p
Adjusted basic earnings per share (‘Adjusted Earnings Per Share’) 16.42p 14.79p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 16.19p 14.40p
75
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Notes to the  
Financial Statements
10. Results of Wilmington plc
Wilmington plc, the parent company, recorded a profit of £2,119,000 (2014: £3,007,000) during the year.
11. Non-current asset held for sale
The assets and liabilities relating to The Knowledge, KFTV and Production Intelligence (Media brands that form part of the Insight 
segment) have been presented as held for sale following approval of the group’s management in June 2015 to sell. The completion date 
of the disposal was 31 July 2015. The assets and liabilities held for sale are included at their fair value less costs to sell. An accelerated 
amortisation charge of £175,000 has been recorded as part of the exercise to remeasure associated intangible assets - publishing rights, 
titles and benefits to fair value.
a) Assets of disposal group classified as held for sale
Year ended 
30 June
2015
£’000
Year ended 
30 June
2014
£’000
Goodwill 100 —
Intangible assets 472 —
Trade and other receivables 323 —
Total 895
b) Liabilities of disposal group classified as held for sale
Year ended 
30 June
2015
£’000
Year ended 
30 June
2014
£’000
Subscriptions and deferred revenue 423 —
Accruals and other payables 22 —
Total 445 —
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
76 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
12. Goodwill
Cost £’000
At 1 July 2013 80,532
Additions 60
Acquisitions 3,965
Exchange translation differences (443)
Movement in offset of provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests (9)
At 1 July 2014 84,105
Additions —
Assets held for sale (385)
Exchange translation differences 308
At 30 June 2015 84,028
Accumulated impairment
At 1 July 2013 and 1 July 2014 7,250
Asset held for sale (285)
At 1 July 2014 and 30 June 2015 6,965
Net book amount
At 30 June 2015 77,063
At 30 June 2014 76,855
At 1 July 2013 73,282
he Group tests goodwill annually for impairment. The recoverable amount of the goodwill is determined from value in use calculations 
for each cash generating unit (‘CGU’). These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets and forecasts 
approved by the Board covering a three year period. These pre-tax cash flows beyond the three year period are extrapolated using 
estimated long-term growth rates.
Key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding discount rates, cash flow forecasts and long-term growth rates. 
Management has used a pre-tax discount rate of 12.3% (2014: 12.3%) across all CGUs in the UK except for the Healthcare, Legal and 
Business Intelligence CGU which had a pre-tax discount rate of 13.3% (2014: 13.3%) to reflect the greater market challenges and risks. A 
pre-tax discount rate of 13.5% (2014: 12.3%) has been used for Compliance Week that operates in North America. These pre-tax discount 
rates reflect current market assessments for the time value of money and the risks associated with the CGUs as the Group manages 
its treasury function on a Group-wide basis. The same discount rate has been used for all CGUs except Healthcare, Legal, Insight and 
Compliance Week as the Directors believe that the risks are the same for each other CGU. The long-term growth rates used are based on 
management’s expectations of future changes in the markets for each CGU and are 2.0% (2014: 2.0%).
Management’s impairment calculations based upon the above assumptions show significant headroom with the exception of Compliance 
Week. For Compliance Week, the value in use exceeds the carrying value by 10%. The impairment review of Compliance Week is sensitive 
to a reasonable possible change in the key assumptions used; most notably the discount rate, the long-term growth rate and projected 
operating cash flows. The value in use exceeds the carrying value unless any of the assumptions are changed as follows:
 z A decrease in the projected operating cash flows of 9% in each of the next three years; or
 z An increase in the pre-tax discount from 13.5% to 14.7%; or
 z A decrease in the long-term rate from 2.0% to 0.6%.
Goodwill is allocated to significant CGUs as follows. A CGU is considered to be significant if the goodwill allocated to it is greater than 
10% of the total goodwill net book value. 
CGU
30 June
2015
£’000
30 June
2014
£’000
ICT & Legal 38,625 38,625
Axco and Pendragon 11,150 11,150
Others 27,288 27,080
77,063 76,855
77
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Notes to the  
Financial Statements
13. Intangible assets
Group Company
Publishing 
rights, titles and 
benefits £’000
Computer 
software £’000
Total 
£’000
Computer 
software £’000
Cost
At 1 July 2013 65,462 4,929 70,391 587
Additions 22 933 955 —
Acquisitions 3,965 — 3,965 —
Disposals (3,002) — (3,002) (587)
Exchange translation differences (565) — (565) —
At 1 July 2014 65,882 5,862 71,744 —
Asset held for sale (2,492) (205) (2,697) —
Reclassification between categories — (329) (329) —
Additions — 1,738 1,738 —
Acquisitions 380 — 380 —
Exchange translation differences (62) (3) (65) —
At 30 June 2015 63,708 7,063 70,771 —
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 July 2013 35,258 3,640 38,898 525
Charge for year 6,286 816 7,102 23
Disposals (3,002) — (3,002) (548)
At 1 July 2014 38,542 4,456 42,998 —
Asset held for sale (2,030) (195) (2,225) —
Reclassification between categories — (871) (871) —
Charge for year 6,118 1,005 7,123 —
Exchange translation differences 124 (14) 110 —
At 30 June 2015 42,754 4,381 47,135 —
Net book amount
At 30 June 2015 20,954 2,682 23,636 —
At 30 June 2014 27,340 1,406 28,746 —
At 1 July 2013 30,204 1,289 31,493 62
Following an exercise to allocate capital resource to each new division management reclassified the cost and accumulated depreciation 
included within intangible assets - computer software and property, plant and equipment certain amounts between categories. The 
reclassification did not result in an adjustment to the income statement or any change to the overall aggregate net book value of intangible 
assets - computer software and property, plant and equipment.
Included within computer software are assets under construction with a net book amount of £572,000k (2014: £251,000k).
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
78 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
14. Property, plant and equipment
Group
Land, freehold 
and leasehold 
buildings £’000
Fixtures 
and fittings 
£’000
Computer 
equipment 
£’000
Motor 
vehicles 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost
At 1 July 2013 6,106 2,765 3,853 474 13,198
Additions 74 172 588 49 883
Disposals (61) (107) (635) (41) (844)
Exchange translation differences (8) (13) (35) — (56)
At 1 July 2014 6,111 2,817 3,771 482 13,181
Reclassification between categories (161) 729 (236) (3) 329 
Additions — 392 243 194 829 
Disposals — (10) (3) (178) (191)
Exchange translation differences — (19) (32) — (51)
At 30 June 2015 5,950 3,909 3,743 495 14,097 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2013 2,407 1,731 2,961 190 7,289
Charge for the year 202 306 415 102 1,025
Disposals (54) (82) (635) (39) (810)
Exchange translation differences (5) (11) (34) — (50)
At 1 July 2014 2,550 1,944 2,707 253 7,454
Reclassification between categories (58) 459 472 (2) 871 
Charge for the year 229 339 246 104 918 
Disposals — (10) (1) (136) (147)
Exchange translation differences — 190 (30) — 160 
At 30 June 2015 2,721 2,922 3,394 219 9,256 
Net book amount
At 30 June 2015 3,229 987 349 276 4,841 
At 30 June 2014 3,561 873 1,064 229 5,727
At 1 July 2013 3,699 1,034 892 284 5,909
Included in land and buildings is £970,000 (2014: £970,000) of non-depreciated land. 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is charged to net operating expenses within the income statement.
Following an exercise to allocate capital resource to each new division, management reclassified the cost and accumulated depreciation 
included within intangible assets - computer software and property, plant and equipment certain amounts between categories. The 
reclassification did not result in an adjustment to the income statement or any change to the overall aggregate net book value of intangible 
assets - computer software and property, plant and equipment.
79
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Notes to the  
Financial Statements
14. Property, plant and equipment continued
Company
Land and 
buildings 
£’000
Fixtures 
and fittings 
£’000
Computer 
equipment 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost
At 1 July 2013 2,789 34 149 2,972
Disposals — (34) (149) (183)
At 1 July 2014 and 30 June 2015 2,789 — — 2,789
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2013 1,702 34 144 1,880
Charge for the year 136 — 2 138
Disposals — (34) (146) (180)
At 1 July 2014 1,838 — — 1,838
Charge for the year 175 — — 175
Disposals — — — —
At 30 June 2015 2,013 — — 2,013
Net book amount
At 30 June 2015 776 — — 776
At 30 June 2014 951 — — 951
At 1 July 2013 1,087 — 5 1,092
15. Investments in subsidiaries
Company
Shares in 
subsidiary 
undertakings 
£’000
Cost less provision at 1 July 2013 48,591
Additions 60
Share based payments made on behalf of subsidiaries 542
Cost less provision at 1 July 2014 49,193
Share based payments made on behalf of subsidiaries 227
Cost less provision at 30 June 2015 49,420
The following table gives brief details of the entities controlled and included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group at 30 
June 2015. Except where indicated, all of the entities are incorporated in and principally operated in the UK.
Subsidiaries marked (*) are directly owned by Wilmington plc, all other subsidiaries are indirectly owned.
Subsidiaries marked (**) are companies limited by guarantee, have no ordinary shares and are controlled indirectly by Wilmington plc. 
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
80 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
15. Investment in subsidiaries continued
Name of company Business
Percentage 
owned
Adkins, Matchett & Toy (Hong Kong) Limited 
(incorporated and operates in Hong Kong) Provision of professional training 100
Adkins & Matchett (UK) Limited Provision of professional training 100
Adkins, Matchett & Toy Limited (incorporated and 
operates in the USA) Provision of professional training 100
APM International SAS (incorporated and operates in 
France) News information services to the healthcare industry 100
APM Media SARL (incorporated and operates in 
France) News information services to the healthcare industry 100
Ark Conferences Limited Provision of information and events for professional practice 
management 100  
Ark Group Inc (incorporated and operates in the USA) Provision of information and events for professional practice 
management 100
Ark Group Limited Holding company 100
Ark Singapore Pty Limited (incorporated and operates 
in Singapore) 
Provision of information and events for professional practice 
management 100
Axco Insurance Information Services Limited Provision of international compliance and regulatory information 
for the global insurance industry 100
Bond Solon Training Limited Witness training and conferences 100
CLT International Limited Certified professional training 100
Central Law Training Limited Professional education, post qualification training and legal 
conferences 100
Central Law Training (Scotland) Limited Professional education, post qualification training and legal 
conferences 80
International Company Profile FZ LLC (Middle East) 
(incorporated and operates in Dubai) Provision of financial information 100
International Compliance Training Limited Training courses in international compliance and money 
laundering 100
International Compliance Training Academy PTE 
Limited (incorporated and operates in Singapore) 
Training courses in international compliance and money 
laundering 100
International Compliance Training (Middle East) LLC 
(incorporated and operates in UAE) 
Training courses in international compliance and money 
laundering 100
La Touche Bond Solon Training Limited (incorporated 
and operates in Ireland) Witness and post qualification legal training 100
Mercia Group Limited Training and support services to the accountancy profession 100
Mercia Ireland Limited (incorporated and operates in 
Ireland) Training and support services to the accountancy profession 80
Mercia NI Limited Training and support services to the accountancy profession 80
NHiS Limited* Provision of business intelligence, data analysis, workflow tools 
and other services to the healthcare industry 100
Practice Track Limited Marketing support services for the accountancy profession 100
Smee and Ford Limited Provision of legacy information 100
Wilmington Finance Limited 
(formerly The Matchett Group Limited) Holding company 100
Wilmington Insight Limited
(formerly Wilmington Business Information Limited) Holding company 100
Wilmington Compliance Week Inc. (incorporated and 
operates in the USA)
Provision of international compliance and regulatory information 
in the USA 100
Wilmington Healthcare Limited Provision of reference information to the healthcare industry 100
Wilmington Holdings US Inc. (incorporated and 
operates in the USA) Holding company 100
Wilmington Holdings No 1 Limited* Holding company 100
Wilmington Inese SL (incorporated and operates in 
Spain) Provision of Spanish language subscription based publications 100
Wilmington Millennium Limited Provision of legacy information 82.5
81
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Notes to the  
Financial Statements
Name of company Business
Percentage 
owned
Wilmington Publishing & Information Limited Provision of information and events for professional markets 100
Wilmington Shared Services Limited Provision of shared services 100
Wilmington Legal Limited
(formerly Wilmington Training & Events Limited) Holding company 100
International Compliance Association** Professional association; a not for profit organisation 100
WCLTS** Professional association; a not for profit organisation 100
A.P . Information Services Limited Dormant 100
Adline Publishing Limited Dormant 100
Aspire Publications Limited Dormant 100
C.L.T. Professional Training Limited Dormant 100
Ark Publishing Limited Dormant 100
Caritas Data Limited Dormant 100
Central Law Management Limited Dormant 100
Clt Legal Link Limited Dormant 100
Hcp Consulting Limited Dormant 100
Hollis Directories Limited Dormant 100
Hollis Publishing Limited Dormant 100
Incisive Training Limited Dormant 100
Medical Practice Management Limited Dormant 100
Pendragon Professional Information Limited Dormant 100
Production and Casting Report Limited Dormant 100
Quorum Courses Limited Dormant 100
Quorum International Limited Dormant 100
Quorum Training Limited Dormant 100
The Central Law Training Paralegal Centre Limited Dormant 100
The Matchett Group Limited 
(formerly John Matchett Limited) Dormant 100
Waterlow Information Services Limited Dormant 100
Wilmington Business Information Limited 
(formerly Retail Entertainment Data Publishing Limited) Dormant 100
Wilmington Group Limited 
(formerly Limerent Limited) Dormant 100
Wilmington Risk & Compliance Limited) 
(formerly BD Research Limited) Dormant 100
Wilmington Training & Events Limited 
(formerly Centre of Professional Practice Limited) Dormant 100
Wilmington FRA Inc. (formerly Axco Insurance 
Information Services US, Inc.) (incorporated and 
operates in the USA) Dormant 100
Wilmington plc Employee Share Ownership Trust Trust n/a
Wilmington Legal Limited (formerly Wilmington Training & Events Limited) owns 80% of Central Law Training (Scotland) Limited. Mercia 
Group Limited owns 80% of Mercia NI Limited and Mercia Ireland Limited. Wilmington Publishing & Information Limited owns 82.5% of 
Wilmington Millennium Limited. 
The Wilmington plc Employee Share Option Trust is controlled by Wilmington plc.
15. Investment in subsidiaries continued
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
82 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
16. Trade and other receivables
Group Company
30 June 
2015
£’000
30 June 
2014
£’000
30 June 
2015
£’000
30 June 
2014
£’000
Current
Trade receivables 18,518 17,917 — —
Prepayments and other receivables 3,178 4,472 46 87
21,696 22,389 46 87
Non-current
Amounts due from subsidiaries — — 64,013 61,658
21,696 22,389 64,059 61,745
Amounts due from all other subsidiaries are interest free, unsecured and are not due for repayment within twelve months of the balance 
sheet date.
17. Derivative financial assets and liabilities
Group and Company
Current assets
30 June 
2015
£’000
30 June 
2014
£’000
Forward currency contracts 338 37
Current liabilities
Interest rate swap - maturing in November 2014 — (78)
Non-current liabilities
Interest rate swap - maturing in November 2016 (423) (490)
Details of these derivative financial assets and liabilities are set out in note 20.
18. Trade and other payables
Group Company
30 June 
2015
£’000
30 June 
2014
£’000
30 June 
2015
£’000
30 June 
2014
£’000
Trade and other payables 20,410 21,044 2,095 1,882
Subscriptions and deferred revenue 19,165 19,591 — —
Amounts due to subsidiaries — — 9,460 2,000
39,575 40,635 11,555 3,882
Amounts due to subsidiaries are interest free, unsecured and repayable on demand.
83
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Notes to the  
Financial Statements
19. Borrowings
Group Company
Current liability
30 June 
2015
£’000
30 June 
2014
£’000
30 June 
2015
£’000
30 June 
2014
£’000
Bank overdrafts 496 642 6,852 6,835
Bank loans 37,306 — 14,000 —
Capitalised loan arrangement fees (147) — (147) —
37,655 642 20,705 6,835
Non-current liability
Bank loans — 38,041 — 15,000
Capitalised loan arrangement fees — (368) — (368)
Bank loans net of loan arrangement fees — 37,673 — 14,632
In accordance with relevant accounting standards, bank loans due to expire in February 2016 have been reclassified to current liabilities. 
On 1 July 2015 the Group extended its £65m revolving credit facility with Barclays Bank PLC, HSBC Bank plc and The Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc through to 1 July 2020. The terms of the old and the extended facility are included in note 20.
20. Financial instruments and risk management
The Group’s financial instruments arise from its operations (for example, trade receivables and trade payables) from the financing of its 
operations (for example, loans and borrowings and equity) and from its risk management activities (for example, interest rate swaps and 
forward currency contracts). The risks to which the Group is exposed include interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, liquidity and capital 
risk, and credit risk.
Interest rate risk
Risk
The Group financing arrangements include external debt that is subject to a variable interest rate. The Group is consequently exposed 
to cash flow volatility arising from fluctuations in market interest rates applicable to that external finance. In particular, interest is charged 
on the £37m (2014: £38m) amount drawn down on the revolving credit facility at a rate of between 2.00 and 2.75 per cent above LIBOR 
depending upon leverage. Cash flow volatility therefore arises from movements in the LIBOR interest rates.
Group policy
The Group policy is to enter into interest rate swap contracts to maintain the ratio of fixed to variable rate debt at a level that achieves a 
reasonable cost of debt whilst reducing the exposure to cash flow volatility arising from fluctuations in market interest rates.
Risk management arrangements
The Group’s interest rate swap contracts offset part of its variable interest payments and replace them with fixed payments. In particular, 
the Group has hedged its exposure to the LIBOR part of the interest rate for a £15m (2014: £25m) portion of the loan facility via an interest 
rate swap, as follows:
 z A 5 year £15m interest rate swap commencing on 21 November 2011, whereby the Group receives interest on £15m based on the 
LIBOR rate and pays interest on £15m at a fixed rate of 2.68%.
These derivatives have been designated as a cash flow hedge for accounting purposes. The net settlement of interest on the interest rate 
swap, which comprises a variable rate interest receipt and a fixed rate interest payment, is recorded in net finance costs in the income 
statement and so is matched against the corresponding variable rate interest payment on the revolving credit facility. The derivatives 
are re-measured at fair value at each reporting date. This gives rise to a gain or loss, the entire amount of which is recognised in Other 
Comprehensive Income (‘OCI’) following the Directors’ assessment of hedge effectiveness.
Sensitivity analysis
The Group has performed a sensitivity analysis that measures the estimated charge to the Income Statement and Other Comprehensive 
Income arising from a 100 basis points (‘bps’) increase in market interest rates applicable at 30 June 2015, with all other variables 
remaining constant. The sensitivity analysis makes the following assumptions:
 z Changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense of variable financial instruments;
 z Changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense in relation to financial instruments with fixed interest rates if 
they are recognised at fair value; and
 z Changes in market interest rates do not affect the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments and 
all interest rate hedges are expected to be highly effective.
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
84 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
20. Financial instruments and risk management continued
Income 
Statement 
100 bps 
Increase 
£’000
OCI 
100 bps 
Increase 
£’000
Variable rate debt (203) —
Interest rate swap — 192
(203) 192
Foreign currency risk
Risk
The currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates is Sterling, and this is also the currency in which the 
Group presents its financial statements. However, the Group has significant Euro and US dollar cash flows arising from international 
trading and overseas operations. The Group is consequently exposed to cash flow volatility arising from fluctuations in the applicable 
exchange rates for converting Euros and US dollars to Sterling.
Group policy
The Group policy is to fix the exchange rate in relation to a periodically reassessed set percentage of expected Euro and US dollar net 
cash inflows arising from international trading, by entering into foreign currency contracts to sell a specified amount of Euros or US dollars 
on a specified future date at a specified exchange rate. This set percentage is approved by the Board as part of the budgeting process and 
upon the acquisition of foreign operations.
The Group policy is to finance investment in overseas operations from borrowings in the local currency of the relevant operation, so as to 
achieve a natural hedge of the foreign currency translation risk. This natural hedge is designated as a net investment hedge for accounting 
purposes. Debt of $5.2m has been designated as a net investment hedge relating to the Group’s interest in Compliance Week.
Risk management arrangements
The following forward contracts were entered into in order to provide certainty in Sterling terms of 80% of the Group’s expected net US 
dollar and Euro income:
 z On 12 June 2014, the Group sold $3.0m to 31 March 2015 at a rate of 1.6785
 z On 16 June 2014, the Group sold $3.5m to 29 May 2015 at a rate of 1.6911
 z On 12 June 2014, the Group sold $1.5m to 26 November 2014 at a rate of 1.6911
 z On 12 June 2014, the Group sold $1.5m to 28 November 2014 at a rate of 1.5611
 z On 23 January 2015, the Group sold $2.5m to 29 January 2016 at a rate of 1.4995
 z On 23 January 2015, the Group sold $2.5m to 22 January 2016 at a rate of 1.4977
 z On 5 June 2015, the Group sold €1.34m to 14 December 2015 at a rate of 1.3569
 z On 5 June 2015, the Group sold €1.34m to 15 December 2015 at a rate of 1.3569
 z On 5 June 2015, the Group sold €1.32m to 16 December 2015 at a rate of 1.3569
 z On 8 June 2015, the Group sold $2.0m to 27 May 2016 at a rate of 1.5221
 z On 8 June 2015, the Group sold $2.0m to 29 April 2016 at a rate of 1.5220
The above derivatives are re-measured at fair value at each reporting date. This gives rise to a gain or loss, the entire amount of which is 
recognised in the Income Statement.
The Group has performed a sensitivity analysis that measures the estimated credit/(charge) to the Income Statement and Other 
Comprehensive Income arising from a 10% difference in the US Dollar to Sterling and Euro to Sterling exchange rates applicable at 30 
June 2015, with all other variables remaining constant. The sensitivity analysis makes the assumption that changes in foreign currency 
rates only affect income, expense, assets and liabilities that are denominated in the relevant currencies.
85
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Notes to the  
Financial Statements
20. Financial instruments and risk management continued
Income statement OCI
Current liability
+10%*
£’000
-10%*
£’000
+10%*
£’000
-10%*
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents (210) 256 — —
Trade receivables (including the effect of forward currency contracts) (24) 29 — —
Currency translation differences — — (33) 40
Net investment hedges — — 301 (367)
Profit before tax arising overseas (334) 408 — —
(568) 693 268 (327)
*  +10% represents Sterling value appreciating compared with other currencies. -10% represents Sterling value depreciating compared with other currencies.
Liquidity and capital risk
Risk
The Group has historically expanded its operations both organically and via acquisition, financed partly by retained profits but also via 
external finance. As well as financing cash outflows, the Group’s activities give rise to working capital obligations and other operational 
cash outflows. The Group is consequently exposed to the risk that it cannot meet its obligations as they fall due, or can only meet them at 
an uneconomic price.
Group policy
The Group policy is to preserve a strong capital base in order to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to safeguard the 
future development of the business, but also to balance these objectives with the efficient use of capital. The Group has, in previous years, 
made purchases of its own shares (see note 22) whilst taking into account the availability of credit.
Risk management arrangements
The Group ensures its liquidity is maintained by entering into short, medium and long-term financial instruments to support operational and 
other funding requirements. The Group determines its liquidity requirements by the use of short and long-term cash forecasts.
On 1 July 2015 the Group extended its £65m revolving credit facility with Barclays Bank PLC, HSBC Bank plc and The Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc through to 1 July 2020. The terms of the old and the extended facility are included below:
Old facility that expired on 1 July 2015:
The Group had an unsecured committed bank facility of £65.0m (2014: £65.0m) to February 2016. The facility comprised of a revolving 
credit facility of £60.0m (2014: £60.0m) and an overdraft facility across the Group of £5.0m (2014: £5.0m). At 30 June 2015, £37.3m of the 
revolving credit facility was drawn down (2014: £38.0m). Interest was charged on the amount drawn down at between 2.00 and 2.75 per 
cent above LIBOR depending upon leverage, and drawdowns were made for periods of up to six months in duration. Interest was charged 
on the drawn element of the overdraft facility at 2.00 and 2.55 per cent (the ‘Margin’) above the Barclays bank base rate depending upon 
leverage. The Group also paid a fee of 40 per cent of the applicable Margin on the undrawn element of the credit facility and the undrawn 
overdraft. The Group has complied at all times with the covenant requirements of the bank facility arrangement.
Extended facility that is effective from 1 July 2015 and expires on 1 July 2020:
The Group has an unsecured committed bank facility of £65.0m to 1 July 2020. The facility comprised of a revolving credit facility of 
£60.0m and an overdraft facility across the Group of £5.0m. In addition, the extended facility also provides for an accordion option 
whereby the unsecured committed bank facility may be increased by up to £35m to a total commitment of £100m if required subject to 
majority lending bank consent. Interest is charged on the amount drawn down at between 1.50 and 2.25 (the ‘Margin’) per cent above 
LIBOR depending upon leverage, and drawdowns are made for periods of up to six months in duration. Interest is charged on the drawn 
element of the overdraft facility at 1.50% and 2.25% per cent above the Barclays bank base rate depending upon leverage. The Group 
also pays a fee of 40% of the applicable Margin on the undrawn element of the credit facility and the undrawn overdraft.
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
86 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
20. Financial instruments and risk management continued
The Group had available an undrawn revolving credit facility as follows:
30 June
2015
£’000
30 June
2014
£’000
Expiring within one year 22,694 —
Expiring after more than one year — 21,959
The following tables provide a maturity analysis of the remaining contractually agreed cash flows for the Group’s non-derivative financial 
liabilities on an undiscounted basis, which therefore differ from the carrying value and fair value:
Group
At 30 June 2015
Within 
1 Year 
£’000
1–2 Years 
£’000
2–5 Years 
£’000
More than 
5 Years 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Bank overdrafts 496 — — — 496
Bank loans including interest 37,669 — — — 37,669
Trade payables and accruals 21,204 — — — 21,204
Provisions for future purchase of non-controlling interests — 100 — — 100
59,369 100 — — 59,469
At 30 June 2014
Within 
1 Year 
£’000
1–2 Years 
£’000
2–5 Years 
£’000
More than 
5 Years 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Bank overdrafts 642 — — — 642
Bank loans including interest 1,321 39,162 — — 40,483
Trade payables and accruals 17,298 — — — 17,298
Deferred consideration - cash settled 343 — — — 343
Provisions for future purchase of non-controlling interests — 100 — — 100
19,604 39,262 — — 58,866
Company
At 30 June 2015
Within 
1 Year 
£’000
1–2 Years 
£’000
2–5 Years 
£’000
More than 
5 Years 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Bank overdrafts 6,852 — — — 6,852
Bank loans including interest 14,363 — — — 14,363
Trade payables, accruals and amounts due to 
subsidiary undertakings 11,555 — — — 11,555
32,770 — — — 32,770
At 30 June 2014
Within 
1 Year 
£’000
1–2 Years 
£’000
2–5 Years 
£’000
More than 
5 Years 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Bank overdrafts 6,835 — — — 6,835
Bank loans including interest 746 15,587 — — 16,333
Trade payables, accruals and amounts due to 
subsidiary undertakings 3,882 — — — 3,882
Deferred consideration - cash settled 56 — — — 56
11,519 15,587 — — 27,106
The ‘Put options for non-controlling interests’ refer to options between the non-controlling interest holders of subsidiaries and the Group. 
The options require the Group to purchase a non-controlling shareholding in accordance with its contractual obligation.
The liability represents the costs to the Group of buying out these non-controlling interests should the put options be exercised by the 
non-controlling shareholders. The valuation upon exercise is dependent on the performance of the subsidiary undertakings at the date the 
options are exercised.
The Company has entered into an unlimited cross guarantee with the Group’s credit facility providers.
87
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Notes to the  
Financial Statements
20. Financial instruments and risk management continued
Credit risk
Risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are receivables and bank balances. The Group is consequently exposed to the risk that its 
customers or the credit facility providers cannot meet their obligations as they fall due.
Group policy
The Group policy is that the lines of business assess the creditworthiness and financial strength of customers at inception and on an 
ongoing basis. The Group also reviews the credit rating of the bank.
Risk management arrangements
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. However, the Group has no significant exposure to credit 
risk because its trading is spread over a large number of customers. The payment terms offered to customers take into account the 
assessment of their creditworthiness and financial strength, and they are set in accordance with industry standards. The creditworthiness 
of customers is considered before trading commences. Most of the Group’s customers are large and well established institutions that pay 
on time and in accordance with the Group’s standard terms of business. 
The amounts presented in the Balance Sheet are net of allowances for bad and doubtful receivables estimated by management based on 
prior experience and their assessment of the current economic value.
Set out below is an analysis of the Group’s trade receivables by due date prior to any impairment.
Not due 
£’000
 0–30 days 
£’000
30–60 days 
£’000 
Over 60 days 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Allowances 
£’000
Net 
£’000
At 30 June 2015 10,397 3,081 2,118 3,658 19,254 (736) 18,518
At 30 June 2014 10,674 3,105 1,396 3,371 18,546 (629) 17,917
Receivables within the 0-30 days category or above are past due, but the Group considers them to be collectable and not impaired except 
where specifically provided for.
Set out below is the movement for the year in the allowance for bad and doubtful debts relating to trade receivables.
30 June
2015
£’000
30 June
2014
£’000
Allowances at 1 July 2014 629 943
Additions charged to Income Statement 421 62
Allowances used (40) (74)
Allowances reversed (274) (302)
Allowances at 30 June 2015 736 629
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
88 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
20. Financial instruments and risk management continued
Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities
The table below sets out the accounting classification and the carrying and fair values of all of the Group’s financial assets and financial 
liabilities. The carrying value and fair value are equal in all cases. None of the financial instruments have been reclassified during the year. 
All items classified as fair value through profit and loss are held for trading.
Group
At 30 June 2015
Fair value 
through profit 
and loss 
£’000
 Loans and 
receivables 
£’000
Financial 
instruments 
designated 
for hedging 
£’000
Amortised 
cost 
£’000
Other 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents — 9,194 — — — 9,194
Trade and other receivables — 20,200 — — — 20,200
Forward currency contracts 338 — — — — 338
338 29,394 — — — 29,732
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables — — — (21,477) — (21,477)
Bank overdrafts — — — (496) — (496)
Bank loans — — — (37,306) — (37,306)
Interest rate swaps — — (423) — — (423)
Put options for non-controlling interests — — — — (100) (100)
— — (423) (59,279) (100) (59,802)
At 30 June 2014
Fair value 
through profit 
and loss 
£’000
 Loans and 
receivables 
£’000
Financial 
instruments 
designated 
for hedging 
£’000
Amortised 
cost 
£’000
Other 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents — 5,020 — — — 5,020
Trade and other receivables — 20,084 — — — 20,084
Forward currency contracts 37 — — — — 37
37 25,104 — — — 25,141
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables — — — (17,298) — (17,298)
Bank overdrafts — — — (642) — (642)
Bank loans — — (1,321) (39,162) — (40,483)
Interest rate swaps — — (568) — — (568)
Put options for non-controlling interests — — — — (100) (100)
— — (1,889) (57,102) (100) (59,091)
89
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Notes to the  
Financial Statements
20. Financial instruments and risk management continued
Company
At 30 June 2015
Fair value 
through profit 
and loss 
£’000
 Loans and 
receivables 
£’000
Financial 
instruments 
designated 
for hedging 
£’000
Amortised 
cost 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents — 62 — — 62
Trade and other receivables — 64,013 — — 64,013
Forward currency contracts 338 — — — 338
338 64,075 — — 64,413
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables — — — (11,551) (11,551)
Bank overdrafts — — — (6,852) (6,852)
Bank loans — — — (13,653) (13,653)
Interest rate swaps — — (423) — (423)
— — (423) (32,056) (32,479)
At 30 June 2014
Fair value 
through profit 
and loss 
£’000
 Loans and 
receivables 
£’000
Financial 
instruments 
designated 
for hedging 
£’000
Amortised 
cost 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents — 19 — — 19
Trade and other receivables — 61,658 — — 61,658
Forward currency contracts 37 — — — 37
37 61,677 — — 61,714
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables — — — (3,882) (3,882)
Bank overdrafts — — — (6,835) (6,835)
Bank loans — — — (14,632) (14,632)
Interest rate swaps — — (568) — (568)
— — (568) (25,349) (25,917)
Fair value measurement
The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair values of financial assets and liabilities are as follows:
 z The carrying amount of trade receivables and payables approximates to fair value due to the short maturity of the amounts receivable 
and payable;
 z The fair value of the Group’s borrowings are estimated on the basis of the discounted value of future cash flows using approximate 
discount rates in effect at the balance sheet date; and
 z The fair value of the Group’s outstanding interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts and put options for non-controlling interest 
are estimated using discounted cash flow models and market rates of interest and foreign exchange at the balance sheet date.
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
90 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
20. Financial instruments and risk management continued
The table below analyses financial instruments measured at fair value via a valuation method. The different levels have been defined as:
Level 1
Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
Level 2
Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or 
indirectly (that is, derived from prices); and
Level 3
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs).
Group and Company
At 30 June 2015
Level 1 
£’000 
Level 2 
£’000 
Level 3 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Liabilities
Financial liabilities at fair value through income or expense
– Trading derivatives at fair value through the Income Statement — (338) — (338)
Financial liabilities at fair value through equity
– Derivative financial instruments designated for hedging — 423 — 423
Total liabilities — 85 — 85
At 30 June 2014
Level 1 
£’000 
Level 2 
£’000 
Level 3 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Liabilities
Financial liabilities at fair value through income or expense
– Trading derivatives at fair value through the Income Statement — (37) — (37)
Financial liabilities at fair value through equity
– Derivative financial instruments designated for hedging — 568 — 568
Total liabilities — 531 — 531
21. Deferred tax
Movements on deferred tax assets are as follows:
Group 
£’000
 Company 
£’000
Non-current assets
Asset at 1 July 2013 887 507
Deferred tax charge in the Income Statement for the year (150) (201)
Effect on deferred tax of change in corporation tax rate (28) (53)
Deferred tax charge included directly in equity for the year (147) (147)
Asset at 30 June 2014 562 106
Prior year adjustment — 93
Deferred tax charge in the income statement for the year 29 99
Deferred tax charge in other comprehensive income for the year (29) (29)
Effect on deferred tax of change in corporation tax rate (27) (9)
Deferred tax charge included directly in equity for the year 27 140
Asset at 30 June 2015 562 400
The Group deferred tax asset of £478,000 (2014: £443,000) and of £84,000 (2014: £119,000) arises as a result of tax on share based 
payments and fair value interest rate swap losses respectively. It is anticipated that the Group and Company will make sufficient taxable 
profit to allow the benefit of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
91
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Notes to the  
Financial Statements
21. Deferred tax continued
Movements on deferred tax liabilities are as follows:
Group 
£’000
 Company  
£’000
Non-current liabilities
Liability at 1 July 2013 5,822 —
Deferred tax credit in the Income Statement for the year (608) —
Prior year deferred tax adjustment (11) —
Effect on deferred tax of change in corporation tax rate (517) —
Exchange translation differences (16) —
Liability at 30 June 2014 4,670 —
Deferred tax credit in the Income Statement for the year (686) —
Effect on deferred tax of change in corporation tax rate (222) —
Liability at 30 June 2015 3,762 —
The deferred tax liability arises as a result of accelerated tax on depreciation and amortisation.
22. Share capital
Number 
of ordinary 
shares of 
5p each
Ordinary 
shares 
£’000
Share 
premium 
account 
£’000
 Treasury 
shares 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Authorised
At 1 July 2014 and 30 June 2015 110,000,000 5,500
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares
At 1 July 2014 86,103,137 4,305 45,231 (2,356) 47,180
Treasury shares reissued during the year — — — 1,478 1,478
At 1 July 2014 86,103,137 4,305 45,231 (878) 48,658
Shares issued 404,324 20 (6) — 14
Treasury shares reissued during the year — — — 782 782
At 30 June 2015 86,507,461 4,325 45,225 (96) 49,454
During the year, 404,324 ordinary shares were issued in respect of share awards exercised by employees (including Directors) (2014: nil).
The Company reissued 379,006 treasury shares during the year (2014: 668,910) in respect of the 2011 Performance share plan scheme 
that fully vested in October 2014. No treasury shares were reissued during the year (2014: 47,500) in respect of share options exercised by 
employees. No other treasury shares were reissued by the Company during the year (2014: nil). At 30 June 2015, 46,584 shares were held 
in Treasury (2014: 425,590), which represents 0.1% (2014: 0.5%) of the called up share capital of the Company.
23. Share based payments
Details of Directors’ share awards are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. In addition to the Directors a limited number of the 
senior management team are also granted share awards.
Under the Wilmington Group plc 2007 Performance Share Plan:
Year of grant
Awards 
price 
per Share Date of vesting
Number of 
shares for 
which awards 
outstanding 
1 July 2014
Awards granted 
during year 
Awards 
vested 
during year
 Awards lapsed 
during year
 Number of 
shares for 
which awards 
outstanding at 
30 June 2015
2011 Nil Oct 2014 911,959 — (701,637) (210,322) —
2012 Nil Oct 2015 444,198 — — — 444,198
2013 Nil Sep 2016 262,142 — — — 262,142
2014 Nil Sep 2017 — 230,293 — — 230,293
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
92 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
23. Share based payments continued
Details of the Performance Share Plan are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 52. 
These awards were valued using the Monte Carlo method with the following assumptions:
 z Expected volatility (%) 26 to 36
 z Expected life (years) 3
 z Expected dividends (%) Nil
 z Expected volatility was determined by reference to the historical volatility of the Group’s share price. The expected life used in the 
model is the mid-point of the exercise period.
An expense of £918,000 (2014: £924,000) was recognised in the income statement of the group for share based payments. Of this 
expense £691,000 (2014: £382,000) was recognised in the parent company income statement.
24. Non-controlling interests
Net non-
controlling 
interests 
£’000
At 1 July 2013 145
Profit for the year 73
Dividends paid (26)
Movement in offset of provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests 43
At 30 June 2014 235
Profit for the year 130
Dividends paid (88)
At 30 June 2015 277
25. Contingencies and commitments
Contingencies
The Company has entered into an unlimited cross guarantee with the Group’s bankers in respect of the net £5 million overdraft facilities 
extended to certain of the Company’s subsidiaries. At 30 June 2015, the Company’s gross contingent liability in respect of this facility was 
£496,000 (2014: £769,000).
Commitments
a.  The Group had, in relation to property, plant and equipment, capital commitments contracted but not provided for at 30 June 2015 of 
£nil (2014: £nil).
b. Total future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Group Company
Property Property
30 June 
2015
£’000
30 June 
2014
£’000
30 June 
2015
£’000
30 June 
2014
£’000
One year 989 885 111 111
Between two and five years 2,254 1,341 445 445
After five years 3,727 3,919 3,727 3,838
6,970 6,145 4,283 4,394
93
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Notes to the  
Financial Statements
26. Related party transactions
The Company and its wholly owned subsidiary undertakings offer certain Group-wide purchasing facilities to the Company’s other 
subsidiary undertakings whereby the actual costs are recharged.
The Company has made recharges totalling £1,872,699 (2014: £1,427,000) to its fellow group undertakings in respect of management 
services. In addition, it has recharged at cost certain administrative expenses totalling £170,876 (2014: £159,525) to its fellow group 
undertakings.
Amounts due from and to subsidiary undertakings by the Company are set out in notes 16 and 18 respectively. 
During the year, the Company received dividends of £6,552,397 from subsidiaries (2014: £6,600,000).
The Chief Executive Officer, Pedro Ros, owns a minority 10% shareholding in SMARP OY (a company incorporated in Finland), which 
provides social media services to the Group; the subsidiary paid £3,720 during the year to SMARP UK Limited, a subsidiary of SMART OY.  
Global Training Consultancy Limited, a third party company, is owned and controlled by the spouse of Bill Howarth, Divisional Director of 
Risk & Compliance. Global Training Consultancy Limited invoiced a subsidiary of the Group for a total of £71,404 (2014: £54,606) during 
the year for lecturing, writing production and exam marking services.
27. Staff and their pay and benefits
a) Employee costs (including Directors) were as follows: 
Year ended 
30 June
2015
£’000
Year ended 
30 June
2014
£’000
Wages and salaries 35,582 33,655
Social security costs 3,464 4,206
Other pension costs 639 777
Share based payments (including social security costs) 918 924
40,603 39,562
b) Remuneration of key management personnel that held office for part or all of the year (2015: 14 
people; 2014: 10 people), which includes the Directors and other key management personnel, is 
shown in the table below:
Year ended 
30 June
2015
£’000
Year ended 
30 June
2014
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 3,713 2,374
Compensation for loss of office 500 —
Post-employment benefits 73 8
Share based payments 893 476
5,179 2,858
More detailed information concerning Director’s remuneration, shareholdings, pension entitlement, share options and other long-term 
incentive plans is shown in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 52, which forms part of the consolidated 
financial statements. The increase in the number of people included within key management relates to the inclusion of the newly appointed 
Divisional Directors of each of the four segments.
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
94 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
27. Staff and their pay and benefits continued
c) The average monthly number of employees (including Directors) employed by the Group was 
as follows:
Year ended  
30 June
2015
Number
Year ended 
30 June
2014
Number
Selling and distribution 276 263
Production 214 204
Administration 402 383
892 850
Total full time equivalents at 30 June 2015 were 762 (2013: 784).
d) Retirement benefits
The Group contributes to defined contribution pension schemes. Total contributions to the schemes during the year were £639,000 (2014: 
£777,000).
28. Cash generated from operations
Group Company
Year ended 
30 June 
2015
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2014
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2015
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2014
£’000
Profit from continuing operations before income tax 10,296 8,592 1,936 2,781
Other adjusting items (included in operating expenses) 1,112 764 878 269
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 918 1,025 175 138
Amortisation of intangible assets 7,123 7,102 — 23
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (21) 34 — —
Share based payments (including social security costs) 918 924 690 382
Net finance costs 1,974 2,138 1,147 1,383
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 22,320 20,579 4,826 4,976
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 371 (452) 1 11,132
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (811) 77 7,187 633
Cash generated from operations before adjusting items 21,880 20,204 12,014 16,741
95
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
28. Cash generated from operations continued
Cash conversion is calculated as a percentage of cash generated by operations to Adjusted EBITA as follows:
Year ended  
30 June
2015
£’000
Year ended 
30 June
2014
£’000
Funds from operations before adjusting items:
Adjusted EBITA 20,418 18,704
Amortisation of intangible assets - computer software 1,005 816
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 918 1,025
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (21) 34
Operating cash before movement in working capital 22,320 20,579
Net working capital movement (440) (375)
Funds from operations before adjusting items 21,880 20,204
Cash conversion 107% 108%
Free cash flows:
Operating cash before movement in working capital 22,320 20,579
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (22) 34
Net working capital movement (440) (375)
Net finance costs paid (1,883) (1,863)
Tax paid (3,680) (3,285)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (829) (883)
Purchase of intangible assets (1,739) (955)
Free cash flows 13,727 13,252
29. Events after the reporting period
On 1 July 2015 the Group extended its £65m multi-currency revolving credit facility with Barclays Bank PLC, HSBC Bank plc and The 
Royal Bank of Scotland plc through to 1 July 2020. The terms of the extended facility are included in note 20.
On 6 July 2015 the Group acquired the trading assets and the assumption of certain liabilities of Financial Research Associates (‘FRA’) 
a leading US conference and networking provider of specialist events in healthcare and finance, for a maximum consideration of up 
to £13.2m ($20.6m). The Group acquired FRA from its founding management team, who will continue in the business. The acquisition 
comprises a net initial consideration of $13.0m (£8.3m) in cash with two deferred cash consideration amounts of $1.5m each payable 
on 1 July 2016 and 1 July 2017 conditional upon the continued employment of the management team. Further deferred and contingent 
consideration of up to $4.6m is potentially payable in cash subject to FRA achieving challenging revenue and profit targets in the two 
financial years ended 30 June 2016 and June 2017 respectively. The net initial consideration of $13.0m (£8.3m) was financed out of 
the extended £65m multi-currency revolving credit facility. The process of fair valuing FRA has not been completed at the date of 
these financial statements. Subject to this process to fair value, the group acquired approximately £227,000 of current net assets and 
£462,000 of subscriptions and deferred revenue. The excess consideration above the fair value of these acquired current net assets and 
subscriptions and deferred revenue will be recognised as goodwill and intangible asset following completion of the exercise to fair value. 
All amounts are disclosed as provisional.
On 31 July 2015 the Group disposed of certain Media brands that form part of the Insight segment (see note 11).
Notes to the  
Financial Statements
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
96 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
2011 
£’m
2012 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Revenue 83.8 85.3 85.0 90.0 95.1
Net operating expenses (before adjusting items) (68.9) (69.6) (68.1) (71.3) (74.7)
Adjusted EBITA 14.9 15.7 16.9 18.7 20.4
Other adjusting items (0.7) (0.9) (1.3) (0.8) (1.1)
Gain on disposal of property — — 3.3 — —
Amortisation (5.7) (5.3) (6.1) (6.3) (6.1)
Impairment — — (4.5) — —
Share based payments (0.6) (0.5) (0.9) (0.9) (0.9)
Operating profit 7.9 9.0 7.4 10.7 12.3
Net finance costs (1.8) (2.7) (2.3) (2.1) (2.0)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 6.1 6.3 5.1 8.6 10.3
Taxation (1.5) (1.2) (1.5) (2.0) (2.4)
Profit on ordinary activities after tax 4.6 5.1 3.6 6.6 7.9
Adjusted Profit before Tax 12.9 13.2 14.7 16.6 18.4
Cash generated from operations before adjusting items 15.8 17.4 19.4 20.2 21.9
Basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing 
operations (pence) 5.20 5.81 4.17 7.59 8.96
Diluted earnings per ordinary share from continuing 
operations (pence) 5.07 5.63 4.07 7.39 8.83
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share from continuing 
operations (pence) 11.38 11.71 13.06 14.79 16.42
Interim and proposed final dividend per share (pence) 7.0 7.0 7.0 7.3 7.7
Dividend cover
1
1.6 1.7 1.9 2.0 2.1
Return on equity
2
 (%) 24.75 26.84 28.50 31.94 34.37 
Return on sales
3
 (%) 17.27 18.38 19.83 20.78 21.47
1 
Dividend cover – Adjusted earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations divided by the interim and proposed final dividend per share
2 
Return on equity – Adjusted Profit before tax divided by the average equity attributable to owners of the parent
3 
Return on sales – Adjusted EBITA divided by Revenue
Pro Forma Five Year Financial 
Summary (Unaudited)
97
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Financial advisers and  
joint stockbrokers
Numis Securities Limited  
10 Paternoster Square  
London EC4M 7LT
Canaccord Genuity Hawkpoint 
88 Wood Street 
London EC2V 9QR
Independent auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
1 Embankment Place 
London WC2N 6RH
Solicitors 
Wragge Lawrence Graham & Co 
4 More London Riverside  
London SE1 2AU
Principal bankers
Barclays Bank plc 
1 Churchill Place 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 5HP
Registrars
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing BN99 6DA
Shareholder helpline
+44 (0) 871 384 2855 (UK) 
+44 121 415 7047 (Overseas)
Registered address
6–14 Underwood Street  
London  
N1 7JQ
Wilmington plc
6-14 Underwood Street 
London 
N1 7JQ 
Tel: +44 (0)20 7490 0049 
www.wilmingtonplc.com
Corporate calendar 
Annual General Meeting 
5 November 2015
Announcement of Final Results 
15 September 2015
Announcement of Interim Results 
February 2016
Advisers and Corporate Calendar
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
98 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Shareholder Notes
99
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Financial Statements 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
100 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Wilmington plc
6–14 Underwood Street
London
N1 7JQ
Tel: +44 (0)20 7490 0049
www.wilmingtonplc.com
Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 Stock Code: WIL
