 Leading the digital inkjet revolution
Xaar plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Welcome to Xaar plc
Strategic Report 
Highlights 1
Our business at a glance 2
Who we are 4
Our people 6
Chairman’s report 8
Market overview 10
Chief Executive Officer’s report 12
Our mission, vision and strategy 14
Our strategy in action 15
– New products and new technology 15
– Building the eco-system 16
– Converting multiple markets 17
– Enhancing our capability 18
Key performance indicators 19
Risk management 20
Chief Financial Officer’s report 22
Sustainable and responsible business 25
Board approval of the Strategic  
and Annual Reports 29
Governance
Board of Directors 30
Directors’ report 32
Governance 37
– Corporate governance statement 37
– Directors’ Remuneration report 44
– Directors’ Responsibilities statement 69
 
Financial Statements 
Independent auditor’s report 70
Consolidated income statement 76
Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income 76
Consolidated statement of financial position 77
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 78
Consolidated cash flow statement 79
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 80
Company balance sheet 111
Company statement of changes in equity 112
Notes to the Company financial statements 113
Five year record 117
Notice of the Annual General Meeting 118
Advisors IBC
Inside this report
Xaar is a world leader in the development of digital 
inkjet technology and manufacture of piezoelectric  
drop-on-demand industrial inkjet printheads.
Developing a 
sustainable business
Read how we  
help others
go to page 25  
Who we are
Read how we have 
grown over 25 years
go to page 4  
Developing  
innovative solutions
See our strategy  
in action
go to page 15  
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Highlights
10.6
Financial highlights
• Revenue in 2015 performed in line with expectations, 
with sales growth in Packaging partially offsetting the 
anticipated reduction from sales into the ceramic  
tile market
• Strong profitability was achieved in 2015 despite the 
lower level of sales; gross margin improved to 47.8% 
(2014: 44.5%) and adjusted operating margin was 
maintained at 22%
• Gross research and development (R&D) investment 
(before capitalisation of development costs relating  
to the Thin Film programme) increased by 4% to  
£19.9 million in 2015 (2014: £19.2 million)
• Net cash increased by almost £23 million to £69.7 million 
(2014: £47.0 million)
Adjusted profit before tax £m Adjusted revenue £m
20.8
24.6
41.1
18.4
2014
2015
2013
2012
2011
69.7
Net cash balance £m
47.0
53.5
28.9
17.4
2014
2015
2013
2012
2011
Adjusted operating margin %
21.8
22.2
30.4
21.1
15.3
2014
2013
2012
2011
93.5
109.2
134.1
86.3
68.7
2014
2015
2013
2012
2011
Operational and strategic highlights
• We have undertaken a strategic review and completed 
a number of organisational changes to support the 
achievement of our new vision: to grow annual revenue  
to £220 million by 2020
• We will achieve this vision by capitalising on organic 
growth opportunities, continuing to invest in product 
development, building partnerships, and pursuing 
carefully selected acquisitions
• R&D programmes delivered on schedule with a number 
of products launched or announced in 2015 and a strong 
pipeline for 2016 and beyond
• The Xaar Print Bar System launched in September 
2015 is proving popular, with deliveries against the first 
customer orders expected in the next few months
• The Thin Film (P4) programme progresses to plan and the 
Xaar 5601 will launch at drupa, the world’s leading trade 
show for graphic and industrial print, in June 2016
£93.5m £20.8m
21.8% £69.7m
Adjusted measures exclude items from the IFRS operating profit and profit before tax, such as share-based payment charges, exchange differences relating to Swedish 
operations, unrealised gains/losses on derivative financial instruments, restructuring costs, R&D expenditure credit, impairment on trade investments, commercial 
agreement costs, and non-recurring royalty income (also excluded from IFRS revenue and gross profit), per the reconciliation of adjusted financial measures on page 87. 
Net cash includes cash and cash equivalents, treasury deposits, less obligations under loan and finance lease liabilities.
2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  1 Delivering transformational solutions
Our business at a glance
Who we are Our strategy
We are a world leader in the development 
of digital inkjet technology and an award-
winning manufacturer of piezoelectric drop-
on-demand industrial inkjet printheads.
Xaar is the world’s leading supplier of industrial printheads, with  
25 years of success in a variety of markets. Our core business is  
the design, manufacture, marketing and sale of printheads, printhead 
systems and associated products. Xaar also receives licensee royalty 
income from its legacy licensing model.
Our business model
Our strategy is to drive the development  
of inkjet technology into selected
multiple applications and industries, 
delivering sustainable profitable growth.
628
Employees (2015 average number)
New products  
and new technology
Read more on page 15
Enhancing  
our capability
Read more on page 18
Converting  
multiple markets
Read more on page 17
Xaar designs
Xaar markets
Xaar invests a substantial proportion of 
sales (over 20% in 2015) in Research and 
Development (R&D) to remain a world leader 
in inkjet technology.
Xaar’s innovative products are used in a wide 
range of applications around the globe, from 
ceramic tiles to semi-conductors.
Xaar has more than 250 patents and patent 
applications and continues to add to its 
Intellectual Property (IP) portfolio.
Our headquarters and R&D activities are 
based on the prestigious Cambridge Science 
Park, Cambridge, UK. At 31 December 2015 
R&D staff totalled 145, representing 24% of 
the total workforce.
Xaar offers a wide range of industrial inkjet 
printheads and printhead systems which 
are designed and produced to meet the 
customer-driven requirements of a range of 
manufacturing applications. Primary markets 
include wide-format graphics, ceramic tiles, 
labels, packaging, coding and marking, 
3D printing, advanced manufacturing and 
decorative laminates.
Xaar manufactures
Xaar manufactures its printheads in 
Huntingdon, UK and Järfälla, Sweden.  
The Sweden plant will close in 2016.
Xaar’s manufacturing is relatively capital 
intensive; the Group has invested over £60 
million in assets and production facilities in 
Huntingdon since the plant opened in 2007.
Building  
the eco-system
Read more on page 16
Xaar sells
Xaar sells direct to OEMs around the world 
through its global sales team. Xaar’s highly 
skilled application engineers offer the highest 
level of technical support to assist OEMs in 
the successful design, build, commissioning, 
and ongoing maintenance of printing 
systems. Europe, Asia and North America 
are the primary locations of our current  
OEM partners.
2  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc In order to develop new products and new 
technology successfully, and to sustain or 
grow sales into multiple end markets, we 
must constantly develop our capability in 
terms of our human and other resources, 
specifically both our R&D and manufacturing 
capacity and capability, and the structure of 
our organisation. External opportunities will 
also be identified and evaluated to support the 
expansion of our capability.
The markets and applications that use Xaar’s 
printheads can be diverse but can be grouped 
to have similar characteristics and general 
imaging requirements.
Strategy in action
We have an exciting range of bulk piezo 
product launches planned for 2016, including 
a new family of printheads for coding and 
marking applications as announced in 
December 2015. 
We expect to be demonstrating our Thin Film 
technology at drupa from 31 May 2016 to  
10 June 2016.
We look increasingly to access new  
products and new technology through 
acquisitions and partnerships.
We continue to invest in our already  
world-class staff to expand our capability, 
to deliver our strategic plan.
We have a number of product launches 
planned in 2016 for a variety of market 
applications.
The Xaar Print Bar System launched in 
September 2015 is proving popular, with 
deliveries against the first customer orders 
expected in the next few months.
Our plans for 2016 What we did in 2015
Our Thin Film programme progressed  
to plan in 2015, and we saw the launch  
of several new products, including: 
• Xaar 1002 GS12U printhead – perfect 
for UV applications such as Direct-to-
Shape and packaging
• Xaar Print Bar System – a new product 
which incorporates the Xaar 1002 family 
of high-precision industrial printheads 
into a standalone printing system
Under the leadership of our new Chief 
Executive we reviewed and updated 
our strategy in 2015. The strategy is 
more externally focussed than ever; 
we must understand our markets, our 
customers and our partners, and apply 
our internal resources to deliver value-
adding solutions which achieve truly 
transformational benefits.
In ceramic tile manufacturing, we  
continue to lead the market with 
innovative solutions which unlock 
previously inaccessible opportunities  
for our partners.
Our collaboration with KHS to deliver  
an innovative solution for Martens brewery 
in Belgium marks a further step forward  
in the Direct-to-Shape sector.
To penetrate any market successfully, an 
eco-system of technical and commercial 
partnerships must be formed to drive and 
support market conversion.
We continue to work with the leading 
OEMs in our target sectors as well as the 
appropriate fluid suppliers, hardware and 
software integrators, and substrate suppliers. 
New partnerships and collaborations are 
expected to be announced throughout 2016. 
Xaar developed various partnerships  
and collaborations in 2015. 
A new ceramic ink partnership with 
Sinocera Create-Tide in China was 
announced in May 2015.
Collaborations with Lawter and with 
Guangdong Dowstone Technology Co Ltd 
were also announced in the year.
We manage our product development 
programmes across three horizons: short term by 
delivering updates and improvements; medium 
term by developing new products or derivatives 
using existing technologies; and longer term 
through research and development of novel 
technologies. Alongside our internal development 
programmes we seek opportunities to access, 
through acquisition or partnership, new products 
and technology from external sources.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  3  2007
Xaar completed a successful 
listing on the London Stock 
Exchange.
Further greyscale developments 
led to the launch of the Xaar 
760, delivering a choice of 
binary or greyscale drop 
sizes to provide the ultimate 
in flexibility, reliability and speed.
The Xaar Proton was launched  
to deliver outstanding print 
quality, superior throughput and 
exceptional value for a range 
of applications, including wide-
format graphics and coding  
& marking.
 1 990
 1 997 2005 2009
 2003
Xaar is a world leader in the development of digital inkjet 
technology and a manufacturer of piezoelectric drop-on-demand 
industrial inkjet printheads, the key component in a digital 
printing system. Unlike analogue printing, digital printing requires 
no physical master image to copy from, and hence enables 
economic short run, variable data printing. The printhead is the 
device which converts the electronic image data into the physical 
image on the substrate. To achieve this, Xaar technology is a 
combination of high speed mixed signal electronics, micro-
mechanics, and fluid dynamics. 
Our full range of printheads are used in delivering solutions for numerous 
applications. Our most successful printhead family to date is the Xaar 
1002. A typical industrial inkjet machine could be firing up to 300  
million drops of ink per second – that’s over 1 trillion drops per hour,  
all controlled within the picolitre range of volume and the micron range  
of placement accuracy (a picolitre is a millionth of a millionth of a litre, 
and a micron is a millionth of a metre).
About Xaar
Xaar over the past 25 years
Xaar sells its technology in component form (the printhead) to Original 
Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) who produce and sell the complete 
digital printing solution to the end market. In addition to our close 
engagement with OEMs we also actively partner and co-develop 
with fluid suppliers, hardware and software integrators, and substrate 
suppliers to deliver a robust and attractive total solution to the end user. 
Our technology is used all over the world in a wide range of 
manufacturing applications.
We design and manufacture our printheads in the UK and Sweden 
(production in Sweden ceasing in 2016), exporting over 95% of our 
production to customers around the world. We also develop and sell ink 
systems, electronics, and fluid optimisation services to accelerate inkjet 
system development and adoption.
Leading the digital inkjet revolution
Xaar was formed in Cambridge, 
UK to acquire, develop and 
commercially exploit a new 
digital inkjet printing technology 
arising out of work done by 
Cambridge Consultants Ltd.
Xaar introduced its first 
full production printhead 
incorporating its unique, 
patented greyscale technology. 
The Xaar 318 is manufactured 
in Japan by Xaar licensee 
Toshiba TEC and offers 
photographic-quality printing 
with no compromise in speed.
Xaar launched the revolutionary 
Xaar 1001 printhead with TF 
Technology™ delivering a 
significant step forward in inkjet 
reliability. Xaar is confirmed as a 
market-leader in the innovation 
of digital inkjet printing.
Who we are
4  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Xaar completed a second 
consecutive year above  
25% sales growth through  
the adoption of the Xaar 1001 
by the ceramics and label 
printing sectors.
Ceramics conversion 
accelerated, driven by adoption 
of the technology in China. 
Further capital investment  
was undertaken to increase 
capacity by a further 75%  
by mid-2014 versus the status 
at the end of 2012.
To mark our 25
th
 anniversary, 
Xaar organised a programme 
of charitable fundraising events 
throughout the year. The Xaar 
Print Bar System is launched 
adding single-pass inkjet 
capability to analogue web  
and sheet fed presses.
 2011 2013 2015
 2010 2012 2014
Where we operate
£14 million was raised, after 
expenses, through placing  
an open offer to fund the  
£22 million capacity expansion 
at the Huntingdon facility to 
meet growing demand for  
the Xaar 1001 in the  
ceramics market.
Xaar announced the launch 
of the Xaar 1001 GS12. Xaar 
recorded a third consecutive 
year of revenue growth in 
excess of 25%, and posted 
a 74% increase in annual 
profits. The capacity expansion 
programme at Huntingdon 
successfully completed ahead  
of schedule and below budget .
The Xaar 1002 replaced 
the Xaar 1001, delivering 
performance and print quality 
enhancements. Also launched 
were the small drop Xaar 1002 
AMp, and the Xaar 1002 GS40 
which produces intense colours 
and special effects for ceramics 
applications.
Authorised resellers 
Adjusted revenue by region
Xaar regional locations
EMEA
Asia
Americas
Texas
United Kingdom
Sweden
Turkey
Lebanon
United Arab Emirates
Belgium
Iran
India
Hong Kong
Singapore
Japan
Florida
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  5 Introducing our values
Our people
“Collaboration is 
a behaviour which 
involves interacting 
and working together 
to solve problems.”
Namrata Sharma
Marketing Executive
In 2015, we introduced our new vision and values.
In order to make our vision a reality, we need to live  
by a certain set of values every single day. 
These values are our guiding principles. They are not 
just words. They represent what we strive to achieve  
in everything that we do. 
Our values
Trust
We trust each other 
to deliver on our 
commitments and do 
our best for Xaar.
Collaboration
We all work together,  
and with our partners,  
to achieve success.
Drive
We are excited about 
our potential and put 
energy into everything 
we do.
What do our values mean to our people?
Trust
“Trust is integral to teamwork at Xaar. We rely on all of our 
colleagues to speak up and be heard.”  
Ryan McCormick, Product Engineering Manager
Collaboration
“Collaboration is about involving people. People love it when 
you get them involved – it empowers them, and they give a 
whole lot more and they are a lot happier in their jobs.”  
Karen McLelland, Production Manager
Drive 
“Drive is about leadership, leading from the front and inspiring 
people to achieve all of their goals as a team.”  
Angus Condie, Head of Technology R&D Bulk
6  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Impact of our values
“With trust, we can push 
technical and personal 
boundaries so that Xaar 
can stay ahead.”
Neil Ross
Head of Quality
“Close collaboration 
with customers is 
important, to provide 
them with the solutions 
they need for success.”
Eric Bresler
Senior Sales Engineer
“Drive is continuous self 
improvement so that 
you can improve the 
Company as a whole.”
James Leivers
Systems Administrator
“It is important for us 
as a business to establish 
long term relationships with 
our customers and partners. 
We have to build and continually 
earn trust in order to keep these 
relationships going.”
Cyrus Yau
Sales Engineer 
“Collaboration is about 
working together. It’s 
about getting the best  
out of your team.”
Katie Reader
Buyer – Stock Purchasing
“It’s the people who  
make Xaar the  
Company that it is.”
Nicola Seal
Sales and Credit 
Administrator
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  7 For our 25
th
 anniversary year I am pleased 
to report that Xaar has undergone some 
important and progressive changes over 
the past twelve months, helping to deliver 
a period of financial stability following the 
challenges of 2014. Our largest market 
today, ceramic tiles, returned to more 
consistent and predictable sales levels 
in 2015 following the ups and downs of 
2013 and 2014. This was complemented 
by strong growth in Packaging and a solid 
performance across our other applications.
Our new CEO Doug Edwards, who joined 
in January 2015, has implemented some 
important changes to our strategy, our 
culture and our outlook. We are more 
focussed externally than ever before; 
understanding our markets, customers 
and partners is key to achieving our newly 
established aspirational vision of growing 
to £220 million of annual sales by 2020. 
Our intensified external outlook applies  
to new technology and new products too; 
we will carefully partner and acquire to 
complement our own world class product 
development, to achieve success in 
leading the digital inkjet revolution.
Stabilisation, change and vision
Chairman’s report
2015 has been an encouraging period  
for Xaar, characterised by both stability  
and by change.
Phil Lawler
Chairman
16 March 2016
We started 2015 following a difficult period in 
the second half of 2014 that saw our sales of 
printheads into ceramic tile manufacturing reduce 
substantially as growth rates in the Chinese 
property market slowed. However, our sales  
into ceramic tiles in 2015 performed in line with 
our expectations, with improved consistency  
in monthly sales volumes during the period.  
The performance in ceramics, when combined 
with strong growth in the packaging segment 
and expected performance in other applications, 
resulted in total revenue for the year of £93.5 
million (2014: £109.2 million). Having taken 
decisive cost reduction action in the fourth 
quarter of 2014, the financial performance 
in 2015 was encouraging, with an adjusted 
operating profit margin of 22%, consistent  
with overall performance in 2014.
Under Doug’s leadership, we have critically 
reviewed and updated our strategy, and 
subsequently made a number of important 
organisational and cultural changes. Our long 
term opportunities remain substantial and our 
reinforced external focus, including active pursuit 
of partnerships and acquisitions, will help us 
achieve our goals. Our balance sheet remains 
strong and will help us to exploit inorganic growth 
opportunities, as we continue to invest in world 
class products and capitalise on organic growth 
opportunities. I am particularly excited by our 
8  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc progress in 2015 and our near term product 
pipeline, including our transformational  
Thin Film printhead technology (P4) which we’ll 
be demonstrating at drupa in June 2016.
The Group follows the 2014 UK Corporate 
Governance Code. Board meetings are 
supported by detailed papers and timely 
minutes. Attendance by all members remains 
excellent and I take this opportunity to thank 
them for their continuing commitment and 
professionalism. The Board continues to 
take dedicated days to consider and review 
the Group’s strategy. Detailed market and 
competitive analysis is undertaken in advance 
and the future direction and capabilities of  
the Group are debated in detail. All members 
of the Board are evaluated annually against 
specific and relevant performance criteria.
I would like to thank our employees for their 
hard work and dedication through 2015.  
There have obviously been some important 
change across the business, and the support  
of people getting behind those changes is 
much appreciated. As previously announced 
we will be closing our Sweden plant in 2016 
following almost 20 years of service as part 
of Xaar. I would personally like to thank our 
Swedish colleagues for their dedication and 
hard work over the entire period. 
2015 has been an encouraging year for Xaar, 
characterised by both stability and by change. 
Our ambition remains undiminished. Indeed, 
our renewed external focus, vision and strategy 
has increased our long term aspirations. We are  
focussed on executing our strategy to capitalise 
on the substantial long-term potential. We 
will continue to invest in R&D and capitalise 
on organic growth potential while identifying 
partnership and acquisition opportunities.  
This will all contribute towards growing Xaar 
and improving our diversification by market, 
product and geography. We have a very  
strong team in place and I thank them  
all for their continuing efforts.
Board changes
In addition to our CEO change 
there have been a number of Board 
changes in 2015 and 2016.
• On 2 March 2015 Jim Brault joined 
the Board in the role of Chief Human 
Resources Officer. Following a review  
of the Board structure, Jim has stepped 
down from the Board on 16 March  
2016. He will continue in his role as  
Chief Human Resources Officer
• On 27 April 2015 Edmund Creutzmann, 
Chief Technology Officer, resigned from 
the Board 
• On 13 May 2015 David Cheesman,  
Non-Executive Director, retired from  
the Board at the Company AGM
• On 1 August 2015 Margaret Rice-Jones 
joined the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director and Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee, to replace David Cheesman
• On 11 December 2015 Richard Barham, 
Chief Customer Officer, resigned from 
the Board
• On 4 January 2016 Chris Morgan joined 
the Board as a Non-Executive Director
Finally 2016 will mean that I have completed 
three terms of three years as Chairman of the 
Board and in accordance with the Combined 
Code, will step down at the end of September 
this year. It has been a privilege to serve in this 
capacity for one of the leading companies in 
such a dynamic segment of the global printing 
industry. During this period at Xaar we have 
seen many advances, some notable success 
and some challenges that we have overcome.  
I remain as excited by the potential as the  
day I joined.
On that topic I am pleased to confirm that 
Robin Williams will succeed me as Chairman 
from 1 October 2016. Robin has acted as the 
Senior Independent Director since May 2011 
and has been chairman of the Audit Committee 
since 2010 when he joined the Board. Robin is 
not only very familiar with the Company but has 
substantial and relevant external experience 
that will ensure continued appropriate 
stewardship of the Board and maintenance of 
Xaar’s high standards of corporate governance. 
I congratulate Robin and wish him every 
success in his new role. The Company intends 
to recruit a new independent Non-Executive 
Director during 2016 in order to achieve 
the minimum best practice Board structure 
of having an equal balance of Executive 
and independent Non-Executive Directors 
(excluding the Chairman). The anticipated 
Board structure will therefore be three Executive 
Directors, three independent Non-Executive 
Directors and a Chairman.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  9 Most things we come into contact with 
on a daily basis are patterned, decorated, 
printed or finished in some way. In fact, 
even after excluding printing in the 
office or the home, over 3 trillion m² of 
material is printed, patterned, decorated 
or finished each year – that’s a monthly 
output equivalent to the surface area  
of the United Kingdom.
These items can be broadly split into four areas: 
products, packaging, promotion and publishing. 
Products include things like ceramic tiles and 
laminate flooring. Packaging includes labels on 
bottles and bar codes on boxes. Promotion 
includes advertising banners and posters. 
Publishing includes books and newspapers. 
Perhaps surprisingly around 97% of production 
processes used in the manufacture of these 
items still use traditional analogue technology. 
Analogue (sometimes referred to as ‘fixed 
image’) solutions can be very effective when 
the same image is replicated many, many 
times. However, where frequent changes are 
required or run lengths are shorter, then digital 
(also known as ‘variable image’) processes 
can provide significant cost and inventory 
reductions whilst improving time-to-market 
versus analogue techniques. 
Over the last 20 years digital imaging 
technologies, including digital inkjet, have 
emerged for applying images, patterns or 
finishes in more efficient, flexible and cost-
effective ways. Because of its ability to work 
with a variety of jetting fluids and substrates, 
and in difficult environments, inkjet has the 
unique ability to potentially replace all current 
printing techniques.
The pace of inkjet’s adoption and the rate it 
displaces existing technologies is driven by 
some key factors, including cost, speed and 
image quality, which must be met in order 
for the adoption to take place. Because of 
these characteristics the adoption of inkjet 
has typically occurred through ‘waves of 
conversion’ in distinct market segments,  
as the developing technology meets the 
individual conversion requirements of  
particular applications.
Xaar, a world leader in industrial inkjet, has 
successfully developed digital technology 
and manufactured and sold inkjet products, 
predominantly printheads, into a number of 
sectors. The printhead is the heart of the digital 
process, depositing fluids, including inks and 
coatings, in precisely the right quantity and in 
the right place on the substrate, without even 
touching the surface.
Seeking new opportunities
Market overview
The printhead 
is the heart of 
the digital print 
process.
To date Xaar has driven, and benefited 
from, ‘waves of conversion’ in two particular 
applications: outdoor advertising (including 
billboards, posters and banners) and ceramic 
tile decoration, which have both adopted digital 
inkjet technology. These two applications 
presently use inkjet to annually produce over  
7 billion m², but represent only 0.2% of the  
3 trillion m² entire global print production.
Xaar’s challenge is to expand its existing digital 
inkjet printhead technology into new markets 
and to develop new technology to maximise 
the opportunity that exists from the conversion 
of much larger applications to digital inkjet.
Looking forward, the opportunities for digital 
print continue to accelerate. Industry forecasts 
project the digital print market to double over 
the next ten years.
New markets
Xaar’s challenge is to expand its existing digital inkjet 
printhead technology into new markets and to develop new 
technology to maximise the opportunity that exists from the 
conversion of much larger applications to digital inkjet.
3% 
Xaar, a world leader in inkjet, has successfully developed 
digital technology and manufactured and sold inkjet 
products, predominantly printheads, into a number of 
sectors. To date, only 3% of the commercial and industrial 
print market has converted to digital printing, including  
1% to digital inkjet.
10  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Industrial 
The Industrial segment presently includes 
ceramic tile decoration, decorative laminate, 
and advanced/additive manufacturing 
processes.
Ceramic tile production
Ceramics is a 12.1 billion m² market currently 
and digital conversion was estimated to be 
approximately 60-70% at the end of 2015. 
There are c.10,000 production lines around 
the world, with almost half of these in China. 
The creative design is the key feature which 
sells a tile. Xaar’s digital inkjet solution provides 
an end result which is superior in terms of 
image quality, at a lower cost, plus with the 
advantages of flexibility, inventory reduction, 
and larger tile size capability. Tile manufacturing 
operates in a harsh industrial environment 
with high reliability/duty cycle requirements; 
hence any technology deployed needs to be 
appropriately robust. The market has been 
moving to digital inkjet decoration over the last 
ten years with the pace of change accelerating 
after the launch of the Xaar 1001 which 
achieved volume sales from 2009 onwards. 
Today the Xaar 1002 family of printheads with 
TF Technology™ continue to deliver both 
quality and cost advantages over traditional 
analogue methods within a robust architecture 
suitable to this harsh environment, giving rise  
to maximum production uptime. 
Decorative laminates
Decorative laminates is estimated to be at 
7.8 billion m² of annual output with c.1,600 
production lines around the world supplying 
simulated wood materials to the furniture and 
building industries. Realistic wood finishes or 
creative design are the key features which sell 
the board/plank/finished item and the digital 
quality that is now being demonstrated with 
Xaar printheads matches the analogue process, 
thereby offering the opportunity for more 
economic short run work to be undertaken 
whilst reducing inventories and improving time 
to market. Inkjet is the only digital solution 
which meets the high reliability and high duty 
cycle requirements needed within this industry. 
Digital adoption is still at the very early stages 
in this application, and the rate of adoption is 
expected to grow over the next few years.
Advanced/additive manufacturing
Applications include demand for the fine 
coating, patterning and printing of functional 
fluids onto numerous substrates in numerous 
industries. Applications are challenging and 
push inkjet to its known limits and beyond 
in fields such as nano imprinting, solar cell 
manufacturing and display screen production. 
Xaar has been working with multiple partners 
in laboratories all over the world exploring 
what may be possible in the future. Technical 
progress is promising but the commercial 
implementation of many of these applications 
is still believed to be some years into the future.
Packaging
The Packaging segment presently includes 
coding and marking, primary labels, and  
Direct-to-Shape printing.
Coding and marking 
Coding and marking is an application of printing 
predominantly monochrome bar codes and 
logos on outer case/secondary packaging 
of consumer goods. This is an established 
and stable business based on bulk piezo 
technology which competes with alternative 
technologies including laser and thermal inkjet.
Primary label 
Primary label printing is estimated to be a 
market producing over 57 billion m² annually, 
with only 9% of this market converted to digital 
printing to date. The change driver is the 
delivery of lower cost per copy on run lengths 
up to 100,000 impressions (versus only 50,000 
impressions three years ago). There is a large 
range of substrates and inks in this application 
which adds complication to the conversion 
process.
Direct-to-Shape 
Direct-to-Shape is a new application where 
bottles and containers have the image printed 
directly onto their surface without the need 
for a label. The solution is aimed at shortening 
time to market whilst simultaneously reducing 
inventory and unit costs versus existing 
methods. This approach also enables mass 
customised marketing and event targeting. 
Graphic Arts
The Graphic Arts segment presently includes 
Grand/Wide-format graphics.
Grand/Wide-format graphics
Grand/Wide-format graphics (GWFG)  
includes both internal and external signage  
and advertising, including billboards, posters 
and point of sale advertising. It is the most 
mature industrial inkjet market, active for over 
15 years. Xaar’s growth to date has been based 
on its original set of bulk piezo products, which 
delivered annual growth from 2003 to 2007.  
To stimulate further material growth for Xaar  
in this end market new product developments 
are required to enhance the portfolio.
Business segments
£62.2m
Industrial revenue
(2014: £78.0m)
Packaging revenue
£15.5m (2014: £13.4m)
Graphic Arts revenue
£9.6m (2014: £11.4m)
Royalties revenue
£6.2m (2014: £6.4m)
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  11 Having joined Xaar in January 2015, I 
believe we have made good progress in 
the last twelve months in our transition 
from an internally focussed product 
company, to an externally focussed 
market led business. I am convinced of 
Xaar’s significant long term potential, but 
to capitalise on that potential we need to 
continue to improve our understanding of 
our markets and our customers, pursue 
strategic partnerships and carefully identify 
acquisition opportunities.
Our overall business performance in 2015  
was solid following a difficult 2014. Sales for the 
year by segment were broadly in-line with our 
expectations going into the year. This combined 
with the cost savings made in 2014 and careful 
yield and cost management during the period, 
resulted in a good financial performance for 
2015, with adjusted operating margin being 
maintained at 22%. Further detail is provided  
in the Chief Financial Officer’s report. 
Strategy
We thoroughly reviewed our strategy in 2015. 
Our long term opportunity remains unchanged; 
the conversion of well-established analogue 
manufacturing techniques to digital inkjet 
solutions. Our mission also remains the same; 
Leading the Digital Inkjet Revolution.  
The change to our renewed strategy primarily 
relates to three elements: 
1. Transition from an internally focussed 
product company to a market and customer 
focussed business 
2. Expand our offering beyond the printhead in 
certain applications 
3. Access new products and new technology 
through partnership and acquisition
To support our strategy we have made a 
number of organisational changes, including 
some significant internal cultural and 
communication changes. With these changes 
made, we can achieve the vision we have set 
ourselves to grow annual revenue to £220 
million by 2020. The substantial investment in 
our manufacturing capacity, our commitment 
to R&D, our product roadmap, our excellent 
people and our strong cash balance, position 
the Company well to execute its strategic 
objectives. After 25 years of success we look 
forward to achieving our vision over the next 
five years, and the successful long-term  
future of Xaar. 
Looking forward, and outward
Chief Executive Officer’s report
After 25 years of success in a number of 
segments, we look forward to the continued 
progression of our business towards achieving 
our 2020 vision.
Doug Edwards
Chief Executive Officer
16 March 2016
12  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Our approach to unlocking new opportunities 
is to drive the development of inkjet technology 
into selected multiple applications and 
industries, delivering sustainable profitable 
growth. We aim to be the primary enabler of 
change in our target markets, leading the initial 
wave of conversion, and then to protect our 
position through replacement product sales 
driven by continuous product development. 
The size of the conversion opportunity, the rate 
of change, and the key characteristics enabling 
that change will vary from market to market. 
OEMs are mostly market specific which means 
we work with a number of OEM customers 
in developing inkjet solutions for a discrete 
market.
Further detail on our strategy and progress 
made in 2015 is set out in the ‘Our strategy  
in action’ section on pages 15 to 18.
Market segments
Industrial
The Industrial segment, which is dominated 
by sales into ceramic tile manufacturing, 
remained our largest segment with 66% of 
total revenue for the year (2014: 71%). Sales 
into ceramics remained stable during 2015, 
but caused overall Industrial revenue to decline 
20% year on year, following the Chinese slow-
down suffered in the second half of 2014. 
The ceramic tile market is expected to remain 
our largest sector in 2016, and we continue 
to see substantial opportunity in the next few 
years from the conversion to digital inkjet of 
production lines which have not yet switched. 
We are excited about the progress of the 
Xaar 1002 GS40 in the polished tile market, 
and our new products planned for launch 
in 2016 will reinforce our market leadership 
position. Outside of ceramics, in other industrial 
applications, sales remain modest but great 
potential exists within areas like decorative 
laminates, industrial Direct-to-Shape printing 
and advanced manufacturing. 
Packaging
Sales into the Packaging segment increased 
by 16% in 2015, and represented 17% of 
revenue (2014: 12%), with all application areas 
achieving growth. Coding and marking remains 
an important market for us, and in December 
we announced a new family of printheads 
to service this sector. Sales into digital label 
printing were encouraging, with sales growth  
of over 30% year on year as our partners made 
further improvements to their offerings.  
In the third sub-segment of packaging, Direct-
to-Shape printing, the potential for supply 
chain waste reduction and improved time-
to-market for bottles, cans, tins and other 
primary packaging is substantial. Our partners’ 
developments continue to progress, with 
commercial products on sale during 2015,  
but total revenue remained modest. 
Graphics
Revenues into the Graphics segment declined 
as expected as the result of end-of-life 
processes on certain mature products.  
New products are planned for launch in 2016.
Product and technology development
Xaar has a long standing commitment to  
R&D and product development, and this  
was maintained through 2015 with over 20%  
of revenue invested. 
2015 was a busy year for our product 
development and delivery teams.
In April 2015 we launched the Xaar 1002 GS12U 
printhead, which provides market leading 
quality and functionality for UV applications 
such as high-build spot varnishes and extra-
opaque whites onto labels and Direct-to-Shape 
packaging. This product is already providing 
significant advantages to our OEM partners  
and end customers.
In September 2015 we announced the Xaar Print 
Bar System, a new product which incorporates 
the Xaar 1002 family of high-precision industrial 
printheads into a standalone printing system, 
adding single-pass inkjet capability to analogue 
web and sheet-fed presses. The Xaar Print Bar 
System is versatile, easy to configure and ideal 
for personalised, variable data, special effects 
and short-run printing for a range of applications, 
including labels and packaging. The Xaar Print 
Bar System is proving popular, with deliveries 
against the first customer orders expected  
in the next few months.
In December 2015 we announced a new 
family of printheads for coding and marking 
applications. The new family of printheads, the 
first of which is to be available in late 2016, will 
be the ideal width for high-resolution coding 
and marking applications such as printing 
barcodes, best before dates and other product 
identification codes onto a range of packaging.
We have an exciting range of bulk piezo 
product launches planned for 2016.
Our Thin Film programme progressed to plan 
in 2015, and we expect to be demonstrating 
our technology at drupa, the world’s leading 
trade show for graphic and industrial print, 
from 31 May 2016 to 10 June 2016. This 
major programme aims to open up more of 
the analogue market to Xaar through a solution 
which offers a generational shift in performance.
In January 2016 we announced the 
appointment of Professor Neil Hopkinson to a 
new role as Director of 3D Printing. Professor 
Hopkinson is the original inventor of the 
transformational High Speed Sintering (HSS) 
technology, a revolutionary technology which 
uses inkjet printheads and infrared heaters 
to manufacture products layer by layer from 
polymer powder materials at much higher 
speeds than other additive manufacturing 
processes. Neil and the team will accelerate  
the success of Xaar’s OEM partners in the 
exciting area of additive manufacturing.
Summary and outlook
I have enjoyed my first year at Xaar and I 
would like to thank all of our staff for their 
efforts during 2015. We stabilised our financial 
performance and I am encouraged by the 
progress we have made to evolve our strategy, 
create a market and customer focussed 
culture, and establish our Xaar values of trust, 
collaboration and drive. Looking ahead, our 
market leadership and expanding product 
portfolio position us well for growth, but based 
on limited visibility, particularly around China, 
the Board is currently budgeting for 2016 
revenue to be broadly similar to 2015. 
I am convinced that our long term potential 
is enormous, but we will only achieve our 
goals if we truly understand our markets 
and our customers, keep our commitment 
to developing world class products and 
complement our organic growth with 
partnerships and carefully selected acquisitions. 
After 25 years of success in a number of 
segments, we look forward to the continued 
progression of our business towards achieving 
our 2020 vision.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  13 Enhancing our capability
See page 18
Our mission, vision and strategy
Our strategy
To drive the development of inkjet technology into selected multiple applications and 
industries, delivering sustainable profitable growth.
Our mission
Leading the digital inkjet revolution
Our vision
£220 million of annual sales by 2020
New products and new technology
See page 15
Converting multiple markets
The markets and applications that use Xaar’s 
printheads can be diverse but can be grouped to 
have similar characteristics and general imaging 
requirements.
See page 17
Building the eco-system
See page 16
We manage our product development programmes 
across three horizons: short term by delivering updates 
and improvements; medium term by developing new 
products or derivatives using existing technologies; 
and longer term through research and development 
of leading edge technologies. Alongside our internal 
development programmes we seek opportunities 
to access, through acquisition or partnership, new 
products and technology from external sources.
To penetrate any market successfully, an eco-system 
of technical and commercial partnerships must be 
formed to drive and support market conversion.
In order to develop new products and new 
technology successfully, and to sustain or grow 
sales into multiple end markets, we must constantly 
develop our capability in terms of our human and 
other resources, specifically both our R&D and 
manufacturing capacity and capability, and the 
structure of our organisation. External opportunities 
will also be identified and evaluated to support the 
expansion of our capability. 
14  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc It is clear that inkjet printing will be 
an important enabling technology 
as the 3D printing sector scales 
up to be an integral part of 
mainstream manufacturing.
Neil Hopkinson
Director of 3D Printing
New products and new technology
Our strategy in action
We manage our product development 
programmes across three horizons: 
short term by delivering updates 
and improvements; medium term by 
developing new products or derivatives 
using existing technologies; and longer 
term through research and development 
of leading edge technologies. Alongside 
our internal development programmes 
we seek opportunities to access, through 
acquisition or partnership, external 
products and technology.
To create and maintain competitive advantage 
over the short to medium term, it is critical that 
we continue to improve existing products as 
well as developing new products. Over the 
medium to long term, in order to access a 
greater proportion of the substantial industrial 
print market we must continue to develop new 
technology which can open up opportunities 
for the application of digital inkjet in established 
analogue markets. 
We develop and maintain the different sets  
of skills and processes needed to execute 
the programmes in each of the three horizons 
successfully, and we balance our portfolio 
to achieve our short, medium and long term 
objectives targeted at achieving sustained 
profitable growth.
Products developed to date use our 
patented Xaar bulk piezo technology.  
Our Thin Film piezo technology programme 
will enable us to target an even wider range 
of applications in the future, which will 
significantly increase Xaar’s addressable 
market. Alongside our internal developments 
we actively seek opportunities to access 
new products and new technology through 
acquisition or partnership.
Inkjet is a heavily patented area and 
managing our intellectual property (IP) 
is critical to our success, both in terms 
of protecting our position and avoiding 
infringing other parties’ IP . Xaar has more 
than 250 patents and patent applications 
and continues to add to its Intellectual 
Property (IP) portfolio.
We allocate significant resources to research 
and development to enable the successful 
completion of programmes which will 
generate future sales. 
April 2015 – launch of the Xaar 1002 GS12U 
printhead, perfect for UV applications such 
as high-build spot varnishes and extra-
opaque whites onto labels and Direct-to-
Shape packaging.
September 2015 – launch of the Xaar Print Bar 
System, a new product which incorporates 
the Xaar 1002 family of high-precision 
industrial printheads into a standalone printing 
system, adding single-pass inkjet capability 
to analogue web and sheet-fed presses. The 
Xaar Print Bar System is versatile, easy to 
configure and ideal for personalised, variable 
data, special effects and short-run printing for  
a range of applications, including labels  
and packaging.
December 2015 – announcement of a new 
family of printheads for coding and marking 
applications. The new family of printheads, the 
first of which is to be available in late 2016, 
will be ideal width for high-resolution coding 
and marking applications such as printing 
barcodes, best before dates and other product 
identification codes onto a range of packaging. 
January 2016 – announcement of the 
appointment of Professor Neil Hopkinson 
to a new role as Director of 3D Printing. 
Professor Hopkinson, who joined Xaar in 
March 2016, is the original inventor of the 
transformational High Speed Sintering (HSS) 
technology, a revolutionary technology which 
uses inkjet printheads and infrared heaters 
to manufacture products layer by layer from 
polymer powder materials at much higher 
speeds than other additive manufacturing 
processes. Neil and the team will accelerate 
the success of Xaar’s OEM partners in the 
exciting area of additive manufacturing. 
We have an exciting range of bulk piezo 
product launches planned for 2016. Our 
Thin Film programme progressed to plan in 
2015, and we expect to be demonstrating 
our technology at drupa, the world’s leading 
trade show for graphic and industrial print, 
from 31 May 2016 to 10 June 2016. This major 
programme aims to open up more of the 
analogue market to Xaar through a solution 
which offers a generational shift in performance. 
2015 Update
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  15 To penetrate any market successfully, an 
eco-system of technical and commercial 
partnerships must be formed to drive and 
support market conversion.
Xaar’s direct customers are mainly OEMs, 
who manufacture equipment for patterning, 
decorating, finishing or printing products in 
a number of different market sectors. We 
provide our OEM partners with the know-
how and ability to incorporate our innovative 
range of printheads, printhead systems, 
systems components and electronics into 
their equipment to increase the value and 
functionality of their own products, and 
minimise the time required to bring  
products to market.
May 2015 – announcement of a new 
ceramic ink partnership with Sinocera 
Create-Tide in China. The new partnership 
will focus on delivering inks for the Xaar 
1002 GS6 and GS12 printheads and large 
particle inks and glazes for the Xaar 1002 
GS40 for tile manufacturers in China 
wishing to apply intense colours and 
special effects to their tiles in line with  
the latest design trends.
May 2015 – at the Ceramics China 2015 
show Xaar showcased a range of ceramic 
tiles with stunning new special effects and 
intense colours created in partnership with 
a number of leading ink suppliers.
August 2015 – the world’s first ‘Direct Print 
Powered by KHS™’ system using Xaar 1002 
printheads is in industrial-scale production 
and printing directly onto PET beer bottles 
at Martens Brouwerij in Belgium.
November 2015 – announcement of a 
collaboration between Xaar and Lawter, 
along with its parent company Harima 
Chemicals Group (HCG), to optimise 
the performance of a line of nanosilver 
conductive inks for the manufacture  
of consumer electronics goods.
December 2015 – announcement 
of collaboration between Xaar and 
Guangdong Dowstone Technology Co Ltd 
in China to produce a digital decoration 
solution for the Chinese polished tile 
market, allowing tile manufacturers to 
produce highly polished tiles used in 
commercial heavy ‘traffic’ locations such as 
shopping malls and public buildings.
We continue to work with the leading 
OEMs in our target sectors as well as 
the appropriate fluid suppliers, hardware 
and software integrators, and substrate 
suppliers in order to deliver a robust 
and attractive total solution to the end 
user. We are working with multiple OEM 
partners through the Thin Film technology 
programme.
2015 Update
KHS works in synergy with 
Xaar because of its market 
leading unique technologies and 
willingness to adapt according  
to technical requirements.
Phil Johnson
Managing Director of KHS  
subsidiary NMP Systems
Our strategy in action continued
Building the eco-system
In addition to our close engagement with 
OEMs we also actively partner and co-
develop with fluid suppliers, hardware and 
software integrators, and substrate suppliers 
to deliver a robust and attractive total solution 
to the end user. We work in partnership with 
the world’s leading ink manufacturers to 
develop and approve a wide range of inks 
which are optimised for our printheads and 
the end application.
Given the complexity of the final integrated 
solution, it is typical that our partners’ 
development cycles are measured in years 
rather than months, with successful solutions 
then benefiting from long commercial 
lifecycles. To support these developments 
we deploy sales and technical support staff 
globally ensuring a local presence in each  
of the key geographical regions.
16  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Converting multiple markets
The markets and applications that use 
Xaar’s printheads can be diverse but can 
be grouped to have similar characteristics 
and general imaging requirements.
Xaar’s products are designed to provide benefits 
across multiple applications. This strategy 
means we can offer solutions across various 
markets through efficiency in development and 
implementation. We also continuously enhance 
product performance which allows our OEMs 
to take advantage of upgrades with minimal 
changes at the system level.
The Xaar 1002 range of products, with high 
resolution greyscale (variable drop size) and TF 
Technology™ (fluid recirculation), ensures an 
exceptional quality of print in one single pass 
of the substrate under the printhead, which 
maximises productivity and delivers significant 
quality and cost advantages over traditional 
analogue methods in ceramics and other 
industrial applications. Although the Xaar 1002 
is the market-leading printhead in the ceramics 
sector, it is also used for printing primary labels, 
decorative laminates and packaging. 
To date we have focussed on three main 
sectors: Industrial, which covers ceramics, 
decorative laminates and advanced/additive 
manufacturing; Packaging, which includes 
product labelling, Direct-to-Shape (printing 
directly onto bottles and containers) and coding 
and marking (printing bar codes and data); 
and Graphic Arts, which includes wide-format 
graphics (typically outdoor advertising, posters 
and banners), commercial print, and varnishing. 
The wide-format graphics sector was the first to 
adopt industrial inkjet and is, therefore, the most 
mature. The ceramics market has been moving 
into digital inkjet decoration over the last ten 
years. However, the pace of change accelerated 
significantly in 2009 following the launch of the 
Xaar 1001 in 2007.
The printhead and ink combination, 
along with photonic sintering,  
is unlocking mechanical and 
electrical designs never thought 
possible before.
Keith Smith
Director of Sales US  
& Advanced Manufacturing
In ceramic tile manufacturing, our largest 
source of sales today, we continue to 
lead the market with innovative solutions 
which unlock previously inaccessible 
opportunities for our partners. The Xaar 
1002 GS40 is a perfect example of this;  
a product that has enabled our partners  
to exploit new opportunities in the polished 
tile market.
We achieved success in a number of areas 
in packaging in 2015. Labels grew by over 
30% as we continued to collaborate with 
our partners to deliver even better digital 
solutions. Direct-to-Shape revenue in both 
packaging and industrial applications 
remained modest in terms of revenue, 
but shows ever-greater promise. Our 
collaboration with KHS to deliver an 
innovative solution for Martens brewery  
in Belgium marks a further step forward.
The Xaar Print Bar System launched in 
September 2015 is proving popular, with 
deliveries against the first customer orders 
expected in the next few months.
2015 Update
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  17 In order to develop new products and  
new technology successfully, and to 
sustain or grow sales into multiple end 
markets, we must constantly develop  
our capability in terms of our human 
and other resources, specifically both 
our R&D and manufacturing capacity 
and capability, and the structure of our 
organisation. External opportunities will 
also be identified and evaluated to  
support the expansion of our capability. 
The success of our business depends on our 
people so we recruit only the best. We offer 
competitive salary and benefits packages 
as well as share incentive plans and our 
employees benefit from extensive training and 
development opportunities. We aim to build 
long term relationships with all our employees 
by helping them grow and develop and by 
making Xaar a great place to work and a great 
Company to be involved with. 
I am delighted that Xaar has been 
given the NMI Manufacturing Site 
of the Year award once more. 
This is great recognition for the 
hard work carried out during 2015 
by Xaar employees throughout 
the Company, and particularly in 
Operations and R&D.
Ted Wiggans
Chief Operations Officer
Our state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities 
are located in Huntingdon, UK (5,000 m²) and 
Järfälla, Sweden (7,000 m²). Manufacturing 
is cleanroom based with 24/7 demands for 
complex facilities requirements including climate 
control, gases and chemicals. The cleanrooms 
contain islands of processing automation, with 
custom-made or specially modified processing 
and test equipment. Operation is multi-shift and 
runs with small processing windows and micron 
scale tolerances. Production involves multiple 
non-reworkable processing steps, resulting  
in a highly sensitive cumulative yield; unit cost 
and throughput are in turn highly dependent  
upon yield.
Under the leadership of our new Chief 
Executive we reviewed and updated our 
strategy in 2015. 
To deliver our strategic plan we have 
reorganised ourselves to create the right 
structure, with the right people, to support 
the growth of our business. 
The change to our renewed strategy 
primarily relates to three elements: 
1. Transition from an internally focussed 
product company to a market and 
customer focussed business
2. Expand our offering beyond the 
printhead in certain applications 
3. Access new products and new 
technology through partnership  
and acquisition
We have reorganised our sales, marketing 
and business development teams to 
accelerate our understanding and support 
of our markets and customers.
We have aligned our R&D and 
manufacturing teams under the 
leadership of our Chief Operations Officer, 
Ted Wiggans, to drive collaboration.
We continue to invest in our people, 
focussing on developing their talent  
and skills in order to fulfill the potential  
of the Company. 
2015 Update
Enhancing our capability
Our strategy in action continued
18  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc 62.2 9.6 15.5 6.2
98.2 13.3 15.7 6.9
78.0 11.4 13.4 6.4
55.0 13.1 12.0 6.2
31.7 18.1 11.7 7.2
47.1 39.9 6.5
42.0 19.3 7.4
50.0 30.0 6.3
67.4 59.8 6.9
60.1 42.6 6.5
10.6
Measuring our performance
Key performance indicators
19.9
R&D investment
£m
19.2
16.4
8.0
6.5
2014
2015
Adjusted operating margin
%
Prudent financial management maintained our 
operating margin at 22%.
R&D investment is key to our strategy.
21.3
R&D investment
% of adjusted revenue
17.5
12.2
9.3
9.5
2014
2015
2013
2012
2011
Investment in R&D increased despite the 
reduction in sales.
The step-down in Chinese demand for ceramic tiles in H2 2014,  
reduced sales year on year to both Asian and European OEMs. 
Adjusted revenue by region
£m
 EMEA  Asia  Americas
We measure our performance through key performance 
indicators (KPIs) that are closely aligned to our strategy.
21.8
22.2
30.4
21.1
15.3
2014
2015
2013
2012
2011
Adjusted profit before tax
£m
Adjusted profit before tax reduced 15% versus 
2014 as a result of the reduction in revenue.
20.8
24.6
41.1
18.4
2014
2015
2015
2013
2012
2011
Net cash balance
£m
We have consistently maintained a strong  
cash position.
69.7
47.0
53.5
28.9
17.4
2014
2015
2013
2012
2011
2013
2012
2011
Adjusted revenue by segment
£m
 Industrial  Packaging  Graphic Arts  Royalties
2014
2013
2012
2011
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  19 Prudent risk management
Risk management
In compliance with provision C.2.1 of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code, the 
Board regularly reviews the effectiveness 
of the Group’s system of internal control. 
The Board’s monitoring covers all controls, 
including financial, operational and compliance 
controls and risk management systems. It is 
based principally on reviewing reports from 
management to consider whether significant 
risks are identified, evaluated, managed 
and controlled and whether any significant 
weaknesses are promptly remedied and 
indicate a need for more extensive monitoring. 
The Board has also performed a specific 
assessment for the purpose of this Annual 
Report. This assessment considers all 
significant aspects of internal control arising 
during the period covered by the report.  
The Audit Committee assists the Board  
in discharging its review responsibilities.
In 2014 the rapid and unexpected reduction 
in sales into the Chinese ceramic tile market in 
the second half of the year caused the Board 
to review the control procedures around sales 
forecasting. Actions were taken in early 2015 
to improve the monitoring of macro-economic 
indicators and data, and the collection, 
consolidation and review of information from 
customers, partners, market reports and other 
sources. Although forecasting reliability improved 
in 2015 the Board anticipates that forecasting 
sales will remain challenging, and notes that 
the impact of the risks around this area for the 
Group are exacerbated by the high proportion  
of revenue generated by the ceramics sector.
Following the challenges of 2014 which resulted 
in a substantial reduction in workforce the Board 
identified significant risks around the retention 
and motivation of Xaar’s highly skilled workforce. 
Significant efforts were made in 2015 to improve 
staff communication, organisation and the 
alignment of objectives throughout the Company. 
This included the establishment of a vision to 
support our mission of leading the digital inkjet 
revolution, and the definition of the three Xaar 
values of trust, collaboration and drive.
In 2015 the Board also reviewed Xaar’s cyber 
security arrangements and made a number of 
improvements to strengthen the Company’s 
resilience in this area. 
Effective risk management is key to 
our success against the dynamics of 
the industry that we operate in and the 
characteristics of our chosen business 
model. The printing industry in which 
we operate is, in general, declining in 
terms of total output, tends to be capital 
intensive, is slow to react to change 
and is resistant to the adoption of new 
technology. Product lifecycles tend to be 
long. Our business model is reliant on 
us first driving the conversion of well-
established processes to our technology, 
then maintaining our market position to 
maximise sales through both the initial 
conversion and replacement cycles in 
order to generate profits to enable us  
to invest in new technology and open  
up new applications.
The first approach to managing these risks 
is to have high quality individuals within the 
necessary functions that these risks tend to fall 
into. Other examples of the effective day to day 
management of these risks include operating 
multi-functional teams to share knowledge 
across the business, having regular stage 
gates in the management of development 
programmes, and the regular assessment of 
manufacturing capacity against future potential 
needs. In addition to day to day processes 
the Group’s risk register is formally reviewed 
twice per year at senior management and 
Board level, including the assessment of the 
performance of risk management during the 
preceding period. 
The Board has applied principle C.2 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code by establishing  
a continuous process for identifying, evaluating, 
and managing the significant risks the Group 
faces which has operated throughout the 
year and up to the date of this report. Such 
a system is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can only provide reasonable  
and not absolute assurance with respect to  
the preparation of financial information and  
the safeguarding of assets and against  
material misstatement or loss.
The risks around our existing business are 
set out in more detail on page 21 but the 
key risk areas can be identified as being 
associated with the following:
Opportunity identification  
and selection
Choosing appropriate end applications for 
conversion at the right time, and defining 
correctly the market requirements.
Development
Successfully developing products with 
the characteristics that meet market 
requirements within the necessary timescale.
Adoption
Working with OEMs and other partners to 
achieve adoption of the technology in the 
target application.
Competition
Maximising returns over the long term in the 
target application through early adoption to 
achieve a market-leading position and then 
retention of that position.
Operations
Having the appropriate staff, systems, 
manufacturing arrangements and other 
operational structures in place.
Partnerships and acquisitions
Working with the right companies, at the 
right time and on the right terms to deliver 
long term value.
Key risk areas
20  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Principal risks and uncertainties
Principal risk  
and uncertainty
Link to 
strategy
Impact Mitigation Likelihood Magnitude Change
Product sales into established 
applications fail to deliver 
sustained revenue due to 
competitor activity (market share 
loss and/or price reductions), 
macro-economic factors, market 
maturity or other changes.
Lower than anticipated revenues 
are achieved resulting in excess 
production capacity and lower 
levels of profit.
Competitive pricing policies are employed.
The product portfolios and pricing of competitors are 
constantly monitored.
Manufacturing cost reduction programmes are established 
to ensure that products remain competitive.
Close customer relationships are maintained with supply 
agreements in place where appropriate.
New product variants are developed to constantly improve 
the product portfolio on offer.
Macro-economic indicators and data is regularly reviewed 
to improve forecasting.
Information from customers, partners, market reports and 
other sources is collected, consolidated and reviewed to 
improve forecasting.
Possible High
Product sales into new 
applications fail to achieve  
their targets.
Lower than anticipated revenues 
are achieved resulting in excess 
production capacity and lower 
levels of profit.
Regular reviews of OEM partners are held to ensure that 
appropriate and extensive market coverage is achieved 
together with a focus on new equipment manufacture.
New products and product variants are developed to meet 
market requirements.
Competitive pricing policies are employed.
Manufacturing cost reduction programmes are established 
to ensure that products remain competitive.
Information from customers, partners, market reports  
and other sources is collected, consolidated and reviewed 
to improve forecasting.
Possible Medium
New products fail to achieve 
their targets through either a 
failure to identify the appropriate 
products to meet future market 
requirements, or the products 
are identified but are not 
successfully developed in time  
or to the required specification.
Longer term revenue and profit  
is impacted.
Regular, specific and detailed reviews are held to 
assess current and anticipated market requirements. 
These reviews include input from customers and other 
external sources. Product developments are selected 
on appropriate criteria. Product development activity is 
properly managed with regular reviews of progress against 
project plans, and gated milestone reviews. Appropriate 
resource is applied to product development activity.
Possible Medium
Manufacturing output fails to 
meet demand due to supplier 
issues, an event at one of the 
manufacturing facilities, delays 
or problems associated with 
production equipment, a lack  
of manufacturing capacity,  
or for other reasons.
Demand is not satisfied resulting 
in lower levels of revenue and 
profit.
Customers may start 
purchasing (or increase their 
level of purchasing) with Xaar’s 
competitors, leading to a longer 
term reduction in market share, 
revenue and profit.
Detailed sales forecasts are prepared and reviewed 
regularly to minimise unexpected changes in short term 
demand. Suppliers are managed carefully. Appropriate 
sourcing, inspection and inventory holding policies are 
applied to ensure continuity and consistency of product 
supply. Appropriate contingency factors are applied to 
capacity planning. Manufacturing facilities are fitted with 
the appropriate safety and security systems. Staff are 
properly trained.
Remote Medium
Significant and sustained quality 
problems are identified with 
products which have been sold 
or which are held in inventory.
Lower levels of revenue in the short 
term whilst the issues are resolved. 
Unexpected costs associated 
with resolving the issues, which 
may include product scrap, 
warranty costs and/or customer 
compensation. Potentially longer 
term revenue loss if customers 
start purchasing (or increase their 
level of purchasing) from Xaar’ s 
competitors.
Standard operating procedures are in place for all 
products. Staff are properly trained. The quality of supplies 
is constantly monitored. Quality performance is regularly 
reviewed by senior management who apply appropriate 
resources to systematically address recurrent problems. 
New products are thoroughly tested before launch. 
Xaar’s Swedish and UK manufacturing facilities are ISO 
9001 accredited. Customer returns are reviewed quickly 
using a consistent and thorough investigation process.
Remote Medium
New products and new technology Converting multiple markets Enhancing our capability Building the eco-system
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  21 Revenue
The Group achieved total revenue for 2015  
of £93.5 million (2014: £109.2 million) which is 
broadly in line with the annual run rate achieved 
in the second half of 2014. In the ceramic tile 
manufacturing sector, our biggest source of 
revenue, sales stabilised during 2015 following 
the step-down in demand experienced in the 
second half of 2014. Sales in other applications 
were consistent with the Board’s expectations, 
with the notable highlight being a 16% growth 
in revenue into the Packaging segment.
The majority of Xaar’s revenue is generated 
by product sales, commissions and fees 
(£87.3 million or 93% of total sales in 2015, 
£102.8 million or 94% of total sales in 2014), 
with 7% of revenue in 2015 (2014: 6%) derived 
from licensee royalty income. 
Industrial sectors (associated with the 
production of physical end products) continue 
to be the largest end application for Xaar’s 
technology, and represented 66% of Group 
revenue in 2015 at £62.2 million, down from 
71% in 2014 (2014: £78.0 million).
In the ceramic tile decoration sector, the 
development and sale of printing equipment 
by our OEM partners continues to drive the 
conversion from analogue rotary systems to 
superior digital inkjet processes. Sales of new 
equipment by our OEM partners into China 
have been more consistent and stable following 
the step-down in demand experienced in 
2014, which was driven by a slow-down in the 
Chinese property market. Our OEM partners 
are selling their innovative solutions globally, 
with South America, Africa, the Middle East 
and Southeast Asia all being target markets 
for further digital conversion. Meanwhile the 
secondary market for our OEMs, in terms  
of both new replacement equipment and  
the refurbishment of existing equipment,  
is becoming more meaningful.
Competition in the ceramic tile decoration 
printhead market comes from a handful of 
well-established companies, including some 
of Xaar’s licensees. We continue to lead the 
market, with innovative solutions like the Xaar 
1002 GS40 which is unlocking the conversion 
opportunity in the polished tile market. We have 
a number of exciting product launches planned 
for 2016 to maintain our strong position.
Ceramics accounted for well over 90% of 
sales in the Industrial sector in 2015. Total 
sales into other applications reduced slightly 
(by £0.3 million) versus 2014 but significant 
potential remains. The application areas include 
advanced manufacturing, decorative laminates 
(artificial wood), and product printing (industrial 
Direct-to-Shape).
Stabilising our financial performance
Chief Financial Officer’s report
Alex Bevis
Chief Financial Officer and  
Company Secretary
16 March 2016
We maintained an annual adjusted operating 
margin of 22% despite a 14% reduction  
in total revenue.
22  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Sales into the packaging market grew 16%  
in the year, and accounted for 17% of revenue 
in 2015 at £15.5 million (2014: 12%, £13.4 
million). The well-established coding and 
marking sector, which is today serviced by 
Xaar’s original product portfolio based on 
Platform 1 technology, continues to be an 
important application area for us, representing 
over half of our sales into packaging. In 
December 2015 we announced a new family of 
printheads to support this segment. In primary 
labels, sales growth exceeded 30% as our 
OEM partners delivered digital solutions with 
improved speed, image resolution and reliability. 
The exciting Direct-to-Shape area in packaging 
continues to develop, although sales remained 
modest at £0.7 million in 2015.
Sales into Xaar’s initial end market application, 
Graphic Arts, reduced to £9.6 million for the 
year (2014: £11.4 million), representing 10% 
of total sales. The reduction year on year 
reflected the planned end-of-life of some older 
generation products.
As a supplier of technology to OEM partners, 
our geographic sales split reflects where our 
products are integrated into the manufacturing 
equipment, which is not necessarily the end-
user location.
Summary of adjusted financials
 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Adjusted revenue £m £93.5m £109.2m £134.1m £86.3m £68.7m
Adjusted gross margin % 47.8% 44.5% 52.9% 47.4% 44.2%
Gross research and development expenses £m £19.9m £19.2m £16.4m £8.0m £6.5m
Research and development % of adjusted revenue 21.3% 17.5% 12.2% 9.3% 9.5%
Adjusted operating profit £m £20.4m £24.2m £40.7m £18.2m £10.5m
Adjusted operating margin % 21.8% 22.2% 30.4% 21.1% 15.3%
Adjusted profit before tax £m £20.8m £24.6m £41.1m £18.4m £10.6m
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 24.5p 26.4p 43.2p 20.1p 10.7p
Net cash balance £m £69.7m £47.0m £53.5m £28.9m £17.4m
Net cash flow £m £22.7m (£6.5m) £24.6m £11.5m (£4.6m)
Adjusted measures exclude items from the IFRS operating profit and profit before tax, such as share-based payment charges, exchange differences relating to Swedish 
operations, unrealised gains/losses on derivative financial instruments, restructuring costs, R&D expenditure credit, impairment on trade investments, commercial agreement 
costs, and non-recurring royalty income (also excluded from IFRS revenue and gross profit), per the reconciliation of adjusted financial measures on page 87. Net cash includes 
cash and cash equivalents, treasury deposits, less obligations under loan and finance lease liabilities.
In 2015, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) 
remained the Company’s largest sales region at 
£47.1 million (2014: £60.1 million), representing 
50% of Group sales. The 22% reduction in year 
on year revenue is mainly the result of falling 
European OEM sales into the Chinese ceramic 
market. As noted earlier, we saw a step-down 
in demand in the second half of 2014 related  
to the property market in China.
Sales into Asia were also impacted by the 
slow-down in ceramics. Sales into Asia reduced 
6% to £39.9 million (2014: £42.6 million) 
representing 43% of total revenue.
Total sales to the Americas remained the lowest 
sector with revenue unchanged at £6.5 million. 
We see significant potential for growth in  
that region.
 
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  23 Profitability
We stabilised our financial performance in 
2015, maintaining a very respectable annual 
adjusted operating profit margin of 22% despite 
a 14% reduction in total annual revenue. This 
was achieved through the swift action taken in 
the fourth quarter of 2014 to reduce costs and 
the hard work and diligence of our staff during 
2015 to manage costs, improve product yields 
and drive efficiency.
Gross profit margin for 2015 improved to 
47.8% (2014: 44.5%). In addition to the 
favourable impact from our focus on costs,  
yields and efficiencies we also benefited from  
a higher level of activity in our Sweden plant  
in the second half of the year, as we increased 
manufacturing levels in order to complete 
the production of some of the products 
manufactured there before the end of 2015. 
We will be closing the Swedish manufacturing 
facility in 2016 as the levels of demand for 
the older generation products which are 
manufactured in that plant no longer justify 
the cost of a standalone operation. Total costs 
associated with restructuring and reorganisation 
of £6.1 million have been provided for in the 
2015 financial statements, with £2.2 million  
of this cost being non-cash charges related  
to tangible assets and goodwill.
Gross expenditure on R&D increased by 4% 
from £19.2 million in 2014 to £19.9 million in 
2015. Development expenditure on the Thin 
Film programme of £8.4 million was capitalised 
in 2015 (2014: £7.4 million) as required under 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(specifically IAS 38). Sales, marketing and 
general administrative costs increased marginally 
to £12.7 million (2014: £12.6 million) on an 
adjusted basis. We are targeting the completion 
of the development of the Thin Film technology 
platform in 2016 and therefore we do not expect 
to be capitalising development costs associated 
with this major programme in 2017.
Adjusted profit before tax of £20.8 million was 
recorded for 2015 (2014: £24.6 million). Profit 
before tax as reported under IFRS was £13.6 
million (2014: £23.1 million). In 2015 the largest 
reconciling item between the adjusted and 
IFRS measures was £6.1 million of restructuring 
charges as noted earlier.
The tax charge on adjusted profit before 
tax was £1.8 million (2014: £4.4 million), 
representing an effective tax rate of 8.6% 
(2014: 17.8%) which compares to the UK 
corporation tax rate for 2015 of 20%. Xaar 
benefits from favourable intellectual property 
and R&D tax incentive schemes in the UK  
as a result of our continued investment in 
R&D. The effective tax rate for 2015 was 
particularly low due to prior year adjustments 
for improved deductions from the UK’s patent 
box regime, higher than expected capital 
allowance deductions and other adjusting 
items. Excluding these prior year adjustments, 
the adjusted effective tax rate was 12.5%  
on adjusted profit before tax.
The tax charge on IFRS profit before tax was 
£1.0 million (2014: £4.4 million) representing 
an effective tax rate of 7.7% (2014: 19.1%). 
Excluding the prior year adjustments, the 
effective tax rate was 13.6% on IFRS profit 
before tax.
Adjusted profit after tax for 2015 was  
£19.0 million (2014: £20.2 million).
Adjusted diluted earnings per share was  
24.5 pence in 2015 (2014: 26.4 pence).
Financial position
The Group maintains a strong cash position, 
with £69.7 million of cash and treasury deposits 
at 31 December 2015 (31 December 2014: 
£47.0 million). Net cash increased by £22.7 
million in 2015, as net working capital reduced 
and capital expenditure was relatively low 
compared to prior years. The operating cash 
inflow, after adding back depreciation but 
before working capital movements, was £28.9 
million. The reduction in net working capital 
represented a cash inflow of £10.1 million 
during 2015, with inventory reducing £6.3 
million, receivables decreasing £1.5 million  
and payables increasing £2.4 million (excluding 
the impact of asset related items). Total cash 
outflow relating to intangible and tangible 
assets was £12.3 million in the year, including 
the £8.4 million of capitalised development 
expenditure. Dividends accounted for £6.9 
million. Cash flows relating to tax were a net 
inflow of £1.4 million due to overpayments 
made in 2014.
Dividend
As announced in 2014, the Company employs 
a progressive and sustainable dividend policy 
which takes into account the Group’s future 
prospects, its underlying profitability and the 
future cash requirements of the business.  
The Board will recommend a final dividend of 
6.3 pence for 2015 at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting (AGM), giving a total dividend 
for the year of 9.45 pence, a 5% increase over 
2014 (2014: 9 pence). An interim dividend of 
3.15 pence was paid during the year (2014:  
3 pence). Subject to approval by shareholders  
at the AGM the final dividend will be paid  
on 24 June 2016, with an ex-dividend date  
of 26 May 2016, to shareholders on the  
register at close of business on 27 May 2016.
Chief Financial Officer’s report continued
24  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Developing a sustainable business
Sustainable and responsible business
The Group strongly believes that corporate 
responsibility is integral to business 
success. The Group is compliant with all 
relevant regulation and legislation whilst 
enhancing the working environment 
for our employees and minimising the 
environmental impact of our manufacturing 
processes. There is internal reporting of 
key metrics throughout the business, 
and each member of staff is expected 
to take individual responsibility for their 
performance and to work together  
to achieve shared goals.
Social responsibility
• To celebrate Xaar’s 25
th
 Anniversary, teams 
participated in a number of fundraising 
activities, including the London to Cambridge 
charity bike ride to raise money for Breast 
Cancer Now, the Cambridge Chariots of Fire 
relay race to raise money for the East Anglian 
Children’s Hospice, and Byte Night to raise 
money for Action for Children.
• Xaar employees raised money during the 
year for a number of other charities, including 
taking part in various activities for Comic 
Relief on Red Nose Day, for Macmillan Cancer 
Support by hosting a fête, for the Royal British 
Legion Poppy Appeal and for the East Anglian 
Children’s Hospice.
• Charitable donations were made through the 
Xaar charitable giving programme, whereby 
employees nominate and vote for six charities 
to each receive a £2,000 donation. The 
chosen charities in 2015 were Alzheimer’s 
Society, Cancer Research UK, Magpas, 
Action for Children, the Swedish Childhood 
Cancer Foundation (Barncancerfonden), and 
the Swedish Cancer Society (Cancerfonden). 
Xaar also donated £4,000 to the Disasters 
Emergency Committee for the Nepal 
Earthquake Appeal.
• Xaar has sponsored a number of employees 
and their families engaging in events 
throughout the year, including charity golf 
days, skydiving and cycling events. In total, the 
Group made charitable contributions to local 
and national charities during the year totalling 
£21,174 (2014: £1,677). No political donations 
were made in the year (2014: £nil).
• The social club, which is aimed at encouraging 
staff to have fun and getting to know each 
other socially, held several events throughout 
the year including theatre trips, comedy 
nights, punting in Cambridge, sporting events 
including a trip to watch cricket, bowling, 
Duxford air show, wine tasting, meals and 
nights at the races.
• Xaar continues to sponsor an Imagineering 
Foundation club at a Huntingdon primary 
school. The Foundation introduces 8-16 year 
olds to the fascinating world of engineering and 
technology through fun, hands-on activities. 
We are working with year six pupils building 
engineering-related projects such as a Morse 
code buzzer, balloon-powered car, aero-glider, 
magnetic compass and micrometer. The 
scientific principles are explained and explored 
through the hands-on activities.
• In 2013 Xaar invested £1 million in bonds 
to support the Future Business Centre in 
Cambridge. The centre provides affordable 
workspace with support and shared services 
to new social and environmental enterprises.
Human rights
The Group respects all human rights and in 
conducting its business the Group regards  
those rights relating to non-discrimination,  
fair treatment and respect for privacy to be  
the most relevant and to have the greatest 
potential impact on its key stakeholder groups  
of customers, employees and suppliers.
The Board has overall responsibility for  
ensuring that the Group upholds and promotes 
respect for human rights. The Group seeks to 
anticipate, prevent and mitigate any potential 
negative human rights impacts as well as 
enhance positive impacts through its policies 
and procedures and, in particular, through 
its policies regarding employment, equality 
and diversity, treating customers fairly and 
information security. Group policies seek both  
to ensure that employees comply with the 
relevant legislation and regulations in place  
in the UK and other operating locations and  
to promote good practice. The Group’s policies 
are formulated and kept up to date by the 
relevant business area, authorised by the  
Board and communicated to all employees.
The Group undertakes extensive monitoring of 
the implementation of all of its policies and has 
not been made aware of any incident in which 
the organisation’s activities have resulted in an 
abuse of human rights.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  25 Sustainable and responsible business continued
On Saturday 25 
September 2015, £1,335 
was raised for Macmillan 
Cancer Support by 
taking part in a number 
of activities as part of the 
Great Xaar Bake Off and 
a Xaar fête.
On Saturday 12 September 
2015, over 75 staff members 
from across Xaar took part 
in the first Xaar Football 
Tournament. With family and 
friends to support them, eight 
teams completed a series  
of matches during the  
fun-filled afternoon.
On Sunday 20 
September 2015, 
three teams from Xaar 
competed in the annual 
Cambridge Chariots 
of Fire relay race. The 
team raised an amazing 
£925 for East Anglia’s 
Children’s Hospices.
On Friday 2 October 2015, 
13 Xaar employees joined 
teams from other local 
businesses in a sponsored 
sleep-out under the  
stars in aid of Action for 
Children, raising over 
£5,000.
To celebrate Xaar’s  
25
th
 Anniversary,  
we participated in  
a number of activities  
to mark the occasion.
£30,000
Total amount of 
funds raised by 
Xaar employees and 
donations made by Xaar 
(£21,174) to charities 
supported in 2015.
On Sunday 26 July, 
2015 an intrepid team 
of cyclists took to their 
bikes for the 60-mile 
London to Cambridge 
charity ride, raising 
over £4,000 for Breast 
Cancer Now.
26  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Equality and diversity
The Group is committed to providing a working 
environment in which employees feel valued 
and respected and are able to contribute to 
the success of the business. Employees are 
requested to co-operate with the Group’ s efforts 
to ensure that the policy is fully implemented.
The Group’ s aim is that its employees should 
be able to work in an environment free from 
discrimination, harassment and bullying, and that 
employees, job applicants, customers, retailers, 
business introducers and suppliers should be 
treated fairly regardless of:
• Race, colour, nationality (including citizenship), 
ethnic or national origins
• Gender, gender reassignment, sexual 
orientation, marital or civil partnership status
• Religious or political beliefs or affiliations
• Disability, impairment or age
• Real or suspected infection with HIV/AIDS
• Membership of a trade union
• Pregnancy and maternity
and that they should not be disadvantaged  
by unjust or unfair conditions or requirements.
The Group aims to ensure that applications for 
employment from people with disabilities, and 
other under-represented groups, are given full 
and fair consideration and that such people are 
given the same training, development and job 
opportunities as other employees. Every effort is 
also made to retrain and support employees who 
suffer from disabilities during their employment, 
including the provision of flexible working to assist 
their re-entry into the workplace.
Human Resources policies are reviewed regularly 
to ensure that they are non-discriminatory and 
promote equality of opportunity. In particular, 
recruitment, selection, promotion, training and 
development policies and practices are monitored 
to ensure that all employees have the opportunity 
to train and develop according to their abilities.
The Group places considerable value on the 
involvement of its employees and has continued 
to keep them informed of the various factors 
affecting the performance of the Group. This is 
achieved through written communications shared 
through the Company intranet and email, and 
formal and informal meetings. All employees 
participate in a bonus scheme based on individual 
performance and Group business targets and, in 
the UK, have the opportunity to participate in an 
HMRC approved Share Save Scheme and Share 
Incentive Plan.
Formal directives and certification 
The Group undertakes R&D and manufactures 
products in both UK and Sweden. The Group 
complies with all local and European legislation 
relevant to the respective territories. The Group’ s 
manufacturing facilities in Huntingdon and Järfälla 
are both ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certified. 
It is the Group’ s policy to maintain this level of 
certification for its manufacturing facilities and to 
comply at all times with all relevant environmental 
and other legislation in the territories in which the 
Group operates. The Group is compliant with 
REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation 
and restriction of Chemicals), WEEE (Waste 
Electrical and Electronic Equipment) and RoHS 
(Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous 
Substances) directives, as required under 
European legislation. 
The Group has a proactive Health and Safety 
System modelled on OHSAS 18001/HSG65 in 
Cambridge, Huntingdon and Sweden.
Health, safety and environment
Xaar has manufacturing sites in Huntingdon, UK 
and Järfälla, Sweden, along with R&D and head 
office functions in Cambridge, UK, plus sales 
offices worldwide.
It is always Xaar’s intention to conduct  
business in a manner that protects the  
public, the environment, and employee safety. 
Xaar’s Environmental and Health & Safety 
policies provide a framework for setting and 
reviewing of Occupational Health, Safety and 
Environmental Objectives. This demonstrates 
Xaar’s commitment to the prevention of injury 
and ill health and also the continual improvement 
in Environmental and Occupational Health & 
Safety Performance. Xaar recognises that the 
combination of a safe place of work and safe 
working practices, together with a productive 
and innovative environment, are critical to the 
continued success of the Company.
The management of Xaar is committed to 
achieving and maintaining full compliance  
with environmental, health and safety legislation. 
Although certain responsibilities under this policy 
can be attributed to specific roles within the 
organisation, and in particular with different levels 
of management, each and every Xaar employee 
shares the core basic duty to understand their 
responsibilities to observe instructions put in  
place and, where necessary, to draw these  
to the attention of others.
T o achieve our Environmental and Health & Safety 
policy, Xaar will ensure that the organisation 
is led by example; systems are in place to 
engage, train, develop and maintain competent, 
informed personnel; resources are allocated 
to enable safety standards to be maintained; 
employee involvement and open communication 
are actively encouraged; plant, equipment 
and facilities are safe and without risk to the 
health and welfare of all persons who could be 
affected by their use or maintenance; substances 
required and used in the workplace are handled 
and disposed of safely; a comprehensive risk 
assessment programme is maintained covering 
all activities and processes, with control measures 
implemented to minimise risk where applicable; 
adequate welfare facilities are provided; where 
accidents or ‘near misses’ occur, they are 
reported, investigated and treated as the source 
of learning for on-going working practices; and 
that best practice is shared across the Group.
The Group is committed to minimising its impact 
on the environment through the reduction and 
recycling of waste and by operating its facilities 
as efficiently as is practicable. Our printhead 
technology improves process efficiency and 
reduces wastage in our end user markets.
Based on the closing headcount at 31 December the split of staff by gender was as follows:
31 December 2015 
male/female
31 December 2014 
male/female
All employees 483/130 509/134
Directors 6/1 8/0
Senior Managers 48/9 78/20
Employees excluding Directors and Senior Managers 429/120 423/114
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  27 Greenhouse gas emissions statement
Sustainable and responsible business continued
Xaar plc has calculated its global 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
statement using an operational control 
consolidation approach as described in the 
Greenhouse Gas: Protocol: A Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard 
(Revised Edition, 2004), which reflects the 
Defra Environmental Reporting Guidelines 
(Revised October 2013). 
Assessment parameters
 
Baseline year 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013
Consolidation approach Operational control
Boundary summary 
 
All entities and all facilities under operational
control included subject to the materiality
threshold applied
Consistency with the financial statements 
 
The only variation is that leased properties
deemed to be under operational control have
been included in scope 1 and 2 emissions
Materiality threshold Materiality has been set at Group level at 5%*
Assessment methodology Greenhouse Gas Protocol and ISO 14064-1
(2006)
Intensity ratio Emissions per £m turnover excluding royalties
* The total of any excluded emission sources are estimated to be less than 5% of Xaar plc’s total reported emissions.
2015 2014
GHG emission source (tCO
2
e) (tCO
2
e/£m) (tCO
2
e) (tCO
2
e/£m)
Scope 1 162 2 162 2
Scope 2 4,475 51 6,263 61
Statutory total (scope 1 and 2) 4,637 53 6,425 63
The GHG emissions statement includes 
emissions data from leased assets that are  
not included in the rest of the consolidated 
financial statements, other than in note 31 
Operating lease arrangements.
Scope 1 emissions
Scope 1 emissions occur from sources that 
are owned or where Xaar plc has operational 
control. This includes direct emissions from gas 
combustion in our buildings and fuel used in 
leased company vehicles. Actual and estimated 
gas consumption data has been collected from 
each of the leased properties under the control 
of the Xaar Group, from data sources including 
direct meter readings, meter readings from 
suppliers included on invoices and estimations 
where required based on available information 
from property management suppliers and other 
sources. Actual mileage data has been collected 
from the leased company vehicle fleet.
Scope 2 emissions
Scope 2 refers to indirect emissions from 
the consumption of purchased electricity 
(also including any purchased heat, steam 
or cooling) from facilities owned or under the 
operational control of Xaar plc. Actual and 
estimated data has been collected from each 
of the leased properties under the control of 
the Xaar Group, from data sources including 
direct meter readings, meter readings from 
suppliers included on invoices and estimations 
where required based on available information 
from property management suppliers and other 
sources. New conversion factors have been 
used for 2015, per the Defra conversion factors 
2015 for overseas electricity generation; this has 
reduced the scope 2 emissions, due to Sweden 
having a much lower conversion factor in 2015 
compared to 2014.
28  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Board approval of the Strategic and Annual Reports
The Strategic Report, Annual Report and Financial Statements, 
taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and 
provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess  
the Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
Phil Lawler
Chairman
Alex Bevis
Chief Financial Officer  
and Company Secretary
Doug Edwards
Chief Executive Officer
Margaret Rice-Jones
Non-Executive Director
Chris Morgan
Non-Executive Director
Ted Wiggans
Chief Operations Officer
Robin Williams
Senior Independent Director
Board approval
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  29 Ted Wiggans
Chief Operations Officer
Experience: 
Ted joined Xaar in January 2011, 
with over 30 years’ experience 
in high technology operations. 
Immediately prior to joining Xaar 
he was Chief Operating Officer 
at Cambridge Semiconductor 
Ltd (CamSemi). Before joining 
CamSemi in 2006, he was 
Operations Director at Zetex 
Semiconductors with overall 
responsibility for its multi-site, 
multi-national manufacturing 
activities and a global team of  
500. In addition, he has held 
senior-level manufacturing, 
engineering and quality roles  
with Motorola and Philips. 
Current external appointments:
He is a Chartered Engineer and 
is Chair of the Manufacturing 
Industries Division Board of  
the IMechE.
Phil Lawler
Chairman
Committee membership:
Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee. A member of the Audit 
Committee and Remuneration 
Committee.
Experience: 
Phil has extensive experience 
of high technology industries. 
He started with co-founding 
a software business and 
subsequently spent 18 years until 
2002 at Hewlett Packard in various 
senior positions, most recently 
as Chairman and Managing 
Director of Hewlett Packard, 
UK and Ireland. Since leaving 
Hewlett Packard, he has held 
non-executive Chairman roles in a 
number of IT companies including 
listed, private equity and venture 
capital backed. 
Current external appointments:
He is currently Non-Executive 
Chairman of Kalibrate plc, is a 
Chartered Director and a Fellow  
of the Institute of Directors.
Doug Edwards
Chief Executive Officer
Committee membership:
Member of the Nomination 
Committee
Experience: 
Doug joined the Company as 
Chief Executive in January 2015 
from Kodak (Eastman Kodak 
Company) where most recently 
he was President, Digital Printing 
and Enterprise and had been a 
member of the Executive Board 
since 2006. He started his 
career in the UK in a variety of 
technical roles with Ilford Limited, 
ICI, Zeneca and International 
Paper before moving to the 
US 14 years ago with Kodak 
Polychrome Graphics (a joint 
venture company between Sun 
Chemical Corporation and Kodak). 
Doug holds a BSc in Chemistry 
and a PhD in Conducting Organic 
Materials from London University.
Alex Bevis
Chief Financial Officer  
and Company Secretary 
Experience: 
Alex joined Xaar in February 
2011 after ten years at CSR plc 
(Cambridge Silicon Radio). He  
held a variety of key finance roles 
at CSR, supporting the growth  
of the business including the IPO  
in 2004 and multiple acquisitions.  
He was most recently employed  
as Vice President of Finance. 
He qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant with Deloitte prior  
to joining CSR in 2000. 
Diverse and strong leadership
Board of Directors
30  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Robin Williams
Senior Independent Director 
Committee membership: 
Chairman of the Audit  
Committee. A member of  
the Remuneration Committee  
and Nomination Committee.
Experience: 
Robin joined Xaar in March 2010. 
He obtained an Engineering 
Science degree from Oxford 
before qualifying as a Chartered 
Accountant with Peat Marwick 
Mitchell. He spent ten years  
as a corporate advisor before  
co-founding Britton Group plc  
in 1992. As CEO of Britton,  
he grew the business to £250 
million revenues within six years, 
before selling to a competitor.  
He was then an Executive Director 
of Hepworth plc, with a leading  
role in the rationalisation and 
subsequent sale of the group.  
He has subsequently held various 
public and private company 
directorships across a range  
of industries including business 
services, healthcare, outsourcing, 
contracting, and manufacturing. 
Current external appointments:
Robin is currently Chairman  
of NHS Professionals Ltd and  
NHS Property Services Ltd,  
and a Non-Executive Director  
of Nanoco Group plc.
Margaret Rice-Jones
Non-Executive Director
Committee membership: 
Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. A member of  
the Audit Committee and 
Nomination Committee.
Experience: 
Margaret joined Xaar in August 
2015. She has over 25 years’ 
experience within innovative 
technology businesses. She 
has an engineering background 
and has operated at Board level 
in various executive and non-
executive roles for the last ten 
years. Previously, Margaret was 
CEO of Aircom International, 
a global software and services 
company, and Corporate Vice 
President of Motorola Inc. Margaret 
has had P&L responsibility for 
over $1 billion revenue, and has 
worked with both high growth and 
a number of business turnaround 
situations. Margaret has previously 
served on listed company boards 
including Psion plc and Abacus 
Polar plc.
Current external appointments:
Margaret is currently Chairman at 
Skyscanner plc and Openet Ltd.
Chris Morgan
Non-Executive Director
Committee membership: 
Member of the Audit Committee. 
A member of the Remuneration 
Committee and Nomination 
Committee.
Experience: 
Chris joined Xaar in January 
2016 and brings with him a 
wealth of expertise in managing 
complex international technology 
businesses, having spent 25 
years at HP , Inc. He has a strong 
background in global marketing, 
sales and general management 
senior executive roles including 
global accountability for HP’s 
multibillion dollar graphics/industrial 
portfolio of digital 2D and 3D 
printing businesses from 2009-
2012. Chris also has extensive 
experience in Asia and Japan 
having spent more than a decade 
in senior APJ leadership roles.  
He has led strategic investments  
in key growth markets and has 
been involved in a number of 
mergers and acquisitions at both 
the strategic and operational levels.  
He recently served as Chief 
Marketing Officer for Stratasys, 
Ltd, until June of 2015, where he 
was responsible for marketing 3D 
printing and additive manufacturing 
solutions globally.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  31 Report on the affairs of the Group
Capital structure
Details of the issued share capital, together with 
details of the movements in the Company’s 
issued share capital during the year, are shown 
in note 25. The Company has one class of 
ordinary shares which carries no right to fixed 
income. Each share carries the right to one vote 
at general meetings of the Company. 
There are no specific restrictions on the size of 
a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which 
are both governed by the general provisions 
of the Articles of Association and prevailing 
legislation. The Directors are not aware of any 
agreements between holders of the Company’s 
shares that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out 
in note 32. 
No person has any special rights of control 
over the Company’s share capital and all issued 
shares are fully paid.
With regard to the appointment and 
replacement of Directors, the Company 
is governed by its Articles of Association, 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, the 
Companies Act and related legislation. The 
Articles themselves may be amended by 
Special Resolution of the shareholders. The 
powers of Directors are described in the Main 
Board terms of reference, copies of which 
are available on request, and the corporate 
governance statement on page 42.
Treasury
The Group’s policy enables it to use financial 
instruments to hedge foreign currency 
exposures. The main trading currency of the 
Group is UK pounds. The Group’s use of 
financial instruments and the related risks are 
discussed further in notes 19, 20 and 23.
At the 2015 AGM held on 13 May 2015, 
the Company’s shareholders granted the 
Company authority to make one or more market 
purchases (within the meaning of section 693(4) 
of the Companies Act 2006) of ordinary shares 
of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company. 
The Company did not purchase any shares for 
cancellation or to be held as treasury in 2015 
or 2014.
Directors and their interests 
The Directors who served during the year, and 
subsequent to the year-end, unless otherwise 
stated, were as follows:
Phil Lawler – Chairman  
(stepping down on 30 September 2016)
Doug Edwards – Chief Executive Officer 
(appointed 5 January 2015)
Alex Bevis – Chief Financial Officer and 
Company Secretary 
Ted Wiggans – Chief Operations Officer 
Jim Brault – Chief Human Resources Officer 
(appointed 2 March 2015, stepped down from 
the Board 16 March 2016). Jim will continue in 
his role as Chief Human Resources Officer
Robin Williams – Senior Independent Director 
(Chairman from 1 October 2016)
Margaret Rice-Jones – Non-Executive Director 
(appointed 1 August 2015)
Chris Morgan – Non-Executive Director 
(appointed 4 January 2016)
Ian Dinwoodie – Chief Executive  
(retired 27 March 2015)
Edmund Creutzmann – Chief Technical Officer 
(resigned 27 April 2015)
David Cheesman – Non-Executive Director 
(retired 13 May 2015)
Richard Barham – Chief Customer Officer 
(resigned 11 December 2015) 
Brief biographical descriptions of the Directors 
are set out on pages 30 and 31. Full details of 
their interests in shares of the Company and 
its subsidiary undertakings are included in the 
Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 44 
to 68.
The Directors present their Annual Report 
on the affairs of the Group together with 
the financial statements and auditor’s 
report for the year ended 31 December 
2015. The corporate governance 
statement set out on pages 37 to 43 
forms part of this report.
An indication of likely future developments 
in the business of the Company and details 
of research and development activities are 
included in the Strategic Report. The Group’s 
policies relating to equality, diversity and 
employee consultation can be found in the 
‘Sustainable and responsible business’ section 
of the Strategic Report on pages 25 to 27.
Details of the proposed dividend are set out  
on page 24.
The Greenhouse gas emissions statement can 
be found on page 28.
Directors’ report
32  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Shareholdings in the Company
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company and its subsidiaries (all of which are beneficial) as at 31 December 2015 are as follows:
Number of 
ordinary shares 
of 10p each 
31 December 
2015
Number of 
ordinary shares 
of 10p each 
31 December 
2014
Doug Edwards 26,085 –
Alex Bevis 57,822 53,577
Ted Wiggans 71,239 9,680
Jim Brault 721 –
Phil Lawler 99,930 99,930
Robin Williams 4,000 1,500
Margaret Rice-Jones – –
There have been no changes in the Directors’ interests in shares of the Company between 31 December 2015 and 16 March 2016. Directors’ 
interests in options over shares in the Company are shown in the Directors’ Remuneration report.
Directors’ liabilities
The Company has granted an indemnity to all of its Directors against liability in respect of any potential proceedings that may be brought by third 
parties, subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act 2006. Such qualifying third party indemnity provision remains in force as at the date  
of approving the Directors’ Report.
Share capital
As at 31 December 2015 the Company had been notified in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Financial Conduct Authority’s (FCA’s) Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules of the following material interests in its share capital:
 Number 
of ordinary 
shares held
Percentage 
of issued 
share capital
AXA Framlington Investment Managers 10,685,905 13.8%
M&G Investment Management 5,999,138 7.7%
Legal & General Investment Management 5,914,532 7.6%
BlackRock 4,762,478 6.1%
Schroder Investment Management 4,667,262 6.0%
Baillie Gifford 3,527,126 4.6%
Oppenheimer Funds 3,000,000 3.9%
Generation Investment Management 2,846,998 3.7%
Aberdeen Asset Management 2,824,075 3.6%
T Rowe Price Global Investments 2,401,117 3.1%
During the period 31 December 2015 to 16 March 2016, the Company received the following notifications pursuant to chapter five of the FCA’s 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules:
On the 15 January 2016, the Company received a notification from AXA Framlington Investment Managers advising that their interests in the total voting 
rights of the Company were 10,012,977 ordinary shares, being 12.9% of the issued share capital (excluding treasury shares) at the date of notification. 
On the 21 January 2016, the Company received a notification from Oppenheimer Funds advising that their interests in the total voting rights of the 
Company were 3,835,688 ordinary shares, being 5.0% of the issued share capital (excluding treasury shares) at the date of notification.
On the 4 March 2016, the Company received a notification from AXA Framlington Investment Managers advising that their interests in the total voting 
rights of the Company were 10,098,670 ordinary shares, being 13.02% of the issued share capital (excluding treasury shares) at the date of notification. 
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  33 Report on the affairs of the Group continued
The Directors’ remuneration policy sets out 
the Company’s future policy on Directors’ 
remuneration. If Resolution 13 is approved, the 
effective date of the remuneration policy will be 
the date of the AGM (18 May 2016).
Amendment to articles
Resolution 14
It is proposed by Resolution 14, to approve 
an amendment to article 86 of the Company’s 
articles of association, so as to increase the 
aggregate fees capable of being paid to 
directors to an amount not exceeding £300,000 
per annum in aggregate from its previous limit 
of an amount not exceeding £200,000  
per annum.
Approve LTIP rule changes
Resolution 15
It is proposed by Resolution 15, to approve 
proposed amendments to the 2007 Xaar plc 
Long Term Incentive Plan rules: to increase the 
limit on the market value of the shares that may 
be granted under performance share award to 
an employee in a financial year from 100% to 
175% of base salary in such financial year, and 
to give the Remuneration Committee the ability 
to flex the weighting of EPS and TSR measures 
in performance conditions applicable to awards 
in the event of early vesting as a result of a 
change of control. 
Authority to purchase own shares
Resolution 16
It is proposed by Resolution 16, by Special 
Resolution, to authorise the Company generally 
and unconditionally to purchase its own shares 
at a price of not less than the par value of the 
shares and not more than the higher of:
(i) 5% above the average of the middle 
market quotations of the shares as 
derived from the London Stock Exchange 
Daily Official List for the five dealing days 
immediately preceding the day on which 
the purchase is made; and 
(ii) the amount stipulated by article 5(1) of 
the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 
2003 (in each case exclusive of any 
expenses payable by the Company).
The authority will be for a maximum of 14.9% 
of the Company’s issued share capital and will 
expire at the earlier of the next Annual General 
Meeting of the Company or within 15 months 
from the date of the passing of this resolution. 
The Directors currently have no intention to 
exercise the authority and will only purchase 
shares if it is in the best interests of shareholders 
as a whole.
The total number of options to subscribe for 
ordinary shares outstanding at 31 December 
2015 (including options awarded under LTIP 
which may be satisfied by subscription of new 
shares) was 2,761,447. This represents 4% of 
the issued ordinary share capital at that date. If 
Xaar plc was to buy back the maximum number 
of ordinary shares permitted pursuant to the 
passing of this resolution, then the total number 
of options to subscribe for ordinary shares 
outstanding at 31 December 2015 would 
represent 4% of the reduced issued ordinary 
share capital.
Power to issue securities
Resolution 17
Under the Companies Act 2006 the Directors 
of the Company may only allot shares (whether 
for cash or otherwise) with the authority of 
shareholders given at a general meeting of 
the Company. In accordance with institutional 
guidelines, under Resolution 17, to be proposed 
as an Ordinary Resolution, authority is sought  
to allot shares:
(i) in relation to a pre-emptive rights issue 
only, up to an aggregate nominal amount 
of £5,179,388.40, which represented two 
thirds of the Company’s ordinary share 
capital as at 16 March 2016; and
(ii) in any other case, up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £2,589,694.30, which 
represented one third of the Company’s 
ordinary share capital as at  
16 March 2016.
The Directors do not currently have an intention 
to exercise the authority.
Annual General Meeting
The notice convening the Annual General 
Meeting is set out on pages 118 to 120. 
Resolutions 1 to 12 set out in the notice of the 
meeting deal with the ordinary business to be 
transacted at the meeting. The special business 
to be transacted at the meeting is set out in 
Resolutions 13 to 18.
Re-election of Directors
Resolutions 5 to 11
The Company’s Articles of Association require 
the Directors to retire by rotation at least once 
every three years, with the number to retire by 
rotation at each Annual General Meeting being 
the number nearest to but not exceeding one 
third of the Board. However, the UK Corporate 
Governance Code provides that all Directors 
of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to 
re-election by their shareholders every year. 
In accordance with this provision of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code and in keeping 
with the Board’s aim of following best corporate 
governance practice, the Board has decided 
that, as at the previous Annual General Meeting 
of the Company in 2015, all Directors should 
retire at each Annual General Meeting offer 
themselves for re-election. 
Directors’ Remuneration report
Resolutions 12 and 13
These Resolutions seek shareholder approval 
for the Directors’ Remuneration report, which 
includes the remuneration policy. The Directors’ 
Remuneration report can be found on pages 
44 to 68 (inclusive) of the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements. 
As at the previous Annual General Meeting 
of the Company in 2015, in accordance 
with regulations which came into force on 
1 October 2013 in this area, the Company 
is offering shareholders an annual advisory 
vote on the implementation of the Company’s 
existing remuneration policy, which is set out 
in the Directors’ Remuneration report, and a 
binding vote on the Company’s forward-looking 
Directors’ remuneration policy. 
Resolution 12 contains the advisory resolution 
relating to the Directors’ Remuneration 
report, and Resolution 13 contains the 
binding resolution in relation to the Directors’ 
remuneration policy.
Directors’ report continued
34  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc The Directors are authorised to issue and allot 
shares and to undertake purchases of the 
Company’s shares. Appropriate resolutions  
to renew these authorities are proposed to  
be passed at the AGM as detailed above and 
notice of which is on pages 118 to 120.
Ordinary shares
On a show of hands at a general meeting of 
the Company every holder of ordinary shares 
present in person and entitled to vote shall have 
one vote for every ordinary share held and, on 
a poll, every member present in person or by 
proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote 
for every ordinary share held. The notice of the 
AGM on pages 118 to 120 specifies deadlines 
for exercising voting rights either by proxy notice 
or present in person or by proxy in relation to 
resolutions to be passed at the AGM. All proxy 
votes are counted and the numbers for, against 
or withheld in relation to each resolution are 
made available at the AGM and are published 
on the Company’s website after the meeting.  
No person holds securities carrying special 
rights with regard to control of the Company.
Restrictions
There are no restrictions on the transfer of 
ordinary shares in the Company other than:
• Certain restrictions may from time to time 
be imposed by laws and regulations (for 
example, insider trading laws and market 
requirements relating to close periods)
• Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FCA 
whereby all employees of the Company 
require the approval of the Company to 
deal in the Company’s securities
The Company’s Articles of Association may 
only be amended by a Special Resolution at a 
general meeting of the shareholders. Directors 
are reappointed by Ordinary Resolution at a 
general meeting of the shareholders. 
Appointment of Directors
The Board can appoint a Director but anyone 
so appointed must be elected by an Ordinary 
Resolution at the next general meeting. All 
Directors are required to submit themselves  
for reappointment every year at the AGM. 
Significant interests
Directors’ interests in the share capital of the 
Company are shown in the table on page 33. 
Major interests (i.e. those greater than 3%) 
of which the Company has been notified are 
shown on page 33.
Company share schemes
The Xaar plc ESOP Trust holds 1.8% of the 
issued share capital of the Company in trust for 
the benefit of employees of the Group and their 
dependants. The voting rights in relation  
to these shares are exercised by the Trustees.
Change of control
The Company is not party to any agreements 
which take effect, alter or terminate upon a 
change of control of the Company following a 
takeover bid. There are no agreements between 
the Company and its Directors or employees 
providing for compensation for loss of office 
or employment (whether through resignation, 
purported redundancy or otherwise) that occurs 
because of a takeover bid. Depending on 
the achievement of performance conditions, 
share-based payment arrangements may vest 
on change of control but this is subject to the 
approval and exercise of the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Resolution 18
This resolution, to be proposed as a Special 
Resolution, will give the Directors power to  
allot shares:
(i) up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£5,110,391.50 (representing approximately 
66% of the Company’s issued share 
capital) on an offer to existing shareholders 
on a pre-emptive basis (subject to any 
adjustments, such as for fractional 
entitlements and overseas shareholders,  
as the Directors see fit); and
(ii) for cash up to a maximum aggregate 
nominal value of £388,454.10, representing 
5% of the ordinary share capital of the 
Company as at 16 March 2016, otherwise 
than in connection with an offer to existing 
shareholders.
The Directors do not currently have an 
intention to exercise any power given to them 
by shareholders to allot shares for cash on a 
non pre-emptive basis and, in any event, the 
Directors do not intend to allot any shares 
for cash on a non pre-emptive basis if such 
allotment would exceed the limits established 
by the guidance published by the investment 
committees of the ABI and the NAPF.
The authorities contained in Resolutions 17 and 
18 will expire no later than 15 months after the 
passing of those resolutions.
Additional information for shareholders
The following provides the additional information 
required for shareholders as a result of the 
implementation of the Takeovers Directive into 
UK law.
The structure of the Company’s issued share 
capital is shown in note 25.
Details of ordinary shares held in trust owned  
by the Company can be found in note 27.
The Company is not aware of any agreements 
between shareholders that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities and/or 
voting rights.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  35 Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with 
the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position are set out in the 
Strategic Report on pages 14 to 18. Notes 19, 
20 and 23 include a description of the Group’s 
objectives, policies and processes for managing 
its capital; its financial risk management 
objectives; details of its financial instruments and 
hedging activities; and its exposure to credit risk 
and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources 
and through a diverse customer base is 
exposed not only to the Western economies 
but also to China, India and Latin America. As 
a consequence, the Directors believe that the 
Group is well placed to manage its business 
risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future, based on 
the Group’s forecasts and projections for the 
next three years, taking account of reasonably 
possible changes in trading performance. For this 
reason, we continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Viability statement
Taking account of the Company’s current 
financial position, and operating performance, 
principal risks and uncertainties included on 
pages 20 to 21, the Directors have assessed 
the prospects of the Company, and confirm that 
they have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company will be able to continue in operation 
and meet its liabilities as they fall due for the 
next three years.
The Directors’ assessment has been made with 
reference to strategic planning, based on the 
key areas documented in the Strategic report on 
pages 14 to 18. The Directors have considered 
the current financial position, and operating 
performance, principal risks and uncertainties 
of the Company, and the potential impact these 
risks and uncertainties, could have on the 
business model and future performance over 
the period assessed. 
The Corporate Strategy Committee meets at 
least twice a year, and reviews and updates 
the strategic plan for the Company, taking into 
consideration assumptions concerning existing 
and future products and technology, customer 
engagements, business relationships and 
partnership opportunities. The strategic plan for 
the Company is approved by, and performance 
against the plan is regularly reviewed by, the 
Executive Committee.
Auditor
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness 
to continue in office as auditor and a resolution 
to reappoint them will be proposed at the 
forthcoming AGM.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure  
of information to auditor
The Directors who were members of the Board 
at the time of approving the Directors’ report  
are listed on page 32. 
Having made enquiries of fellow Directors, each 
of these Directors confirm that:
• To the best of each Director’s knowledge 
and belief, there is no information relevant 
to the preparation of their report of which 
the Group’s auditor is unaware
• Each Director has taken all the steps a 
Director might reasonably be expected to 
have taken to be aware of relevant audit  
information and to establish that the 
Group’s auditor is aware of that information
This confirmation is given and should be 
interpreted in accordance with the provisions  
of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Approval
The Director’s report was approved by the 
Board on 16 March 2016 and is signed on  
its behalf by:
Alex Bevis
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary
Report on the affairs of the Group continued
Directors’ report continued
36  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Corporate governance statement
Statement of compliance with the Code 
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2015 
the Company has followed the provisions set 
out in the Code.
During 2015, the Company did not comply 
with provision B.1.2 of the Code relating to 
the composition of the Board. Following the 
appointment of Chris Morgan on 4 January 
2016 and Jim Brault stepping down from 
the Board on 16 March 2016, the Board is 
comprised of three executive roles and four 
non-executive roles, including the Chairman, 
thus now complying with provision B.1.2 of 
the Code. The previous weighting towards 
executive roles reflected the need for 
operational focus at the most senior level in the 
Company to achieve success in Xaar’s highly 
demanding end markets.
The Board confirms that the 2015 Annual 
Report and Financial Statements, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, 
and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the performance, 
strategy, and business model of the Company, 
in accordance with C.1.1 of the Code.
Statement about applying the principles  
of the Code
The Company has applied the principles of the 
Code, including both the Main Principles and 
the supporting principles, by complying with the 
Code as reported above. Further explanation  
of how the Main Principles have been applied  
is set out below and, in connection with  
Directors’ remuneration, in the Directors’ 
Remuneration report. 
Board of Directors
Following the appointment of Chris Morgan on 
4 January 2016 and Jim Brault stepping down 
from the Board on 16 March 2016, the Board 
of Directors comprises the Chairman, three 
Executive Directors and three Non-Executive 
Directors. Brief biographical details of all 
members of the Board are set out on pages  
30 and 31. 
The Board considers Robin Williams, 
Margaret Rice-Jones and Chris Morgan to be 
independent within the meaning of the Code,  
in compliance with Code provision B.1.1.  
To be considered as independent each  
Non-Executive Director is sufficiently separate  
to management and free from any business 
or other relationships which could affect their 
judgement, impartiality or objectivity.
The Board is responsible for the formulation 
of strategy; the monitoring of financial and 
non-financial performance and the approval of 
major transactions; financial statements; other 
formal communications with shareholders; and 
operating and capital expenditure budgets. 
Comprehensive Board papers, dealing with 
all aspects of the business, are distributed by 
the Company Secretary typically one week in 
advance of each Board meeting. The Board 
met ten times during 2015.
The Non-Executive Directors attend the Board 
meetings, and form the Audit, Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees. They are 
responsible for scrutinising the performance 
of management and determining appropriate 
levels of remuneration of Executive Directors, 
and have a key role in appointing and, where 
required, removing Executive Directors.
There exists a clear division of responsibilities 
between the Chairman and the Chief Executive. 
The Chairman’s primary role includes ensuring 
that the Board functions properly, that it meets 
its obligations and responsibilities, and that its 
organisation and mechanisms are in place and 
are working effectively. The Chief Executive’s 
primary role is to provide overall leadership 
and vision in developing, with the Board, the 
strategic direction of the Company. Additionally, 
the Chief Executive is responsible for the 
management of the overall business to ensure 
that strategic and business plans are effectively 
implemented, the results are monitored and 
reported to the Board, and financial and 
operational objectives are attained. 
The Board delegates management of the 
business to the Executive Committee, headed 
by the Chief Executive Officer. The Executive 
Committee meets weekly and is responsible 
for implementing Group strategy, monitoring 
business performance, preparing the 
operating and capital expenditure budgets for 
recommendation to the Board, and ensuring 
efficient management of the Group.
The committee has formally identified Ted 
Wiggans as Director responsible for health and 
safety and Alex Bevis as Director responsible 
for risk assessment.
The Company is committed to the 
principles of corporate governance 
contained in the 2014 UK Corporate 
Governance Code which was issued in 
2014 by the Financial Reporting Council 
(‘the Code’) for which the Board is 
accountable to shareholders. 
Governance
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  37 Summary of Board meeting attendance in 2015
Ten Board meetings were held in 2015.
Name Meetings attended
Phil Lawler 10 (10)
Robin Williams 10 (10)
Margaret Rice-Jones 5 (5)
Doug Edwards 10 (10)
Alex Bevis 10 (10)
Ted Wiggans 10 (10)
Jim Brault 9 (9)
David Cheesman 4 (4)
Ian Dinwoodie 2 (2)
Edmund Creutzmann 2 (3)
Richard Barham 10 (10)
Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended. 
Board committees
Summary of committee membership:
 
Name
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
 Committee
Phil Lawler Yes Yes Chairman 
Robin Williams Chairman Yes Yes
Margaret Rice-Jones Yes Chairman Yes
Doug Edwards No No Yes
Summary of committee meeting attendance in 2015:
 
Name
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
 Committee
Number of meetings held 4 4 5
Phil Lawler 4 (4) 4 (4) 5 (5)
Robin Williams 4 (4) 2 (2) 5 (5)
Margaret Rice-Jones 2 (2) 3 (3) 3 (3)
David Cheesman 2 (2) 1 (1) 2 (2)
Doug Edwards N/A N/A 5 (5)
Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended. 
Conflicts of interest
Following the changes made to the Company’s Articles of Association to incorporate the provisions of section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 
which gave Boards the statutory power to authorise conflicts of interest, any potential conflict of interest is approved by the Board in advance of any 
action or appointment that could result in a conflict of interest arising. Each member of the Board is familiar with the procedure to follow in relation to 
conflicts of interest and the process is operated efficiently.
Corporate governance statement continued
Governance continued
38  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Group structure
The Group has three main locations. The head 
office functions, R&D, EMEA sales, marketing, 
human resources and enterprise solutions are 
based in Cambridge, UK. The Group also has 
two manufacturing facilities: one in Huntingdon, 
UK and the other in Järfälla, Sweden, which 
is due to close in 2016. The Group also has 
representatives in other global locations 
including India, Hong Kong and the USA.
Refer to page 2 for the Xaar business model.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Directors seek to build on a mutual 
understanding of objectives between the Group 
and its institutional shareholders by meeting 
at least twice per year, following interim and 
annual results, to provide an update on trading 
and obtain feedback. Additionally, the Group 
has hosted institutional investors at Cambridge 
and its Huntingdon facility during the year.
The Group’s financial public relations advisors 
and lead brokers give all investors and potential 
investors who have met with the Group’s 
investor relations team, the opportunity to 
provide feedback on the meetings. Additionally, 
the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer provide feedback to the Board at 
the meeting following shareholder meetings 
to ensure that the Board, and in particular 
the Non-Executive Directors, possess an 
understanding of the views of the Company’s 
major shareholders. Both the Chairman and  
the Senior Independent Director are available  
to meet with shareholders as required.
Shareholders can access up-to-date Company 
information from the Investor Relations section 
of the Xaar website at www.xaar.com.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with 
investors and to encourage their participation. 
Risk management and internal control 
The Group’s policies relating to risk 
management and internal control can be  
found in the ‘Risk management’ section  
of the Strategic Report on pages 20 to 21.
Whistle-blowing, and anti-bribery and 
corruption policies
The Company conducts its business with the 
highest standards of integrity and honesty at all 
times and expects its employees to maintain 
the same standards in everything they do. 
Employees are therefore required to report 
any wrongdoing by Xaar or its members of 
staff that falls short of these principles. The 
whistle-blowing, and anti-bribery and corruption 
policies are available and communicated to all 
employees via the Company intranet, and all 
employees confirm in writing that they have 
read and comply with the whistle-blowing and 
anti-bribery and corruption policies. All reported 
incidences of actual or suspected bribery or 
corruption will be promptly and thoroughly 
investigated and dealt with appropriately. The 
purpose of the anti-bribery and corruption 
policy is to protect Xaar and its employees from 
breaches of anti-bribery and corruption laws. 
Xaar does not tolerate any employee or third 
party being involved in any level of bribery or 
corruption. Xaar is committed to complying with 
applicable anti-bribery and corruption laws in all 
countries in which it conducts business.
Approval
The Corporate governance statement was 
approved by the Board on 16 March 2016 and 
is signed on its behalf by:
Alex Bevis
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary
Performance evaluation
The Board’s policy for individual Executive 
Director performance reviews is for a formal 
and rigorous appraisal process based on 
performance by the individual Director against 
specific targets. Individual Director performance 
is reviewed at least annually. The Senior 
Independent Director, in consultation with 
the other Non-Executive Directors and taking 
into account the views of the other Directors, 
appraises the performance of the Chairman. 
The Executive Directors, in consultation with  
the Chairman, appraise the performance of  
the Non-Executive Directors.
When new Directors are appointed, they 
receive a complete and specifically bespoke 
induction and training, aimed at introducing and 
familiarising them to the management team, 
the Group’s activities and processes, and to 
give them the knowledge required to effectively 
execute their role.
The Board reviewed both its own performance 
and the performance of the Board committees 
once during the year through a questionnaire 
issued to all members of the Board. The results 
were reviewed by the Board as a whole and it 
was concluded that individual Board members 
are satisfied that the Board works well and 
operates effectively in an environment where 
there is constructive challenge from the Non-
Executive Directors. They are also satisfied with 
the contribution made by their colleagues and 
that Board committees operate properly and 
effectively. It is the Board’s intention to review its 
own performance, and that of its committees, 
at least once a year.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  39 Audit Committee 
Governance
The Audit Committee is appointed by the 
Board from the Non-Executive Directors of the 
Company. The Chairman of the committee, 
Robin Williams, is deemed by the Board to 
have recent and relevant financial experience 
as he is a qualified Chartered Accountant, and 
has ten years’ experience of advising public 
companies followed by a further ten years  
as CEO or Executive Director at the centre  
of substantial public companies either 
overseeing or working closely with CFOs  
and Financial Controllers.
The Audit Committee’s terms of reference 
include all matters indicated by Disclosure and 
Transparency Rule 7.1 and the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. The written terms of 
reference of the committee are available on 
request from the Company Secretary. 
Please see the tables on page 38 for details 
of the Audit Committee members in the year 
and the number of Audit Committee meetings 
attended. The committee meetings are also 
attended, by invitation, by the Group Chief 
Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer 
and other senior financial management as 
appropriate, as well as by the external auditor 
for specific parts of the meeting.
Responsibilities
The Audit Committee’s primary  
responsibilities are:
• To monitor the integrity of the financial 
statements and announcements and review 
significant financial reporting judgements 
contained therein, as well as financial and 
accounting policies and practices
• To keep under review the adequacy and 
effectiveness of internal controls 
• To review procedures, systems and 
controls for whistle blowing, fraud 
detection and bribery prevention
• To review, approve and monitor internal 
audit activities
• To monitor and review the Group’s external 
auditor’s independence, objectivity and 
effectiveness
• To make recommendations to the Board on 
the appointment, remuneration and terms 
of engagement of the external auditor
The Audit Committee is not responsible for the 
identification of key risks or the review of the 
adequacy of arrangements to mitigate those 
risks, which remains the responsibility of the 
main Board. The Audit Committee is required to 
report its findings to the Board at least annually, 
identifying any matters on which it considers 
that action or improvement is needed, to make 
recommendations on the steps to be taken, and 
to ensure that the required actions are taken.
Significant issues
The Audit Committee has a set agenda for 
each of its regular meetings, which is then 
augmented by specific matters concerning the 
Company and in assessing the appropriateness 
of the financial statements. Key areas of focus 
during the year included:
Royalty audits
The results of completed royalty audits were 
discussed by the Audit Committee. The actions 
relating to the outcomes of completed audits 
and the on-going royalty audits were agreed.
Process and system audits 
KPMG were engaged to perform process 
reviews and internal audit procedures 
over specifically targeted areas. The Audit 
Committee reviewed potential and actual issues 
encountered, and the results of the completed 
audits in the year. Planned procedures to be 
undertaken going forward were proposed and 
agreed by the Audit Committee.
Tax areas
The Audit Committee considered the tax 
related areas and projects that impact the 
Group, including capital allowances, patent 
box, R&D expenditure credit and OECD 
developments. Updates and progress in these 
areas were discussed by the Audit Committee. 
The requirements of each area were reviewed, 
planned and actions agreed and taken.
Significant issues considered
Significant issues that have been considered by 
the Audit Committee include revenue recognition, 
provisions, inventory valuation, the restructure 
and closure of the Swedish facility and 
capitalisation of development costs. These are 
also areas of focus for the external auditor, who 
report on these matters to the Audit Committee.
Robin Williams
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Corporate governance statement continued
Governance continued
40  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc External auditor
Deloitte LLP have been the Company’s 
auditor since 2009 and there has been no 
tender held for audit services during that 
time. The committee considers that the 
auditor’s knowledge of the Group’s business 
and systems gained through experience has 
contributed to the effectiveness of the audit 
process. The committee intends the Company 
to continue to comply fully with the FRC Audit 
Committees Guidance regarding the frequency 
of audit tender. Under the standard rotation 
process, a new audit engagement partner  
was appointed from 2014.
The Audit Committee has noted that there 
are no contractual obligations to restrict the 
choice of external auditor and has considered 
the likelihood of a withdrawal of the auditor 
from the market. The committee meets with 
the Company’s auditor at least twice a year. 
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer, and other relevant managers as 
required, attend by invitation, except for a period 
of each meeting where the committee members 
may meet with the auditor without any member 
of the Group management present. 
The committee is required to assess the 
qualifications, expertise, resources, and 
independence of the external auditor, and 
the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit 
process. The committee reviews the type 
of work, effectiveness of, and level of fees 
charged by the auditor on an annual basis and 
recommends to the Board the appointment, 
reappointment, term, remuneration, and terms 
of engagement of the external auditor. Auditor 
objectivity and independence is safeguarded 
by the committee monitoring fees paid to the 
auditor in respect of both audit and non-
audit work, and approving all additional work 
performed by the external auditor. Non-audit 
services include remuneration services, tax  
and audit advisory.
Note 7 to the consolidated financial  
statements includes disclosures of the auditor’s 
remuneration for the year, including an analysis 
of audit services, audit related services, and 
other non-audit services under those headings 
prescribed by law. The committee monitors the 
level of non-audit fees in relation to the audit fee 
for its bearing on external auditor independence.
The independence and objectivity of the auditor 
is regularly considered by the committee taking 
into consideration relevant UK professional 
and regulatory requirements. The committee 
receives an annual statement from the auditor 
detailing their independence policies and 
safeguards and confirming their independence, 
taking into account relevant ethical guidance 
regarding the provision of non-audit services 
by the external auditor. Under the standard 
rotation process, a new audit engagement 
partner was appointed from 2014. 
The committee considers the effectiveness of 
the external audit and the Group’s relationship 
with the external auditor, Deloitte LLP , on an 
on-going basis, and have conducted a review 
of the effectiveness of the annual audit. This 
review consisted of considering a number of 
key points together with the senior financial 
management of the Group, without the external 
auditor present, and then discussing the 
evaluation with the auditor. The committee was 
able to conclude, on the basis of this exercise 
and its experience over the year, that the 
external audit process remained effective. 
A further review will be carried out following the 
completion of audit procedures on all Group 
companies and reported on in next year’s 
Annual Report.
Key activities
As a result of its work during the year, the 
Audit Committee has concluded that it 
has acted in accordance with its terms of 
reference, which were last updated in 2013. 
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will 
be available at the AGM to answer any 
questions about the work of the committee. 
The Audit Committee has performed actions 
to discharge its responsibilities during 2015, 
and its effectiveness was reviewed as part of 
the overall annual Board effectiveness review. 
The committee has carried out the activities 
described as follows:
Financial statements and reports
• Reviewed the Annual Report and financial 
statements, the half-yearly financial 
report and as part of this review the Audit 
Committee received a report from the 
external auditor on their audit and  
review performed
• Reviewed the effectiveness of the  
Group’s internal controls and disclosures 
made in the Annual Report and  
financial statements
Internal controls and compliance
• Reviewed fraud detection and the systems 
and controls for the prevention of bribery
Internal audit
• Agreed a schedule of the internally 
and externally resourced internal audit 
activities, and reviewed the results of 
internal audit activities performed
• Reviewed the internal financial controls 
and risk management systems
• Reviewed the results of system processes 
reviews completed in the year
External audit
• Reviewed and agreed the scope of the 
audit work to be undertaken by the 
auditor, and reviewed non-audit services 
provided and the level of this compared 
with the audit services provided
• Agreed the fees to be paid to the external 
auditor relating to their services rendered 
for the annual audit and interim review
• Reviewed audit work performed on 
significant risk areas, including those areas 
identified and discussed by the external 
auditor in their report, and ensured the 
independence and objectivity of the 
external auditor
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  41 Phil Lawler
Chairman of the  
Nomination Committee
Nomination Committee 
Governance
The Nomination Committee is appointed by  
the Board from the Non-Executive Directors  
of the Company and the Chief Executive  
Officer. The Chairman of the committee  
is Phil Lawler. The committee meets as 
required. The written terms of reference  
of the committee are available on request  
from the Company Secretary.
Responsibilities
The Nomination Committee’s primary 
responsibilities are:
• Reviewing the size, structure, skills, 
knowledge and composition of the Board
• Formulating plans for succession for both 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors
• Making recommendations to the Board 
on the appointment of new Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors and their 
reappointment following retirement  
by rotation
Boardroom diversity
Recruitment of Board candidates is  
conducted, and appointments made, on 
merit and suitability against objective selection 
criteria with consideration of, amongst other 
things, the benefits of diversity on the Board, 
including gender. The Board has not set a 
diversity quota, however the Board encourages 
applications for roles being recruited from 
women subject to the selection criteria being 
met. Following the appointment of Margaret 
Rice-Jones to the Board in 2015, the gender 
ratio is 14% female versus 86% male. 
Key issues and activities
The process adopted by the committee  
to identify a candidate for a specific vacancy  
is, in the first instance, to determine whether 
any individuals known to the committee would 
be suitable for the role. If no candidates can be 
identified through this process then an external 
search consultancy will be approached. 
Shortlisted candidates are interviewed by 
members of the committee and other Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors as the committee 
deems appropriate. Once a suitable candidate 
has been identified, the Chairman of the 
committee will recommend to the Board 
that the Company make a formal offer of 
employment to the candidate. 
During the year, the Nominations Committee 
has been engaged in recruiting two new Non-
Executive Directors to join the Board; Margaret 
Rice-Jones joined the Board during the year  
on 1 August 2015 and the appointment of 
|Chris Morgan to the Board on 4 January 2016.
All Directors are required to submit themselves 
for reappointment every year at the AGM. 
The Company intends to recruit a new 
independent Non-Executive Director during 
2016 in order to achieve the minimum best 
practice Board structure of having an equal 
balance of Executive and independent Non-
Executive Directors (excluding the Chairman). 
The anticipated Board structure will therefore 
be three Executive Directors, three independent 
Non-Executive Directors and a Chairman.
Governance continued
Corporate governance statement continued
42  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Remuneration Committee
Governance
The Remuneration Committee is appointed 
by the Board from the Non-Executive 
Directors of the Company. The Chairman 
of the committee is Margaret Rice-Jones, 
who took over as Chairman following Dave 
Cheesman’s retirement from the Board in May 
2015. The Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Human Resources Officer attend meetings by 
invitation, except when their own remuneration 
package is being discussed. The written terms 
of reference of the committee are available on 
request from the Company Secretary.
Responsibilities
The Remuneration Committee’s primary 
responsibilities are:
• To make recommendations to the Board 
on the Group’s policy for executive 
remuneration, and review the on-going 
appropriateness and relevance of the policy
• To review the design of all share incentive 
plans and oversee any major changes in 
employee benefit structures
• To monitor the level and structure of 
remuneration for Senior Managers
• To determine the individual remuneration 
packages on behalf of the Board for the 
Executive Directors of the Group
Key issues and activities
The committee has access to professional 
advice, both inside and outside the Company, 
in the furtherance of its duties. The committee 
has received guidance on best practice for 
Directors’ remuneration from Deloitte LLP , 
PwC LLP and Mercer Limited during the year, 
and has reviewed and approved executive 
remuneration, equity budgets, share incentive 
schemes and grants, and bonus schemes.
In early 2015 the Remuneration Committee 
undertook a review of the operation of the 
current performance targets for the Long 
Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). The main principle 
applied by the Committee in its review was 
that the LTIP should be aligned with Company 
strategy, and that the incentive targets should 
be challenging but achievable.
As a result of the review the Committee, after 
consultation with shareholders, made some 
changes to the LTIP which were applied to 
grants made in 2015. For 2016 grants the 
Committee is proposing some additional 
changes which are summarised in the 
Directors’ Remuneration report. The proposed 
changes will not affect the outstanding LTIP 
grants which are due to mature in 2016, 2017  
and 2018. 
The Directors’ Remuneration report sets out 
in more detail the committee’s policies and 
practices on executive remuneration. 
Margaret Rice-Jones
Chairman of the  
Remuneration Committee
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  43 Directors’ Remuneration report 
This report has been prepared in accordance 
with the regulations on Directors’ remuneration 
disclosure. The report also meets the relevant 
requirements of the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Conduct Authority and describes how 
the Board has applied the Principles relating  
to Directors’ remuneration in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. 
This report is presented in two sections: the 
annual report on remuneration and the Directors’ 
remuneration policy. The annual report on 
remuneration provides details of the amounts 
earned in respect of the year ended 31 December 
2015 and how the Directors’ remuneration policy, 
which sets out the forward-looking remuneration 
policy, will be operated for the year commencing  
1 January 2016. The annual report on 
remuneration is subject to an advisory vote at the 
2016 AGM. The Directors’ remuneration policy 
was approved in May 2014 and in the normal 
course of events would not be subject to a further 
shareholder approval until May 2017, however 
due to certain changes being proposed, the policy 
and the revised 2007 Xaar plc LTIP rules, will both 
be subject to votes at the 2016 AGM before a 
full revision in 2017, with changes discussed as 
follows and in the policy (pages 58 to 62).
Statement from the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the 2015 Remuneration 
report, my first as Chairman of the Committee 
since joining the Board in August 2015. This 
covers our policy on pay, benefits and incentives 
for the Directors and the amounts earned for the 
year ended 31 December 2015. 
The Committee’ s goal is to attract and retain 
management of the highest capability and to 
achieve this we offer competitive packages 
comparable to those offered by companies similar 
to Xaar in terms of size and complexity. We aim 
to provide incentives that reward near and longer 
term performance, are considerate to the climate 
for salary restraint, and take into account the views 
of our shareholders.
Remuneration for 2015
For the 2014 Annual Report, the Committee 
noted that 2014 had been a very challenging 
year for Xaar with the step-down in demand in 
the Chinese ceramics market. This meant that for 
2014 no awards were earned in terms of annual 
bonuses and therefore opportunities to invest in 
bonus matching LTIP shares. No salary increases 
have been paid to any of the Directors for 2015. 
Annualised compounded EPS growth above RPI 
growth over the three year performance period 
ending 31 December 2015 was a decline of 8% 
and the LTIPs awarded on 2 April 2013 and 15 
May 2013, will not vest in 2016. Certain changes, 
namely the introduction of Cumulative EPS and 
TSR as a performance measure, were introduced 
for the 2015 LTIP awards to ensure alignment 
between shareholders and Directors in delivery  
of the growth strategy for the business outlined  
by the incoming CEO Doug Edwards who joined 
the Board on 5 January 2015.
Cumulative EPS
The Company’ s historic EPS has been relatively 
volatile year on year, which produces potentially 
unintended results when using an annual average 
growth measure. Vesting can be dependent 
on timing and volatility rather than consistent 
performance. By measuring EPS as a cumulative 
amount delivered over the three-year performance 
period, the Committee is able to reward consistent 
sustainable performance by measuring the 
absolute EPS delivered over this period, rather than 
rewarding the change of EPS in year three versus 
the base year, which may not reflect consistent 
performance but may reward volatility in earnings.
The calculation of EPS will exclude amounts 
accounted for under International Accounting 
Standard 38, specifically capitalisation or 
amortisation of development expenditure.  
It is considered that excluding this accounting 
impact results in a fairer measure of the 
Company’s profitability.
The re-introduction of TSR
The LTIP performance metrics proposed are 
a blend of EPS and relative TSR (weighted 
two thirds and one third respectively). The 
reintroduction of the relative TSR measure  
ensures that the Company’ s performance is in part 
measured by performance relative to the market.
Annual Bonus payments
The bonus payments outlined on page 48 reflect 
both the delivery against company targets and 
the progress made by each Director against their 
specific individual objectives which determined 
the personal performance multiplier (in the range 
of 0-1.33). The profit measure used for bonus 
target is adjusted profit before tax excluding any 
impact of IAS 38 (capitalisation of development 
costs). Adjusted profit before tax excluding IAS 
38 at £12.45 million was above the minimum 
threshold at which level payments against financial 
targets were triggered for Executive Directors. 
The Company performance component provided 
a 58% payment against the maximum bonus 
opportunity for each individual as a result of the 
on target bonus being set at £11.5 million. The 
Committee undertook a rigorous review of the 
achievement against financial and individual 
objectives to ensure the level of bonus payment 
was appropriate and fair given the overall business 
performance. A bonus was awarded to the 
outgoing CEO, Ian Dinwoodie, as part of his final 
compensation based on his pro-rata salary and 
a personal multiplier of 1.0. The highest bonus 
payment was made to Doug Edwards of 63.8% 
of salary at 31 December 2015 reflecting strong 
progress in the development of the five year 
strategy for the Company and the new product 
pipeline and personal performance multiplier of 1.1.
Leading remuneration decisions for 2016
The Committee recognises that a significant 
shortfall exists in certain Executive and Non-
Executive Director base salaries compared to 
companies of a similar size and complexity. 
Strong leadership is essential as the business 
now seeks to bring a set of new products to 
market in 2016 and grow in emerging and highly 
innovative market areas such as 3D printing 
and Direct-to-Shape. The US market is also an 
increasingly important market for the Company 
both in terms of where we compete for talent 
and where we are seeking to strengthen our 
presence in the market. We are aware that the 
incentive opportunities offered by our competitors 
in the US are significantly higher and would often 
comprise a combination of both time based 
restricted stock and performance based stock 
awards. Against this background, the Committee 
is mindful of the risks posed by uncompetitive 
executive remuneration in trying to operate an 
effective recruitment and retention strategy in a 
highly competitive global market for technology 
leaders. The 2013 plan to incrementally increase 
salary scales over a three-year period was 
deferred in 2015 and will now recommence with 
the same goals to realign against a current set 
of relevant benchmarks for Executive Directors 
provided to the Committee by Mercer and for 
Non-Executive Directors from data published 
by Deloitte and New Bridge Street. It would be 
our intention to realign salaries over the next two 
years subject to the continued performance of 
the Company and relevant individuals. The date 
Governance continued
44  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc for the annual review of Directors’ salaries has been re-set to 1 July of each year in line with the annual review for the rest of the Company (see page 55). 
No annual rises have been provided for Directors since January 2014. During 2015, Ted Wiggans’ role was significantly expanded and his current package, 
implemented on 1 January 2016 reflects this increased responsibility for the R&D and Engineering functions and will not be further adjusted during 2016. 
The Remuneration Committee has undertaken a review of the operation of the LTIP awards, in light of concerns that these are not achieving the policy 
objective: to provide an overall package that offers retentive and motivating arrangements for Executive Directors which drive and reward the achievement  
of longer term objectives, and which are closely aligned to shareholder interests.
The main principle applied by the Committee in its review was that the LTIP should be aligned with Company strategy, and that the incentive targets should 
be challenging but achievable. Based on current outlook the probability of LTIPs vesting in 2017 is very low. 
The Committee wishes to simplify the long term incentive arrangements by removing the bonus matching plan for the 2016 bonus cycle for Executive 
Directors, balanced with increasing the maximum long term incentive plan (LTIP) awards for the CEO and CFO for 2016 from 100% of salary to 175%  
of salary and 150% of salary respectively. The proposed changes to the LTIP which are intended to apply to awards from 2016 onwards are summarised 
below. The proposed changes will not affect the outstanding LTIP grants that are due to vest in 2016, 2017 and 2018. 
LTIP feature 2015 2016 Proposal
Maximum Award Level • A maximum of 100% of base salary p.a. • A maximum of 175%  
of base salary p.a.
Performance Measures • EPS and TSR measures • No change
Weighting of 
Performance Measures
• Two thirds cumulative adjusted EPS
• One third TSR relative to FTSE TechMARK All Share Index
• No change
EPS Performance 
Period
• Three-year performance period
• Absolute cumulative EPS performance over the performance period
• No change
EPS Calculation • Adjust to exclude the capitalisation or amortisation of development costs under IAS 38 • No change
EPS Targets • Maximum 74 pence
• Threshold 38 pence
• Maximum 56 pence
• Threshold 38 pence
EPS Vesting 
 
• Maximum – 100%
• Threshold – 25%
• Straight line vesting between threshold and maximum
• No change
Relative TSR Vesting 
 
 
• Upper quartile – 100%
• Median – 25%
• Below Median – 0%
• Straight line vesting between median and upper quartile
• No change
Rule provisions 
 
• Malus
• Clawback
• Malus
• Clawback
• Underpin
UK Corporate Governance Code
The Committee has also considered the guidance in relation to the introduction of malus, clawback and other clauses into incentive arrangements, 
minimum shareholding requirements, and holding periods in light of the UK Corporate Governance Code. Malus and clawback provisions are 
already in place, and an underpin provision will be introduced for the 2016 grants onwards. The Committee is happy that the minimum shareholding 
requirements are appropriate for a company of the size of Xaar. In addition, the Committee had decided that additional holding periods post vesting 
would not be appropriate given the current issues set out above with the LTIP; but will review this at the point of determining each grant.
We remain committed to reporting openly the details of our Director pay arrangements and to consulting with shareholders on any changes as 
required and we are providing further disclosure around our bonus targets this year. We will continue to maintain a dialogue with investors regarding 
our disclosures to ensure we clearly communicate our arrangements as far as possible without it impacting our commerciality. 
Margaret Rice-Jones
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
16 March 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  45 Annual report on remuneration
This part of the report sets out the actual payments made by the Company to its Directors with respect to the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Remuneration Committee’s policy is to attract and retain individuals of the highest calibre by offering remuneration competitive with comparable 
publicly listed companies, and to drive Company performance by providing arrangements which fairly and responsibly reward individuals for their 
contribution to the success of the Group. Performance related bonuses and equity-based remuneration represent a substantial proportion of 
Executive Directors’ potential remuneration.
Single figure table
The aggregate remuneration provided to Directors who have served as Directors in the year ended 31 December 2015 is set out below, along with 
the aggregate remuneration provided to such Directors for the financial year ended 31 December 2014.
Director
Salary/fees
(a)
 £’000
Benefits
(b)
£’000
Bonus
(c)
 £’000
Long term
 incentives
(d)
£’000
Pension
(e)
£’000
Total 
remuneration
£’000
Year ended 31 December 2015
Executive
Doug Edwards
1
298 43 190 10 30 571
Jim Brault
2
141 35 90 10 14 290
Alex Bevis 169 21 98 – 17 305
Ted Wiggans 183 21 111 – 18 333
Ian Dinwoodie
3
130 10 – – 10 150
Richard Barham
4
174 20 – – 18 212
Edmund Creutzmann
5
57 15 – – 6 78
Non-Executive
Phil Lawler (Chairman) 90 – – – – 90
Margaret Rice-Jones
6
18 – – – – 18
David Cheesman
7
18 – – – – 18
Robin Williams 42 – – – – 42
Year ended 31 December 2014
Executive
Ian Dinwoodie 260 34 – 239 29 562
Alex Bevis 169 20 – 296 17 502
Ted Wiggans 183 21 – 181 18 403
Richard Barham 183 21 – 186 18 408
Edmund Creutzmann
5
131 15 – – 13 159
Ramon Borrell
8
37 5 – n/a
8
4 46
Non-Executive
Phil Lawler (Chairman) 90 – – – – 90
David Cheesman
7
39 – – – – 39
Robin Williams 42 – – – – 42
1 Doug Edwards joined on 5 January 2015.
2 Jim Brault joined on 2 March 2015 and ceased as Director on 16 March 2016 but continues to be employed by the Group.
3 Ian Dinwoodie ceased as Director on 27 March 2015 but continued to be employed until 30 June 2015.
4 Richard Barham ceased as Director on 11 December 2015.
5 Edmund Creutzmann ceased as Director on 27 April 2015.
6 Margaret Rice-Jones joined the Board on 1 August 2015.
7 David Cheesman ceased as Non-Executive Director on 13 May 2015.
8 Ramon Borrell ceased as Director on 1 April 2014 but continues to be employed by the Group.
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Governance continued
46  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc The figures in the single figure table on the left are derived from the following:
 
(a) Salary/fees The amount of base salary/fees received in the year.
(b) Benefits 
 
This is the taxable value of benefits and the flexible benefits allowance received in the year.  
This includes any relocation allowance claimed in 2015 and the cost of providing company  
paid accommodation and associated employee PAYE and NI.
(c) Bonus 
 
The value of the bonus earned in respect of the year, including any part of the bonus invested 
into bonus investment shares for a period of three years. Performance against the targets which 
applied for the financial year is provided on page 49. 
(d) Long term incentives  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The value of performance related incentives vesting in respect of the financial year (including any 
Matching Share Awards granted under the LTIP) and the value of SAYE options and Matching 
Shares under the HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan (SIP) granted based on the fair value  
of the options/shares at grant.
The performance condition for the Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards 
granted under the LTIP on 2 April 2013 was EPS growth against RPI over the three-year 
performance period ending 31 December 2015.
For the year ended 31 December 2015, the Company’s annualised, compounded EPS growth 
above RPI growth over the three year performance period commencing 1 January 2013 
and ending 31 December 2015 was a decline of 8% which did not exceed the 4% minimum 
threshold required for 35% vesting, and therefore none of the Performance Share Awards and 
Matching Share Awards in respect of the year ending 31 December 2015 will vest. 
For the year ended 31 December 2014 comparative figures, 100% of the Performance Share 
plan Awards and Matching Share Awards in respect of the performance period commencing  
1 January 2012 and ending 31 December 2014 vested.
Also included in the long term incentives figure are:
SAYE options granted in the year, valued at the accounting value on date of grant. 
There were no Matching Share Awards granted under the SIP scheme during the year.
(e) Pension The value of the employer contribution to the defined contribution pension plan (or the value  
of a salary supplement paid in lieu of a contribution to this pension plan).
Individual elements of remuneration
Base salary and fees
Base salaries for Executive Directors were reviewed by the Remuneration Committee prior to the beginning of each year and when an individual 
changes position or responsibility. From 2016, the annual review will be effective from 1 July. In deciding appropriate levels, the Remuneration 
Committee considers the role, responsibility, and experience of the individual, corporate and individual performance, market conditions, and the 
range of salary increases awarded across the Group.
The Directors did not receive a salary increase for 2015.
The remuneration policy for the Non-Executive Directors is reviewed periodically. The fees for the Non-Executive Directors were not increased  
during 2015.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  47 Individual elements of remuneration continued
Benefits
Benefits principally comprise a car allowance, private medical insurance and basic levels of other insurances (such as Income protection cover).  
In addition, Executive Directors are provided with an allowance of 5% of base salary which they can apply to a range of benefits such as life 
insurance, critical illness insurance etc.
Pension 
The Company operates a self-administered, defined contribution, HMRC approved pension scheme. All current Executive Directors participate  
in this scheme. In appropriate circumstances, Executive Directors may take a salary supplement instead of contributions into a pension plan.  
This salary supplement does not form part of salary for the purposes of calculating any other entitlement under the policy. Non-Executive Directors 
do not receive pension contributions.
Annual bonus
For the year ended 31 December 2015 the annual bonus was based on performance against a Group profit target, which was achieved for 2015.
Group profit is defined as Group adjusted profit before tax excluding any impact of IAS 38 (capitalisation of development costs, which for 2015 was 
£12.45 million.
Executive Director
Salary  
(for 2015)
Achievement against 
profit target
Achievement against 
performance target 
(range 0 – 1.33) Resulting bonus
Doug Edwards £298,077 58% 1.1 £190,173
Jim Brault £140,833 58% 1.1 £89,851
Alex Bevis £169,000 58% 1.0 £98,020
Ted Wiggans £183,000 58% 1.05 £111,447
The Board considers the Group profit target to be a matter that is commercially sensitive. The Board believes that the advance disclosure of this 
commercially sensitive information could negatively impact the Company’s competitive position by providing our competitors with insight into our 
business plans, expectations and, in the case of individual performance, our strategic actions resulting in significant risk to future profitability and 
shareholder value. It will however disclose targets retrospectively. For 2015 adjusted profit before tax at £12.45 million was above the minimum 
threshold at which level payments against financial targets were triggered for Executive Directors. The Company performance component provided  
a 58% payment against the maximum bonus opportunity for each individual as a result of the on target bonus being set at £11.5 million, and 
threshold performance being set at £6.5 million.
Executive Directors may choose to invest the bonus earned relating to 2015 (on a post-tax basis) in bonus investment shares, in return for 
participation in the bonus matching element of the LTIP . This will not be open for the 2016 bonus cycle. Additionally Directors may opt to invest  
in the Company SIP .
Value earned from long term incentive awards
The LTIP was approved by shareholders in April 2007 and comprises two elements: Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards.
• Performance Share Awards: subject to the achievement of performance conditions
• Matching Share Awards: as described above, Executive Directors may choose to invest the bonus earned (on a post-tax basis) in bonus 
investment shares. Matching Share Awards are granted subject to the achievement of performance conditions on a one for one basis  
(based on the pre-tax) value of the bonus used to acquired bonus investment shares (subject to an overall maximum of 50% of salary)
Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards granted to Executive Directors on 2 April 2013 and 15 May 2013 were based on growth  
in EPS against RPI as shown below:
Annualised, 
compounded growth in EPS:
% of LTIP 
awards vesting
RPI + 4% p.a. 35% vests
RPI + 10% p.a. 100% vests
Straight-line vesting applies for performance between these levels.
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Governance continued
48  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Performance against targets
 
Annualised compounded basic adjusted EPS, excluding any impact of IAS 38, growth above RPI growth over the three year 
performance period commencing 1 January 2013 and ending 31 December 2015 (8%)
% of 2013 LTIP award due to vest in April and May 2016 0%
Long term incentives awarded during the financial year
The table below outlines awards made under the LTIP to Executive Directors in 2015:
Award basis
Performance 
condition
Number of 
shares
Face value of  
the award 
£’000
Vesting at
EPS threshold / 
TSR Median
Performance 
period
Vesting 
date
2 April 2015 Doug Edwards
Performance 
Share plan 
Awards: 100%
of base salary
EPS 48,870 200 2 April 2018
TSR 24,435 100 2 April 2018
2 April 2015 Alex Bevis EPS 27,530 113 2 April 2018
TSR 13,765 56 2 April 2018
2 April 2015 Ted Wiggans EPS 29,811 122 25% of award 1 January 2015 to 2 April 2018
TSR 14,905 61 31 December 2017 2 April 2018
2 April 2015 Jim Brault EPS 27,530 113 2 April 2018
TSR 13,765 56 2 April 2018
2 April 2015 Richard Barham
1
EPS 29,811 122 2 April 2018
TSR 14,905 61 2 April 2018
2 April 2015 Edmund Creutzmann
2
EPS 28,507 117 2 April 2018
TSR 14,254 58 2 April 2018
1 Richard Barham ceased as Director on 11 December 2015.
2 Edmund Creutzmann ceased as Director on 27 April 2015.
The share price used to calculate the face value of the award was £4.085 for the 2 April 2015 award, being the mid-market price on the day prior  
to award date.
The performance conditions for these LTIP awards are described in full on page 109.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  49 Shareholding guidelines and total shareholdings of Directors
With effect from 14 May 2014, the date of the AGM, the Remuneration Committee introduced a shareholding guideline of 1x salary. Executive 
Directors will have until the later of the fifth anniversary of appointment or the fifth anniversary of introduction of the policy to build this level of 
shareholding. The extent to which each Executive Director has met the shareholding guideline is shown in the table below:
Unvested
Shareholding 
guidelines
Current 
shareholdings
 (% of salary) Type
Owned 
outright Vested
Subject to 
performance 
conditions
Not subject to 
performance
conditions
Total as at 
31 December 
2015
Executive Directors
Doug Edwards 100% of salary 26,085 (37%) Shares 
LTIP options 
SAYE options
Matching SIP
26,085 – – – 26,085
– – 73,305 – 73,305
– – – 4,316 4,316
– – – – –
Alex Bevis 100% of salary 57,332 (142%) Shares 
LTIP options 
SAYE options
Matching SIP
57,332 – – – 57,332
– 60,417 119,961
2
– 180,378
– – – 5,325 5,325
– – – 490 490
Ted Wiggans 100% of salary 70,749 (129%) Shares 
LTIP options 
SAYE options
Matching SIP
70,749 – – – 70,749
– – 115,762
2
– 115,762
– – – 5,325 5,325
– – – 490 490
Jim Brault
1
100% of salary 721 (2%) Shares 
LTIP options 
SAYE options
Matching SIP
721 – – – 721
– – 41,295 – 41,295
– – – 4,316 4,316
– – – – –
Non-Executive Directors
Phil Lawler (Chairman) – – Shares 99,930 –
–
– 99,930
Margaret Rice-Jones – – Shares – –
–
– –
Robin Williams – – Shares 4,000 –
–
– 4,000
1 Jim Brault has ceased as Director on 16 March 2016.
2 These figures include the 2013 LTIP Awards that will lapse in full in 2016.
There have been no changes in the Directors’ holdings in the share capital of the Company, as set out in the table above, between 31 December 
2015 and 16 March 2016.
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Governance continued
50  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Outstanding Directors’ share awards
The awards held by Executive Directors of the Company under the LTIP are shown below:
LTIP
The outstanding awards granted to each Executive Director of the Company under the Xaar plc 2007 LTIP are as follows. All options under the LTIP 
are nil-cost options such that no exercise price is payable. The performance conditions for these LTIP awards are described in full in note 32.
Name
As at 
1 January
 2015
Granted 
during 
the year
Exercised 
during
 the year
As at 
31 December
 2015 Grant date
Share price 
at date 
of grant
Earliest 
date of 
exercise Expiry date
Doug Edwards – 73,305 – 73,305 2 April 2015 £4.09 2 April 2018 2 April 2025
– 73,305 – 73,305 
Alex Bevis 13,556 – (13,556) – 11 April 2011 £2.29 11 April 2014 11 April 2021
60,417 – – 60,417 2 April 2012 £2.36 2 April 2015 2 April 2022
45,860* – (45,860) – 1 May 2012 £2.28 1 May 2015 1 May 2022
35,529 – – 35,529 2 April 2013 £4.20 2 April 2016 2 April 2023
15,641* – – 15,641* 15 May 2013 £6.14 15 May 2016 15 May 2023
18,798 – – 18,798 2 April 2014 £8.96 2 April 2017 2 April 2024
8,698* – – 8,698* 12 May 2014 £7.52 12 May 2017 12 May 2024
– 41,295 – 41,295 2 April 2015 £4.09 2 April 2018 2 April 2025
198,499 41,295 (59,416) 180,378 
Ted Wiggans 43,556 – (43,556) – 11 April 2011 £2.29 11 April 2014 11 April 2021
64,583 – (64,583) – 2 April 2012 £2.36 2 April 2015 2 April 2022
38,118 – – 38,118 2 April 2013 £4.20 2 April 2016 2 April 2023
3,773* – – 3,773* 15 May 2013 £6.14 15 May 2016 15 May 2023
20,355 – – 20,355 2 April 2014 £8.96 2 April 2017 2 April 2024
8,800* – – 8,800* 12 May 2014 £7.52 12 May 2017 12 May 2024
– 44,716 – 44,716 2 April 2015 £4.09 2 April 2018 2 April 2025
179,185 44,716 (108,139) 115,762 
Jim Brault – 41,295 – 41,295 2 April 2015 £4.09 2 April 2018 2 April 2025
– 41,295 – 41,295 
* LTIPs granted as part of the bonus matching scheme.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  51 All employee share plans
The Executive Directors may participate in the Company’s all employee share plans, the Xaar plc 2007 SAYE Scheme (SAYE Scheme) and the Xaar 
SIP , on the same basis as other employees. 
The SAYE Scheme provides an opportunity to save a set monthly amount (up to £500) over three years towards the exercise of a discounted share 
option, which is granted at the start of the three years. 
The SIP provides an opportunity for employees to buy shares from their pre-tax remuneration up to the limit permitted by the relevant tax legislation 
(currently £1,800 per year) and are awarded additional shares for free on a matching basis; the Company currently operates the plan on the basis  
of a 1:1 match but may award Matching Shares up to the maximum ratio permitted by the relevant tax legislation (currently a 2:1 ratio). 
Options and awards under these plans are not subject to performance conditions.
The outstanding awards granted to each Executive Director under the SAYE Scheme are as follows:
Name
As at 
1 January
 2015
Granted 
during 
the year
Exercised 
during
 the year
As at 
31 December
 2015 Grant date
 
Exercise 
price
Earliest 
date of 
exercise Expiry date
Alex Bevis 4,245 – (4,245) – 1 November 2011 £2.12 1 November 2014 1 May 2015
5,325 – – 5,325 1 November 2014 £3.38 1 November 2017 1 May 2018
Ted Wiggans 4,245 – (4,245) – 1 November 2011 £2.12 1 November 2014 1 May 2015
5,325 – – 5,325 1 November 2014 £3.38 1 November 2017 1 May 2018
Doug Edwards – 4,316 – 4,316 1 November 2015 £4.17 1 November 2018 1 May 2019
Jim Brault – 4,316 – 4,316 1 November 2015 £4.17 1 November 2018 1 May 2019
The outstanding awards granted to each Executive Director under the SIP are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Name
Total number
 of matching
 shares as at 1 
January 2015 and 
31 December 
2015
Alex Bevis 490
Ted Wiggans 490
Payments for loss of office made during the year
Edmund Creutzmann left in April 2015 by reason of mutual agreement. In accordance with his contract, Edmund received £202,500 in lieu of  
12 months’ salary, car allowance and pension contribution. The Remuneration Committee exercised discretion and determined that he would be 
treated as a ‘good leaver’ under the terms of the LTIP and Sharesave schemes.
Richard Barham’s contract was terminated by reason of redundancy on 11 December 2015. He received his contractual notice payments totalling 
£211,300 in lieu of 12 months’ salary, car allowance and pension contribution. Richard received a redundancy payment of £15,793 plus an 
additional payment of £70,000 for loss of employment. In line with the rules of the schemes, Richard will be treated as a ‘good leaver’ for the LTIP , 
SIP and Sharesave schemes.
Ian Dinwoodie retired from the Board in March 2015, he continued to be paid as an employee until his official termination date of 30 June 2015. During 
the period between March and June, he received £75,191 which constituted salary, benefits and pension. He will receive a bonus amount of £75,400 
in relation to his time served in 2015. As a retiree, in line with the rules of the schemes, Ian will be treated as a ‘good leaver’ for the LTIP scheme.
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Governance continued
52  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2015, of £100 invested in Xaar plc on 31 December 2008 compared with the value of £100 invested 
in the FTSE TechMARK All Share Index. 
The table below shows details of the total remuneration, annual bonus (as a percentage of maximum opportunity) and LTIP vesting percentage  
for the CEO over the last seven financial years.
Total 
remuneration
Annual bonus 
as a % of 
maximum 
opportunity
LTIP as a % 
of maximum 
opportunity
Year ended 31 December 2015 571 48% 0%
Year ended 31 December 2014 562 0% 100%
Year ended 31 December 2013 1,379 83% 100%
Year ended 31 December 2012 649 53% 100%
Year ended 31 December 2011 1,244 100% 100%
Year ended 31 December 2010 504 80% 32%
Year ended 31 December 2009 229 0% 0%
0 
500 
1,000 
1,500 
2,000 
2,500 
3,000 
31-Dec-08 31-Dec-09 31-Dec-10 31-Dec-11 31-Dec-12 31-Dec-13 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-14
Total shareholder return 
£ 
 
Source: Datastream (Thomson Reuters) Xaar 
FTSE TechMARK All Share 
Performance graph and table
The graph on this page shows the Company’s performance measured by total shareholder return (TSR), compared with the performance of the 
FTSE TechMARK All Share Index, which the Remuneration Committee considers to be the most appropriate index for comparison because they 
illustrate the Company’s TSR performance against a broad equity market index of similar UK companies. 
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  53 CEO pay increase in relation to all employees
The table below sets out in relation to salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus the increase between the pay for the year ended 31 December 
2014 and the pay for the year ended 31 December 2015 for CEO (noting that Doug Edwards replaced Ian Dinwoodie as CEO on 4 January 2015) 
compared with the average increase between the same periods for the wider workforce. For the purposes of the table below, the wider workforce 
has been defined as the UK employees of the Group. This comparator group was chosen because it is the most relevant sub-set of employees and 
can be used consistently.
Element of remuneration CEO
Wider 
workforce 
average
Salary – % change 15% 5%
Benefits – % change 8% 5%
Annual bonus – absolute % of salary paid 64% 13%
A new CEO joined in 2015, the change reflects the new salary. No bonus was paid in 2015 relating to 2014 performance.
Spend on pay
The table below sets out the Group’s distributions to shareholders by way of dividends and total Group-wide expenditure on pay for all employees 
(including employer social security, pension contributions and share-based payments), as reported in the audited financial statements for the 
financial year ended 31 December 2015. 
2015
£,000
2014
£’000
Change
%
Dividends paid to shareholders 6,925 6,377 9
Group-wide expenditure on pay for all employees 30,302 34,618 (12)
Implementation of Directors’ remuneration policy for the financial year commencing 1 January 2016
Information on how the Company intends to implement the policy for the financial year commencing 1 January 2016 is set out below.
We are not changing the annual bonus opportunity but we wish to simplify the long term incentive arrangements by removing the bonus matching 
LTIP plan from the 2016 bonus cycle balanced with increasing the maximum LTIP awards for the CEO to 175% of salary and for the CFO to 150%. 
The current LTIP plan expires in April 2017, therefore the Committee intends to commence a wider review of the remuneration policy during 2016.
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Governance continued
54  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Basic salary and fees
Our approach on base salary continues to be to provide a fixed remuneration component which reflects the experience and capabilities of the 
individual in the role, the demonstrated performance of the individual in the role, and which is competitive in the markets in which we operate.
Although the Remuneration Committee resolved in 2013 to move base salaries progressively over a three-year period, this had been delayed for 
one year. Therefore there was no base salary increases for the Executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2015. The Remuneration Committee 
has reassessed the intended increases in 2016 and considers it to be appropriate to increase base salaries in 2016. During 2015, Ted Wiggans’ 
role was significantly expanded and his current package, implemented on 1 January 2016 reflects this increased responsibility for the R&D and 
Engineering functions and will not be further adjusted during 2016. In 2016 the proposed base salary increase for Alex Bevis (CFO) is 15% from 
£169,000 to £194,350 with effect from 1 July 2016, and it is intended that a further 10% increase to £213,785 will apply from 1 July 2017. These 
changes still result in a position that is modest in respect of the current benchmark groups after the two year period. This phased approach (as 
opposed to awarding the whole increase in one year) has the benefit that it recognises the challenges of the current executive remuneration 
environment and allows the committee to reassess the intended increases in 2017 and consider whether it remains appropriate at that time. In this 
regard, the intended increase in 2017 would not be rewarded automatically and would be subject to the sustained and continued performance 
of the business and of the individual. In 2016 the proposed base salary increase for Doug Edwards (CEO) is 5% from £300,000 to £315,000 with 
effect from 1 July 2016 which is in line with the upper end of the range of increases awarded for the wider workforce as a consequence of his 
strong performance.
The proposed base salary increases for the Executive Directors are shown below:
Year Ended 31 December 2015
Increase 
effective from 2015 2016 % increase
Doug Edwards 1 July 2016 £300,000 £315,000 5.0%
Alex Bevis 1 July 2016 £169,000 £194,350 15.0%
Ted Wiggans 1 January 2016 £183,000 £230,000 25.7%
The plan to move the Non-Executive Directors’ fees towards the lower end of the market competitive range over the next three years had also been 
delayed by one year, therefore there was no increase in fees for Non-Executive Directors for 2015. The Remuneration Committee has reassessed 
the intended increases in 2016 and considers it to be appropriate to increase fees in 2016. The proposed fee increases for the Non-Executive 
Directors are shown below:
Year Ended 31 December 2015
Increase 
effective from 2015 2016 % increase
Phil Lawler 1 July 2016 £90,000 £97,000 7.8%
Robin Williams 1 July 2016 £42,000 £46,000 9.5%
Margaret Rice-Jones 1 July 2016 £42,000 £45,000 7.1%
Changes for Robin Williams and Margaret Rice-Jones reflect their additional responsibilities as Audit Committee Chairman and Senior-Independent 
Director, and Remuneration Committee Chairman respectively.
Chris Morgan joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director from 4 January 2016. The fees for the newly appointed Non-Executive Directors  
is as follows:
• Chris Morgan £42,000 per annum
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  55 Annual bonus
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed 
the performance metrics and targets for the 
annual bonus to ensure that they remain 
appropriately stretching in the current 
environment and continue to be aligned  
with the business strategy. No changes  
to the quantum, performance conditions  
or performance targets are proposed.
The Board considers the Group profit target 
for 2016 to be a matter that is commercially 
sensitive and should therefore remain 
confidential to the Company. It provides our 
competitors with insight into our business 
plans, expectations and, in the case of 
individual performance, our strategic actions. 
However, the Remuneration Committee will 
disclose on a retrospective basis how the 
Company’s performance relates to any annual 
bonus payments made.
Long term incentives
Changes to the performance conditions and 
performance targets are proposed for LTIP 
awards granted from 2016, as described 
on pages 48 and 49. The ability to grant 
awards under the current LTIP rules (which 
also include the provisions which govern 
the Matching Share Awards) expires in April 
2017. The Remuneration Committee intends 
to review the structure of the package and 
operation of the incentive arrangements and 
will seek shareholder approval for any new 
plans prior to this date.
In the meantime, in line with best practice, 
the Remuneration Committee introduced a 
1x salary shareholding guideline for Executive 
Directors and a malus provision in relation 
to LTIP awards, in 2014, and a clawback 
provision in 2015. In 2016, the Remuneration 
Committee will introduce an underpin  
provision for future awards under the long  
term incentive plan, to allow the committee  
to consider that the extent of vesting is justified 
by the underlying progress of the Company’s 
business over the Performance Period.
Consideration by the Directors of matters 
relating to Directors’ remuneration
Membership
The Company has established a Remuneration 
Committee which is constituted in accordance 
with the recommendations of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. The terms of reference of 
the Remuneration Committee can be obtained 
by contacting the Company Secretary.
The Remuneration Committee was chaired 
by David Cheesman until June 2015 and is 
currently chaired by Margaret Rice-Jones.  
The other members during the year ended  
31 December 2015 were Phil Lawler and Robin 
Williams. All members of the Remuneration 
Committee are considered independent within 
the meaning of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. Chris Morgan joined the committee on  
4 January 2016.
The principal function of the Remuneration 
Committee is to determine, on behalf of the 
Board, the specific remuneration and other 
benefits of Executive Directors, including 
pension contributions, bonus arrangements, 
long term incentives and service contracts.  
The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors 
are determined by the Chief Executive Officer 
and the Chairman. The fees paid to the 
Chairman are determined by the Chief Executive 
Officer and the Non-Executive Directors.
Additionally, the Remuneration Committee 
makes recommendations to the Board on the 
framework of Executive Director remuneration 
as well as principal Company-wide 
compensation programmes.
The members of the Remuneration Committee 
have no personal financial interest, other than 
as shareholders, in the matters to be decided, 
no actual or potential conflicts of interest arising 
from other directorships and no day to day 
operational responsibility within the Company. 
Executive Directors are entitled to accept 
appointments outside the Group providing  
that the Chairman’s permission is sought.
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Governance continued
56  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration continued
Advisors to the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is assisted in its work by Xaar’s human resources department including the Chief Human Resources Officer.  
The Chief Executive Officer is consulted on the remuneration of those who report directly to him and also of other senior executives.  
No Executive Director or employee is present or takes part in discussions in respect of matters relating directly to their own remuneration. 
During the year, the Remuneration Committee was assisted in its work by the following external consultants:
Advisor Details of appointment Services provided by the advisor
Fees paid by the Company 
for advice to the Remuneration 
Committee and basis of charge
Other services provided 
to the Company in the year 
ended 31 December 2015
PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP (PwC) 
Appointed by the Board 
in 2013
Advice regarding changes 
to the LTIP for 2015 
onwards
£4,100 Corporate tax advice
Deloitte LLP (Deloitte) 
 
 
Appointed by 
the Remuneration 
Committee in 2015 
Advice in relation to 
Directors’ remuneration 
reporting
£820 External auditor and 
certain other services  
(see page 91 
of the Annual Report)
Mercer Limited 
 
Appointed by 
the Remuneration 
Committee in 2015 
Executive remuneration 
benchmarking
£7,500
The Remuneration Committee took into account the Remuneration Consultants Group’s Code of Conduct when reviewing Deloitte’s role as external 
auditor. As Deloitte are external auditor to the Company, Deloitte’s advice to the Remuneration Committee is governed by certain guidelines  
and safeguards. 
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the remuneration advice provided by PwC, Deloitte and Mercer is objective and independent.
Shareholder voting
The Company remains committed to on-going shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes. The following table sets out 
actual voting in respect of the resolution to approve the Directors’ Remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Number of votes
For (including 
discretion) Against
 
Withheld
Directors’ Remuneration report for the year ended 
31 December 2014
58,946,078 285,720 253,512
(99.52%) (0.48%) 
Directors’ remuneration policy
This part of the report sets out the Company’s Directors’ remuneration policy, which, subject to shareholder approval at the 2016 AGM, shall take 
binding effect from 18 May 2016. The policy is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Directors’ remuneration policy is not audited.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  57 Policy table for Executive Directors
The table below describes each of the elements of the remuneration package for the Executive Directors:
Alignment with strategy/purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Base salary
Core element of fixed remuneration that provides the 
basis to recruit and retain talent necessary to deliver 
the business strategy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Normally reviewed annually, any increases generally apply from 1 January or 1 July  
(but may be reviewed more frequently if required).
When determining base salary levels, consideration is given to the following:
• Role, responsibility and experience of the individual
• Corporate and individual performance
• Market conditions including typical pay levels for comparable roles in companies  
of a similar size and complexity
• The range of salary increases awarded across the Group
No maximum salary opportunity has been set out in this policy report 
to avoid setting expectations for Executive Directors and employees. 
The base salaries effective as at 1 July 2016, are shown on page 58. 
The Remuneration Committee has resolved to move base salaries 
progressively to a level which is market competitive (in general, 
positioned towards the lower end of the market range) taking account 
of individual factors such as:
• Increase in scope and responsibility
• A new Executive Director being moved to market  
positioning over time
• Alignment to market level
Not applicable.
Benefits 
Provide a market-competitive benefits package to 
recruit and retain Directors of the calibre required for 
the business.
Participation in the Company’s Share Incentive Plan 
(SIP) and Share Save Scheme (SAYE) encourages 
share ownership and alignment with the wider 
workforce. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executive Directors receive base benefits including car allowance (or company car), private 
medical insurance, and basic levels of other insurances (such as critical illness cover).
All UK staff, including Executive Directors, are also provided with a benefit allowance 
which they can apply to a range of benefits, including pension contributions. In some 
circumstances, and subject to Remuneration Committee approval, the allowance may  
be paid in cash rather than utilised to purchase benefits.
The SIP and SAYE are HMRC approved share plans for all employees facilitating the 
acquisition of shares in the Company at a discount.
Other benefits may be provided based on individual circumstances, such as, but not 
limited to: housing or relocation allowances, travel allowance or other expatriate benefits.
Whilst the Remuneration Committee has not set an absolute maximum 
on the level of benefits Executive Directors receive, the value of 
benefits is set at a level which the Remuneration Committee considers 
to be appropriately positioned taking into account relevant market 
levels based on the nature and location of the role and individual 
circumstances.
The flexible benefits allowance is currently up to 5% of base salary. 
The Remuneration Committee has the authority to review and amend 
this rate as appropriate. Individuals have the choice to invest all or 
part of this amount in their pension scheme, in addition to the benefits 
outlined in the ‘Retirement benefits’ section of this table.
SAYE and SIP limits as permitted in accordance with the relevant  
tax legislation.
Not applicable.
Retirement benefits
Provide market competitive post-employment benefits 
to recruit and retain Directors of the calibre required for 
the business. 
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the defined contribution pension scheme 
(or such other pension plan as may be deemed appropriate).
In appropriate circumstances, Executive Directors may take a salary supplement instead 
of contributions into a pension plan.
10% of base salary for the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee has the authority to review and amend 
this rate as appropriate.
Not applicable.
Annual bonus 
Rewards performance against annual targets which 
support the strategic direction of the Company.  
The majority of staff participate in the same scheme. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Targets are set annually and any pay-out is determined by the Remuneration Committee 
after the period-end, based on performance against those targets. The Remuneration 
Committee has discretion to vary the bonus pay-out should any formulaic output not 
produce a fair result for either the Executive Director or the Company, taking account  
of the Remuneration Committee’s assessment of overall business performance.
The annual bonus is delivered in cash. 
Additionally Directors may opt to invest in the Company SIP (refer to note 32 for details).
Overall maximum annual bonus 133% of salary, which is calculated 
using the following performance components:
Financial performance:
The Company profit performance element has a direct relationship with 
adjusted profit before tax, excluding any impact of IAS 38. The pay-out 
has the following parameters:
• For threshold performance: 20% of salary
• On-target performance: 50% of salary
• Maximum: 100% of salary
Individual performance:
The bonus is then subject to a multiplier in the range of 0-1.33 which  
is applied to reflect individual performance, where 1.0 is used for  
‘on-target’ individual performance.
Stretching performance targets are set each year reflecting the 
business priorities that underpin Group strategy.
133% of salary can be earned based on achieving the  
maximum financial performance target and the maximum individual 
performance assessment.
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Governance continued
58  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Policy table for Executive Directors
The table below describes each of the elements of the remuneration package for the Executive Directors:
Alignment with strategy/purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Base salary
Core element of fixed remuneration that provides the 
basis to recruit and retain talent necessary to deliver 
the business strategy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Normally reviewed annually, any increases generally apply from 1 January or 1 July  
(but may be reviewed more frequently if required).
When determining base salary levels, consideration is given to the following:
• Role, responsibility and experience of the individual
• Corporate and individual performance
• Market conditions including typical pay levels for comparable roles in companies  
of a similar size and complexity
• The range of salary increases awarded across the Group
No maximum salary opportunity has been set out in this policy report 
to avoid setting expectations for Executive Directors and employees. 
The base salaries effective as at 1 July 2016, are shown on page 58. 
The Remuneration Committee has resolved to move base salaries 
progressively to a level which is market competitive (in general, 
positioned towards the lower end of the market range) taking account 
of individual factors such as:
• Increase in scope and responsibility
• A new Executive Director being moved to market  
positioning over time
• Alignment to market level
Not applicable.
Benefits 
Provide a market-competitive benefits package to 
recruit and retain Directors of the calibre required for 
the business.
Participation in the Company’s Share Incentive Plan 
(SIP) and Share Save Scheme (SAYE) encourages 
share ownership and alignment with the wider 
workforce. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executive Directors receive base benefits including car allowance (or company car), private 
medical insurance, and basic levels of other insurances (such as critical illness cover).
All UK staff, including Executive Directors, are also provided with a benefit allowance 
which they can apply to a range of benefits, including pension contributions. In some 
circumstances, and subject to Remuneration Committee approval, the allowance may  
be paid in cash rather than utilised to purchase benefits.
The SIP and SAYE are HMRC approved share plans for all employees facilitating the 
acquisition of shares in the Company at a discount.
Other benefits may be provided based on individual circumstances, such as, but not 
limited to: housing or relocation allowances, travel allowance or other expatriate benefits.
Whilst the Remuneration Committee has not set an absolute maximum 
on the level of benefits Executive Directors receive, the value of 
benefits is set at a level which the Remuneration Committee considers 
to be appropriately positioned taking into account relevant market 
levels based on the nature and location of the role and individual 
circumstances.
The flexible benefits allowance is currently up to 5% of base salary. 
The Remuneration Committee has the authority to review and amend 
this rate as appropriate. Individuals have the choice to invest all or 
part of this amount in their pension scheme, in addition to the benefits 
outlined in the ‘Retirement benefits’ section of this table.
SAYE and SIP limits as permitted in accordance with the relevant  
tax legislation.
Not applicable.
Retirement benefits
Provide market competitive post-employment benefits 
to recruit and retain Directors of the calibre required for 
the business. 
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the defined contribution pension scheme 
(or such other pension plan as may be deemed appropriate).
In appropriate circumstances, Executive Directors may take a salary supplement instead 
of contributions into a pension plan.
10% of base salary for the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee has the authority to review and amend 
this rate as appropriate.
Not applicable.
Annual bonus 
Rewards performance against annual targets which 
support the strategic direction of the Company.  
The majority of staff participate in the same scheme. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Targets are set annually and any pay-out is determined by the Remuneration Committee 
after the period-end, based on performance against those targets. The Remuneration 
Committee has discretion to vary the bonus pay-out should any formulaic output not 
produce a fair result for either the Executive Director or the Company, taking account  
of the Remuneration Committee’s assessment of overall business performance.
The annual bonus is delivered in cash. 
Additionally Directors may opt to invest in the Company SIP (refer to note 32 for details).
Overall maximum annual bonus 133% of salary, which is calculated 
using the following performance components:
Financial performance:
The Company profit performance element has a direct relationship with 
adjusted profit before tax, excluding any impact of IAS 38. The pay-out 
has the following parameters:
• For threshold performance: 20% of salary
• On-target performance: 50% of salary
• Maximum: 100% of salary
Individual performance:
The bonus is then subject to a multiplier in the range of 0-1.33 which  
is applied to reflect individual performance, where 1.0 is used for  
‘on-target’ individual performance.
Stretching performance targets are set each year reflecting the 
business priorities that underpin Group strategy.
133% of salary can be earned based on achieving the  
maximum financial performance target and the maximum individual 
performance assessment.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  59 Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Policy table for Executive Directors continued
Alignment with strategy/purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Long Term Incentive Plan
Drive and reward the achievement of longer term 
objectives aligned closely to shareholders’ interests.
Retain key executives over a longer term 
measurement period.
Provide alignment with shareholders’ interests.
Supports retention and promotes share ownership.
Malus and clawback provisions apply to enable the 
Company to mitigate risk. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The LTIP was approved by shareholders in April 2007.
Performance Share Awards: are usually made on an annual basis and will vest subject  
to the achievement of performance conditions.
For LTIP awards of conditional shares, restricted stock or nil cost options can be made 
with vesting dependent on the achievement of performance conditions, normally over  
a three year performance period. Vested LTIP options must be exercised within ten  
years of the date of grant. Under the rules of the LTIP , the Remuneration Committee  
has discretion to satisfy vested LTIP awards in cash.
On the vesting/exercise of an LTIP award, the Remuneration Committee has the discretion 
to decide that executives can receive an amount (in cash or shares) equal to the dividends 
paid or payable between the date of grant and the vesting of an award on the number  
of shares which have vested.
Awards may vest early on a change of control (or other relevant event) subject to 
the satisfaction of the performance conditions (as determined by the Remuneration 
Committee) and pro-rating for the LTIP was approved by shareholders in April 2007.
In ‘good leaver’ circumstances the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to allow 
all or part of unvested awards to be retained by the individual.
For awards granted on or after 1 January 2014, the Remuneration Committee has the 
right to reduce any LTIP awards which have not yet vested (i.e. a malus provision) if an  
act or omission contributes to a material misstatement of the Group’s financial statements 
or results in material loss or reputational damage for the Company.
For awards granted on or after 1 January 2015, the Remuneration Committee has the 
right to recover cash or shares which have been paid or transferred (i.e. a clawback 
provision) if an act or omission contributes to a material misstatement of the Group’s 
financial statements or results in material loss or reputational damage for the Company, 
for a period up to two years following determination of the vesting outcome.
For awards granted on or after 1 January 2016, the Remuneration Committee has the 
right to underpin vesting and to flex the weighting of the performance measures between 
EPS and TSR in the event of early vesting as a result of change of control.
The Remuneration Committee may at its discretion structure awards as Approved Long 
Term Incentive Plan (‘ALTIP’) awards. ALTIP awards enable the participant and Company 
to benefit from HMRC approved option tax treatment in respect of part of the award, 
without increasing the pre-tax value delivered to participants. ALTIP awards may be 
structured either as an approved option for the part of the award up to the HMRC limit 
(currently £30,000) with an unapproved option for the balance and a ‘linked award’ to 
fund the exercise price of the approved option, or as an approved option and an LTIP 
award, with the vesting of the LTIP award scaled back to take account of any gain made 
on the exercise of the approved option. Other than to enable the grant of ALTIP awards, 
the Company will not grant awards to Executive Directors under the Executive Share 
Option Plan.
Maximum Performance Share Award: 175% of salary. 
For the LTIP , for threshold performance, 25% of award will vest. 
Straight-line vesting applies between threshold and maximum vesting.
These limits do not include the value of shares subject to any approved 
option granted as part of an ALTIP award.
Stretching performance targets are set each year reflecting the 
business priorities that underpin longer term Group strategy. 
Governance continued
60  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Policy table for Executive Directors continued
Alignment with strategy/purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Long Term Incentive Plan
Drive and reward the achievement of longer term 
objectives aligned closely to shareholders’ interests.
Retain key executives over a longer term 
measurement period.
Provide alignment with shareholders’ interests.
Supports retention and promotes share ownership.
Malus and clawback provisions apply to enable the 
Company to mitigate risk. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The LTIP was approved by shareholders in April 2007.
Performance Share Awards: are usually made on an annual basis and will vest subject  
to the achievement of performance conditions.
For LTIP awards of conditional shares, restricted stock or nil cost options can be made 
with vesting dependent on the achievement of performance conditions, normally over  
a three year performance period. Vested LTIP options must be exercised within ten  
years of the date of grant. Under the rules of the LTIP , the Remuneration Committee  
has discretion to satisfy vested LTIP awards in cash.
On the vesting/exercise of an LTIP award, the Remuneration Committee has the discretion 
to decide that executives can receive an amount (in cash or shares) equal to the dividends 
paid or payable between the date of grant and the vesting of an award on the number  
of shares which have vested.
Awards may vest early on a change of control (or other relevant event) subject to 
the satisfaction of the performance conditions (as determined by the Remuneration 
Committee) and pro-rating for the LTIP was approved by shareholders in April 2007.
In ‘good leaver’ circumstances the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to allow 
all or part of unvested awards to be retained by the individual.
For awards granted on or after 1 January 2014, the Remuneration Committee has the 
right to reduce any LTIP awards which have not yet vested (i.e. a malus provision) if an  
act or omission contributes to a material misstatement of the Group’s financial statements 
or results in material loss or reputational damage for the Company.
For awards granted on or after 1 January 2015, the Remuneration Committee has the 
right to recover cash or shares which have been paid or transferred (i.e. a clawback 
provision) if an act or omission contributes to a material misstatement of the Group’s 
financial statements or results in material loss or reputational damage for the Company, 
for a period up to two years following determination of the vesting outcome.
For awards granted on or after 1 January 2016, the Remuneration Committee has the 
right to underpin vesting and to flex the weighting of the performance measures between 
EPS and TSR in the event of early vesting as a result of change of control.
The Remuneration Committee may at its discretion structure awards as Approved Long 
Term Incentive Plan (‘ALTIP’) awards. ALTIP awards enable the participant and Company 
to benefit from HMRC approved option tax treatment in respect of part of the award, 
without increasing the pre-tax value delivered to participants. ALTIP awards may be 
structured either as an approved option for the part of the award up to the HMRC limit 
(currently £30,000) with an unapproved option for the balance and a ‘linked award’ to 
fund the exercise price of the approved option, or as an approved option and an LTIP 
award, with the vesting of the LTIP award scaled back to take account of any gain made 
on the exercise of the approved option. Other than to enable the grant of ALTIP awards, 
the Company will not grant awards to Executive Directors under the Executive Share 
Option Plan.
Maximum Performance Share Award: 175% of salary. 
For the LTIP , for threshold performance, 25% of award will vest. 
Straight-line vesting applies between threshold and maximum vesting.
These limits do not include the value of shares subject to any approved 
option granted as part of an ALTIP award.
Stretching performance targets are set each year reflecting the 
business priorities that underpin longer term Group strategy. 
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  61 Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
The table below sets out an overview of the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors.
Alignment with strategy/purpose Approach of the Company
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ fees
Provide an appropriate reward to attract and 
retain Directors of the calibre required for the 
business. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The remuneration of the Chairman of the Board is set by the Remuneration Committee  
and the Chief Executive Officer. Fees are set at a level which reflects the skills, knowledge,  
and experience of the individual, whilst taking into account appropriate market data.
The fee is set as a fixed annual fee and may be paid wholly or partly in cash or Company 
shares.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are responsible for deciding Non-Executive 
Directors’ fees. Fees are set taking into account several factors, including the size and complexity 
of the business, fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of UK listed companies of a similar size and 
complexity, and the expected time commitment and contribution for the role.
The fees are set as a fixed annual fee and may be paid wholly or partly in cash or Company 
shares. Overall fees paid to Directors will remain within the limit stated in our Articles of 
Association. This is currently £200,000, however a special resolution is being proposed at the 
AGM to amend the articles to increase this limit to £300,000.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any incentive scheme.
Directors may be eligible to benefits such as the use of secretarial support, travel costs  
or other benefits that may be appropriate.
Explanation of performance metrics chosen
The annual bonus is assessed against 
financial targets which are determined by the 
Remuneration Committee, typically Group 
adjusted profit before tax excluding any impact 
of IAS 38. This incentivises Executive Directors 
to focus on delivering the key financial goals 
of the Company. The annual bonus multiplier 
reflects individual performance which is aligned 
to delivering the overall business strategy 
and to encourage behaviours which facilitate 
profitable growth and the future development 
of the business. These targets therefore ensure 
that the interests of the Executive Directors are 
aligned with those of the shareholders.
For the LTIP , long term performance measures 
are chosen by the Remuneration Committee 
to provide a robust and transparent basis on 
which to measure Xaar’s performance over 
the longer term and to provide alignment with 
Xaar’s business strategy. EPS and TSR are 
deemed to be the key measure of success  
of the execution of our long term strategy.
The Remuneration Committee retains the 
discretion to adjust the performance targets 
and measures where it considers it appropriate 
to do so (for example, to reflect changes in 
the structure of the business and to assess 
performance on a fair and consistent basis 
from year to year), and has exercised its 
discretion in this area as described on pages 
48 and 49. The changes described in relation 
to performance targets and measures will 
relate to LTIP grants made from 2016.
Awards may be adjusted in the event of a 
variation of capital in accordance with the 
scheme rules.
Pay policy for other employees
The Company values its wider workforce and 
aims to provide a remuneration package that is 
market competitive, complies with any statutory 
requirements, and is applied fairly and equitably 
across the wider employee population.  
Where remuneration is not determined by 
statutory regulation, the key principles of the 
compensation philosophy are as follows:
• We remunerate people in a manner that 
allows for stability of the business and  
the opportunity for sustainable long  
term growth
• We seek to remunerate fairly and 
consistently for each role with due regard 
to the marketplace, internal consistency 
and the Company’s ability to pay
• The Company operates HMRC approved 
SIP and SAYE and invites all employees to 
participate, therefore encouraging wider 
workforce share ownership
Governance continued
62  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Illustrations of application of remuneration policy
The charts overleaf set out an illustration of the remuneration policy, as subject to approval at the 2016 AGM, in line with the policy above and 
include base salary, pension, benefits and incentives. The charts provide an illustration of the proportion of total remuneration made up of each 
component of the policy and the value of each component.
For these purposes base salary reflects the salary at 1 January 2016 and any anticipated increases in July 2016. Bonus is based on anticipated 
base salary as at 31 December 2016. Benefits are calculated as 12% of average salary for 2016. Pension is based on the policy set out in the  
policy table. LTIP awards are based on a base salary level pre 1 July 2016, and are calculated as set out in the policy on pages 60 to 61.  
There are no matching LTIP awards included in the scenarios.
Three scenarios have been illustrated for each Executive Director.
Minimum performance • No bonus pay-out
• No vesting under the LTIP
Performance in line with expectations • 50% of salary pay-out under the annual bonus
• Shares equivalent to 25% of awards vesting under the LTIP
Maximum performance • 133% of salary pay-out under the annual bonus
• Shares equivalent to 100% of awards vesting under the LTIP
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  63 Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Approach to recruitment remuneration
When appointing a new Executive Director, 
whether with an internal or external candidate, 
the Remuneration Committee will typically seek 
to use the policy detailed in the table on pages 
58 to 61 to determine the Executive Director’s 
on-going remuneration package.
To facilitate the appointment of candidates of 
the appropriate calibre required to implement 
the Group’s strategy, the Remuneration 
Committee also retains the discretion to 
include any other remuneration component 
or award which is outside the policy. The 
Remuneration Committee does not intend to 
use this discretion to make a non-performance 
related incentive payment (for example, a 
‘golden hello’). In determining appropriate 
remuneration, the Remuneration Committee 
will take into consideration all relevant 
factors (including the quantum and nature of 
remuneration) to ensure that the arrangements 
are in the best interests of the Company 
and its shareholders. This may, for example, 
include (but is not limited to) the following 
circumstances:
• An interim appointment being made to  
fill an Executive Director role on a short 
term basis
• Exceptional circumstances require that 
the Chairman or a Non-Executive Director 
takes on an executive function on a short 
term basis
• An Executive Director is recruited at 
a time in the year when it would be 
inappropriate to provide a bonus or long 
term incentive award for that year as there 
would not be sufficient time to assess 
performance. The quantum in respect of 
the months employed during the year may 
be transferred to the subsequent year 
so that reward is provided on a fair and 
appropriate basis
• The executive received benefits at 
his previous employer which the 
Remuneration Committee considers  
it appropriate to offer
Annual bonus.
LTIP Award (Performance share awards only).
 Base salary, beneﬁts and pension.
Chief Executive – Doug Edwards, total remuneration £’000 
Performance in 
line with expectations
1,200
800
1,000
200
400
600
0
Minimum
performance
Maximum 
performance
£375k
£664k
£1,319k
1,400
28%
32%
40%
100%
57%
23%
20%
1,200
800
1,000
200
400
600
0
Chief Financial Officer – Alex Bevis, total remuneration £’000
Performance in 
line with expectations
Minimum
performance
Maximum 
performance
£209k
£370k
£721k
1,400
29%
36%
35%
57%
26%
17%
100%
Chief Operations Officer – Ted Wiggans, total remuneration £’000 
Performance in 
line with expectations
1,200
800
1,000
200
400
600
0
Minimum
performance
Maximum 
performance
£281k
£453k
£816k
1,400
100% 62%
25%
13%
34%
37%
28%
As required by the regulations, the scenarios do not include any share 
price growth assumptions or take into account any dividends that may 
be paid.
Governance continued
64  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc The Remuneration Committee may also alter 
the performance measures, performance 
period and vesting period of the annual bonus 
or long term incentive, subject to the rules of 
the scheme, if the Remuneration Committee 
determines that the circumstances of the 
recruitment merit such alteration. The rationale 
will be clearly explained.
In determining appropriate remuneration 
arrangements on hiring a new Executive 
Director, the Remuneration Committee will 
take into account relevant factors such as the 
calibre of the individual, local market practice, 
the existing remuneration arrangements 
for other executives and the business 
circumstances. It will seek to ensure that 
arrangements are in the best interests of both 
the Company and its shareholders and seek 
not to pay more than is appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee may make an 
award or payment to ‘buy-out’ remuneration 
arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous 
employer. In doing so the Remuneration 
Committee will take account of relevant 
factors regarding the forfeited arrangements 
which may include the form of any forfeited 
awards (e.g. cash or shares), any performance 
conditions attached to these awards (and 
the likelihood of meeting those conditions), 
and the time over which they would have 
vested. It will generally seek to structure buy-
out awards and payments on a comparable 
basis to remuneration arrangements forfeited. 
These awards or payments are excluded 
from the maximum level of variable pay 
referred to below; however, the Remuneration 
Committee’s intention is that the value 
awarded or paid would be no higher than the 
expected value of the forfeited arrangements.
Appropriate costs and support will be covered 
if the recruitment requires the relocation of the 
individual. All buy-out awards and payments 
will normally be liable to forfeiture or ‘clawback’ 
on early departure. For Executive Directors, 
early departure is typically defined as being 
within the first two years of employment 
although the Remuneration Committee  
has the ability to amend this definition in 
appropriate circumstances.
The maximum level of variable pay which 
may be awarded to new Executive Directors, 
excluding buy-out arrangements, would 
normally be in line with the maximum level of 
variable pay that may be awarded under the 
annual bonus plan and LTIP , but in any event 
the Remuneration Committee would not make 
an award of annual variable pay above 308% 
of salary. The Remuneration Committee may 
determine that such awards will be forfeited 
if performance or continued employment 
conditions are not met and it is deemed 
appropriate to do so.
Any share awards referred to in this section 
will be granted as far as possible under the 
Company’s existing share plans. If necessary, 
and subject to the limits referred to above, 
in order to facilitate the awards mentioned 
above, the committee may rely on exemption 
9.4.2. of the Listing Rules which allows for 
the grant of awards to facilitate, in exceptional 
circumstances, the recruitment of a Director.
Where a position is fulfilled internally, any  
on-going remuneration obligations or outstanding 
variable pay elements shall be allowed to 
continue according to the original terms.
Fees payable to a newly-appointed Chairman 
or Non-Executive Director will be in line  
with the fee policy in place at the time  
of appointment.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  65 Service contracts 
Executive Directors
It is the Group’s policy that Executive Directors should have contracts with an indefinite term, providing for one year’s notice.
 Date of contract
1
Date of appointment Notice from the Company Notice from Director
Doug Edwards 5 January 2015 5 January 2015 12 months 12 months
Alex Bevis 12 December 2013 14 February 2011 12 months 12 months
Ted Wiggans 4 December 2013 10 January 2011 12 months 12 months
1 The dates of contract above refer to the dates of the latest service agreements for each of the Directors.
Non-Executive Directors
All Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term with provision for two further three-year terms, subject to satisfactory 
performance.
 
 Date of letter of appointment Date of appointment
Unexpired term of contract 
on 31 December 2015
Phil Lawler (Chairman) 17 May 2007 1 June 2007 5 months
Margaret Rice-Jones 3 June 2015 1 August 2015 31 months
Chris Morgan 2 December 2015 4 January 2016 36 months
Robin Williams 3 March 2010 1 March 2010 2 months
As per his Chairman’s Statement, Phil Lawler has completed his three terms of three years as Chairman and will step down from the Board at the 
end of September 2016.
All Directors offer themselves for annual re-election at each AGM in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code. Letters of appointment 
are available for inspection at the registered office address of the Company.
Payments for loss of office 
The principles on which the determination of payments for loss of office will be approached is set out on page 67. Where the Remuneration 
Committee retains discretion, as outlined below, it will be used to provide flexibility in certain situations, taking into account the particular 
circumstance of the Director’s departure and recent performance of the Company.
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Governance continued
66  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Executive Directors
 Policy
Notice period on termination by  
employing company 
12 months. The committee has the discretion to determine what proportion of the notice 
period will be utilised in active service.
Termination payment 
 
 
 
 
Severance payments are limited to no more than one year’s salary plus benefits in kind 
(including company car or car allowance and private health insurance) and pension 
contributions (which may include salary supplements). 
Benefits provided in connection with termination of employment may also include, but are not 
limited to, outplacement and legal fees.
Vesting of incentives for leavers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to determine appropriate bonus amounts 
taking into consideration the circumstances in which an Executive Director leaves. Typically for 
‘good leavers’ bonus amounts will be determined by reference to the applicable performance 
targets, pro-rated for time served in relation to the performance period and paid at the usual 
time. The Remuneration Committee may decide to pay a good leaver’s bonus earlier than the 
usual time in appropriate circumstances. ‘Good leavers’ typically include leavers due to death, 
illness, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement with the consent of the Company, or any other 
reason as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The vesting of share-based awards is governed by the rules of the relevant incentive plan,  
as approved by shareholders.
Under the LTIP , the provisions for good leavers provide that awards will vest at the end of the 
normal vesting period, subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions. However, 
the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to accelerate vesting to the date of cessation 
of employment. If accelerated to the date of cessation of employment, the Remuneration 
Committee will determine the extent to which the performance conditions are considered 
satisfied. In either case, the extent to which an award vests will be subject to pro-rating for 
time (although the Remuneration Committee has discretion not to apply time pro-rating).  
In circumstances other than good leavers, awards will lapse. 
Where a buy-out award is to be made under Listing Rule 9.4.2 then the leaver provisions 
would be determined at the time of the award.
Payments may be made under the Company’s SAYE and SIP which are governed by HMRC 
approved plan rules and which cover certain leaver provisions. 
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  67 Approval
This Report was approved by the Board on  
16 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
Margaret Rice-Jones
Remuneration Committee Chair 
Existing contractual arrangements
The Remuneration Committee reserves the 
right to make any remuneration payments and 
payments for loss of office notwithstanding 
that they are not in line with the policy set out 
below where the terms of the payment were 
agreed: 
(i) before the policy came into effect, or 
(ii) at a time when the relevant individual was 
not a Director of the Company and, in the 
opinion of the Remuneration Committee, 
the payment was not in consideration for 
the individual becoming a Director of the 
Company.
For these purposes ‘payments’ includes the 
Remuneration Committee satisfying awards 
of variable remuneration and, in relation to an 
award over shares, the terms of the payment 
are ‘agreed’ at the time the award is granted.
The Remuneration Committee may make 
minor changes to this policy, which do not 
have a material advantage to Directors, to 
aid in its operation or implementation without 
seeking shareholder approval but taking into 
account the interests of shareholders.
Statement of consideration  
of shareholder views
In the interests of ensuring on-going and 
transparent dialogue with shareholders, the 
Remuneration Committee consulted major 
shareholders on changes to base salaries and 
the LTIP awards quantum for 2016 awards. 
There were no other significant changes to  
the Directors’ remuneration policy proposed 
for 2016. 
Non-Executive Directors
Under the terms of their engagement, the 
notice period to be given by the Non-Executive 
Directors on the Company is six months and 
the Company is obliged to give the same 
length of notice. Discretion is retained to 
terminate with or without due notice or paying 
any payment in lieu of notice dependent 
on what is considered to be in the best 
interests of the Company in the particular 
circumstances.
Statement of consideration of employment 
conditions elsewhere in the Company
Salary, benefits and performance related 
reward provided to employees is taken into 
account when setting policy for Executive 
Directors’ remuneration (although employees 
are not formally consulted in relation to 
the setting of the policy). This includes 
consideration of:
• Salary increases for the general employee 
population
• Company-wide benefit (including pension) 
offerings
• Overall spend and participation levels in 
the annual bonus and LTIP
• Relevant ad-hoc information
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Governance continued
68  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Directors’ Responsibilities statement
In preparing the parent Company financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
• Select suitable accounting policies and 
then apply them consistently
• Make judgments and accounting 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent
• State whether Financial Reporting 
Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure 
Framework has been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements
• Prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business
In preparing the Group financial statements, 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires 
that Directors:
• Properly select and apply  
accounting policies
• Present information, including accounting 
policies, in a manner that provides 
relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information
• Provide additional disclosures when 
compliance with the specific requirements 
in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions 
on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance
• Make an assessment of the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other 
irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate and 
financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• The financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with the relevant financial 
reporting framework, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole
• The Strategic Report includes a fair review 
of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face
• The Annual Report and financial 
statements, taken as a whole, are fair, 
balanced and understandable and provide 
the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy
This responsibility statement was approved 
by the Board of Directors and is signed on its 
behalf by:
Doug Edwards
Chief Executive Officer
Alex Bevis
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary
16 March 2016
The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare 
financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law the Directors are required 
to prepare the Group financial statements 
in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by 
the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation and have also chosen to prepare 
the parent company financial statements in 
accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 
101 Reduced Disclosure Framework. Under 
Company law the Directors must not approve 
the accounts unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Company and of the profit or loss of the 
Company for that period. 
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  69 Independent auditor’s report to the members of Xaar plc
Opinion on financial  
statements of Xaar plc
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s  
affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union;
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and 
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 34, and the Parent Company 
Statement of Financial Position, the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 
10. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of 
the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”.
Going concern and the 
directors’ assessment of 
the principal risks that 
would threaten the solvency 
or liquidity of the Group 
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ statement regarding the appropriateness of the 
going concern basis of accounting contained within note 3 to the financial statements and the directors’ statement 
in the Directors’ report on the longer-term viability of the Group.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
• the directors’ confirmation on page 20 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal  
risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance,  
solvency or liquidity;
• the disclosures on pages 20 to 21 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed  
or mitigated;
• the directors’ statement in note 3 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate 
to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material 
uncertainties to the Group’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date 
of approval of the financial statements; and
• the directors’ explanation on page 36 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what 
period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to 
whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet 
its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing 
attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors’ adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such 
material uncertainties. However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not 
a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm 
that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
those standards. We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in 
those standards.
Financial Statements
70  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation  
of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
As part of the audit of the Group, in addition to substantive tests, we also test the design and implementation of internal controls over financial 
reporting in each of the significant risk areas.
The Audit Committee has requested that while not required under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we include in our report  
any significant key observations in respect of these assessed risks of material misstatement.
Risk Our response and findings
Inventory valuation
Management performs a detailed review of the standard 
costing of the raw materials, work-in-progress and finished 
goods recorded in inventory by reference to variance reports 
produced as part of the month end control processes. This is 
done to ensure that the absorption of costs accurately reflects 
the activity of the Group at a normal level of production.
We consider there to be a significant risk with respect to 
the valuation of inventory owing to the judgmental nature of 
determining the costs used in the inventory standard costing 
model. 
The accounting policy is disclosed in note 3 to the financial 
statements. The values of inventories are £13.5m as at the 
year-end (2014: £19.8m). Details of inventory values are 
disclosed in note 18 to the financial statements.
Our response Our audit procedures included, amongst others, critically 
assessing whether the Group’s standard costing valuation methodology is 
determined in accordance with International Accounting Standard 2 (IAS 2). 
This has included testing the controls designed and implemented in relation 
to the inventory standard costing system, such as the review of variance 
reports, and the data generated by that system. Our IT specialists audited the 
treatment of variances within the inventory and financial reporting systems.
We challenged the assumptions used in the derivation of the cost absorption 
rates through performing independent recalculation based on actual costs 
for the year and production output. Our testing assessed the accuracy 
and completeness of costs absorbed into inventory. We also assessed 
reasonableness of the normal level of production. 
We tested the completeness and accuracy of the year-end inventory valuation, 
assessing whether standard costs have been applied appropriately to items of 
raw materials, work-in-progress and finished goods. 
Key observations We found that the management assumptions and estimates 
were appropriate and applied consistently. Our testing has not identified any 
material issues with regards to the standard costing methodology or inventory 
valuation, monitoring and recording processes.
Revenue recognition
The Group accounts for revenue on printheads and system 
components at the point of despatch as this is the point at 
which the risks and rewards of the products held as stock 
are transferred to the customer. The Group has no significant 
distribution/consignment agreements in place with third parties.
We consider there to be a significant risk with respect to the 
accounting for commercial sales agreements with Xaar’s 
significant customers, owing to the degree of judgment 
and estimation involved in accounting for commercial sales 
agreements and the associated revenue in line with IFRSs and 
the Group’s accounting policy. This is also the fraud risk we 
have identified with respect to revenue recognition.
The accounting policy is disclosed in note 3 to the  
financial statements.
Our response When auditing revenue streams we considered the Group’s 
revenue recognition policy, per International Accounting Standard 18 ‘Revenue’ 
(IAS 18), to assess whether the revenue recognition policy is compliant and 
whether the policy has been applied consistently through the year.
We performed testing over all commercial sales agreements that Xaar has with 
its major customers by reviewing the terms and conditions of sales, assessing 
the accounting treatment and reconciling to amounts recognised in the 
financial statements; also assessing compliance with IAS 18. 
We performed retrospective review of prior period accounting estimates 
in relation to commercial sales agreements to assess the accuracy of 
management estimates. 
We tested a sample of journals to establish whether there were any unusual 
items.
Key observations We noted no material instances of inappropriate revenue 
recognition arising in our testing.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  71 Financial Statements continued
Risk Our response and findings
Capitalisation of internally generated intangible assets
The Group incurred £19.9m on research and development 
costs in the year ended 31 December 2015 (2014: £19.2m), 
representing an increase of 4% from 2014. 
Xaar management has concluded that the only development 
project meeting the capitalisation criteria in IAS 38 “Intangible 
Assets” (IAS 38) is the work in relation to the P4 platform and 
therefore £8.4m development costs have been capitalised 
during the year (2014: £7.4m). Because of the judgments 
and the complexity of the criteria applied, we consider there 
to be a significant risk in relation to development costs being 
incorrectly capitalised. There is also a significant risk in relation 
to the recoverability of capitalised development costs from 
likely future economic benefits.
The accounting policy is disclosed in note 3 to the financial 
statements. The carrying values of the capitalised development 
costs are disclosed in note 14 to the financial statements.
Our response We challenged management’s accounting treatment of 
development costs by testing a sample of research and development project 
costs to ensure they are accurate and appropriately classified. We discussed 
the P4 platform project with the Research and Development Directors and 
Chief Technical Officer, in order for us to assess whether the project has 
reached the development phase and therefore require capitalisation. For 
the P4 platform project we made an assessment of the technical feasibility 
and likelihood of future economic benefit by reference to product test stage 
classifications and agreements entered into with partners. 
0
5
10
15
20
Development Costs Expensed Development Costs Capitalised
2015 2014
Research and development costs capitalised versus expensed 
£m 
 
We obtained revenue and contribution forecast for the capitalised development 
project and closely examined management estimates included in the forecast 
with references to industry statistics and historic performance of the Group’s 
other products. Net present value of the forecast contribution was also 
compared to the carrying value of the capitalised development costs.
Key observations Based on the audit procedures performed, we believe 
that management has appropriately applied the principles of IAS 38 and the 
internally generated intangible asset is recoverable.
Provisions and recoverability of property, plant and 
equipment in relation to termination of operations
The Board have announced a planned closure of the Group’s 
manufacturing facility in Sweden during 2016. XaarJet AB 
manufactures some of Xaar’s legacy printheads. 
We consider there to be a risk in relation to completeness 
of provisions associated with restructuring and discontinued 
operations (e.g. onerous lease, redundancy cost). 
We considered there to be an indication of impairment of the 
fixed assets held by the Swedish subsidiary XaarJet AB. We 
therefore identified there to be a significant risk that the carrying 
value of the fixed assets held by the Swedish subsidiary XaarJet 
AB may not be recoverable, and that any possible impairment 
may not be accounted for or disclosed appropriately in the 
financial statements.
The accounting policy is disclosed in note 3 to the financial 
statements. Provisions held in relation to termination of the 
Group’s manufacturing facility in Sweden are £3.2m (2014: £nil). 
The details are disclosed in note 24 to the financial statements.
Our response We reviewed the minutes of the Board meetings to evidence 
discussions on this matter. We held discussions with key management 
personnel (internal and external to finance), internal and external legal counsels 
in this regard. We challenged management’s assumptions and judgments in 
relation to each element of the provision by agreeing these to independent 
audit evidence (e.g. staff contracts and lease agreements).
We compared the carrying value of the fixed assets held by the Swedish 
subsidiary XaarJet AB to their value in use. We reviewed the remaining useful 
economic lives assigned to the fixed assets for depreciation calculation to 
ensure they are consistent with the planned closure timetable.
Key observations The evidence that we obtained from our audit procedures 
supported the completeness of the provisions required in accordance with IAS 
37 ‘Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets’. We also agreed 
with the Directors’ conclusion that the carrying value of the tangible fixed 
assets in XaarJet AB is not impaired. 
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Xaar plc 
continued
72  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc In 2014 our report included recoverability of the Group’s property, plant and equipment (PP&E) as a risk due to the downturn in the performance 
of the Group. This risk is not included in our 2015 report after considering the current year performance in the Group. Instead our risk in relation 
to recoverability of PP&E is specific to the XaarJet AB’s manufacturing facility as discussed above.
In 2014 our report included warranty provision as a risk due to the judgemental nature of the provision calculations which are estimated with 
reference to known product issues. This risk is not included in our 2015 report, because we have not identified any significant product issues 
which have arisen during the year.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 40. 
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to 
express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the  
risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application 
of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope 
of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £1.0m (2014: £1.6m), which represents 5% (2014: 5%) of normalised pre-tax 
profit. We used the normalised pre-tax profit as our materiality basis, because it represents a key performance measure for the 
Group and it receives focus from shareholders and analysts. The reduction in normalised pre-tax profit this year is mainly due 
to the anticipated softening of demand in ceramic tile printing in China, with a consequential reduction to income and profit. 
Pre-tax profit has been normalised by excluding costs incurred in the year in relation to the planned closure of the Group’s 
manufacturing facility in Sweden. The planned closure of the Group’s manufacturing facility in Sweden is not a recurring event 
and does not represent the underlying core business. Provision and recoverability of property, plant and equipment in relation 
to the planned closure has been identified as an audit risk and discussed above. There was no normalisation adjustment in the 
2014 pre-tax profit for the purpose of our materiality determination.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £19,000  
(2014: £23,000), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.  
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation  
of the financial statements.
An overview  
of the scope  
of our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, 
and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit 
scope primarily on the audit work at the UK headquarters in Cambridge. Five entities were subject to a full audit: Xaar plc, 
XaarJet Ltd and Xaar Technology Ltd were audited directly by the Group audit team; XaarJet AB and Xaar Group AB were 
audited by the component audit team based in Stockholm, Sweden. Three entities (Xaar America Inc., XaarJet (Overseas) Ltd 
and Xaar Digital Ltd) were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of 
the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Group’s operations at those components. The same components 
were subject to audits or specified audit procedures in 2014. 
The eight entities subject either to a full audit or specified audit procedures account for 100% (2014: 100%) of the Group’s net 
assets, 100% (2014: 100%) of the Group’s revenue and 97% (2014: 100%) of the Group’s profit before tax. Our audit work for 
each entity was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.  
The component materiality ranges between £0.5m to £0.9m (2014: £0.06m to £1.06m).
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  73 Financial Statements continued
An overview  
of the scope  
of our audit 
continued
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our 
conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the 
remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances. As the Group auditor, we planned the 
work conducted by the component auditor, reviewed their work and attended an audit planning conference call, status 
update and close meetings.
Scoped out
Full audit scope
Specified audit procedures
98%
2%
Full audit scope
Specified audit procedures
90%
7%
3%
Full audit scope
Specified audit procedures
98%
2%
Opinion on 
other matters 
prescribed by 
the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of 
explanations 
received and 
accounting 
records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ 
remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
have not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns. We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate 
governance 
statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s 
compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Xaar plc 
continued
74  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Our duty to 
read other 
information 
in the Annual 
Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information  
in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the 
course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired 
during the audit and the Directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and 
whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which 
we consider should have been disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading 
statements.
Respective 
responsibilities 
of Directors 
and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools 
aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and systems 
include our dedicated professional standards review team, and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are 
required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of 
the audit of 
the financial 
statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial 
and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements 
and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge 
acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Paul Schofield FCA 
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
16 March 2016
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Cambridge, United Kingdom
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  75 Financial Statements continued
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Revenue 5 93,472 109,150
Cost of sales (48,782) (60,548)
Gross profit 44,690 48,602
Research and development expenses (11,548) (11,797)
Research and development expenditure credit 818 234
Sales and marketing expenses (5,440) (5,551)
General and administrative expenses (9,254) (7,900)
Restructuring costs (6,120) (872)
Operating profit 13,146 22,716
Investment income 9 426 394
Profit before tax 13,572 23,110
Tax 10 (1,043) (4,418)
Profit for the year attributable to shareholders 7 12,529 18,692
Earnings per share
Basic 12 16.6p 25.0p
Diluted 12 16.1p 24.4p
Dividends paid in the year amounted to £6,925,000 (2014: £6,377,000). Further disclosures are given in note 11.
All activities relate to continuing operations.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2015
 
Notes
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit for the year attributable to shareholders 12,529 18,692
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Exchange differences on retranslation of net investment 28 (27) (224)
Other comprehensive income for the year (27) (224)
Total comprehensive income for the year 12,502 18,468
76  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Notes
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 13 – 720
Other intangible assets 14 17,795 10,077
Property, plant and equipment 15 31,255 38,539
Investments 17 – 1,000
49,050 50,336
Current assets
Investments 17 1,000 –
Inventories 18 13,458 19,795
Trade and other receivables 19 11,947 13,452
Current tax asset 19 2,805 2,909
Treasury deposits 19 27,098 21,000
Cash and cash equivalents 19 42,649 25,963
98,957 83,119
Total assets 148,007 133,455
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 (12,405) (9,888)
Other financial liabilities 23 (68) (57)
Provisions 24 (3,533) (425)
(16,006) (10,370)
Net current assets 82,951 72,749
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 21 (1,222) (617)
Other financial liabilities 23 (241) (308)
Total non-current liabilities (1,463) (925)
Total liabilities (17,469) (11,295)
Net assets 130,538 122,160
Equity
Share capital 25 7,764 7,664
Share premium 26 27,585 26,345
Own shares 27 (3,796) (3,796)
Other reserves 29 11,006 9,716
Translation reserve 28 99 126
Retained earnings 29 87,880 82,105
Equity attributable to shareholders 130,538 122,160
Total equity 130,538 122,160
The financial statements of Xaar plc, registered number 3320972, were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on  
16 March 2016.
They were signed on its behalf by:
Doug Edwards
Chief Executive Officer
Alex Bevis
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary
Consolidated statement of financial position
as at 31 December 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  77 Financial Statements continued
Notes
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Own
shares
£’000
Other
reserves
£’000
Translation
reserve
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
 
Total 
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2014 7,589 25,484 (4,066) 8,610 350 72,075 110,042
Profit for the year – – – – – 18,692 18,692
Exchange differences on retranslation 
of net investment – – – – (224) – (224)
Total comprehensive income  
for the period – – – – (224) 18,692 18,468
Issue of share capital 75 861 – – – (28) 908
Own shares sold in the period – – 270 – – (9) 261
Dividends 11 – – – – – (6,377) (6,377)
Tax on share option gains – – – – – (2,248) (2,248)
Credit to equity for equity-settled 
share-based payments – – – 1,106 – – 1,106
Balance at 1 January 2015 7,664 26,345 (3,796) 9,716 126 82,105 122,160 
Profit for the year – – – – – 12,529 12,529
Exchange differences on retranslation 
of net investment – – – – (27) – (27)
Total comprehensive income for 
the period – – – – (27) 12,529 12,502
Issue of share capital 100 1,240 – – – (40) 1,300
Dividends 11 – – – – – (6,925) (6,925)
Tax on share option gains – – – – – 211 211
Credit to equity for equity-settled 
share-based payments – – – 1,290 – – 1,290
Balance at 31 December 2015 7,764 27,585 (3,796) 11,006 99 87,880 130,538
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2015
78  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Net cash from operating activities 30 40,384 18,397
Investing activities
Investment income 531 427
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (3,764) (12,483)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 46 2
Expenditure on software (187) (217)
Expenditure on capitalised product development (8,365) (7,357)
Net cash used in investing activities (11,739) (19,628)
Financing activities
Dividends paid (6,925) (6,377)
Treasury deposits (6,098) 1,000
Proceeds from the sale of ordinary share capital – 261
Proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 1,300 908
Net cash used in financing activities (11,723) (4,208)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 16,922 (5,439)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash balances (236) (83)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 25,963 31,485
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 42,649 25,963
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of asset on the face of the consolidated statement of financial position) comprise 
cash at bank and other short term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less. The carrying amount of these assets is 
approximately equal to their fair value.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  79 Financial Statements continued
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2015
1. General information
Xaar plc (‘the Company’) is incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006. The address of the registered office is given  
on the inside back cover. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activity is set out in the Strategic Report starting on page 2.
2. Key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical accounting judgements
The key assumptions concerning the future and other sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that have a significant risk  
of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:
Asset valuations
Throughout the year, management considers the carrying value of both receivables and inventory balances. Provisions against both balances are 
made on the basis of past losses, current trading patterns and anticipated future events.
Provisions
Management regularly consider the potential liabilities which may arise from product warranty claims, commercial disputes, restructuring or other 
activities which may result in future losses or charges. Management create and maintain appropriate financial provisions based on specific known 
issues and underlying historical experience.
Impairment of goodwill
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis. This requires an estimation of the ‘value-in-use’ of the cash-
generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. Estimating a value-in-use amount requires management to make an estimate of the expected 
future cash flows from the cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash 
flows. The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2015 was £nil (2014: £720,000). Further details are given in note 13.
Capitalisation of development costs
As described in note 3, the Group capitalises development expenditure as an intangible assets where the criteria under IAS 38 ‘Intangible  
assets’ is met. In 2015, development expenditure incurred relating to Platform 4 was capitalised, amounting to £8,365,000 (2014: £7,357,000).  
The development project is on-going and therefore amortisation is yet to commence.
Useful life of property, plant and equipment in Sweden
As described in note 3, the Group depreciates property, plant and equipment over the useful life of the asset. In 2015 the useful life of the property, 
plant and equipment in the Swedish facility was reviewed and was revised to reflect the planned closure of the facility. 
3. Significant accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’), as adopted for use in the 
European Union. Therefore the Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation.
The financial information has been prepared on the basis of all applicable IFRS, including all International Accounting Standards (‘IAS’), Standing 
Interpretations Committee (‘SIC’) interpretations and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC’) interpretations issued by 
the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) that are applicable to the financial period, as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments. The Group financial 
statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds (£’000) except when otherwise indicated.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (‘its subsidiaries’) 
made up to 31 December each year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an 
investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of 
acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries 
to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used by the Group. 
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation. Foreign exchange gains and losses arising on the 
retranslation of trading balances with subsidiaries with different functional currencies are reported in the income statement.
80  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc 3. Significant accounting policies continued
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Strategic 
Report. Notes 19, 20 and 23 include a description of the Group’s objectives; policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk 
management objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources and through a diverse customer base is exposed not only to the Western economies but also China, 
India and Latin America. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the 
current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence  
for the foreseeable future, based on the Group’s forecasts and projections for the next four years, taking account of reasonably possible changes  
in trading performance. For this reason, we continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination 
over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised. If, after reassessment, the 
Group’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business 
combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment 
losses. Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the 
income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies 
of the combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there 
is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the 
impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata 
on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of the cash-generating unit, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested 
for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining 
any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services 
provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes, but gross of any tax withheld. 
Sales of goods are recognised when all of the following conditions are satisfied:
• The Company has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods 
• The Company retains neither a continuing managerial involvement to the degree normally associated with ownership, nor effective  
control over goods sold 
• The amount of revenue can be measured reliably 
• It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity
• The costs incurred, or to be incurred, in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably 
For sales of goods to a distributor with consignment stock arrangements, revenue is recognised at the point of sale by the distributor which is when 
the risks and rewards of ownership of inventory have transferred.
Development fees gained from joint development agreements are treated as income over the periods necessary to match them with the  
related costs.
Funding received for internally generated intangible assets is recognised on a straight-line basis to match the amortisation period of the related 
intangible fixed asset. 
Royalties are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the actual revenue trend in the most recent quarterly statements received from 
each licensee.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  81 Financial Statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition continued
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate 
that discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount.
Leases
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease, except where  
another more systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which the economic benefits from the lease asset are consumed. 
Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability. The aggregate benefit  
of incentives is recognised as a reduction of rental expense on a straight-line basis, except where another systematic basis is more representative  
of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed.
Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates 
(its functional currency). For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are 
expressed in Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements. 
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary assets and liabilities, and on the retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities, are 
included in the income statement for the period. 
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group may enter into forward contracts (see page 80 for details of the Group’s 
accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments).
For the purposes of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated at the 
exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period. 
Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income and taken to the translation reserve. Exchange differences on the 
translation of net investments are taken to the translation reserve of the applicable entity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated 
at the closing rate. The Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS as 
Sterling denominated assets and liabilities.
Government and EU grants
Government and EU grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attached to them 
and that the grant will be received.
Government and EU grants relating to research and development are treated as income over the periods necessary to match them with the  
related costs.
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs but before investment income and finance costs.
Retirement benefit costs
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. Payments made to state managed 
retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Group’s obligations under the schemes are 
equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because  
it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. 
The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability 
method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities 
are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business 
combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
82  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc 3. Significant accounting policies continued
Taxation continued
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able  
to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax  
is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax 
is also dealt with in equity. 
To the extent that the Group receives a tax deduction relating to share-based payment transactions, deferred tax is provided at the appropriate 
tax rate on the difference in value between the market price of the underlying equity as at the date of the financial statements and the exercise 
price of the outstanding share options. As a result, the deferred tax impact of share options will not be derived directly from the expense reported 
in the consolidated income statement. The amount by which the deductible difference exceeds the cumulative charge to the consolidated income 
statement is recorded in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis and are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current  
tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle  
its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Property, plant and equipment
All property, plant and equipment is shown at original historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. 
Assets in the course of construction for production or administrative purposes are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss. Depreciation 
of these assets, on the same basis as other assets in the same class, commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets, less their residual values, other than assets in the course of construction, 
over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: 
Leasehold property improvements ten years or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease
Plant and machinery three to eight years
Furniture, fittings and equipment three to five years
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the 
term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset 
and is recognised in income. 
Internally generated intangible assets – research and development expenditure
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
In accordance with IAS 38 ‘Intangible assets’ where a project has entered the development phase and is sufficiently self-contained that the expected 
future economic benefits can be traced directly to the assets developed within the project, it is probable that the expected future economic benefits 
that are attributable to the asset will flow to the entity, and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably, the development costs related to the 
project will be capitalised as an intangible asset.
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives. Where no internally generated intangible asset can 
be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Other intangible assets
Costs incurred in maintaining the patent and trademark portfolio are written off to the income statement as incurred. 
Payments in respect of software, external product development costs and licence rights acquired are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight-
line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  83 Financial Statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any  
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in  
order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, 
the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use. In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset 
(cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss is subsequently reversed, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate 
of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had 
no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income 
immediately.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is calculated using the first in, first out (FIFO) cost formula, by applying the 
standard cost methodology, with costs including direct materials, direct labour costs and an attributable proportion of manufacturing overheads 
based on normal levels of activity that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Net realisable value 
represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. Provision 
is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where applicable.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value. Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in profit 
or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired. The allowance recognised is measured as the difference between the asset’s 
carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition. 
Investments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require 
delivery of the investment within the time frame established by the market concerned and are initially measured at fair value, equating to cost, 
including transaction costs. Investments are classified as available for sale, and on the basis that the investments have no active market and their  
fair values cannot be reliably determined using valuation techniques, the investments are carried at cost.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an unquoted equity investment that is not carried at fair value because its fair value cannot 
be reliably measured, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated 
future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Bonds with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity dates that the Group has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are 
classified as held-to-maturity investments. Held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using effective interest method less  
any impairment.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible 
to a known amount of cash within a period of up to three months post balance sheet and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Treasury deposits
Treasury deposits comprise demand deposits that are convertible to a known amount of cash with an original maturity of between three months  
and twelve months and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity instrument 
is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. The accounting policies adopted for 
specific financial liabilities and equity instruments are set out within the policy on derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting on page 85.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
84  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc 3. Significant accounting policies continued
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Interest-bearing loans and bank overdrafts are measured initially at fair value, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, including premiums payable 
on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the income statement using the effective interest rate 
method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables
Trade payables are measured at original cost. 
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and liquidity risk. 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments (primarily foreign currency forward contracts) to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency 
fluctuations relating to certain firm commitments and forecast transactions. 
The Group’s interest rate risk arises mainly from its funds invested in short term bank deposits. To mitigate these risks, limits have been set by the 
Board in relation to maturity period and maximum deposits with any one institution. 
In order to mitigate the Group’s liquidity risks, the Group can choose to fund significant fixed asset purchases by finance leases repayable over a 
period of three to five years dependent on the individual asset being financed and interest-bearing loans. 
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provides written principles on the  
use of financial derivatives consistent with the Group’s risk management strategy. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for 
speculative purposes. 
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the contract date and are remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates. 
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated as hedges of future cash flows and deemed to be effective are 
recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. If the cash flow hedge of a firm 
commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the 
associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or 
liability. For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in 
the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss. However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition 
of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included  
in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
Changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as  
they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast transaction 
occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss 
for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics 
are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with gains or losses reported in the  
income statement.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required to 
settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet 
date and are discounted where the effect of the time value of money is material.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation 
in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it, and 
the plan has reached a stage where the decision is unlikely to be reversed. The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct 
expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with 
the ongoing activities of the entity.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  85 Financial Statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Provisions continued
Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations under local sale of goods legislation are recognised in the month of sale of the relevant 
products, at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Group’s obligation.
Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payment’. In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied 
to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. These payments are measured at fair value (excluding the effect  
of non-market based vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments 
is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the 
effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
The fair value of options issued under the Group’s Long Term Incentive Plan is measured using a stochastic (Monte Carlo binomial) model for grants 
made between 2007 and 2009 inclusive. The fair value of all other equity-settled share-based payments is measured using the Black-Scholes pricing 
model. The expected life used in these models has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, 
exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
SAYE share options granted to employees are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme. This results in accelerated 
recognition of the expenses that would have arisen over the remainder of the original vesting period.
Own shares
Own shares are deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the 
Group’s own shares.
New standards and interpretations
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial 
statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU):
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
IFRS 16 Leases
IFRS 11 (amendments) Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations
IAS 1 (amendments) Disclosure Initiative
IAS 16 and IAS 38 (amendments) Clarification of acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation
IAS 27 (amendments) Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements
Annual Improvements to IFRSs (amendments)
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in 
future periods. 
4. Reconciliation of adjusted financial measures 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit before tax 13,572 23,110
Share-based payment charges 1,498 242
Exchange differences relating to the Swedish operations 447 614
Loss on derivative financial instruments – 6
Restructuring costs 6,120 872
Research and development expenditure credit (818) (234)
Adjusted profit before tax 20,819 24,610
 
Adjusted profit before tax excluding the impact of IAS 38 12,454 17,253
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
86  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc 4. Reconciliation of adjusted financial measures continued
Share-based payment charges include the IFRS 2 charge for the period of £1,290,000, per note 32 (2014: £1,106,000) and the credit relating  
to National Insurance on the outstanding potential share option gains of £208,000 (2014: charge of £864,000). These costs were included  
in the general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated income statement.
Exchange differences relating to the Swedish operations represent exchange gains or losses recorded in the consolidated income statement  
as a result of operating in Sweden. These costs were included in the general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated income statement.
Loss on derivative financial instruments relates to gains and losses made on forward contracts in 2014. These costs were included in the general 
and administrative expenses in the Consolidated income statement.
Restructuring costs of £6,120,000 in 2015 relate to costs incurred and provisions made in relation to a reorganisation and the planned closure of the 
manufacturing facility in Sweden in 2016. In 2014 restructuring costs of £872,000 were incurred in relation to a reduction made to the global work 
force in 2014. This item is shown on the face of the Consolidated income statement.
The research and development expenditure credit relates to the corporation tax relief receivable relating to qualifying research and development 
expenditure. This item is shown on the face of the income statement.
Adjusted profit before tax excluding the impact of IAS 38 (capitalisation of development costs) is the measure that is used internally for setting  
and comparing achievement of the annual bonus target.
 2015
Pence per share
2014
Pence per share
Diluted earnings per share 16.1p 24.4p
Share-based payment charges 1.9p 0.3p
Exchange differences relating to the Swedish operations 0.6p 0.8p
Restructuring costs 7.9p 1.1p
Tax effect of adjusting items (2.0p) (0.2p)
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 24.5p 26.4p
This reconciliation is provided to enable a better understanding of the Group’s results.
5. Revenue
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
Notes
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Product sales, commissions and fees 87,271 102,804
Royalties 6,201 6,346
93,472 109,150
Investment income 9 426 394
93,898 109,544
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  87 Financial Statements continued
6. Business and geographical segments
Products and services from which reportable segments derive their revenues.
For management reporting purposes, the Group’s operations are currently analysed according to the two operating segments of ‘product sales, 
commissions and fees’ and ‘royalties’. These two operating segments are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information and 
on which decisions are made by the Group’s Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors, and resources allocated. The Group’s chief operating 
decision maker is the Chief Executive Officer.
Segment information is presented below:
Year ended 31 December 2015
Product sales, 
commissions
and fees
£’000
Royalties
£’000
Unallocated
£’000
Consolidated
£’000
Revenue 
Total segment revenue 87,271 6,201 – 93,472 
Result
Adjusted profit before tax 14,192 6,201 426 20,819
Share-based payment charges – – (1,498) (1,498)
Exchange differences relating to the Swedish operations (447) – – (447)
Restructuring costs (6,120) – – (6,120)
Research and development expenditure credit 818 – – 818
Profit/(loss) before tax 8,443 6,201 (1,072) 13,572
Investment income is not allocated to reportable segments for the purposes of reporting to the Group’s Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors.
Share-based payment charges include the IFRS 2 charge for the period and the charge relating to National Insurance on the outstanding potential 
share option gains.
Year ended 31 December 2014
Product sales, 
commissions
and fees
£’000
Royalties
£’000
Unallocated
£’000
Consolidated
£’000
Revenue 
Total segment revenue 102,804 6,346 – 109,150 
Result
Adjusted profit before tax 17,870 6,346 394 24,610
Share-based payment charges – – (242) (242)
Exchange differences relating to the Swedish operations (614) – – (614)
Loss on derivative financial instruments – – (6) (6)
Restructuring costs (872) – – (872)
Research and development expenditure credit 234 – – 234 
Profit before tax 16,618 6,346 146 23,110 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
88  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc 6. Business and geographical segments continued
Segment assets
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Product sales, commissions and fees 75,902 83,719
Royalties 1,358 1,773
Total segment assets 77,260 85,492
Investments 1,000 1,000
Treasury deposits 27,098 21,000
Cash and cash equivalents 42,649 25,963
Total assets 148,007 133,455
Assets are allocated to the segment which has responsibility for their control. 
No information is provided for segment liabilities as this measure is not provided to the chief operating decision maker.
Other segment information
Year ended 31 December 2015 Notes
Product sales, 
commissions
and fees
£’000
Royalties
£’000
Unallocated
£’000
Consolidated
£’000
Depreciation and amortisation 14, 15 10,981 – – 10,981
Share-based payment charges – – 1,498 1,498
Capital expenditure 14, 15 11,674 – – 11,674
Year ended 31 December 2014 Notes
Product sales, 
commissions
and fees
£’000
Royalties
£’000
Unallocated
£’000
Consolidated
£’000
Depreciation and amortisation 14, 15 10,721 – – 10,721
Share-based payment charges – – 242 242
Capital expenditure 14, 15 18,048 – – 18,048
Revenues from major products and services
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Product sales, commissions and fees 87,271 102,804
Royalties 6,201 6,346
Consolidated revenue (excluding investment income) 93,472 109,150
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  89 Financial Statements continued
6. Business and geographical segments continued
Geographical information
The Group operates in three principal geographical areas: EMEA, Asia and the Americas. Revenues are attributed to geographical areas on the 
basis of the customers’ operating location. The Group’s revenue from external customers and information about its segments (non-current assets 
excluding deferred tax assets and other financial assets) by geographical location is detailed below:
Revenue from external customers
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
EMEA 47,113 60,088
Asia
– China 31,346 34,317
– Japan 6,611 6,637
– Other 1,935 1,611
The Americas (including USA) 6,467 6,497
93,472 109,150
Non-current assets, being property, plant and equipment, goodwill, other intangible assets, investments and the deferred tax asset, are attributed  
to the location where they are situated.
Non-current assets
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
EMEA 48,994 50,265
Asia 50 67
The Americas (including USA) 6 4
49,050 50,336
Information about major customers
Included in revenues arising from product sales, commissions and fees are revenues of approximately £9.1 million (10% of revenues) (2014: £11.4 
million, 10% of revenues) which arose from sales to the Group’s largest customer. In the year ended 31 December 2015 revenues of approximately 
£7.8 million (8% of revenues) (2014: £11.2 million, 10% of revenues) were included in the product sales, commissions and fees which arose  
from sales to the Group’s second largest customer. In 2015, the largest customer was the only customer to exceed 10% of revenue in the period 
(2014: the largest and second largest customers exceeded 10% of revenue in the period). Revenue from the top five customers represents 41%  
of revenues (2014: 47%).
7. Profit for the year
Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging/(crediting): 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Net foreign exchange losses (including exchange differences relating to the Swedish operations) 749 1,052
Research and development expenses (net of capitalised development costs)* 11,548 11,797
Grants towards research and development including the research and development expenditure credit (878) (349)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10,147 9,836
Amortisation capitalised development costs (included in research and development expenses) 493 492
Amortisation software (included in general and administrative expenses) 341 393
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 75 189
Cost of inventories recognised as expense 48,782 60,548
Impairment of other financial assets (90) (70)
Total fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates 165 182
*Total spend on research and development in 2015, including capitalised development costs included in note 14, was £19,913,000 (2014: £19,154,000).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
90  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc 7. Profit for the year continued
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 22 22
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services to the Group
  The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 107 106
Total audit fees 129 128
– Interim review 25 24
– Taxation compliance services 5 6
– Recruitment and remuneration services 1 17
– Audit advisory – 7
– Other services 5 –
Total non-audit fees 36 54
Total fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates 165 182
The Audit Committee has considered the independence of the auditor in relation to non-audit services throughout the year. A description of the 
work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate governance statement on pages 40 to 41 and includes an explanation of how the auditor’s 
objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditor.
8. Staff costs
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group including Executive Directors was as follows:
2015 
Number
2014
Number
Research and development 130 168
Sales and marketing 51 62
Manufacturing and engineering 382 491
Business support 65 64
628 785
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 
Notes
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Wages and salaries 24,169 28,981
Social security costs 3,046 3,753
Pension costs 33 1,589 1,642
Share-based payments 1,498 242
 30,302 34,618
Share-based payment charges include the IFRS 2 charge for the period and the charge relating to National Insurance on the outstanding potential 
share option gains.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  91 Financial Statements continued
9. Investment income
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Interest receivable on cash and bank balances, and treasury deposits 423 389
Interest receivable on held-to-maturity investments 3 5
426 394
10. Tax
Notes
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Current tax – UK 1,151 3,191
Current tax – overseas 385 278
1,536 3,469
Amounts over provided in previous years (972) (545)
Total current income tax 564 2,924
Deferred tax – origination and reversal 316 1,195
Adjustment in respect of prior years 163 299
Total deferred tax charge 21 479 1,494
Total tax expense for the year 1,043 4,418
The blended standard rate of tax for the year, based on the UK standard rate of corporation tax, is 20.25% (2014: 21.49%). Taxation for other 
jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. 
The Finance (No. 2) Act 2015, which provides for a reduction in the main rate of corporation tax from 20% to 19% effective from 1 April 2017,  
was substantively enacted on 18 November 2015. The Finance (No. 2) Act 2015, also provides for a reduction in the main rate of corporation  
tax to 18% effective from 1 April 2020, substantively enacted on 18 November 2015. These rate reductions have been reflected in the calculation  
of deferred tax at the balance sheet date.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
92  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc 10. Tax continued
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 13,572 23,110
Tax on ordinary activities at a blended standard rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.49%) 2,748 4,967
Effect of: 
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 319 486
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating overseas 33 111
Enhanced tax deduction for patent box (1,174) (820)
Effect of change in UK corporation tax rate (74) (80)
Prior period adjustments (809) (246)
Total tax expense for the year 1,043 4,418
The effective tax rate for the year is 8% (2014: 19%). Excluding the prior year adjustments, the effective tax rate would be 14%. The prior year 
adjustments relate primarily to improved deductions from the patent box scheme and higher than expected capital allowances.
11. Dividends
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 6.0p (2013: 5.5p) per share 4,535 4,124
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 3.15p (2014: 3.0p) per share 2,390 2,253
Total distributions to equity holders in the year 6,925 6,377
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 6.3p (2014: 6.0p) per share 4,891 4,599
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
12. Earnings per ordinary share – basic and diluted
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Earnings 
Earnings for the purposes of basic earnings per share being net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 12,529 18,962
Number of shares
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 75,572,550 74,863,310
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Share options 2,215,736 1,629,537
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 77,788,286 76,492,847
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  93 Financial Statements continued
12. Earnings per ordinary share – basic and diluted continued
2015
Pence per share
2014
Pence per share
Basic 16.6p 25.0p
Diluted 16.1p 24.4p
The weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share is calculated after the exclusion of ordinary shares  
in Xaar plc held by Xaar Trustee Ltd, the Xaar plc ESOP trust and the matching shares held in trust for the Share Incentive Plan.
For 2015, there were share options granted over 35,678 shares that had not been included in the diluted earnings per share calculation because 
they were anti-dilutive at the period end (2014: nil shares).
The performance conditions for LTIP awards over 724,608 shares (2014: 688,038 shares) have not been met in the current financial period or are 
not expected to be met in future financial periods, and therefore the dilutive effect of those shares have not been included in the diluted earnings per 
share calculation.
Adjusted earnings per share
This adjusted earnings per share information is considered to provide a fairer representation of the Group’s trading performance year on year,  
as it removes items which, in the Board’s opinion, do not reflect the underlying performance of the Group.
The calculation of adjusted EPS excluding share-based payment charges, exchange differences relating to the Swedish operations, the gain or loss 
on derivative financial instruments, and restructuring costs, is based on earnings of: 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Earnings for the purposes of basic earnings per share being net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 12,529 18,692
Share-based payment charges 1,498 242
Exchange differences relating to the Swedish operations 447 614
Loss/(gain) on derivative financial instruments – 6
Restructuring costs 6,120 872
Tax effect of adjusting items (1,570) (197)
Adjusted profit after tax 19,024 20,229
Adjusted profit after tax excluding the net of tax impact of IAS 38* 12,839 12,872
The denominators used are the same as those detailed above for both basic and diluted earnings per share. 
Adjusted earnings per share is earnings per share excluding the items adjusted for as detailed above: 
2015
Pence per share
2014
Pence per share
Adjusted basic 25.2p 27.0p
Adjusted diluted 24.5p 26.4p
Adjusted basic excluding the impact of IAS 38* 17.0p 17.2p
Adjusted EPS is considered to provide a fairer representation of the Group’s trading performance year on year. 
* Adjusted profit after tax excluding the net of tax impact of IAS 38 and adjusted basic EPS excluding the impact of IAS 38 (capitalisation of development costs) are the measures deemed 
most appropriate by the Remuneration Committee to determine the achievement of the performance conditions for the LTIP awards that are subject to the EPS performance conditions.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
94  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc 13. Goodwill
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2015 was £nil (2014: £720,000). 
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash-generating units (CGUs) that are expected to benefit from that 
business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill had been allocated as follows: 
Printheads and related products (a single CGU)
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Balance at the beginning of the year 720 720
Impairment in the year (720) –
Balance at the end of the year – 720
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. Having performed 
impairment testing, following the announcement and actions taken related to the planned closure of the manufacturing facility in Sweden in 2016, 
the goodwill balance has been impaired in full (2014: no impairment was identified and therefore no impairment loss was recognised).
The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined from a value-in-use calculation. The key assumptions to which the value-in-use calculation is most 
sensitive are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial forecasts reviewed by management for the next three years and these 
have been used in the value-in-use calculation. The discount rate applied to the cash flow projections is 9% (2014: 10%) and reflects management’s 
estimate of return on capital employed. 
Sensitivity analysis has been completed on each key assumption in isolation and this indicates that reasonable changes in key assumptions on which 
we have based our determination of the recoverable amount would not cause the carrying amount of goodwill to exceed its recoverable amount.
14. Other intangible assets
Capitalised
development
costs
£’000
Licences
acquired
£’000
Software
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 9,493 533 2,721 12,747
Additions 7,357 – 218 7,575
Disposals (2,321) – (2) (2,323)
At 1 January 2015 14,529 533 2,937 17,999
Additions 8,365 – 197 8,562
Transfers – – (10) (10) 
At 31 December 2015 22,894 533 3,124 26,551 
Amortisation
At 1 January 2014 6,779 533 2,048 9,360
Charge for the year 492 – 393 885
Disposals (2,321) – (2) (2,323)
At 1 January 2015 4,950 533 2,439 7,922
Charge for the year 493 – 341 834
At 31 December 2015 5,443 533 2,780 8,756 
Carrying amount 
At 31 December 2014 9,579 – 498 10,077
At 31 December 2015 17,451 – 344 17,795
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  95 Financial Statements continued
14. Other intangible assets continued
Capitalised development costs relate to platform technology development and other associated product development. Where these assets have 
commenced amortisation, the amortisation periods are five to ten years.
The amortisation period for software is three to five years.
Licences acquired are amortised over their estimated useful lives which is on average ten years. 
At 31 December 2015 the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of software amounting to £nil (2014: £29,000).
15. Property, plant and equipment
Leasehold
property
£’000
Plant and
machinery
£’000
Furniture,
fittings and
equipment
£’000
Assets in the 
course of
construction
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 10,633 50,584 3,614 9,263 74,094
Additions 1,922 7,751 421 379 10,473
Transfers 1,277 5,942 151 (7,370) –
Exchange movements (262) (1,115) (49) (2) (1,428)
Disposals – (411) (11) – (422)
At 1 January 2015 13,570 62,751 4,126 2,270 82,717
Additions 303 2,752 29 28 3,112
Transfers (145) 717 (14) (548) 10
Exchange movements (54) (229) (10) (11) (304)
Disposals (40) (947) (21) – (1,007) 
At 31 December 2015 13,634 65,044 4,110 1,739 84,527
Depreciation
At 1 January 2014 4,515 28,902 2,225 – 35,642
Charge for the year 1,555 7,535 746 – 9,836
Exchange movements (175) (848) (46) – (1,069)
Disposals – (222) (9) – (231)
At 1 January 2015 5,895 35,367 2,916 – 44,178
Charge for the year 1,854 7,932 361 – 10,147
Exchange movements (40) (119) (9) – (168)
Disposals – (863) (22) – (885) 
At 31 December 2015 7,709 42,317 3,246 – 53,272 
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2014 7,675 27,384 1,210 2,270 38,539
At 31 December 2015 5,925 22,727 864 1,739 31,255
As at 31 December 2015 the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to 
£2,471,000 (2014: £517,000).
16. Subsidiaries
A list of the investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest, is given in note 10 to the 
Company’s separate financial statements.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
96  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc 17. Investments
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Held-to-maturity investments
At the beginning and the end of the year 1,000 1,000
Held-to-maturity investments represent investment in bonds returning interest at 3% per annum, which mature on 22 November 2018.
There is an option to receive any or all of the bonds on the 3rd (21 November 2016) or 4th (21 November 2017) anniversary of the issue without 
penalty upon giving six months’ notice to or from bondholders. Therefore, for the year ended 31 December 2015, the investment is included in 
current assets.
18. Inventories
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Raw materials and consumables 3,122 4,818
Work in progress 1,285 1,342
Finished goods 9,051 13,635
13,458 19,795
19. Other financial assets
The fair value of all financial assets and financial liabilities approximates their carrying value.
Trade and other receivables
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Amount receivable for the sale of goods 6,985 8,092
Allowance for doubtful debts (342) (432)
6,643 7,660
Other debtors 3,967 4,001
Prepayments 1,337 1,791
11,947 13,452
 
Current tax asset 2,805 2,909
No amounts are expected to be settled in more than 12 months.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  97 Financial Statements continued
19. Other financial assets continued
Trade receivables
The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 26 days (2014: 26 days). No interest is charged on the receivables for the period agreed in  
the Requirements Contract or, if not specified or applicable, the first 30 days from the date of the invoice. Thereafter, the Group reserves the right  
to charge interest at a daily rate of the greater of either 3% per annum above the base rate of Barclays Bank plc from time to time, or the maximum 
rate of interest allowable under the Late Payment of Commercial Debts (Interest) Act 1998, on all sums outstanding until payment in full is received. 
The Group has provided fully for all receivables over 120 days because historical experience is such that receivables that are past due beyond 120 
days are generally not recoverable. Trade receivables between 30 days and 120 days are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts 
from the sale of goods, determined by reference to past default experience.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying amount of the financial assets as disclosed on page 97. Before accepting any new customer, 
the Group uses an external credit scoring system to assess the potential customer’s credit quality and defines credit limits by customer. Credit limits 
are reviewed at least once per year. Letters of credit may be used. Credit insurance has typically been taken out over the most significant customers. 
Of the trade receivables balance at the end of the year, seven customers each represented greater than 5% of the total receivables balance, totalling 
£4.4 million (2014: £5.0 million). The total due from these customers represents 31% (2014: 29%) of the Group’s revenue; there are no other 
customers who represent more than 5% of the total balance of trade receivables.
Included in the Group’s trade receivables balance are debtors with a carrying amount of £1.1 million (2014: £1.4 million) which are past due at the 
reporting date for which the Group has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered 
recoverable. Of these amounts, the Group is in possession of letters of credit to the value of £1,576,000 (2014: £1,565,000) which had not reached 
maturity as at the reporting date. The Group does not hold any other collateral over these balances. The average age of these receivables is 31 days  
(2014: 63 days).
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
1–30 days overdue 762 1,011
30–60 days overdue 324 230
60–90 days overdue – 16
90–120 days overdue – 19
Over 120 days overdue 2 76
Total 1,088 1,352
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Balance at the beginning of the year 432 502
Impairment losses reversed (90) (70)
Balance at the end of the year 342 432
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date 
credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated. 
Accordingly, the Directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
98  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc 19. Other financial assets continued
Trade receivables continued
Ageing of impaired trade receivables:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Current 160 94
1–30 days overdue 129 4
30–60 days overdue 33 2
60–90 days overdue – –
90–120 days overdue 4 –
Over 120 days overdue 16 332
Total 342 432
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Treasury deposits
Treasury deposits comprise bank deposits with an original maturity of between three months and twelve months. The carrying amount of these 
assets approximates their fair value.
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Treasury deposits 27,098 21,000
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.  
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value. 
The analysis of cash and short term bank deposits is as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cash 42,649 25,963
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned  
by international credit rating agencies.
20. Financial instruments
Categories of financial instruments
Financial assets of £13,415,000 (2014: £14,570,000) are categorised as loans and receivables. Financial liabilities of £16,247,000 (2014: 
£10,679,000 ) are categorised as measured at amortised cost. Derivative financial assets and liabilities are derived from quoted prices (unaudited)  
in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
Financial risk management objectives
The Group’s policy is to manage the Group’s financial risk, secure cost effective funding for the Group’s operations and to minimise the adverse 
effects of fluctuations in the financial markets on the value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities, on reported profitability and on the cash flows 
of the Group. 
The Group finances its activities with a combination of bank loans, finance leases, cash and fixed term deposits and forward contracts as deemed 
appropriate. Other financial assets and liabilities, such as trade debtors and trade creditors, arise directly from the Group’s operating activities.  
The Group also enters into derivative transactions – forward currency contracts. The purpose is to manage the currency risks arising from the 
Group’s operations. It is Group policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  99 Financial Statements continued
20. Financial instruments continued
Financial risk management objectives continued
Financial instruments give rise to foreign currency, interest rate, credit and liquidity risk. The Group’s management of its exposure to credit risk  
is discussed in note 19 and to liquidity risk is discussed in note 23.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s policy is to manage its cost of borrowing using fixed rate debt. Whilst fixed rate interest-bearing debt is not exposed to cash flow 
interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the Group to enjoy a reduction in borrowing costs in markets where rates are falling. In addition,  
the fair value risk inherent in fixed rate borrowing means that the Group is exposed to unplanned costs should debt be restructured or repaid  
early as part of the liquidity management process.
The sensitivity analysis prepared below relates to cash balances, since borrowings are at fixed rates of interest. The closing cash and cash 
equivalents, and treasury deposits balance at the year end have been used as the basis for the calculations. A 2% increase or decrease represents 
management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.
If interest rates had been 2% higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s profit for the year ended 31 December 2015 would 
increase by £1.4 million or decrease by £0.4 million (2014: increase by £0.9 million/decrease by £0.4 million). This is mainly attributable to the Group’s 
exposure to interest rates on its cash balances. There would be no effect on equity reserves.
Foreign currency risk
The Group receives approximately 7% of its revenues in US Dollars and 14% of its revenue in Euros, which are partially naturally hedged by supplies 
in these currencies, but the remainder requires conversion into Sterling in order to fund the remaining costs of the UK offices. The Group has a 
manufacturing facility in Sweden which necessitates the need for the Group to convert Sterling into Swedish Kronor in order to fund the running 
costs of this manufacturing facility. The Group may enter into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign currency 
risk, including forward contracts.
The Group is mainly exposed to foreign currency risk resulting from transactions in US Dollars, Euros and Swedish Kronor. The following table 
demonstrates the Group’s sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in the Sterling exchange rate against the relevant foreign currencies on the 
Group’s profit before tax and equity (due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets, liabilities and forward currency contracts). 10% represents 
management’s assessment of the reasonably possible movement in exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign 
currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates. The sensitivity 
analysis includes inter company balances within the Group where the denomination of the balance is in a currency other than the functional currency 
of the debtor or the creditor. A positive number below indicates an increase in profit or equity.
Euro
currency impact
US Dollar
currency impact
Swedish Kronor
currency impact
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Effect of a 10% increase in relevant exchange rate on:
Profit or loss (88) (725) (181) (410) (3) (35)
Other equity – – 29 11 207 179
Effect of a 10% decrease in relevant exchange rate on:
Profit or loss 108 886 221 501 3 43
Other equity – – (37) (13) (254) (219)
Forward foreign exchange contracts
The Group utilises currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows. The Group does not currently designate its foreign 
currency denominated debt as a hedging instrument for the purpose of hedging the translation of its foreign operations.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had no open currency derivative assets or liabilities (2014: £nil).
As at 31 December 2015 the Group held no outstanding forward contracts.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
100  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc 20. Financial instruments continued
Capital risk management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to 
support its business, maximise shareholder value and provide flexibility for value enhancing investments. The Group manages its capital structure 
and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions or as a result of corporate strategy. To maintain or adjust the capital 
structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. In addition, any potential 
value enhancing investments may be funded through additional debt instruments. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes 
during the current or prior year, except for the proposed increase in final dividend for 2014, as detailed in note 11 on page 93.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is determined as the proportion of debt to equity. Debt is defined as long and short term 
borrowings. Equity includes all capital and reserves of the Group attributable to the equity holders of the parent. The Group’s policy for its existing 
business is to use debt where appropriate, whilst maintaining the gearing ratio at a level under 10%. 
The gearing ratio at the year-end is as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Net debt – –
Equity 130,538 122,160
Gearing ratio 0% 0%
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Credit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. The Group has 
adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral where appropriate, as a means of mitigating  
the risk of financial loss from defaults.
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across different industries and geographical areas. Ongoing credit evaluation  
is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable.
The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
21. Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior  
reporting periods:
Accelerated tax
depreciation
£’000
Share-based
payment
£’000
Untaxed
reserves
£’000
Tax losses
£’000
Other
temporary
difference
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2014 (20) (3,984) 230 – (206) (3,980)
Charge/(credit) to income 1,276 142 (16) – 92 1,494
Credit to equity – 3,103 – – – 3,103 
At 1 January 2015 1,256 (739) 214 – (114) 617
Charge/(credit) to income 974 135 87 (591) (126) 479
Charge to equity – 126 – – – 126
At 31 December 2015 2,230 (478) 301 (591) (240) 1,222 
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  101 Financial Statements continued
21. Deferred tax continued
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial 
reporting purposes:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Deferred tax liabilities 1,222 617
As at 31 December 2015, the Group has unused capital losses of £1.1 million (2014: nil) available for offset against future gains. No deferred tax 
asset has been recognised in respect of these capital losses as it is not considered probable that there will be future chargeable gains available. 
These losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
22. Trade and other payables
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Trade payables and accruals 12,405 9,888
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit taken for trade 
purchases is 13 days (2014: 16 days).
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
23. Other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities consist of lease incentives. 
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Within one year 68 57
In the second year 68 68
In the third to fifth years inclusive 104 151
Over five years 69 89
309 365
Less: amount due for settlement within twelve months (shown under current liabilities) (68) (57)
Amount due for settlement after twelve months 241 308
The amounts included above are not considered to be materially different from the present value of their carrying amounts.
Liquidity risk
The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by managing cash generation by its operations and applying cash collection targets throughout the Group. 
Investment is carefully controlled, with authorisation limits operating up to Group Board level and cash payback periods applied as part of the 
investment appraisal process. In this way the Group aims to maintain a good credit rating to facilitate fund raising.
In its funding strategy, the Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of overdrafts, bank 
loans, finance leases and hire purchase contracts. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and banking facilities by 
continually monitoring cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group is inherently a net generator of cash at the operating level. Excess cash used in managing liquidity is only invested in financial instruments 
exposed to insignificant risk of changes in market value, being placed on interest-bearing deposit with maturities no more than 12 months allowed 
per the policy. Short term flexibility is achieved by overdraft facilities.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
102  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc 24. Provisions
Warranty and 
commercial 
agreements
£’000
Restructuring
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2014 1,074 – 1,074
Additional provision in the year 297 499 796
Utilisation of provision (603) (492) (1,095)
Release of provision (350) – (350)
At 1 January 2015 418 7 425
Additional provision in the year 432 3,981 4,413
Utilisation of provision (203) (759) (962)
Release of provision (343) – (343)
At 31 December 2015 304 3,229 3,533 
The warranty and commercial agreements provision represents management’s best estimate of the Group’s liability related to claims against product 
warranties or commercial sales agreements. The timing of the utilisation of this provision is uncertain.
The restructuring provision for 2014 relates to costs for the reduction made to the global work force in 2014, and in 2015 relates to the planned 
closure of the manufacturing facility in Sweden in 2016.
25. Share capital
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Issued and fully paid:
77,635,374 (2014: 76,642,309) ordinary shares of 10.0p each 7,764 7,664
The movement during the year on the Company’s issued and fully paid shares was as follows:
2015
Number
2014
Number
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
At beginning of year 76,642,309 75,894,829 7,664 7,589
Exercise of share options 993,065 747,480 100 75
At end of year 77,635,374 76,642,309 7,764 7,664
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  103 Financial Statements continued
25. Share capital continued
Scheme Date of grant
Number of
shares under
option as at
31 December
2015
Number of
shares under
option as at
31 December
2014
Subscription
price per
share
Xaar plc 2004 Share Option Plan 13.04.05 – 5,000 208.5p
15.09.05 – 17,144 274.0p
21.08.08 1,000 1,000 108.25p
22.11.10 29,375 39,175 211.0p
01.06.11 127,841 212,591 250.0p
27.10.11 2,000 20,000 243.0p
01.05.12 205,000 410,000 226.5p
18.10.12 – 15,000 249.75p
365,216 719,910 
Xaar plc Share Save Scheme 01.11.11 – 39,935 212.0p
01.11.12 35,232 245,587 185.0p
01.11.13 28,446 45,618 616.0p
01.11.14 541,989 678,919 338.0p
01.11.15 247,219 – 417.0p 
852,886 1,010,059 
Xaar plc Share Incentive Plan 17.04.13 19,677 24,887 0.0p
16.04.14 21,875 29,085 0.0p 
41,552 53,972 
Total share options outstanding at 31 December 1,259,654 1,783,941 
Options granted under the Xaar plc 2004 Share Option Plan are ordinarily exercisable within three to ten years after the date of the grant.  
The maximum value of approved options, under the Xaar plc 2004 Share Option Plan, which may be granted to individual employees is £30,000. 
Options under the Xaar plc Share Save Scheme are ordinarily exercisable between 36 and 42 months after the date of the grant.
Awards under the Xaar plc Share Incentive Plan are ordinarily exercisable between three and five years after the date of the grant.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
104  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc 25. Share capital continued
Long Term Incentive Plan
Performance Share Awards outstanding under the Xaar plc 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan are as follows:
Date of grant
Number of
shares under
option as at
31 December
2015
Number of
shares under
option as at
31 December
2014
11.04.11 – 57,112
03.05.11 20,981 33,740
02.04.12 120,834 370,110
01.05.12 99,108 183,784
02.04.13 393,423 416,106
15.05.13 63,131 63,500
02.04.14 198,136 243,869
12.05.14 34,798 38,265
02.04.15 562,950 –
28.09.15 37,896 –
07.12.15 12,088 –
1,543,345 1,406,486
All awards under this scheme are exercisable within three to ten years after the date of grant.
26. Share premium account
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2014 25,484
Premium arising on issue of equity shares 861
Balance at 1 January 2015 26,345
Premium arising on issue of equity shares 1,240 
Balance at 31 December 2015 27,585 
27. Own shares
£’000
Balance at 1 January and 31 December 2015 (3,796)
Of this balance, £20,000 (2014: £20,000) represents 91,250 ordinary shares in Xaar plc held in trust by Xaar Trustee Ltd. Xaar Trustee Ltd was 
formed in 1995 to act as Trustee to the Employee Benefit Trust established in 1995 to hold shares for the benefit of the employees of the Company 
and the Group. There has been no movement in the number of shares held in trust by Xaar Trustee Ltd during the year.
The remaining balance of £3,776,000 (2014: £3,776,000) represents the cost of 1,373,703 (2014: 1,373,703) shares in Xaar plc purchased in the 
market at market value and held by the Xaar plc ESOP trust to satisfy options granted under the Company’s share option schemes. 
The market value of own shares as at 31 December 2015 was £6,153,000 (2014: £5,647,000).
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  105 Financial Statements continued
28. Translation reserve
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2014 350
Exchange differences on retranslation of net investment (224)
Balance at 1 January 2015 126
Exchange differences on retranslation of net investment (27) 
Balance at 31 December 2015 99 
Exchange differences relating to the translation of the net assets of the Group’s foreign operations, which relate to subsidiaries only, from their 
functional currency into the parent’s functional currency, being Sterling, are recognised directly in the translation reserve.
29. Retained earnings and other reserves
Notes
Merger
reserve
£’000
Share-based
payments
£’000
Other
reserves
£’000
Total other
reserves
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2014 1,105 7,020 485 8,610 72,075 80,685
Net profit for the year – – – – 18,692 18,692
Share issue related to 
LTIP awards – – – – (28) (28)
Own shares sold in the period – – – – (9) (9)
Dividends paid 11 – – – – (6,377) (6,377)
Tax taken directly to equity – – – – (2,248) (2,248)
Movement in valuation of 
share options – 1,106 – 1,106 – 1,106 
Balance at 1 January 2015 1,105 8,126 485 9,716 82,105 91,821
Net profit for the year – – – – 12,529 12,529
Share issue related to 
LTIP awards – – – – (40) (40)
Dividends paid 11 – – – – (6,925) (6,925)
Tax taken directly to equity – – – – 211 211
Movement in valuation of 
share options – 1,290 – 1,290 – 1,290 
Balance at 31 December 2015 1,105 9,416 485 11,006 87,880 98,886 
The merger reserve and other reserves are not distributable. The merger reserve represents the share premium account in Xaar Technology Limited. 
The share-based payment reserve represents the cumulative charge made under IFRS 2 in relation to share options and LTIP awards. Other reserves 
represent the non-distributable portion of the dividend received in Xaar plc from Xaar Digital Limited.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
106  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc 30. Notes to the cash flow statement
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit before tax 13,572 23,110
Adjustments for:
Share-based payments 1,498 242
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10,147 9,836
Amortisation of intangible assets 834 885
Impairment of goodwill 720 –
Research and development expenditure credit (818) (234)
Investment income (426) (394)
Foreign exchange losses 149 331
Losses on forward contracts – 6
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 75 189
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 3,108 (650)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 28,859 33,321
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 6,274 (4,725)
Decrease in receivables 1,469 2,002
Increase/(decrease) in payables 2,405 (6,556)
Cash generated by operations 39,007 24,042
Income taxes received/(paid) 1,377 (5,645)
Net cash from operating activities 40,384 18,397
31. Operating lease arrangements
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year:
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 59 69
Land and buildings 2,192 2,194
2,251 2,263
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, 
which fall due as follows:
Fixtures, fittings and equipment Land and buildings
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Within one year 50 53 2,041 1,807
In the second to fifth years inclusive 27 40 3,050 4,002
After five years – – 1,278 1,409
77 93 6,369 7,218
The operating leases in respect of fixtures, fittings and equipment extend over a period of up to six years.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  107 Financial Statements continued
32. Share-based payments
Equity-settled share option scheme
The Company’s share option schemes are open to all employees of the Group. Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted 
market price of the Company’s shares on the date of grant. The standard vesting period is three years. 
An option granted under the Xaar plc 2004 Share Option Plan before 2011 will be exercisable over shares with a market value at the date of grant 
not exceeding a person’s annual salary if at the third anniversary of grant the EPS growth of the Company since grant has exceeded the growth in 
the Retail Prices Index (RPI) over the same period by at least 12%. To the extent that an option relates to shares with a market value as at the date  
of grant in excess of a person’s annual salary, the option will be exercisable over all of the excess shares if EPS growth over this period has exceeded 
RPI growth by at least 15%. For EPS performance between these two points, options will be exercisable over the excess shares on a sliding scale. 
In addition, options can only be exercised if EPS is at least 5.5 pence for the financial year preceding the third anniversary of grant. Performance 
may be retested once only from the date of grant to the fourth or fifth anniversary of grant (at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee), but the 
original EPS growth targets will be increased from 12/15% to 16/20% and 20/25% respectively. The 5.5 pence target will apply for the final financial 
year in the extended period.
An option granted under the Xaar plc 2004 Share Option Plan from 2011 onwards will be exercisable over shares with a market value at the date of 
grant not exceeding a person’s annual salary, if at the third anniversary of grant, Xaar plc has achieved positive adjusted profit before tax as shown 
in the consolidated income statement in the Company’s Annual Report and financial statements for any of the three years ending during the vesting 
period. One-third of the shares subject to the option granted rounded to the nearest whole share, will vest based on the performance condition 
being met per year for each of the three years ending in the vesting period. If the adjusted profit before tax as shown in the consolidated income 
statement in Xaar plc’s Annual Report and financial statements for any relevant year is restated before the option becomes exercisable, the restated 
figure shall, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, be applied in determining whether the above targets are met. In addition, 
options shall only become exercisable in respect of any shares if the committee in its absolute discretion determines that the overall financial 
performance of Xaar plc over the performance period is satisfactory.
The Xaar 2007 Share Save Scheme provides an opportunity to all UK employees to save a set monthly amount (up to £250 pre 2014, up to £500 
from 2014) over three years towards the exercise of a discounted share option, which is granted at the start of the three years. 
The Xaar Share Incentive Plan provides an opportunity for all UK employees to buy shares from their pre-tax remuneration up to the limit permitted 
by the relevant tax legislation (£1,500 per year for the awards made in 2013 and 2014) and are awarded additional shares for free on a matching 
basis; the Company currently operates the plan on the basis of a 1:1 match but may award matching shares up to the maximum ratio permitted by 
the relevant tax legislation (currently a 2:1 ratio). 
Options and awards under the Xaar 2007 Share Save Scheme and Xaar Share Incentive Plan are not subject to performance conditions.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, or 42 months in the case of the Share Save Scheme, or five 
years in the case of the Share Incentive Plan (being the contractual lives), the options expire. Save as permitted in the share option scheme rules, 
options lapse on an employee leaving the Group.
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2015 2014
Number
of share
options
Weighted
average
exercise
price (£)
Number
of share
options
Weighted
average
exercise
price (£)
Outstanding at beginning of year 1,783,941 2.70 1,795,232 2.60
Granted during the year 248,945 4.17 787,522 3.25
Lapsed during the year (171,252) 3.42 (333,537) 4.53
Exercised during the year (601,980) 2.16 (465,276) 1.95
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,259,654 3.14 1,783,941 2.70
Exercisable at the end of the year 400,448 2.29 334,845 2.41
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £4.61 (2014: £7.77). The options 
outstanding at 31 December 2015 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of four years (2014: four years). In 2015, options were granted 
on 1 November. The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on those dates is £0.57 million. In 2014, options were granted on 
16 April and 1 November. The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on those dates is £1.67 million. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
108  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc 32. Share-based payments continued
Equity-settled share option scheme continued
The inputs into the Black-Scholes model are as follows:
2015 2014
Weighted average share price £5.21 £4.39
Weighted average exercise price £4.17 £3.25
Weighted average expected volatility 55% 55%
Expected life 3 years 3 years
Risk-free rate 0.64% 0.72%
Weighted average expected dividends 0.63% 0.73%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over periods ranging from the previous one to 
three years. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, 
exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Long Term Incentive Plan
The Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan is open to all employees of the Group. As at 31 December 2015 all unvested LTIP share awards granted 
before 2015 are subject to the achievement of EPS performance conditions, the number of shares that vest will depend on the EPS growth of the 
Company for the three financial years of the Company commencing on 1 January of the year of grant, as follows:
(1) None of the Awards will vest if the Company’s EPS growth does not exceed growth in the Retail Prices Index (RPI) by at least 4% compound p.a.
(2) 35% of the Awards will vest if the Company’s EPS growth exceeds growth in the RPI by at least 4% compound p.a.
(3) All of the Awards will vest if the Company’s EPS growth exceeds growth in the RPI by at least 10% compound p.a.
(4) Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for EPS growth in excess of growth in the RPI of between 4% and 10% compound p.a.
LTIP share awards granted in 2015 are subject to the achievement of different performance conditions depending on the level of the employee, 
the number of shares that vest will depend on for the three financial years of the Company commencing on 1 January of the year of grant, and are 
subject to one, two or three of the conditions as set out below:
(1) Absolute cumulative EPS performance over the period, whereby 25% of the Awards will vest if the threshold target is achieved, below threshold 
0% will vest and up to a maximum of 100% if the maximum EPS target or higher is achieved.
(2) TSR relative to FTSE TechMARK All Share Index, whereby 25% of the Awards will vest if the median rank in the comparator group is achieved, 
below median 0% will vest and up to a maximum of 100% if the upper quartile or higher is achieved.
(3) Achievement of positive adjusted profit before tax as shown in the consolidated income statement in the Company’s Annual Report  
and financial statements for any of the three years ending during the vesting period. One third of the shares subject to the option granted 
rounded to the nearest whole share, will vest based on the performance condition being met per year for each of the three years ending in 
the vesting period. If the adjusted profit before tax as shown in the consolidated income statement in Xaar plc’s Annual Report and Financial 
Statements for any relevant year is restated before the option becomes exercisable, the restated figure shall, unless the Remuneration 
Committee determines otherwise, be applied in determining whether the above targets are met. 
In addition, options shall only become exercisable in respect of any shares if the committee in its absolute discretion determines that the overall 
financial performance of Xaar plc over the performance period is satisfactory. All awards that will vest will be calculated on a straight-line basis. 
All awards made under this scheme are exercisable within three to ten years after the date of grant. Save as permitted in the Long Term Incentive 
Plan rules, awards lapse on an employee leaving the Group.
Key individuals are invited to participate in a bonus matching scheme where matching LTIP share awards are granted when the employee invests 
their bonus in Xaar shares and retains ownership of these shares for the duration of the LTIP share award vesting period. The matching share award 
is a 1:1 match on the pre-tax value of the bonus used to acquire bonus investment shares. Matching LTIP share awards are subject to the same 
performance criteria as all other LTIP awards.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  109 Financial Statements continued
32. Share-based payments continued
Long Term Incentive Plan continued
2015 2014
Awards outstanding at start of year 1,406,486 1,441,820
Granted during the year 717,000 282,134
Lapsed during the year (180,628) (34,309)
Exercised during the year (399,513) (283,159)
Awards outstanding at end of year 1,543,345 1,406,486
Exercisable at the end of the year 240,923 90,852
In 2015, Performance Share Awards were made on 2 April, 28 September and 7 December. The aggregate of the estimated fair values of grants 
made on those dates is £2.9 million. In 2014, Performance Share Awards were made on 2 April and 12 May. The aggregate of the estimated fair 
values of grants made on those dates is £2.5 million. 
The estimated fair values for 2010 grants onwards were calculated using the Black-Scholes model, whereas the estimated fair value of 2009 grants 
were calculated using a stochastic (Monte-Carlo binomial) model. The inputs into the Black-Scholes model are as follows:
2015 2014
Weighted average exercise price £nil £nil
Weighted average expected volatility 56% 43%
Weighted average expected life 7 years 7 years
Weighted average expected dividend yield 0.54% 0.26%
The Group recognised total expenses of £1,290,000 and £1,106,000 related to all equity-settled share-based payment transactions in 2015 and 
2014, respectively.
33. Retirement benefit schemes
Defined contribution schemes
The UK-based employees of the Group’s UK companies have the option to be members of a defined contribution pension scheme managed by a 
third party pension provider. For each employee who is a member of the scheme the Company will contribute a fixed percentage of each employee’s 
salary to the scheme. The only obligation of the Group with respect to this scheme is to make the specified contributions.
The employees of the Group’s subsidiaries in Sweden are members of a state managed retirement benefit scheme operated by the Government  
of Sweden. The subsidiaries are required to contribute a specified percentage of payroll costs to the retirement benefit scheme to fund the benefits. 
The only obligation of the Group with respect to the retirement benefit scheme is to make the specified contributions.
The total cost charged to the income statement in respect of these schemes during 2015 was £1,589,000 (2014: £1,642,000). As at 31 December 
2015 contributions of £164,000 (2014: £140,000) due in respect of the current reporting period had not been paid over to the schemes.
34. Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories 
specified in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’. Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part  
of the Directors’ Remuneration report on page 50.
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Short term employee benefits 2,557 1,252
Post-employment benefits 114 98
Share-based payments 364 71
3,035 1,421
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
110  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Company balance sheet
as at 31 December 2015
Notes
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiaries 3 4,445 4,445
Held-to maturity investments 3 – 1,000
4,445 5,445
Current assets
Held-to maturity investments 3 1,000 –
Debtors – due within one year 4 92,082 82,791
Debtors – due after one year 4 127 213
Treasury deposits 27,122 16,000
Cash at bank and in hand 1 21
120,332 99,025
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (58,749) (32,640)
Net current assets 61,583 66,385
Total assets less current liabilities 66,028 71,830
Net assets 66,028 71,830
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 7 7,764 7,664
Share premium account 7 27,585 26,345
Other reserves 25,333 25,333
Own shares (3,776) (3,776)
Share-based payment reserve 2,393 2,173
Profit and loss account 6,729 14,091
Equity shareholders’ funds 66,028 71,830
The financial statements of Xaar plc, registered number 3320972, were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on  
16 March 2016. They were and signed on its behalf by:
Doug Edwards
Chief Executive Officer
Alex Bevis
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary
16 March 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  111 Financial Statements continued
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes
Called up 
share capital
£’000
Share premium
account
£’000
Other
reserves
£’000
Own
shares
£’000
Share-based
payments
£’000
Profit and
loss account
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2014 as previously stated 7,589 25,484 25,333 (4,046) 2,047 8,462 64,869
Effect of restatement due to change in 
accounting framework (see note 10) – – – – – 919 919
At 1 January 2014 as restated 7,589 25,484 25,333 (4,046) 2,047 9,381 65,788
New shares issued 75 861 – – – (28) 908
Own shares sold in the period – – – 270 – (9) 261
Dividends paid 6 – – – – – (6,377) (6,377)
Deferred tax on share based payments – – – – – (647) (647)
Profit for the financial year – – – – – 11,771 11,771
Credit to equity for share-based 
payments – – – – 126 – 126 
At 1 January 2015 7,664 26,345 25,333 (3,776) 2,173 14,091 71,830
New shares issued 100 1,240 – – – (40) 1,300
Dividends paid 6 – – – – – (6,925) (6,925)
Deferred tax on share based payments – – – – – (38) (38)
Loss for the financial year – – – – – (359) (359)
Credit to equity for  
share-based payments – – – – 220 – 220
At 31 December 2015 7,764 27,585 25,333 (3,776) 2,393 6,729 66,028 
The share premium account and other reserves are non-distributable.
112  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc 1. Significant accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. The Company meets the definition of  
a qualifying entity under FRS 100 (Financial Reporting Standard 100) issued by the Financial Reporting Council. Accordingly, in the year ended 31 
December 2015 the Company has decided to adopt FRS 101 and has undergone transition from reporting under UK GAAP to FRS 101 as issued 
by the Financial Reporting Council. Accordingly, the financial statements have therefore been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 (Financial 
Reporting Standard 101) ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ as issued by the Financial Reporting Council. This transition is not considered to  
have had a material effect on the financial statements. The results of Xaar plc are included in the consolidated financial statements of Xaar plc.
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to share-based 
payment, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of comparative information in respect of certain assets, presentation of a cash 
flow statement and certain related party transactions.
Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated financial statements of Xaar plc. 
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for the re measurement of certain financial instruments  
to fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are the same as those set out In note 3 of the consolidated financial statements except as noted below. 
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
Investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less provision for impairment. 
For investments in subsidiaries acquired for consideration, including the issue of shares qualifying for merger relief, cost is measured by reference  
to the nominal value only of the shares issued. Any premium is ignored.
Bonds with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity dates that the Group has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are 
classified as held-to-maturity investments and are measured at amortised cost using effective interest method less any impairment.
2. Profit for the year
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year.  
Xaar plc reported a loss for the financial year ended 31 December 2015 of £359,000 (2014: profit of £11,771,000, which includes a dividend 
received from XaarJet Limited of £20,500,000).
The average number of employees throughout 2015 was 35 (2014: 35). Staff costs amounted to £2.5 million (2015: £1.4 million). Information  
about the remuneration of Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration report on page 43 of the consolidated  
financial statements. For the remuneration of key management personnel of the Company see note 34 of the consolidated financial statements.
The audit fee for the audit of the Company’s annual financial statements in 2015 was £22,000 (2014: £22,000). 
3. Fixed asset investments
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Subsidiary undertakings
At beginning of the year 4,445 12,445
Additions in the year – 936
Impairment loss in the year – (8,936)
At end of the year 4,445 4,445
Held-to-maturity investments 
At beginning and end of the year 1,000 1,000
The investment held in Xaar Group AB was fully impaired in 2014.
Notes to the Company financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  113 Financial Statements continued
3. Fixed asset investments continued
The recoverable amount of each investment is determined from a value-in-use calculation. The key assumptions to which the value-in-use calculation  
is most sensitive are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period.
The Company prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial forecasts reviewed by management for the next three years 
and these have been used in the value-in-use calculation. The discount rate applied to the cash flow projections is 9% (2014: 10%) and reflects 
management’s estimate of return on capital employed. 
Held-to-maturity investments represent investment in bonds returning interest at 3% per annum, which mature on 22 November 2018. There is an 
option to receive any or all of the bonds on the 3rd (21 November 2016) or 4th (21 November 2017) anniversary of the issue without penalty upon 
giving six months’ notice to or from bondholders. Therefore, for the year ended 31 December 2015, the investment is included in current assets.
4. Debtors
 2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Amounts receivable within one year
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 92,055 82,659
Prepayments and accrued income 27 132
92,082 82,791
Amounts receivable after more than one year
Deferred tax asset 127 213
 92,209 83,004
The deferred tax asset recognised relates to share-based payments as at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014. The Finance (No. 2) Act 
2015, which provides for a reduction in the main rate of corporation tax from 20% to 19% effective from 1 April 2017, and a reduction in the main 
rate of corporation tax to 18% effective from 1 April 2020, was substantively enacted on 18 November 2015. These rate reductions have been 
reflected in the calculation of deferred tax at the balance sheet date.
5. Creditors
 2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 58,490 32,275
Accruals 259 365
 58,749 32,640
For additional disclosures relating to financial liabilities, see note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
6. Dividends
 2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 6.0p (2013: 5.5p) per share 4,535 4,124
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 3.15p (2014: 3.0p) per share 2,390 2,253
Total distributions to equity holders in the period 6,925 6,377
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 6.3p (2014: 6.0p) per share 4,891 4,599
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
114  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc 7. Share capital and share premium account
Full details of movements in share capital and the share option schemes, and share premium are given in notes 25 and 26 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
8. Share-based payments
Equity-settled share option scheme
The Company’s share option schemes are open to all employees of the Company. Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted 
market price of the Company’s shares on the date of grant. The vesting period is three years. The vesting criteria of these options are disclosed in 
note 32 to the consolidated financial statements. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, 42 months in 
the case of the Share Save Scheme, or five years in the case of the Share Incentive Plan, the options expire. Save as permitted in the share option 
scheme rules, options lapse on an employee leaving the Company.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £4.58 (2014: £8.20). The options 
outstanding at 31 December 2015 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of five years (2014: five years), and a range of exercise prices 
between 0 pence and 616 pence (2014: 0 pence and 616 pence). 
The performance conditions relating to the above share options and the exercise prices of options outstanding at the year-end are given in note 32 
to the consolidated financial statements.
Long Term Incentive Plan
The Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan is open to all employees of the Company. Vesting of Performance Share Awards made under this scheme 
is conditional upon the achievement of performance conditions. Full details of the performance conditions are shown in note 32 of the consolidated 
financial statements. All awards made under this scheme are exercisable within three to ten years after the date of grant. Save as permitted in the 
Long Term Incentive Plan rules, awards lapse on an employee leaving the Company.
9. Subsidiary undertakings
The following entities are wholly owned subsidiary undertakings of the Company:
Name
Country of
incorporation Principal activity Issued and fully paid up share capital
Proportion of 
ordinary share 
capital held by 
the Company
Xaar Technology Limited England Research and development 4,445,322 ordinary shares of £1 each 100%
XaarJet Limited England Manufacturing, research and 
development and sales and marketing
2 ordinary shares of £1 each 100%
XaarJet (Overseas) Limited England Sales and marketing 1 ordinary £1 share 100%
Xaar Trustee Limited
1
England Trustee 2 ordinary shares of £1 each 100%
Xaar Digital Limited England Treasury 1 ordinary £1 share 100%
Xaar Group AB Sweden Holding company 1,137,000 ordinary shares of 
SEK 0.09 each
100%
XaarJet AB
2
Sweden Manufacturing 1,000 ordinary shares of SEK 100 each 100%
Xaar Americas Inc. USA Sales and marketing 10,000 shares of common stock 
US$1 each
100%
 
1 Xaar Trustee Limited shares are held by Xaar Technology Limited.
2 XaarJet AB shares are held by Xaar Group AB.
10. Transition to FRS 101 and IFRSs
For all periods up to and including the year ended 31 December 2014, the Company prepared its financial statements in accordance with previously 
extant United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice (UK GAAP). These financial statements, for the year ended 31 December 2015, are 
the first the Company has prepared in accordance with FRS 101.
Accordingly, the Company has prepared individual financial statements which comply with FRS 101 applicable for periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2014 and the significant accounting policies meeting those requirements are described in the relevant notes.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  115 Financial Statements continued
10. Transition to FRS 101 and IFRSs continued
In preparing these financial statements, the Company has started from an opening balance sheet as at 1 January 2014, the Company’s date  
of transition to FRS101, and made those changes in accounting policies and other restatements required for the first-time adoption of FRS 101.  
As such, this note explains the principal adjustments made by the Company in restating its balance sheet as at 1 January 2014 prepared  
under previously extant UK GAAP and its previously published UK GAAP financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
On transition to FRS 101, the Company has applied the requirements of paragraphs 6-33 of IFRS 1 ‘First time adoption of International Financial 
Reporting Standards’.
Exemptions Applied
IFRS 1 allows first-time adopters certain exemptions from the general requirements to apply IFRSs as effective for December 2013 year ends 
retrospectively. The Company has taken advantage of the following exemptions:
IFRS 2 Share based payment has not been applied to any equity instruments that were granted on or before 7 November 2002, nor has it been 
applied to equity instruments granted after 7 November 2002 that vested before 1 January 2005. This is treatment is consistent with the transitional 
provisions taken when the Company adopted FRS 20, the UK equivalent standard.
The July 2015 amendments to FRS 101 have been early adopted in relation to the exemption from presenting a statement of financial position  
and related notes as at the date of transition.
Restatement of equity from UK GAAP to FRS 101
Notes
31 December 
2013
as previously 
stated
£’000
31 December 
2013 
effect of 
transition
£’000
31 December 
2013 
FRS 101 
(as restated)
£’000
31 December 
2014
as previously 
stated
£’000
31 December 
2014 
effect of 
transition
£’000
31 December 
2014 
FRS 101 
(as restated)
£’000
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiaries 12,445 – 12,445 4,445 – 4,445
Held-to-maturity investments 1,000 – 1,000 1,000 – 1,000
13,445 – 13,445 5,445 – 5,445
Current assets
Debtors – due within one year 65,886 – 65,886 82,791 – 82,791
Debtors – due after one year 1 173 919 1,092 135 78 213
Treasury deposits 2 – 21,000 21,000 – 16,000 16,000
Cash at bank and in hand 2 21,018 (21,000) 18 16,021 (16,000) 21
87,077 919 87,996 98,947 78 99,025
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (35,653) – (35,653) (32,640) – (32,640)
Net current assets 51,424 919 52,343 66,307 78 66,385
Total assets less current liabilities 64,869 919 65,788 71,752 78 71,830
Net assets 64,869 919 65,788 71,752 78 71,830
Capital and reserves 64,869 919 65,788 71,752 78 71,830
1. Deferred tax 
Because IFRSs defines deferred tax in relation to temporary differences between carrying values and their related tax bases, rather than timing 
differences in the income statement, adjustments are required to recognise items for which no deferred tax was recognised under UK GAAP .  
As such, an increase to the deferred tax asset relating to share based payments has been recognised.
2. Treasury deposits 
IAS 7 defines cash equivalents as held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments rather than for investment or other purposes, 
and for an investment to qualify as a cash equivalent it must be readily convertible. Therefore, an investment normally qualifies as a cash equivalent 
only when it has a short maturity from the date of acquisition. Treasury deposits comprise bank deposits with an original maturity of between three 
months and twelve months, therefore have been reclassified on the face of the balance sheet.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
116  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Five year record
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Summarised consolidated results
Results
Adjusted revenue 93,472 109,150 134,134 86,304 68,706
Adjusted gross profit 44,690 48,602 71,020 40,948 30,379
Adjusted profit before tax 20,819 24,610 41,118 18,386 10,566
Adjusted profit after tax 19,024 20,229 33,102 14,964 7,922
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 24.5p 26.4p 43.2p 20.1p 10.7p
Adjusted basic earnings per share excluding the impact of IAS 38 17.0p 17.2p 44.9p 20.7p 11.2p
Dividends pence per share 9.45p 9.0p 8.0p 4.0p 3.0p
Assets employed
Net cash* 69,747 46,963 53,485 28,853 17,403
* Net cash is made up of cash and cash equivalents, treasury deposits less borrowings.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  117 Financial Statements continued
Notice of the Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the nineteenth Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) of Xaar plc (the ‘Company’) will be held at 296 Science Park,  
Cambridge, CB4 0WD on Wednesday 18 May 2016 at 9:30 am for the following purposes:
Ordinary business
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions:
1. To receive the Company’s annual financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2015.
2. To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting  
of the Company at which financial statements are laid.
3. To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
4. To declare a final dividend for the financial year ended 31 December 2015 of 6.3 pence per ordinary share.
5. To re-elect Alex Bevis as a Director.
6. To re-elect Doug Edwards as a Director.
7. To re-elect Phil Lawler as a Director.
8. To re-elect Ted Wiggans as a Director. 
9. To re-elect Robin Williams as a Director.
10. To re-elect Margaret Rice-Jones as a Director.
11. To re-elect Chris Morgan as a Director.
12. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration report (excluding the Directors’ remuneration policy set out on pages 58 to 62 of the Annual Report)  
for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Special business
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions which will be proposed in the case of Resolutions 16 and 18 as Special Resolutions and 
in the case of Resolutions 13, 14, 15 and 17 as Ordinary Resolutions:
13. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration policy, the full text of which is contained in the Directors remuneration report for the year ended  
31 December 2015, as set out on pages 58 to 62 of the Annual Report, which will take effect at the conclusion of this meeting.
14. To approve an amendment to article 86 of the Company’s articles of association, so as to increase the aggregate fees capable of being paid to 
directors to an amount not exceeding £300,000 per annum in aggregate from its previous limit of an amount not exceeding £200,000 per annum.
15. To approve proposed amendments to the 2007 Xaar plc Long Term Incentive Plan rules: to increase the limit on the market value of the shares 
that may be granted under performance share award to an employee in a financial year from 100% to 175% of base salary in such financial year, 
and to give the Remuneration Committee the ability to flex the weighting of EPS and TSR measures in performance conditions applicable to 
awards in the event of early vesting as a result of a change of control, as set out in the amended rules available for inspection.
16. That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 (the ‘Act’) to make 
one or more market purchases (within the meaning of section 693(4) of the Act) of ordinary shares of 10p in the capital of the Company (ordinary 
shares) provided that:
• The maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 11,575,933 (representing 14.9% of the issued ordinary 
share capital)
• The minimum price (excluding expenses) which may be paid for an ordinary share is the par value of the shares
• The maximum price (excluding expenses) which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to the higher of (i) 105% of the 
average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five 
business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is purchased, and (ii) the amount stipulated by article 5(1)  
of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003
• This authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, or, if earlier, at the close of business on  
18 August 2017 unless renewed before that time
• The Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before the expiry of the authority which will or may  
be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of the authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract
17. That, in substitution for all existing authorities including the authority conferred on the Directors by Article 4 (B) of the Company’s Articles of 
Association, in accordance with section 551 of the Act the Directors be and they are generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all 
powers of the Company to allot equity securities (within the meaning of section 560 of the Act), or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any 
security into, shares in the Company:
(a) up to an aggregate nominal amount of £5,179,388.40 (such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any equity securities allotted 
pursuant to the authority in Resolution 17(b)) in connection with a rights issue (as defined in the Listing Rules issued by the Financial 
Conduct Authority pursuant to Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000), to holders of equity securities, in proportion to 
their respective entitlements to such equity securities, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem 
necessary or expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal or practical problems in or under the laws  
of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange; and
118  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Special business continued
17. (b) otherwise up to an aggregate nominal amount of £2,589,694.30 (such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any equity securities  
 allotted pursuant to the authority in Resolution 17(a)),
 provided that this authority shall expire on the conclusion of the Company’s Annual General Meeting in 2017, or, if earlier, at the close of business 
on 18 August 2017, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities 
to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot such equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority 
conferred by this resolution had not expired.
18. Subject to the passing of Resolution 17 of the notice of meeting, that, in substitution for all existing authorities, including the authority conferred 
on the Directors by Article 4(c) of the Company’s Articles of Association:
(a) the Directors be and they are empowered pursuant to section 570 of the Act to allot equity securities pursuant to the authority conferred by 
Resolution 17(a) as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this authority shall be limited to the allotment 
of equity securities in connection with a rights issue (as defined in the Listing Rules issued by the Financial Conduct Authority pursuant to 
Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000) but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem 
necessary or expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal or practical problems in or under the laws  
of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange; and
(b) the Directors be and they are empowered pursuant to section 570 of the Act to allot equity securities for cash pursuant to the authority 
conferred by Resolution 17(b) as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this authority shall be limited to the 
allotment of equity securities (otherwise than in connection with any rights issue (as defined in the Listing Rules issued by the Financial Conduct 
Authority pursuant to Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000)) having an aggregate nominal value of up to £388,454.10,
 provided that this authority shall expire on the conclusion of the Company’s Annual General Meeting in 2017, or, if earlier, at the close of business 
on 18 August 2017, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities 
to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority 
conferred by this resolution had not expired.
By order of the Board
Alex Bevis 
Company Secretary
16 March 2016
Notes
1. A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is also entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a show of hands or on a 
poll, vote instead of him. Where more than one proxy is appointed, each proxy must be appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different 
share or shares held by the appointing shareholder. The proxy need not be a member of the Company.
2. To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy and any authority under which it is executed (or a notarially certified copy of such authority) 
must be deposited at the office of the Company’s registrars not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting. 
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice. Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude ordinary shareholders from attending 
and voting in person.
3. Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights 
(a ‘Nominated Person’) may, under an agreement between him/her and the shareholder by whom he/she was nominated, have a right to 
be appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting. If a Nominated Person has no such proxy 
appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he/she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder  
as to the exercise of voting rights.
4. The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above does not apply to Nominated 
Persons. The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
5. In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertified Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those members entered  
on the register of members of the Company as at 9:30 am on 16 May 2016 (or in the event the meeting is adjourned, on the register of 
members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting) shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of 
shares registered in their name at that time. Changes to entries on the register of members after 9:30 am on 16 May 2016 (or in the event 
the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members less than 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting) shall be disregarded in 
determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  119 Financial Statements continued
Notes continued
6. A copy of the Xaar plc 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan, including the proposed amendments, are available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office from the date of this Notice until the commencement of the meeting. Copies of Directors’ service agreements, the terms of 
appointment of Non-Executive Directors, the register of Directors’ interests kept by the Company under section 808 of the Companies Act 2006, 
the Xaar plc 2004 Share Option Plan, the Xaar plc 2007 Share Save Plan, the Xaar plc 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan, including the proposed 
amendments, and the Xaar Share Incentive Plan will be available 15 minutes prior to the commencement of the meeting and will remain open and 
accessible during the continuance of the meeting to any person attending the meeting.
7. Biographical details of all Directors offering themselves for re-appointment are set out on pages 30 and 31 of the Annual Report and  
Financial Statements.
8. Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by shareholders of the Company under section 527 of the 
Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: (i) the audit of the 
Company’s accounts (including the auditor’s report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting; or (ii) 
any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and 
reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006. The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any 
such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006. Where the Company is required 
to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Company’s auditor not 
later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website. The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting 
includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
9. In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that: (i) if a corporate 
shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of 
the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions 
to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote (or withhold a vote) as corporate representative in accordance with those directions; and (ii) if more 
than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed 
the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate 
representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate 
representative. Corporate shareholders are referred to in the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on 
proxies and corporate representatives (www.icsa.org.uk) for further details of this procedure. The guidance includes a sample form of appointment 
letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in (i) above.
10. CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the 
procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who 
have appointed a service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate 
action on their behalf.
11. In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a ‘CREST Proxy 
Instruction’) must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCo’s specifications, and must contain the information required for such 
instruction, as described in the CREST Manual. The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment 
to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer’s agent (ID 
RA10) by 9:30 am on 16 May 2016. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to 
the message by the CREST Application Host) from which the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner 
prescribed by CREST. After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee 
through other means.
12. CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available 
special procedures in CREST for any particular message. Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input 
of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal 
member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) 
take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.  
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular,  
to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
13. The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated Securities 
Regulations 2001.
14. As at 7:00 am on 16 March 2016 (the date of publication of this Notice), the Company’ s issued share capital comprised 77,690,827 ordinary shares of 
10p each. Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at a general meeting of the Company, except for the shares held in trust for the Xaar Share 
Incentive Plan totalling 87,639 shares and, therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as 7:00 am on 16 March 2016 is 77,603,188. 
15. Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions. The Company must answer any such question relating to the business being 
dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if: (a) to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve 
the disclosure of confidential information; (b) the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question; or (c) it is 
undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
16. A copy of this Notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.xaar.com.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting continued
120  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Advisors
Registered office
316 Science Park 
Cambridge CB4 0XR
Registered number
3320972
Company Secretary
Alex Bevis
Printed by Park Communications.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental 
Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press 
chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99%  
of any waste associated with this production will be recycled. 
Brokers
Jefferies International Limited
Vintners Place 
68 Upper Thames Street 
London EC4V 3BJ
N+1 Singer
One Bartholomew Lane 
London EC2N 2AX
Registered auditor
Deloitte LLP
City House 
126–130 Hills Road 
Cambridge CB2 1RY
Solicitors
Mills & Reeve LLP
Botanic House 
100 Hills Road 
Cambridge CB2 1PH
Bankers
Barclays Bank plc
9–11 St Andrews Street 
Cambridge CB2 3AA
HSBC Bank plc
Vitrum 
St John’s Innovation Park 
Cowley Road 
Cambridge CB4 0DS
Registrars
Capita Asset Services
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent BR3 4TU
This document is printed on Magno Gloss, a paper containing 
fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC
®
 certified 
forests. The pulp used in this product is bleached using an 
elemental chlorine free (ECF) process.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Xaar plc
316 Science Park
Cambridge CB4 0XR
T +44 (0) 1223 423663
F +44 (0) 1223 423590
E info@xaar.com
www.xaar.com
