 The consumer champion at the heart of the home
Annual Report 2015
Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015 The consumer 
champion at the 
heart of the home... 
Zoopla Property Group Plc (LSE:ZPLA) (ZPG) is a 
digital media and lead generation platform that owns 
and operates some of the UK’ s most widely recognised 
and trusted digital consumer brands including Zoopla, 
uSwitch and PrimeLocation. Our mission is to be the 
most useful resource for consumers when finding, 
moving or managing their home and the most effective 
marketing channel for related business partners.
We help consumers make smarter decisions. Each 
of our brands has a distinct market position attracting 
a unique audience allowing us to deliver unrivalled 
exposure and leads for our partners. Our websites 
and mobile apps attract over 550 million visits per 
year and generate over four million leads per month 
for our partners.
Strategic report
01 Highlights
02 Zoopla Property Group at a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Chief Executive Officer’s statement
08 Our business model 
09 Our strategy and how we create value
10 Our markets
14 Group and divisional KPIs
16 Risk management and key risks
20 Business and financial review
30 Our people and corporate responsibility
Corporate governance
32 Chairman’s introduction to governance
34 Board of Directors
36 Corporate governance statement
40 Audit Committee report
44 Nomination Committee report
46 Directors’ remuneration report
60 Directors’ report (other disclosures)
62 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Financial statements
63 Independent auditor’s report
66 Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
67 Consolidated statement of financial position
68 Consolidated statement of cash flows
69 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
70 Notes to the financial statements
95 Company statement of financial position
96 Company statement of cash flows
97 Company statement of changes in equity
98 Notes to the Company financial statements
100 Shareholder information
100 Note on forward-looking statements
For the latest investor news and 
announcements visit www.zpg.co.uk
08 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Our business model 
The scale of our audience reinforces 
the value we deliver to our partners
More  
partners/deals
More  
partners/inventory
More  
switching revenue
More  
visitors/leads
More  
investment/marketing spend
More  
subscription revenue
More  
visitors/leads
Comparison Services Property Services
Extending the ZPG proposition to monetise the entire property lifecycle
More  
investment/marketing spend
Strategic report
09 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Data Services
Professional Services
Property Services
Comparison Services
Our strategy and how we create value
Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Mission:
To be the most useful resource for consumers when finding, moving or managing their home 
and the most effective marketing channel for related business partners.
The property sector in the UK presents multiple opportunities for further growth and monetisation.
The market opportunity
Key priorities:
Establish key 
partnerships for 
inventory and deals
Build
Differentiate our 
consumer and 
partner experiences
Innovate
Invest in our brands 
and consumer 
engagement
Grow
Create new products 
and services to 
monetise
Develop
Grow revenues 
in adjacent 
business areas
Expand
Wow users, 
partners and staff 
in all we do
Amaze
Maximise synergies 
across the business
Integrate
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Read about our business from page 8 01 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Highlights
The Group is well positioned to deliver 
on its long-term strategy
Business highlights
 f Revenue increase of 34% to £107.6 million 
 f Adjusted EBITDA
1,4
 up 23% to £48.7 million
 f Solid ARPA
2
 growth in the Property Services division and continuous growth in the number of UK Agency 
partners since May
 f Over 25 million leads generated for the Group’s Property partners, including over 300,000 appraisal leads 
 f Strong performance in all verticals within the Comparison Services division since the acquisition of uSwitch
 f Over 9 million leads generated for the Group’s Comparison partners during the last four months of the period
 f Proposed final dividend of 2.5 pence per share, bringing the total dividend to 3.5 pence per share
1 Adjusted EBITDA is defined as operating profit after adding back depreciation and amortisation, share-based payments and exceptional items.
2 Average revenue per advertiser (ARPA) represents revenue from the Group’s property partners in a given month divided by the total number of property partners during 
the month, measured as a monthly average over the period.
3 Adjusted basic EPS is defined as profit for the year after adding back amortisation of intangibles arising from the acquisition of uSwitch and exceptional items, as 
adjusted for tax, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue for the period.
4 The Directors believe that the adjusted figures give a more appropriate measure of the Group’s underlying financial performance.
Financial highlights
Revenue
£107.6m
+34%
80.2
107.6
64.5
2013 2014 2015
Adjusted EBITDA
1,4
£48.7m
+23%
39.6
48.7
29.4
2013 2014 2015
2013 2014 2015
Profit for the year
£25.4m
+20%
21.1
25.4
22.3
Adjusted basic EPS
3,4
8.4p
+29%
6.5
8.4
5.4
2013 2014 2015
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Helping consumers make smarter decisions 02
Zoopla Property Group at a glance
A story of innovation, differentiation 
and consolidation
In 2008, Zoopla transformed the property portal landscape with the introduction of a highly differentiated 
consumer proposition providing data and delivering transparency to empower consumers to make 
better-informed property decisions. The combination of research and search has made Zoopla an 
essential resource for consumers throughout their property journey. Following the acquisition of uSwitch, 
ZPG is leading the next phase of innovation by creating the ultimate home-related lead generation 
platform to help consumers find, move and manage their home. 
2008 revenue 2009 revenue 2010 revenue 2011 revenue
Our history
2008
 f Zoopla.co.uk goes live
 f Launched: Automated 
Valuation Model (AVM)
2009
 f Acquired: PropertyFinder.com, 
HotProperty.co.uk and 
ThinkProperty.com
 f Launched: Property listings
2010
 f Acquired: BytePlay
 f Launched: ZooplaPro
2011
 f Acquired: HousePrices.co.uk
 f Won: Best Property Portal: 
Western Europe (Property 
Portal Awards)
£13.8m
£8.0m
£1.1m £24k
550 million+
total visits
25 million+
Property  
Services leads
16,400+
advertising partners
9 million+
Comparison 
Services leads
800,000+
social audience
62%
mobile visits
438
employees
7 million+
app downloads
Strategic report Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015 03
The Group benefits from its multi-channel, 
multi-brand approach
In 2015, ZPG acquired 
uSwitch, the UK’s number 
one price comparison website 
and lead generation platform 
in the home services sector.
uSwitch is one of the UK’s leading price comparison and switching services, helping 
consumers to find the best deals and save money on their gas, electricity, broadband, 
TV, phone and personal finance products. In 2015, uSwitch saved UK consumers over 
£165 million on their energy bills alone.
Comparison Services
ZPG owns and operates the 
second and third most visited 
property websites in the UK: 
Zoopla and PrimeLocation.
Zoopla is the UK’s most comprehensive 
property website which combines hundreds 
of thousands of property listings with market 
data and local information, empowering our 
users to make smarter property decisions 
by helping them to research the market 
and find their next home.
PrimeLocation is the UK’s leading property 
website for aspirational property-hunters at 
the upper end of the market, listing hundreds 
of thousands of homes to help users explore 
the property market and find their dream 
home from leading estate agents and 
developers in the UK and across the globe.
Property Services
2012 revenue 2013 revenue 2014 revenue 2015 revenue
2012
 f Acquired: UpMyStreet.com, 
PrimeLocation.com, 
FindaProperty.com  
and Globrix.com
 f Launched: Zoopla Property 
Group Ltd
2013
 f Acquired: SmartNewHomes.com 
and HomesOverseas.co.uk
 f Won: Best Brand (Sunday Times 
Tech Track 2013 Awards)
2014
 f Successful IPO on the 
London Stock Exchange
 f Rated an “Outstanding” place 
to work by Best Companies
2015
 f Acquired: uSwitch
 f Launched: Comparison Services
£107.6m
£80.2m
£64.5m
£26.8m
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 04 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Highlights
 f In June, we announced the 
successful completion of the 
uSwitch acquisition 
 f Secured the long-term commitment 
of Alex Chesterman, Founder 
and CEO, to continue leading the 
Group to achieve its significant 
growth potential
 f Appointed Vin Murria as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director 
I am pleased to announce the Group’s results for the year.
Our revenue and profits have grown significantly 
this year as a result of the newly acquired 
Comparison Services division performing ahead of 
expectations and the continued robust 
performance in the Property Services division. 
Total revenue has increased by 34% to 
£107.6 million and Adjusted EBITDA has 
increased by 23% to £48.7 million. These 
figures include four months of uSwitch trading 
following the successful acquisition in June. 
The acquisition was funded by a mixture of 
existing cash and a new five year revolving credit 
facility which was secured based on the highly 
cash-generative nature of the business.
Our consumer-led approach and proposition 
have helped to drive strong engagement on 
our property websites and mobile apps as 
consumers continue to rely on the unique 
services and data we provide. The launch of 
a new competitor negatively impacted our UK 
Agency numbers at the start of the calendar 
year but as the year progressed, this churn 
slowed significantly and we returned to positive 
growth in May. After five months of consecutive 
UK Agency growth, the Group is well positioned 
for long-term success.
Acquisition
In June, we announced the successful completion 
of the acquisition of Ulysses Enterprises Limited 
and its subsidiaries (together, “uSwitch”). Founded 
in 2000, uSwitch is the UK’s number one price 
comparison website and lead generation platform 
in the home services sector (energy and 
communications) and is one of the most widely 
recognised and trusted brands in the price 
comparison space. The acquisition of uSwitch 
was a transformational step in the Group’s 
mission to be the most useful resource for 
consumers and the most effective marketing 
partner for professionals across the property 
space. uSwitch has outperformed since the 
acquisition and the Board is pleased with the 
progress made on its integration into the 
Group so far.
Financial performance and dividends
Adjusted EBITDA was up 23% to £48.7 million 
(2014: £39.6 million) and Adjusted basic earnings 
per share (EPS), which excludes exceptional 
items, was up 29% to 8.4 pence per share 
(2014: 6.5 pence per share). We maintain a 
progressive dividend policy based on the strong 
cash generation and long-term earnings potential 
of the Group. The Directors have proposed a 
final dividend of 2.5 pence per share to be paid 
in respect of the year ended 30 September 2015. 
Chairman’s statement
Our consumer-led 
approach and proposition 
have helped to drive 
strong engagement 
Strategic report 05 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
This, together with the interim dividend of 
1.0 pence per share, brings the total dividend 
in respect of the 12 months ended 30 September 
2015 to 3.5 pence per share. Subject to 
shareholder approval at the 2016 Annual General 
Meeting, this will be paid on 3 March 2016 
to all shareholders on the share register on 
18 December 2015. 
Share capital 
There has been no significant change to the 
share capital of the Company since last year. 
Following the discounted sale of shares to our 
UK Agency partners as part of our exclusive 
anniversary offer, Daily Mail and General Trust Plc 
(DMGT) still remains the largest single investor 
in the Company with a holding of 31.3%. 
Alex Chesterman, Founder and CEO, holds 
3.1%. The Company continues to build up a 
register of respected institutional shareholders.
The Board
This past year has been a busy one for the 
Board with particular focus on the increased 
competition in the property portal space and 
the acquisition of uSwitch.
The Board received support from 84% of 
shareholders regarding the introduction of a 
Value Creation Plan (VCP) in order to secure the 
long-term commitment of Alex Chesterman, 
Founder and CEO, to continue to lead the 
business and realise the significant growth 
potential of the Group.
Another key area of focus for the Board in 2015 
was the recruitment of an additional independent 
non-executive director. After a careful and 
rigorous search, the Company announced the 
appointment of Vin Murria as an Independent 
Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 July 2015. 
Vin has 25 years’ experience of working with 
private equity-backed and publicly listed 
companies, focusing on the software sector. 
Following Vin’s appointment, the Board now 
comprises 10 Directors, two of whom are female, 
with a good diverse balance of backgrounds, 
skills and experience to meet the challenges of 
the year ahead, whilst implementing and driving 
the Group’s strategic direction and maintaining 
the highest standards of corporate governance.
Biographies of all members of the Board 
appear on pages 34 and 35.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s next Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) will be held on Thursday 25 February 2016. 
The resolutions at the AGM will be conducted 
on a poll as we believe that this inclusive method 
enables the views of the broadest number of 
shareholders to be taken into account. I am 
very much looking forward to the opportunity 
to meet with shareholders at the AGM.
It has been an exceedingly busy, exciting and 
challenging year and I have been particularly 
impressed by the commitment and resolve 
of Alex and his team.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
everyone in the Group for their contribution 
throughout the past year. 
Mike Evans
Chairman
“ Our revenue and profits have grown significantly this year as a result of the 
newly acquired Comparison Services division performing ahead of expectations 
and the continued robust performance in the Property Services division.”
Our latest campaign: Zoopla billboards
Following the success of its previous 
campaigns, Zoopla launched a new 
national marketing campaign in August 
which included stand-out billboards, buses 
and radio adverts. The new comprehensive 
campaign evolves the current visual 
style and was designed to demonstrate 
astonishing Zoopla data and the 
informative and useful role the portal 
plays when searching for a home.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 06 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Highlights
 f 2015 has been another 
transformational year for Zoopla 
Property Group as we delivered 
strong revenue and Adjusted 
EBITDA growth 
 f Acquisition of uSwitch helping us 
move further towards our vision
 f The Group’s websites enjoyed over 
40 million visits per month in FY15 
 f We reached a significant milestone of 
over 7 million app downloads to date 
 f We welcomed more great talent into 
the Group including Steve Weller and 
his team at uSwitch
FY15 summary
2015 has been another transformational year 
for Zoopla Property Group as we delivered strong 
revenue and Adjusted EBITDA of £107.6 million 
and £48.7 million respectively. Significant progress 
has been made towards our vision of being the 
consumer champion at the heart of the home 
as a result of the successful acquisition of uSwitch, 
the UK’ s number one home services comparison 
website and lead generation platform. Following 
this key acquisition, which was completed on 
1 June 2015, the Group now has two key 
operating divisions: Property Services and 
Comparison Services.
The Group’s websites enjoyed over 40 million 
visits per month in FY15 which generated over 
2 million leads per month on average for our 
property partners and helped over 1 million 
consumers compare and save money with 
our comparison partners. Mobile growth has 
continued to be a key feature of the business 
evolution, accounting for over 62% of all visits 
during the year.
Property Services 
Despite the reduction in our UK Agency partners 
and inventory as a result of the launch of a new 
agent-owned portal, which prevents its members 
from advertising on more than one of the other 
established property portals, we have continued 
to grow our audience and ARPA across every 
vertical. Revenue in the Property Services 
division was £79.9 million. Traffic to our property 
platform continued to grow with total visits up 
4% year-on-year and we also reached a significant 
milestone of over 7 million app downloads to 
date as consumers continue to use our 
services as their primary resource for searching 
and researching the property market.
Comparison Services
The Comparison Services division has 
outperformed expectations in the four months 
since it was established following the acquisition 
of uSwitch. Both the Energy and Communications 
verticals have benefited from our market-leading 
position, competitive consumer offerings and 
underlying structural growth in the switching 
market through increased consumer awareness. 
The regulatory environment remains positive 
for switching as a means for consumers to 
get easy access to the best deals in the market. 
We look forward to further developing the Financial 
Services vertical over the next 12 months. 
Revenue in the Comparison Services division 
for the four months from 1 June 2015 was 
£27.7 million.
Executing on our strategy
We continue to lead innovation and deliver on 
our strategy of extending the ZPG proposition 
beyond property search to provide the most 
useful resources for consumers when finding, 
moving or managing their home and be the 
most effective marketing channel for related 
business partners. This strategy will allow us 
to monetise all stages of the property journey 
and both movers and non-movers alike. 
The Group will further benefit from our 
multi-brand, multi-channel approach, delivering 
growth from both our Property Services and 
Comparison Services divisions.
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
The acquisition of 
uSwitch was a key step 
towards our vision of 
being the consumer 
champion at the 
heart of the home
Strategic report 07 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Acquisition of uSwitch
The acquisition of uSwitch, the market-leading 
brand in home services price comparison, in June 
this year gives us the opportunity to develop our 
combined services and become the consumer 
champion at the heart of the home. uSwitch 
continues its mission to help consumers find 
the best deals and save money on their household 
bills and during the year offered an exclusive 
collective switch with the cheapest dual fuel 
deal available on the market in over four years, 
empowering consumers to save an average of 
£419 off their annual energy bills. The integration 
of services across our platform over time will 
drive enhanced user engagement and create 
unique opportunities for our partners.
Investing in our brands
We continue to invest heavily in our brands in terms 
of both product and marketing. We launched 
a number of new features during the past year 
with many more planned for the year ahead. 
Some of the highlights in the Property Services 
division include the launch of Real-Time Listings 
on our property websites, allowing the publishing 
of updates to property listings within minutes. 
We also launched FindaPro, providing users 
with access to thousands of local tradesmen 
such as builders, architects and painters. 
In the Comparison Services division, uSwitch 
launched a new iOS app, allowing users 
to scan their energy bills to get an instant 
comparison with the ability to then switch 
providers via the app. Our marketing efforts 
continue to deliver as each of our brands are 
amongst the best-known and most-trusted 
digital brands in the UK with continued high 
levels of consumer awareness. 
Looking forward
Whilst the past year has not been without its 
challenges in our Property Services division, 
we remain focused on delivering great services 
to our audience and great value to our partners. 
We are excited by the opportunities that will 
come from our continued investment in the 
Comparison Services division and the integration 
of its products across our platform. We will 
continue to invest in marketing our brands and 
developing our integrated proposition to deliver 
on our strategy in 2016. 
Finally, we will ensure that we continue to attract 
and retain the best talent in the market and 
I am delighted to welcome Steve Weller and his 
team at uSwitch to the ZPG family. I would also 
like to take this opportunity to thank the Group’s 
management team and staff for their continued 
passion and dedication to our mission. 
 
 
Alex Chesterman
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive Officer’s Q&A
What was the rationale behind the uSwitch acquisition?
Our vision has always been about more than just property search. 
We want to help consumers throughout the entire property lifecycle – 
helping them to find their next home, with their move and managing 
their home. The acquisition of uSwitch has been a great step towards 
our strategic vision of being the consumer champion at the heart 
of the home.
What does “the consumer champion at the heart of the home” mean?
This vision is at the centre of everything we do and all of our services 
are designed to empower consumers to make smarter decisions. 
We provide unique data and tools to help our users choose the right 
home, find the best deals and save money on their household bills. 
What was your highlight of 2015?
The acquisition of uSwitch was, of course, the key highlight of the year as it 
allows us to move much further towards delivering on our vision. We have 
also welcomed more great talent into the Group and launched further 
new innovative products and services for our consumers and partners. 
How has the business evolved from one year ago?
2015 has been both exciting and challenging. We have effectively doubled 
in size in terms of revenue and headcount through the acquisition 
of uSwitch but are obviously disappointed by the reduction in UK 
Agency partners resulting from the launch of Agents’ Mutual, which 
prevents its members from advertising on all major portals. We look 
forward to welcoming back these partners over time as we remain 
the best value marketing channel for property professionals. 
What does 2016 hold for Zoopla Property Group?
We plan to continue to innovate and grow the business and continue to 
deliver on our mission to provide the most useful resources for consumers 
when finding, moving or managing their home and to be the most effective 
marketing channel for related business professionals. In particular, I am 
excited by both the standalone potential in the key operating divisions 
and the opportunities to maximise synergies across the Group.
“ Significant progress has been made towards our vision of being the consumer 
champion at the heart of the home as a result of the successful acquisition 
of uSwitch, the UK’s number one home services comparison website.”
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 08 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Our business model 
The scale of our audience reinforces 
the value we deliver to our partners
More  
partners/deals
More  
partners/inventory
More  
switching revenue
More  
visitors/leads
More  
investment/marketing spend
More  
subscription revenue
More  
visitors/leads
Comparison Services Property Services
Extending the ZPG proposition to monetise the entire property lifecycle
More  
investment/marketing spend
Strategic report 09 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Data Services
Professional Services
Property Services
Comparison Services
Our strategy and how we create value
Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Mission:
To be the most useful resource for consumers when finding, moving or managing their home 
and the most effective marketing channel for related business partners.
The property sector in the UK presents multiple opportunities for further growth and monetisation.
The market opportunity
Key priorities:
Establish key 
partnerships for 
inventory and deals
Build
Differentiate our 
consumer and 
partner experiences
Innovate
Invest in our brands 
and consumer 
engagement
Grow
Create new products 
and services to 
monetise
Develop
Grow revenues 
in adjacent 
business areas
Expand
Wow users, 
partners and staff 
in all we do
Amaze
Maximise synergies 
across the business
Integrate
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 10 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
The majority of ZPG’s Property Services revenues are generated from its property partners (estate 
agents, lettings agents and new homes developers) spending a growing proportion of their marketing 
budgets online, where over 90% of property searches begin. ZPG’s property partners advertise across 
the Group’s websites in order to build their brand, market their clients’ properties and gain exposure 
to and enquiries from our huge audience of property-interested and transaction-ready consumers.
Property consumers – 
increasing audience engagement
The UK’s obsession with property continues to 
fuel huge volumes of traffic to property portals 
with our property websites and apps attracting 
over 40 million visits per month. Property portal 
users can be split broadly into two categories: 
movers and non-movers.
 f Movers rely on property portals intensely 
during their property search. They are hungry 
for the latest available properties and up-to-date 
local information with which they can make 
the most informed property-related decisions.
 f Non-movers, who are the movers of 
tomorrow, account for a significant share 
of property portal traffic. They are property-
interested consumers who want to know 
all of the latest housing market trends from 
recent house prices to local area information.
Both groups benefit from the convenience and 
increased transparency that the portals have 
brought to the market such as real-time alerts 
and sold prices. On top of this the proliferation 
of smartphones and the optimisation of mobile 
content are driving increased user engagement, 
transforming the way property consumers 
and advertisers interact with each other and 
the market.
Property transactions – volumes 
remain below long-term average
In 2014, there were 1,219,000 residential 
property transactions in the UK, worth over 
£303 billion. Although the property market 
was subdued in the run up to the UK General 
Election, industry experts expect the number 
of property transactions to continue to recover 
over time towards the long-term average of 
1.35 million before the financial crisis, after falling 
by over 50% during the 2007 credit crisis.
Property advertisers – continuing 
shift towards online marketing
In 2014, property advertisers spent £450 million 
on brand building and marketing their clients’ 
properties. However, despite over 90% of 
property searches starting online, they spent 
just 55% of their marketing budget on digital 
advertising. Industry experts anticipate that the 
amount spent on digital marketing will continue 
to grow as property professionals recognise the 
increased marketing efficacy available online. In 
addition, the overall amount spent on marketing 
is expected to grow as the volume of UK 
residential transactions continues to recover 
over the long term towards pre-crisis levels.
Property Services
Our markets
Brands 
Market position  #2 Zoopla 
#3 PrimeLocation
Revenue £79.9 million 
Leads 25 million+
Property Services
Market position
Industry experts expect 
transaction volumes to 
recover towards the 
long-term average of 
1.35 million before the 
financial crisis
90%+ of property 
searches start online
Strategic report 11 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
The majority of ZPG’s Comparison Services revenues are generated from its comparison partners 
(energy suppliers, communications providers and financial services companies). These partners 
display their offers across the Group’s websites in order to gain exposure to and enquiries from 
consumers who are looking to switch to the best deals in the market.
Price Comparison Websites (PCWs) – 
important role in the consumer journey
PCWs have transformed the way people research 
and buy products. They enable consumers to 
shop around and compare offers on thousands 
of different products from broadband to utilities 
in just a matter of minutes, and by offering free 
and simple comparison they give consumers 
the platform and confidence they need to 
switch to a better deal for their needs.
Consumer engagement –  
structural growth opportunity
Consumer engagement and switching rates 
vary across each of the verticals within the 
Comparison Services division.
Energy – gas and electricity 
In 2014 there were 50.1 million energy contracts 
in the UK. There were 5.3 million energy switches 
during the year, which equates to an annual 
consumer switching rate of only 11%. PCWs 
accounted for 44% of these switches.
In the UK, households that switch energy providers 
via uSwitch saved an average of £292 per year. 
Despite the opportunity for huge savings, energy 
switching has low penetration with over 50% of 
UK households saying they have never switched.
There is the potential for significant structural 
growth in the volume of switches as PCWs 
empower consumers to overcome the barriers 
to switching, such as the perceived complexity 
involved in completing a switch and a lack of 
awareness of the benefits of switching regularly. 
At the same time, regulators and Government are 
active in trying to encourage greater consumer 
engagement and increase competition amongst 
suppliers to promote better choice, value and 
innovation for consumers.
Communications – broadband, 
TV, home phone and mobile 
In 2014 there were 23.7 million broadband 
contracts and 89.9 million mobile phone 
subscriptions, with an annual switching rate 
of around 7%. 
In the rapidly evolving communications space 
comparison is about more than just price. PCWs 
play a crucial role in helping consumers understand 
and take advantage of the latest technologies – 
from super-fast broadband to the latest mobile 
phone handset to emerging technologies and 
consumer offerings such as quad play. 
The increasing complexity of packages, 
interdependency of products and planned upgrade 
of the UK’s digital infrastructure is expected 
to fuel comparison and switching via PCWs as 
consumers seek a better deal for their household.
Financial Services – banking and insurance
Financial Services is one of the most established 
comparison and switching markets in the UK. 
It can be divided into two broad areas: banking 
(credit cards, loans, mortgages, current 
accounts and credit reports) and insurance 
(motor, home, life and health insurance). 
Motor insurance has the highest penetration 
of switching. Over 20 million households 
hold a motor insurance policy, of which 33% 
switch annually due to the fixed-term nature 
of the policies and the legal requirement for 
drivers in the UK to hold insurance.
Credit cards is anticipated to be one of the key 
growth areas as consumer confidence increases 
in line with economic recovery. In 2014 over 
6 million new credit card accounts were opened 
with more than half of consumers shopping 
around and of those 66% used a PCW. 
Comparison Services
uSwitch saved consumers 
£165 million off their 
energy bills between 
1 October 2014 and 
30 September 2015
Consumers could save 
more than £1,000 if they 
switched all their home 
services through uSwitch
Brands 
Market position  #1 Energy  
#1 Communications
Revenue  £80.2 million
of which £27.7 million is 
attributable to the Group 
in 2015
Leads 24 million+
Comparison Services
Market position
“ Price comparison sites have played a crucial 
role in stimulating competition, offering a cost 
effective solution for large energy companies 
to acquire customers and providing a means 
for smaller suppliers to enter the market. 
Our business continues to perform well and 
I am excited about the opportunities ahead as 
part of ZPG, helping more consumers make 
informed decisions about their choice of 
property and how they run it.”
 Steve Weller
 CEO, uSwitch
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 12 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Our markets continued
What drives you?
Put simply, empowering consumers. I want to arm them with all the 
information and tools they need to engage with markets – whether that is 
helping them cut hundreds of pounds off their energy bills, save on a new 
broadband package, or switch to a more competitive current account.
What did you think when you heard that  
uSwitch was to become part of ZPG?
I thought it was fantastic news as it will help millions more of us access 
the information and support we need to make life more affordable. 
Buying or renting a property marks a new stage in people’s lives, so 
is the perfect point to review the household finances and get better 
deals across all home services. 
Why are comparison sites so important?
Buying a financial product or utility is not like going to the supermarket for a 
can of beans. We can’t see it, we might not understand the small print, and 
we may not know how to compare products and prices. Information 
and confidence go hand in hand towards helping consumers make 
educated choices and feel in control. But getting more of us engaging 
with the market is not only good for consumers – it’ s vital for competition 
and, in my view, this is what makes markets work. Competition puts 
pressure on providers to improve service, increase choice and lower prices.
How has uSwitch helped change things for consumers?
As a consumer champion, we look to influence industry, regulators 
and Government to make changes to practices, policies and regulations 
that will ensure people get a better deal. For example, this year we 
helped encourage the big energy suppliers to start bringing down bills 
for the majority of customers who languish on expensive tariffs. We 
continue to expose Britain’ s broadband speed postcode lottery, putting 
pressure on local authorities to roll out improvements in some of the 
country’ s worst affected areas. We’ve also lobbied for free credit reports 
to help consumers improve their credit ratings, giving them more access 
to the market’s best deals.
How do you think regulators are viewing  
consumer markets at the moment?
Well, I’m pleased to see both regulators and Government putting an 
ever increasing emphasis on competition as the most effective way of 
making markets work for consumers – as seen in the approach that the 
Competition and Markets Authority is taking in both its energy and retail 
banking investigations. This is so much more effective than simply adding 
additional red tape. However, businesses cannot afford to be complacent. 
They must continue to do everything possible to demonstrate they’re 
working in the best interests of their customers, by offering great 
service and competitive prices – or risk the threat of extra regulation.
Q&A with Ann Robinson, 
Director of Consumer Policy
Ann Robinson joined uSwitch 10 years ago and 
has spent her career fighting for the rights of 
consumers. She is passionate about encouraging 
consumers to get the best out of competitive 
markets. She sees her role at uSwitch as a 
continuation of the work she did as Executive 
Chair of the electricity and gas consumer council, 
Energywatch, and is particularly vocal on social 
issues such as fuel poverty. Previously, Ann has 
been a senior civil servant, Chief Executive of 
Scope – leading it through a major strategic 
change of direction – and Director General 
of the British Retail Consortium.
What three things should consumers do in 2016 to help themselves?

 If you’ve not switched insurance, energy, 
credit card, broadband or mobile 
contracts for years you’re most likely to be 
massively overpaying. Use a comparison 
site to shop around, switch and save over 
£1,000. Loyalty simply doesn’t pay.

 Help your friends, family and neighbours 
who are less able to switch. It’s a sad 
fact that many of the people in most 
need of reducing their costs are also 
those who lack the knowledge and 
confidence to shop around.

 Don’t put up with poor customer 
service. If you’re not happy, don’t be 
afraid to complain. If need be, take 
your custom elsewhere.
Strategic report 13 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 14 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Group and divisional KPIs
A transformational year as we 
welcome uSwitch to the Group
Group revenue
£107.6m
+34%
80.2
107.6
2014 2015
Group Adjusted EBITDA
£48.7m
+23%
39.6
48.7
2014 2015
Property Services
2014 2015
Property Services leads
25.2m
-14%
29.2
25.2
Property Services leads 
are enquiries made to the 
Group’s property partners 
initiated either through 
the telephone number 
or email form displayed 
on the Group’ s property 
websites and apps.
2014 2015
ARPA
£342
+10%
312
342
Average revenue per 
advertiser (ARPA)  
represents revenue from 
the Group’ s property 
partners in a given month 
divided by the total number 
of property partners during 
the month, measured as 
a monthly average over 
the period.
2014 2015
Number of listings (’000)
845
-24%
1,110
845
Number of listings 
represents the total 
number of properties 
being advertised for sale 
or to rent on the Group’s 
property websites at the 
end of the period.
2014 2015
Property Services  
revenue
£79.9m
—
80.2 79.9
Property Services revenue  
represents revenue generated 
from the Property Services 
division, which includes UK 
Agency revenue, New Homes 
revenue and Other revenue 
(Overseas, Commercial, 
advertising and 
data services).
2014 2015
Number of property  
partners
16,411
-17%
19,663
16,411
Property partners 
represent the total number 
of UK estate and lettings 
agency branches, 
new home developers, 
overseas and commercial 
agency branches paying 
subscription fees to 
advertise their listings 
at the end of the period.
Property Services 
Adjusted EBITDA
£40.9m
+3%
39.6
40.9
2014 2015
Property Services 
Adjusted EBITDA 
represents Adjusted 
EBITDA, as defined 
above, for the 
Group’s  Property 
Services division.
Group Adjusted EBITDA 
is defined as operating 
profit after adding 
back depreciation 
and amortisation, 
share-based payments 
and exceptional items.
Group revenue 
comprises revenue 
generated from the 
Property Services division 
for the full year and the 
Comparison Services 
division since the date 
of acquisition.
Strategic report 15 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Group Adjusted basic EPS 
8.4p
+29%
6.5
8.4
2014 2015
Group visits
554.0m
+8%
513.5
554.0
2014 2015
Comparison Services for the 12 month period ended 30 September 2015
2014 2015
ARPL
£3.23
-13%
3.72
3.23
Average revenue per lead (ARPL) 
represents revenue from energy switching, 
communications switching, financial services 
switching, boiler cover, business energy and data 
insight divided by the total number of Comparison 
Services leads, measured as a monthly average 
over the period.
2014 2015
Comparison Services leads
24.8m
+36%
18.3
24.8
Comparison Services leads  
represents the total number of leads on the 
Group’s Comparison Services websites. The 
Group measures Comparison Services leads 
at the point when a consumer completes an 
application form hosted on the Group’s website 
or at the point in time when the customer leaves 
the Group’s website having clicked through to 
a third party website.
2014 2015
Comparison Services  
revenue
£80.2m
+17%
68.3
80.2
Comparison Services revenue  
represents revenue generated from the Group’s 
Comparison Services division, which includes 
Energy revenue, Communications revenue and 
Other revenue (financial services switching, boiler 
cover, business energy and data insight). Comparison 
Services revenue is shown for the 12 month 
period to 30 September 2015. Comparison 
Services revenue attributable to the Group since 
the date of acquisition was £27.7 million.
Comparison Services  
Adjusted EBITDA
£22.4m
+7%
21.0
22.4
2014 2015
Comparison Services Adjusted EBITDA 
represents Adjusted EBITDA, as defined on 
the opposite page, for the Group’s Comparison 
Services division. Comparison Services Adjusted 
EBITDA is shown for the 12 month period to 
30 September 2015. Comparison Services 
Adjusted EBITDA attributable to the Group since 
the date of acquisition was £7.8 million.
Adjusted basic EPS  
is defined as profit for the year after adding 
back amortisation of intangibles arising from the 
acquisition of uSwitch and exceptional items, as 
adjusted for tax, divided by the weighted average 
number of shares in issue for the period.
Visits  
comprise individual sessions on the Group’s 
websites or apps by users for the Property Services 
division for the full year and the Comparison Services 
division since the date of acquisition as measured 
by Google Analytics.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 16 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Key risks and their likelihood
 No change in risk
1. Macroeconomic conditions
2. Competitive environment
3. Changing online landscape and consumer trends
4. Retention and recruitment
 Risk increase
5. IT systems and cyber-security
6. Reputational and brand damage
 New risk
7. Regulatory environment
8. Debt covenants and funding
9. uSwitch integration
Risk management and key risks
The Group continually monitors 
and evaluates risk
Risk process and appetite
The exposure to risk is an inherent part of 
running a business and the Board recognises 
that rigorous safeguards and a sound system 
of risk management processes are required to 
mitigate these risks. Risk is a prioritised agenda 
item at Board meetings and the overall process 
for identifying and assessing business risks 
and managing their impact on the Group is 
continually reviewed by the Board. 
The Audit Committee, through delegation from 
the Board, also keeps under constant review 
the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal control and risk management systems. 
To comply with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, the Audit Committee considers updates 
to its risk management procedures at each 
Audit Committee meeting throughout the year 
and these are communicated back to the Board 
for further discussion. It receives and analyses 
regular assurance reports from Management on 
matters related to risk and control and reviews 
the timeliness and effectiveness of corrective 
action taken by Management.
This year, the Group carried out a risk 
management workshop to identify and review 
the impact and likelihood of a number of key 
risks. The relevant risk owners within the Group 
contributed to discussions of these risks. Extensive 
feedback collected from the workshop was 
used to supplement and update the Group’s 
risk register, which is reviewed at each Audit 
Committee meeting.
The Group’s risk register includes a number 
of risks, which are a combination of operational, 
strategic and financial risks. There have been 
some changes to the risk register since last year, 
mainly due to the Group’s acquisition of uSwitch, 
which has led to the identification of new potential 
risks, as outlined in the Class 1 circular provided 
to shareholders. The risk appetite of the Group 
is considered in light of the principal risks identified 
in the risk register and their impact on the Group’s 
ability to meet its strategic objectives. The Board 
considers the risk appetite in the context of the 
regulatory environment, the Group’s strategy, 
its culture and the sectors in which it operates.
Principal risks
The principal risks relating to the Group and 
its sector are summarised in the table opposite. 
The table also shows how these risks are 
managed by the Group, including mitigation plans. 
Risks can be divided into recurring risks and 
new risks. New risks are those inherited as a 
result of the uSwitch acquisition.
The risk factors described opposite are not 
an exhaustive list or an explanation of all risks. 
Additional risks and uncertainties relating to 
the Group, including those that are not currently 
known to the Group or that the Group currently 
deems immaterial, may individually or cumulatively 
also have a material adverse effect on the 
Group’s business, results of operations and/or 
financial condition.
Strategic report 17 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Description Impact Management and mitigation
1. Macroeconomic 
conditions
The Group derives most of its revenues from 
the UK residential property, energy, broadband 
and mobile markets. The Group is therefore 
dependent on the macroeconomic conditions 
in the UK and macro factors within each of the 
Group’s key markets.
 No change in risk
If the UK economy contracts or if interest 
rates increase, average property prices, the 
number of mortgage approvals, the volume 
of transactions in the UK housing market 
and the marketing budgets of the Group’s 
partners could decrease, which could reduce 
demand for the Group’s services. 
The Group is also exposed to changes in 
consumer and partner behaviour driven by 
fluctuations within the energy, broadband and 
mobile markets, which could impact demand 
for the Group’s services. 
 f Regularly reviewing market conditions 
and indicators;
 f Maintaining a flexible cost base that can 
respond to changing conditions;
 f Diversifying risk by maintaining a balance between 
different revenue streams, including diversification 
through the uSwitch acquisition, in order to provide 
protection against volatility within certain markets;
 f Developing revenue streams in other related/
adjacent markets;
 f Communicating the effectiveness of digital media 
versus alternative mediums such as print; and
 f Promoting the benefit and potential savings 
for consumers of home services switching.
2. Competitive environment
The Group operates in marketplaces which are 
highly competitive. The actions of the Group’s 
competitors can have a direct impact on 
the Group.
 No change in risk
If competitors are able to provide, or are 
perceived to provide, an enhanced partner 
or consumer service then there is a risk that 
the Group’s visits, number of partners and 
revenue may decline as a result. 
A significant portion of traffic to the Group’s 
websites is driven by search engines. 
Increased search engine optimisation or 
digital marketing expenditure by competitors 
may cause the Group to increase its own 
marketing budget to ensure that it can 
continue to compete effectively.
Whilst Agents’ Mutual continues to operate  
its restrictive advertising provision there 
is a risk that certain estate agent partners 
cannot, or choose not, to list on the Group’s 
property websites.
There is a risk that the Group may not be  
able to achieve significant traction in its other 
revenue channels due to the size, scale or 
market share of existing players in the market.
 f Communicating to partners the value proposition 
of advertising on the Group’s websites;
 f Offering attractive and competitive pricing 
packages to partners;
 f Continually monitoring and undertaking reviews 
of competitor strategies that are built into the 
regular business planning cycle;
 f Increasing consumer brand awareness 
through marketing;
 f Communicating the benefits to both partners 
and consumers of the uSwitch acquisition and 
the Group’s strategy to become the “consumer 
champion at the heart of the home”;
 f Continuing to develop and extend the Group’s 
product offering and improve the value provided 
for partners;
 f Optimising the consumer experience to drive 
traffic and leads for partners;
 f Diversifying risk through the acquisition 
of uSwitch; and
 f Regularly reviewing search engine optimisation 
and pay per click cost and effectiveness.
3. Changing online landscape 
and consumer trends
The Group participates in fast-moving 
marketplaces which are subject to rapid 
technological development and changes 
in consumer trends which may impact the 
Group’s ability to offer the best products 
and services to its partners and consumers. 
 No change in risk
The way in which consumers interact with 
businesses is evolving rapidly. There is a risk 
that consumer engagement and traffic may 
decline if the Group does not keep up with 
evolving consumer trends. Furthermore, the 
Group’s partners are constantly developing 
their business models and the way in which 
they interact with consumers directly. Failure 
of the Group to adapt to meet the needs of its 
partners could lead to a fall in the number of 
partners and revenues.
The Group is also subject to changes in policies 
set by search engine providers. Failure to keep 
pace with these changes may lead to the 
Group’s websites receiving less exposure to 
consumers and result in a fall in visitor numbers.
 f Increasing user engagement levels by 
continuing a consumer-centric approach 
to product development, improving value 
for the Group’s advertising partners;
 f Ensuring mobile optimisation in all new 
products and features;
 f Maintaining organisational flexibility, allowing 
fast responses to new business opportunities 
or threats; and
 f Monitoring and regularly reviewing search 
engine optimisation.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 18 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Description Impact Management and mitigation
4. Retention and recruitment
Success depends on the continued service  
and performance of the Group’s Senior 
Leadership Team and other key employees. 
Skilled development, technical, operating, sales 
and marketing personnel are also essential for 
the business to meet its strategic goals.
 No change in risk
Competition for qualified employees is intense 
and the loss of a number of qualified employees, 
or an inability to attract, retain and motivate 
highly skilled employees, could adversely 
impact the Group’s operations, financial 
condition or prospects.
There is also a risk of an increase in staff 
churn as a result of the uSwitch acquisition 
due to a failure to integrate the uSwitch 
business at a cultural and operational level.
 f Investing in succession planning and improving 
learning and development, giving opportunities 
for employees to upgrade skills;
 f Implementing a new HR system in 2015 which 
assists in supporting employees;
 f Providing competitive compensation packages to 
all staff, including a blend of short and long-term 
incentives for managers, and the introduction of 
the Value Creation Plan for the CEO;
 f Maintaining the culture of the Group to generate 
significant staff loyalty; and
 f Operating a structured approach to recruitment 
using specialist teams to ensure the recruitment 
of high quality employees quickly.
5. IT systems and 
cyber-security
A number of the Group’s IT systems are 
interdependent and a failure in one system 
or a security breach may disrupt the efficiency 
and functioning of the Group’s operations. 
The Group may also be subjected to 
cyber-attacks.
 Risk increase
Any failure of the Group’s IT infrastructure 
through error or attack could impair the 
operation of the Group’s websites, the 
processing and storage of data and the 
day-to-day management of the Group’s 
business. In addition, any theft or misuse 
of data held within the Group’s databases 
could have both reputational and financial 
implications for the Group.
 f Operating extensive disaster recovery and 
business continuity contingency plans;
 f Regularly testing the security of the IT systems 
and platforms including penetration testing and 
testing of DDoS attack procedures;
 f Maintaining separate platforms for the Property 
Services and Comparison Services businesses;
 f Restricting access to data, systems and code and 
ensuring all systems are secure and up to 
date; and
 f Providing training for staff on data protection 
and compliance and developing a Group-wide 
data policy.
6. Reputational and 
brand damage
The Group operates a number of identifiable and 
respected brands which could be damaged by 
factors such as unethical or unlawful activity, 
poor customer service or negative press.
 Risk increase
Damage to any of the Group’s brands could 
lead to a fall in consumer confidence in the 
Group, reducing traffic and leads for the 
Group’s partners and in turn impacting the 
Group’s revenue. In particular, the uSwitch 
brand has developed a creditable reputation 
as a consumer champion, which increases the 
potential impact of any reputational damage.
There is also a risk that the Group’ s partners may 
choose to terminate their existing relationship with 
the Group as a result of any reputational damage 
which would directly impact the Group’ s revenues.
 f Continually investing in the Group’s brands;
 f Embedding a culture of transparency, social 
awareness and ethical behaviour throughout 
the Group;
 f Regularly reviewing the Group’s risks and 
reviewing and developing internal controls 
to mitigate the risk of error or fraud;
 f Executing the Group’s strategy, which has both 
consumers and the Group’s partners at its 
core; and
 f Employing a dedicated public relations team.
7. Regulatory environment
The Group operates in a number of regulated 
environments. Certain revenue streams within the 
Comparison Services businesses are regulated 
by the FCA. The Comparison Services division 
also complies with the OFGEM Confidence 
Code and is continuing to work with OFGEM 
in relation to its inquiries.
The Group is also involved in regular communication 
with OFCOM, the CMA and other regulatory 
bodies which impact the Group and its partners.
 New risk
There is a risk that changes to the regulatory 
environment force the Group to revise its 
strategy, operations or business model. 
Changes in regulation may also impact the 
Group’s profitability via increased compliance 
costs or a fall in revenues as a result of 
changes in consumer behaviour.
Non-compliance with regulations set by a 
regulatory body may also have both 
reputational and financial implications.
 f Maintaining regular contact with all significant 
regulatory bodies;
 f Operating a culture of co-operation and 
transparency with regulators; 
 f Implementing processes to ensure compliance 
with all mandatory reporting obligations;
 f Employing a dedicated Regulation and 
Compliance Manager within the Group; and
 f Regular monitoring of regulatory risks by the 
Board, Audit Committee, legal function and 
throughout the business.
Risk management and key risks continued
Strategic report 19 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Description Impact Management and mitigation
8. Debt covenants 
and funding
The Group holds external debt and therefore 
must ensure compliance with its debt covenant 
ratios. The Group also needs to ensure that it 
has the funding required to deliver on its strategy 
and future growth plans and that it manages its 
debt and cash balances effectively.
 New risk
Failure of the Group to comply with its existing 
debt covenants may lead to a default on the 
Group’s borrowings and require the Group 
to repay any amounts outstanding.
The level of debt within the business and 
the covenants in place may also restrict the 
amount of funds available for future growth 
including future M&A activity. 
 f Negotiating sufficient headroom within the 
Group’s existing facility;
 f Consideration of current debt covenants 
embedded into budgeting and 
forecasting processes;
 f Regularly monitoring compliance with current 
debt covenants and available headroom;
 f Proactive cash management; and
 f Consideration of additional or alternative 
funding should significant opportunities for 
growth be identified.
9. uSwitch integration
The acquisition of uSwitch was a significant 
transaction and the Group needs to ensure that 
the business integrates successfully in terms of 
strategy, operations and culture.
 New risk
Failure to realise the Group’s strategy to 
become the “consumer champion at the  
heart of the home” and build an integrated 
and optimised consumer product offering  
may impact the Group’s future revenues and 
have an adverse effect on both the consumer 
experience and the value generated for the 
Group’s advertising partners.
Failure to integrate the business at a cultural 
and operational level may also increase staff 
churn within the business.
 f Executing the integration strategy and plan 
developed on acquisition;
 f Oversight of the enlarged Group by the 
Executive and Senior Leadership teams 
to ensure harmonisation of strategy and 
objectives across the Group;
 f Designing and developing integrated product 
and service offerings;
 f Communicating the benefits to both partners 
and consumers of the uSwitch acquisition and 
the Group’s strategy to become the “consumer 
champion at the heart of the home”; and
 f Harmonisation of benefits, working environments 
and practices and culture across the Group.
Viability statement
As detailed above, the Directors have conducted a robust assessment 
of the principal risks facing the Group and believe that the Group is 
well placed to successfully manage these risks. Therefore, in accordance 
with the 2014 revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code the 
Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the 
Group will continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall 
due for the next three years.
The following factors were considered in determining the three year 
viability period:
 f the Group operates within the online digital marketing space, 
a sector which is subject to rapid technological, consumer and 
market changes;
 f the Group is a relatively young enterprise, which was founded 
in 2007 and listed in June 2014; and 
 f the Group has changed rapidly over its relatively short lifetime 
and has engaged in a number of significant acquisitions.
After considering the above, the Directors believe that a three year 
viability period is the most appropriate to ensure that forecasting 
is reasonable and that the Group can conduct a reasonable 
identification and assessment of its principal risks.
In arriving at their conclusion the Directors considered the Group’s 
forecast financial performance and cash flows over the three year 
viability period. The forecast has been subject to sensitivity analysis 
driven by the principal risks to the Group, as identified above. 
The Directors have reviewed the potential impact on the business 
of sensitising a number of key assumptions including increased 
competition, a reasonable change or challenge with regards to 
regulation and macroeconomic factors such as a decline in the 
UK property market. Each analysis considered the Group’s ability 
to meet its operational and financial obligations throughout the 
period including compliance with the Group’s existing debt covenants.
Based on the analysis performed the Directors confirm that they have 
a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in operation and 
meet its liabilities as they fall due for the next three years and continue 
to adopt the Going Concern basis in preparing the Group’s audited 
financial statements for 2015.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 20 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Business and financial review
Business review
The 12 month period ended 30 September 2015 has been another transformational year 
for Zoopla Property Group as it delivered record revenue and Adjusted EBITDA of £107.6 million 
and £48.7 million respectively. 
The Group has made significant progress towards its vision of being the 
consumer champion at the heart of the home as a result of the successful 
acquisition of uSwitch, the UK’s leading home services comparison and 
lead generation platform. Following this acquisition, which completed on 
1 June 2015, the Group now has two key operating divisions: Property 
Services and Comparison Services. 
During the period the Group’s websites and mobile apps enjoyed over 
550 million visits, generating over 2 million leads per month on average 
for our property partners and helping over 1 million consumers compare 
and switch their home services providers via our comparison partners. 
Mobile growth has continued to play a key role in the evolution of the 
business, accounting for over 62% of all visits during the period.
Executing on our strategy 
ZPG’s mission remains to be the most useful resource for consumers 
when finding, moving or managing their home and to be the most effective 
marketing channel for related business partners.
On 1 June 2015, the Group acquired uSwitch, the UK’ s number one price 
comparison website (PCW) and lead generation platform in the home 
services sector (energy and communications) and one of the most widely 
recognised and trusted consumer brands in the UK. The total consideration 
for the acquisition was £160.0 million, plus a performance-based earn-out 
of up to £30.0 million. uSwitch has outperformed expectations since the 
acquisition and Management is pleased with the progress made on its 
integration into the Group so far.
The Group continues to lead innovation in the digital property and comparison 
sectors and the acquisition of uSwitch gives the Group the unique opportunity 
to help consumers find, move and manage their home through a single 
platform. Our strategy will allow us to monetise our highly engaged 
audience of movers and non-movers through all stages of the property 
journey and the integration of services across our platform will drive 
enhanced user engagement and partner opportunities over time. 
The Group continues to invest heavily in marketing its brands and 
developing new products as part of its multi-channel, multi-brand approach 
of becoming the consumer champion at the heart of the home. During 
the period, the Group launched a number of important enhancements to 
its products including: Real-Time Listings, allowing the publishing of updates 
to property listings within minutes; FindaPro, providing users with access 
to thousands of local tradesmen such as builders, architects and painters; 
and a new iOS app for uSwitch, allowing users to scan their energy bills, 
get an instant comparison and then switch providers to save money. 
Property Services
The Group’s Property Services division has exhibited robust performance, 
despite the reduction in the number of UK Agency partners following the 
launch of a new portal operated by Agents’ Mutual at the start of calendar 
year 2015. Agents’ Mutual operates a restrictive practice preventing its 
members from advertising on more than one of the other more established 
property portals. 
Average revenue per advertiser (ARPA)
The Group experienced strong ARPA growth across all verticals as its 
property partners continue to recognise the value and marketing efficacy 
from exposure to the Group’ s highly engaged, property-interested audience. 
UK Agency ARPA grew by 11% to £357 as agents continue to upgrade 
packages and buy additional premium products. ARPA for the New Homes 
vertical grew by 24% to £335, driven by additional spend on targeted 
email campaigns. Overseas ARPA grew by 7% to £149 whilst the Group 
focused on growing the number of advertising partners and inventory. 
ARPA for the Commercial vertical grew to £107 during its first 12 months 
since launch. 
Record revenue and 
Adjusted EBITDA as 
a result of the uSwitch 
acquisition and a 
robust performance 
in Property Services 
Strategic report 21 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Partners 
The launch of a new portal by Agents’ Mutual negatively impacted the 
Group’s number of UK Agency partners at the start of the calendar year 
but as the year progressed, churn levels slowed significantly and the 
Property Services division returned to positive partner growth in May. 
After five consecutive months of UK Agency growth, the Group ended 
the period with 12,702 UK Agency partners (30 September 2014: 16,373). 
The number of New Homes developments remained stable at 2,706 
(30 September 2014: 2,715) at the end of the period and the Group had 
737 Overseas partners (30 September 2014: 575) and 266 Commercial 
partners (30 September 2014: nil), taking the total number of property 
partners to 16,411 at the end of the period (30 September 2014: 19,663).
Number of visits
Traffic to the Group’s property platform remained strong, up 4% to 
44.7 million average monthly visits, reflecting the excellent market position 
and high levels of recognition of the Group’s property brands including 
Zoopla with 78% national brand awareness amongst all UK adults, up 
from 26% in November 2010 (source: Harris Interactive). The Property 
Services division also reached the significant milestone of over 7 million 
total mobile app downloads to date as consumers continue to use the 
Group’s services as one of their primary property market resources.
Number of Property Services leads
The Group generated 25.2 million leads (2014: 29.2 million) for its property 
partners during the period, including 304,819 appraisal leads (up 65% on 
the same period last year) as the Group focused on the quality of leads 
and helping its partners win new business. The total number of property leads 
compared to the previous year was impacted by the reduction in UK Agency 
partners and the corresponding inventory available.
Number of listings
The number of listings featured on the Group’s property platform fluctuated 
throughout the period as a result of the reduction in the number of UK 
Agency partners and the general shortage of supply in the market. As at 
30 September 2015 the Group had 845,000 property listings advertised 
(2014: 1.1 million).
Comparison Services 
The Comparison Services division has outperformed expectations in the four 
months since the acquisition of uSwitch, which completed on 1 June 2015. 
The Energy vertical has benefited from uSwitch’s market-leading position, 
the availability of competitive tariffs and a supportive regulatory environment 
which is active in trying to encourage greater consumer engagement and 
increase competition amongst suppliers to promote choice, value and 
innovation for consumers. During the 12 months to 30 September 2015, 
uSwitch saved consumers £165 million off their energy bills and more 
recently launched a market-leading collective switch with record levels 
of consumer participation. 
The Communications vertical outperformed as a result of the highly 
competitive consumer deals in broadband and seasonal product 
launches in mobile. The Group continues to invest in marketing and 
building out its Financial Services vertical.
Number of Comparison Services leads 
(previously “number of transactions”)
The Group measures Comparison Services leads at the point when 
a consumer completes an application form hosted on the Group’s 
platform or at the point the consumer is directed from the Group’s 
platform to a third party website. In the four months since the acquisition 
the Comparison Services division generated 9.0 million leads, an increase 
of 45% compared to the same four month period in the prior year, 
reflecting the strong performance in Energy and Communications.
Average revenue per lead 
(previously “average revenue per transaction”)
In the four months since the acquisition average revenue per lead (ARPL) 
for the Comparison Services division was £3.08, compared to an ARPL 
of £3.35 for the same four month period in the prior year as the number 
of Communications and Financial Services leads increased at a faster 
rate than the number of Energy leads.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 22 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Business and financial review continued
Financial review
Revenue and Adjusted EBITDA increased significantly as a result of the newly acquired Comparison Services division, which performed ahead 
of expectations, and the continued robust performance in the Property Services division. 
Revenue increased by 34% to £107.6 million and Adjusted EBITDA increased by 23% to £48.7 million. These figures include four months of uSwitch trading 
which was acquired on 1 June 2015. The acquisition was funded by a mixture of existing cash and a new five year revolving credit facility. The Group 
had net debt of £93.2 million at the end of the period with substantial headroom against its covenants.
The total consideration for the acquisition was £160 million, plus a performance-based earn-out of up to £30 million. The earn-out is based on Adjusted 
EBITDA and revenue performance targets payable in FY16 in cash or up to 50% in shares at ZPG’s discretion, with 50% of the earn-out consideration 
payable to uSwitch Management to be paid in FY17 and FY18. Due to the strong performance of uSwitch over the earn-out period so far which runs 
from 1 January 2015 to 30 April 2016, Management is currently forecasting to pay the earn-out in full. 
The Group maintains a dividend pay-out ratio of 35–45% of profits excluding share-based payments and exceptional items and the Directors have 
proposed a final dividend of 2.5 pence per share. This, together with the interim dividend of 1.0 pence per share, brings the total dividend to 3.5 pence 
per share for the period. 
When reviewing performance, the Directors use a number of adjusted measures, including Group Adjusted EBITDA, to measure the Group’s 
underlying performance. This is reconciled below:
Summary income statement
£m 2015 2014 YoY %
Revenue 107.6 80.2 34%
Administrative expenses (73.0) (51.8) 41%
Adjusted EBITDA 48.7 39.6 23%
Share-based payments (1.9) (3.9) (51%)
Depreciation and amortisation of other intangibles (2.0) (1.7) 18%
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on the acquisition of the uSwitch Group (2.0) — —
Exceptional items (8.2) (5.6) 46%
Operating profit 34.6 28.4 22%
Net finance (costs)/income (1.0) 0.2 —
Profit before tax 33.6 28.6 17%
Income tax expense (8.2) (7.5) 9%
Adjusted profit for the year 34.8 26.7 30%
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on the acquisition of the uSwitch Group (2.0) — —
Exceptional items (8.2) (5.6) 46%
Adjustment for tax 0.8 — —
Profit for the year 25.4 21.1 20%
Adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence) 8.4 6.5 29%
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence) 8.3 6.4 30%
Strategic report 23 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 24 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Business and financial review continued
Financial review continued
Revenue
£m 2015 2014 YoY %
Property Services
UK Agency 58.3 63.0 (7%)
New Homes 11.0 8.5 29%
Other 10.6 8.7 22%
Total Property Services revenue 79.9 80.2 —
Comparison Services
Energy 11.6 — —
Communications 13.3 — —
Other 2.8 — —
Total Comparison Services revenue 27.7 — —
Total Revenue 107.6 80.2 34%
Despite the reduction in the number of UK Agency partners, Property Services revenues were broadly flat year-on-year at £79.9 million, driven by 
strong ARPA growth across every vertical. The Comparison Services division contributed £27.7 million of revenue for the four months following the 
acquisition of uSwitch. The majority of Comparison Services revenues came from the Energy and Communications verticals, which benefited from 
uSwitch’s market-leading position and competitive consumer deals.
Operating costs
Total operating costs increased by 45% to £58.9 million. The increase in operating costs can be attributed to the four months’ trading of the 
Comparison Services division.
£m 2015 2014 YoY %
Property Services
Staff costs 15.8 12.8 23%
Other costs 23.2 27.8 (17%)
Total Property Services operating costs 39.0 40.6 (4%)
Comparison Services
Staff costs 3.7 — —
Other costs 16.2 — —
Total Comparison Services operating costs 19.9 — —
Group
Total staff costs 19.5 12.8 52%
Total other costs 39.4 27.8 42%
Total Operating costs 58.9 40.6 45%
Property Services operating costs were down 4% to £39.0 million as the increase in staff costs was offset by the Group’s planned reduction in marketing 
costs and other costs. Staff costs increased as a result of the Group’s continued investment in technical expertise and the full year impact of operating 
as a plc. In Comparison Services, the Group continues to invest in marketing and product development as it seeks to further build brand awareness 
and develop nascent business areas. Comparison Services costs of £19.9 million comprise staff costs of £3.7 million and other costs of £16.2 million.
Strategic report 25 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA increased by 23% to £48.7 million. Property Services Adjusted EBITDA increased by 3% to £40.9 million with a margin increase 
of 200 basis points to 51%. The Comparison Services division generated £7.8 million in the four months since acquisition, with a margin of 28%. 
Group margins were lower at 45% due to the mix effect from incorporating four months of the Comparison Services division. As the Group continues 
to evolve and the earn-out period ends the Directors will assess the relevance of splitting out Adjusted EBITDA for the Property Services and 
Comparison Services division. 
£m 2015 2014 YoY %
Property Services Adjusted EBITDA 40.9 39.6 3%
Property Services Adjusted EBITDA margin 51% 49% 4%
Comparison Services Adjusted EBITDA 7.8 — —
Comparison Services Adjusted EBITDA margin 28% — —
Adjusted EBITDA 48.7 39.6 23%
Share-based payments (1.9) (3.9) (51%)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (0.4) (0.2) 100%
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on the acquisition of uSwitch (2.0) — —
Amortisation of other intangible assets (1.6) (1.5) 1%
Exceptional items: (8.2) (5.6) 46%
Transaction costs incurred on the acquisition of the uSwitch Group (5.1) — —
Management deferred consideration (1.0) — —
Management earn-out (1.2) — —
Management deal related performance bonus (0.9) — —
IPO related costs — (5.6) —
Operating profit 34.6 28.5 21%
Share-based payments
The Group continued to operate its Employee Share Option Scheme and has outstanding warrants for long-term agreements with certain property 
partners. 2015 saw the first full year of the Group’s LTIP and deferred bonus schemes, which were enacted at IPO. The charge of £1.9 million in 2015 
was lower than the previous year as there was a one-off warrant charge of £3.0 million relating to the IPO in 2014.
Depreciation
The depreciation charge increased to £0.4 million in 2015. The increase was due to the full year impact of depreciation of leasehold improvements 
recognised on the Group’s relocation to a new head office during 2014. 
Amortisation
The Group splits out amortisation of intangibles arising on the acquisition of uSwitch and amortisation of other intangibles for the purposes of calculating 
adjusted basic EPS. The charge for amortisation of intangibles arising on the acquisition of uSwitch for the four months of ownership in 2015 was £2.0 million. 
The amortisation of other intangibles charge was broadly flat at £1.6 million. 
Exceptional items
Exceptional items include costs which Management believes to be exceptional in nature by virtue of their size or incidence. Total exceptional items 
of £8.2 million in 2015 represent costs incurred as a result of the Group’s acquisition of uSwitch, comprising £5.1 million of transaction costs and 
£3.1 million of consideration and deal related performance payments payable to uSwitch management. Under International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS), consideration contingent on continued employment is considered remuneration. Therefore the management related payments 
are recognised within the Group’s income statement over the period until the payment becomes unconditional. 
Net finance costs
Net finance costs of £1.0 million comprise finance costs of £1.2 million, which were partly offset by finance income of £0.2 million. The increase in 
finance costs compared to the prior year was due to the interest paid for the use of the Group’s new five year, £150 million revolving credit facility 
secured as part of the uSwitch acquisition.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 26 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Business and financial review continued
Financial review continued
Income tax expense
The Group’s income tax expense in 2015 was £8.2 million representing an effective income tax rate of 24.4% (2014: 26.2%). This is higher than 
the average statutory tax rate of 20.5% due to certain transaction costs incurred on the acquisition of uSwitch which are not tax deductible. 
Adjusted profit for the year
Adjusted profit for the year, which is calculated as profit for the year after adding back amortisation of intangibles arising on the acquisition of uSwitch 
and exceptional items, as adjusted for tax, increased by 30% to £34.8 million. Statutory profit for the year increased by 20% to £25.4 million.
Adjusted basic earnings per share (EPS)
Adjusted basic EPS, which strips out the impact of exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles arising from the acquisition of uSwitch, increased 
by 29% to 8.4 pence per share in line with the Group’s increase in adjusted profit for the year. Statutory basic EPS also grew by 22% to 6.2 pence. 
Pence per share 2015 2014
YoY
%
Adjusted basic EPS 8.4 6.5 29%
Basic EPS 6.2 5.1 22%
Summary statement of financial position
£m 2015 2014
Goodwill and intangibles 253.7 75.2 
Property, plant and equipment (PPE) 1.9 1.5 
Cash and cash equivalents 19.2 31.0
Working capital
1
 7.9 (5.6)
Loans and borrowings (112.4) —
Deferred and contingent consideration
2
(38.1) —
Provisions
2
(0.8) (0.6)
Tax assets and liabilities
2
 (14.2) (3.3)
Net assets 117.2  98.2 
1 Working capital is defined as both current and non-current, trade and other receivables less trade and other payables.
2 Includes both current and non-current balances.
The Group’s statement of financial position remained strong at 30 September 2015 as the business generates high levels of cash. Net assets as at 
30 September 2015 were £117.2 million. Intangible assets increased to £253.7 million as a result of the uSwitch acquisition. The Group ended the 
year with £19.2 million of cash and cash equivalents and £112.4 million of loans and borrowings. Trade and other receivables increased due to 
accrued income in the Comparison Services division, which operates on a longer working capital cycle as a result of its transactional nature. The 
Group recognises a liability of £38.1 million for deferred and contingent consideration payable as a result of the uSwitch acquisition. Tax liabilities 
increased as a result of the recognition of a deferred tax liability in respect of intangible assets arising on the acquisition of uSwitch. 
Net debt position
£m 2015 2014
Loans and borrowings (112.4) —
Cash and cash equivalents 19.2 31.0 
Net (debt)/cash (93.2)  31.0 
The Group had borrowings of £114.0 million before the deduction of capitalised costs. The overall increase in net debt can be attributed to the acquisition 
of uSwitch. 
Strategic report 27 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Summary statement of cash flows
£m 2015 2014
Net cash flows from operating activities 39.1 31.0
Cash flows (used in)/from investing activities
Acquisitions (153.5) (1.5)
Interest income received 0.2 0.2
Capital expenditure (0.8) (1.10)
Net cash used in investing activities (154.1) (2.4)
Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities
Proceeds on issue of debt, net of issue costs 123.3 —
Repayment of debt (11.0) —
Interest paid (0.8) —
Shares released from trust 0.4 0.2
Unpaid share capital paid up — 9.6
Dividends paid (8.7) (35.5)
Net cash flows from/(used in) financing activities 103.2 (25.7)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (11.8) 2.9
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 19.2 31.0
The Group saw strong operating cash generation with net cash inflows from operating activities of £39.1 million. The increase of 26% compared 
to last year was driven by four months of trading from the Comparison Services business. The Group had a net outflow of £153.5 million relating to 
the cash costs of the acquisition of uSwitch which includes transaction costs and excludes deferred consideration amounts payable. During the year 
the Group repaid £11.0 million of debt, reducing the Group’s outstanding gross debt from £125.0 million to £114.0 million and incurred £0.8 million 
of interest costs.
Dividends
The Group maintains a dividend pay-out ratio of 35–45% of profits excluding share-based payments and exceptional items based on the strong cash 
generation and long-term earnings potential of the Group. The Directors have proposed a final dividend for 2015 of 2.5 pence per share, resulting in a 
final proposed dividend of £10.3 million. Subject to shareholder approval at the 2016 Annual General Meeting, this will be paid on 3 March 2016 to all 
shareholders on the share register on 18 December 2015. This, together with the interim dividend of 1.0 pence per share, brings the total dividend in 
respect of the year ended 30 September 2015 to 3.5 pence per share or £14.4 million. 
Stephen Morana
Chief Financial Officer
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 28 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Business and financial review continued
Group Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
The Group’s key performance indicators (KPIs) have been updated to incorporate the acquisition of uSwitch. The figures below are for the 24 month 
period from 1 October 2013 to 30 September 2015. Each period includes 12 months of uSwitch trading in order to give a meaningful comparator.
£m 2015 2014
1
YoY %
Property Services
UK Agency 58.3 63.0 (7%)
New Homes 11.0 8.5 29%
Other
2
10.6 8.7 22%
Total Property Services revenue 79.9 80.2 —
Comparison Services
Energy
3
36.0 35.6 1%
Communications
4
34.9 27.2 28%
Other
5
9.3 5.5 69%
Total Comparison Services revenue 80.2 68.3 17%
Total Group revenue 160.1 148.5 8%
Property Services
Staff costs 15.8 12.8 23%
Other costs
6
23.2 27.8 (17%)
Total Property Services operating costs 39.0 40.6 (4%)
Total Property Services Adjusted EBITDA 40.9 39.6 3%
Comparison Services
Staff costs 11.6 9.4 23%
Other costs
6
46.2 37.9 22%
Total Comparison Services operating costs 57.8 47.3 22%
Comparison Services Adjusted EBITDA 22.4 21.0 7%
Group Adjusted EBITDA 63.3 60.6 4%
1  The Comparison Services business benefited from the impact of energy supplier price rises in September 2013. This equated to a c.£9 million increase in Energy Revenue 
and a c.£5 million increase in Adjusted EBITDA in 2014.
2 Other includes revenue from advertising, marketing services, data services, overseas and commercial property.
3 Energy includes revenue from gas and electricity switching.
4 Communications includes revenue from mobile, broadband, pay TV and home phone switching.
5 Other includes revenue from financial services switching, boiler cover, business energy and data insight.
6 Other costs include marketing, technology, property and administrative costs.
Strategic report 29 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
KPIs 2015 2014 YoY %
Group visits
7
 (million per month) 49.1 47.5 3%
Property Services
ARPA (Average revenue per advertiser)
– UK Agency £357 £323 11%
– New Homes £335 £270 24%
– Overseas £149 £139 7%
– Commercial £107 — —
Blended £342 £312 10%
Partners:
– UK Agency 12,702 16,373 (22%)
– New Homes 2,706 2,715 —
– Overseas 737 575 28%
– Commercial 266 — —
Total number of partners 16,411 19,663 (17%)
Number of visits (million per month) 44.7 42.8 4%
Number of Property Services leads (million) 25.2 29.2 (14%)
Number of listings (’000) 845 1,110 (24%)
Comparison Services
Number of Comparison Services leads
8
 (million) 24.8 18.3 36%
ARPL
9
 (average revenue per lead) £3.23 £3.72 (13%)
7 Visits comprise individual sessions on the Group’s websites or mobile applications by users for the period indicated as measured by Google Analytics.
8  The Group measures Comparison Services leads at the point when a consumer completes an application form hosted on the Group’s website or at the point in time when the 
customer leaves the Group’s website having clicked through to a third party website.
9  ARPL is the revenue from energy switching, communications switching, financial services switching, boiler cover, business energy and data insight divided by the total number of 
Comparison Services leads during the month, measured as a monthly average over the period.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 30 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
We are committed to investing in our people
Employees
We are committed to investing in our people and providing them with 
opportunities to succeed with their career development. 
The strong culture of innovation and transparency within the Group has 
helped us to continue to attract high calibre personnel, maintain a strong 
retention rate of key employees and create a workforce that is dedicated 
to delivering high quality products and services. We are constantly investing 
in our people to ensure that this continues. We achieve this by providing 
appropriate training and support from the very beginning through the 
Group’s induction programmes, in addition to long-term career planning, 
objective setting and appraisals, and constant opportunities provided to 
employees to upgrade and transfer their skills in the workplace. 
We hold regular Group-wide meetings to drive communication within the 
Group, to recognise employees for their performance in the workplace 
and to offer a forum where employees can present questions to the 
Group’s CEO. We also conduct staff surveys, at least annually, to gauge 
staff engagement levels and motivation and to provide an additional 
opportunity for staff to offer feedback and suggestions.
Employees are encouraged to participate in the Group’s Share Incentive 
Plan. This provides an opportunity for employees to purchase a certain 
number of shares in the Group each month through their pre-tax salary. 
Shares purchased by employees are then matched by the Group on a 
one-for-one basis at no cost to the employee.
We offer market-competitive benefit packages and carry out regular 
internal remuneration benchmarking across the business to ensure that 
our employees are rewarded appropriately. We offer comprehensive 
employee benefits packages and we listen to our employees to 
continually adopt new and innovative suggestions, creating benefits 
packages designed for our employees’ needs.
We respect human rights and the integrity of individuals and comply 
with all relevant laws in the way we run the business.
Charitable activity
The Group strives to make a positive difference to charitable causes, 
encouraging charitable giving by our employees and contributing to our 
employees’ development by supporting their charitable efforts. Under our 
payroll giving scheme, employees can donate tax efficiently to a charity 
directly through their pre-tax salary. The Group then matches donations 
up to a specific amount. 
The Group donates up to £100 to a registered charity linked to an employee’ s 
personal fundraising activities. Employees may also take one day’s paid 
leave every year to donate their time to a charity. The Group is a patron 
supporter of both the Prince’s Trust and Only Connect.
The Group donated a total of £52,707 to charity during 2015 (2014: £94,552)1 .
1 Charitable giving for 2015 includes donations from the uSwitch Group made in the 
period from 1 June to 30 September. 
Equal opportunity and diversity
We are committed to ensuring that there is equal opportunity and 
diversity in our employment policies and practices, including, but not 
limited to, recruitment, selection, training, promotion, pay rates, discipline 
and dismissal. We believe that recruiting, incentivising and retaining the 
best talent is key to our success and that this involves treating everyone 
equally regardless of their age, sexual orientation, parental responsibilities, 
disability, race, nationality, ethnic origin, membership of a trade union, 
religion, belief or gender. This includes giving full and fair consideration to 
applications for employment made by disabled persons and continuing 
the employment of, and arranging appropriate training for, any of the 
Group’s employees who are, or become, disabled.
Gender diversity
As at 30 September 2015
Male
Number
Female
Number
Total
Number
Male 
%
Female 
%
Directors 8  2 10 80% 20%
Senior Management2 9  3 12 75% 25%
All other employees 255 161 416 61% 39%
Total 272 166 438 62% 38%
2 Senior Management comprises the Group’s Senior Leadership Team.
Our people and corporate responsibility
Strategic report 31 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Health and safety
We are committed to maintaining a safe workplace for our employees 
and ensuring that staff have the appropriate training and working 
conditions to perform their work safely. It is therefore our policy that 
all of the Group’s facilities, products and services comply in all material 
respects with applicable laws and regulations governing safety and quality.
Environment
We continue to support energy efficiency throughout our business 
activities and remain conscious of mitigating any negative impact 
we may have on the environment. 
As an online property portal and home services switching platform, we 
naturally operate without intensive production processes, use of packaging 
or the need to print out substantial amounts of paper, a practice which 
we will continue to maintain. A number of sales employees are provided 
with company cars to allow them to meet clients within designated 
geographies; however, the majority of employees are office based. We 
encourage our employees to take our responsibilities towards protecting 
the environment seriously, including a commitment to recycling and 
automated lighting throughout the Group’s office space.
The Group also operates a “Bike-to-Work” scheme, which offers our 
employees an incentive to travel to and from work in an environmentally 
friendly way.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Since 1 October 2013 the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report 
and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 has required all UK quoted 
companies to report on their greenhouse gas emissions as part 
of their annual Directors’ report.
A report on our output of greenhouse gas emissions shows that, when 
compared with other companies of a comparable size in the same sector, 
the Group’s activities produce a very low impact on the environment.
The Group’s scope 1 and 2 emissions for the year to 30 September 2015 
are set out below. Scope 1 emissions relate to the Group’s fleet of vehicles, 
which are used by certain employees for business purposes. Scope 2 
emissions relate to the Group’s electricity and gas usage. This information 
is set out below. 
We have measured our greenhouse gas emissions using emissions 
factors from the “UK Government conversion factors for Company 
Reporting”. The period covered is that of the financial year to 
30 September 2015. CO
2
 emissions include the impact of the uSwitch 
Group from the date of acquisition. In order to provide an intensity ratio 
for our emissions disclosure, we have calculated our greenhouse gas 
emissions per employee. The Directors believe that the number of 
employees is the best indicator for a group of this size for the purposes 
of this disclosure. The number of employees used is the average number 
of full-time employees over the measurement period.
This Strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors and was 
signed on its behalf by:
 
 
Alex Chesterman
Chief Executive Officer
1 December 2015
2015 2014
CO
2
 emissions Emissions per employee CO
2
 emissions Emissions per employee
(Tonnes CO
2
e)
(Tonnes CO
2
e/number  
of employees) (Tonnes CO
2
e)
(Tonnes CO
2
e/number  
of employees)
Scope 1 emissions 343 1.1 368 1.7
Scope 2 emissions 240 0.8 154 0.7
Total 583 1.9 522 2.4
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Corporate governance
32 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the Company’s Corporate governance report for the year.
The Board has been fully committed to maintaining the highest standards 
of corporate governance and to setting and following a rigorous structure 
for the supervision and management of the Group. In this report we provide 
details of that structure and framework, and how they have changed 
from last year.
I wrote in last year’s Annual Report that it had not been practicable to 
fully comply with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(“Governance Code”) since the Company had listed only recently; 
however, we would endeavour to progress towards full compliance 
in a reasonable period of time. We have made significant progress in 
all aspects especially with the appointment of a further Independent 
Non-Executive Director, Vin Murria, with effect from 1 July 2015, after 
a careful and rigorous search.
Following Vin’s appointment, our Board is closer to becoming compliant 
with the requirements of the Governance Code. With this addition, the Board 
now comprises 10 Directors, two of whom are female, with a good diverse 
balance of backgrounds, skills and experience to meet the challenges 
of our year ahead, whilst implementing and driving the Group’s strategic 
direction and ensuring that the Group operates within the principles of 
good corporate governance.
Board review
During this past year, we carried out our first internal review of the 
effectiveness of the Board and its various Committees. This review, which 
covered the period from the IPO to the end of the current financial year, 
was facilitated by me and involved individual discussions with each of the 
Directors and the Company Secretary. I was pleased with the outcome 
based upon the interaction and feedback received from the Board and 
believe the Board is operating effectively. 
The Governance Code provides that evaluation of the Board of FTSE 350 
companies should be externally facilitated at least every three years. 
Therefore, I will be suggesting an equivalent review to be externally 
facilitated either next year, or in the financial year after that.
Board composition
The Board is currently comprised of a Non-Executive Chairman and nine 
other Directors, of whom four are considered to be wholly independent. 
The Governance Code recommends that at least half the board of directors 
of a UK-listed company, excluding the chairman, should comprise 
non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent in 
character and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances 
which may affect, or could appear to affect, the directors’ judgement. 
As such, the Company does not currently fully comply with the requirements 
of the Governance Code due to its listing only taking place in the second 
half of the previous financial year. We have made progress in this regard 
with the appointment of Vin Murria and it remains the Company’s intention 
to move towards compliance with this requirement within a reasonable 
period of time.
Board Committees
In accordance with the Governance Code, the Company has established 
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees. All Committees are 
compliant in respect of the composition requirements of the Governance 
Code. Vin Murria became a member of the Audit Committee and the 
Remuneration Committee upon the commencement of her appointment 
and Robin Klein stepped down as a member of the Remuneration 
Committee as of 24 September 2015.
Mike Evans
Non-Executive Chairman
Chairman’s introduction to governance
Mike Evans, Non-Executive Chairman
We have made 
significant progress 
in all aspects 
especially with the 
appointment of a 
further Independent 
Non-Executive 
Director, Vin Murria Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
33 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Governance framework
The Board
The Board comprises 10 Directors. We have two Executive Directors, a Non-Executive Chairman,  
four Independent Non-Executive Directors and three further Non-Executive Directors.
Board Committees
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee assists the 
Board in reviewing the structure, size and 
composition of the Board. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee’s role is to assist the 
Board with the discharge of its responsibilities 
in relation to financial reporting.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee 
recommends the Group’s policy on 
executive remuneration and determines 
the levels of remuneration for Executive 
Directors, the Chairman and Management.
Senior Leadership Team Corporate governance
34 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
The Board now comprises 
10 Directors with a good 
diverse balance of backgrounds, 
skills and experience to meet 
the challenges of our year 
ahead, whilst implementing 
and driving the Group’s 
strategic direction and 
ensuring that the Group 
operates within the principles 
of good corporate governance.
A Member of the Audit Committee
N Member of the Nomination Committee
R Member of the Remuneration Committee
 Committee Chairman
Mike Evans
Non-Executive Chairman
Mike became Chairman of Zoopla Property 
Group in 2014. He has been Chairman of 
Hargreaves Lansdown plc since 2009, which 
he joined as a Non-Executive Director in 2006. 
Mike is a qualified actuary with over 30 years’ 
experience in the financial services industry. 
He is also the Senior Independent Director of 
Chesnara plc. He was formerly a Non-Executive 
Director of esure Group plc and Chief Operating 
Officer at Skandia UK Limited. He holds a BSc 
in Mathematics from the University of Bristol.
Alex Chesterman
Founder and Chief Executive Officer
Alex founded Zoopla Property Group in 2007 
and is the CEO. Previously, Alex co-founded 
LOVEFiLM, Europe’s leading online DVD rental 
service, which was successfully sold to Amazon. 
Alex is recognised as one of the UK’s leading 
entrepreneurs and has won numerous awards, 
including the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of 
the Year Award, as well as being named by 
Property Week as one of the 100 most important 
people in the UK residential property industry. 
Alex holds an honours degree in Economics 
from London University.
Board of Directors
N R N
Robin Klein
Independent Non-Executive Director
Robin became a Director of Zoopla Property Group 
in 2012, having been an angel investor in Zoopla 
since its founding in 2007. He is a founding 
partner of The Accelerator Group, a venture 
capital investor. Robin is a serial entrepreneur 
and an angel investor in a number of the 
UK’s leading high growth internet businesses. 
Companies he has backed at an early stage 
include LastMinute.com, Agent Provocateur, 
LOVEFiLM, Transferwise, Mind Candy 
(Moshi Monsters), Fizzback, Tweetdeck, 
Graze, FreeAgent, Skimlinks and Moo.
Vin Murria 
Independent Non-Executive Director
Vin became a Director of Zoopla Property Group 
in 2015. She has 25 years’ experience of working 
with private equity-backed and publicly listed 
companies, focusing on the software sector. 
Until June 2015, Vin was the Chief Executive 
Officer of Advanced Software Group plc, an 
AIM-listed healthcare and business management 
software solutions company she founded in 
2008 and exited to Vista Equity Partners. 
Vin’s previous roles include CEO at CSG Plc, 
which she exited to Hellman and Freeman in 
July 2007, and Non-Executive Director at 
Chime Plc, Concateno Plc, and Greenko Plc. 
Named Quoted Company Entrepreneur of the 
Year 2014 and Woman of the Year in the 2012 
Cisco Everywoman Technology Awards, 
Vin is a successful entrepreneur with a 
strong background in technology-based 
international business.
N A R A Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
35 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Stephen Morana
Chief Financial Officer
Stephen joined Zoopla Property Group in 
2013 and is currently its CFO. He also serves 
as a Non-Executive Director of boohoo plc. 
Previously, Stephen spent over a decade at 
Betfair plc, one of the UK’s most successful 
internet businesses. As part of the Betfair 
management team since 2002, he became 
CFO in 2006 and then served as interim CEO 
in 2012. Prior to Betfair, he held a number of 
senior finance positions, including at Sapient, 
the Nasdaq-listed technology innovator. 
Stephen is a qualified Chartered Accountant 
and a member of the INSEAD alumni.
Duncan Tatton-Brown
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Duncan became a Director of Zoopla Property 
Group in 2014. He is currently CFO of Ocado 
Group plc, which he joined in 2012. Previously, 
Duncan was CFO of Fitness First plc and prior 
to that he was Group Finance Director of 
Kingfisher plc, one of the world’s largest home 
improvement retailers. He has held senior finance 
positions at B&Q plc, Virgin Entertainment 
Group and Burton Group plc and was also 
a Non-Executive Director of Rentokil Initial plc. 
Duncan holds a master’s degree in Engineering 
from King’s College, Cambridge and is a 
member of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants.
Sherry Coutu
Independent Non-Executive Director
Sherry is an entrepreneur, investor and adviser 
to companies, universities and charities. She 
currently chairs the Financial Strategy Advisory 
Group for the University of Cambridge, The 
Scale-up Institute and Founders4Schools and 
is a Non-Executive Director for the London 
Stock Exchange Group plc and Cambridge 
University (Finance Board). Sherry has an 
MBA from Harvard, an MSc Economics 
(with Distinction) from the London School of 
Economics and a BA (Hons with Distinction) 
from the University of British Columbia, Canada. 
In the 2013 New Year’s Honours List she was 
awarded a CBE for services to entrepreneurship 
by Her Majesty the Queen. 
Stephen Daintith
Non-Executive Director
Stephen became a Director of Zoopla Property 
Group in 2013. He is currently Finance Director 
of Daily Mail and General Trust plc, which he 
joined in 2011. Previously, Stephen was COO 
and CFO of Dow Jones, a subsidiary of News 
Corp. He has also held several CEO and CFO 
positions in various overseas markets for 
British American Tobacco. Stephen qualified 
as a Chartered Accountant at Price Waterhouse 
and holds a degree from Leeds University.
David Dutton
Non-Executive Director
David became a Director of Zoopla Property Group 
in 2012. He serves as Chairman of DMG 
Information, a division of Daily Mail and General 
Trust plc, as well as being a Non-Executive Director 
of a number of other DMGT subsidiaries. David 
has been an Executive Director of Daily Mail 
and General Trust plc since 1997 and advises 
the Group on property matters. He also serves 
as a Director of UCL Business plc, which he 
co-founded. David is a successful entrepreneur 
and holds a BA in Economics from Cambridge 
University and an MBA from Harvard University. 
He is an Honorary Fellow of UCL.
Grenville Turner
Non-Executive Director
Grenville became a Director of Zoopla Property 
Group in 2010. He is a Non-Executive Chairman 
of Countrywide plc, which he joined in 2006, and 
is also a Non-Executive Director of the DCLG, 
Non-Executive Director of English National Ballet, 
Chairman of Titlestone Ltd, Chairman of 
Bellpenny Ltd and Chairman of Knightsbridge 
Student Housing Ltd. He was formerly 
Chief Executive, Intelligent Finance and 
Chief Executive, Business to Business at 
HBOS and has previously served as a Director 
of St James’s Place Capital plc, Sainsbury’s 
Bank plc and Rightmove plc. Grenville qualified 
as a Chartered Banker and holds an MBA from 
Cranfield Business School.
N A R N A R Corporate governance
36 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
The Board is wholly committed to upholding high standards of corporate governance 
and following a rigorous structure for the supervision and management of the Group. 
The UK Corporate Governance Code (“Governance Code”), published by the Financial 
Reporting Council in September 2014, applies to financial years beginning on or after 
1 October 2014. A copy of the Governance Code can be found at www.frc.co.uk.
The Corporate governance report that follows, which incorporates reports from the Audit and 
Nomination Committees on pages 40 to 45 together with the Strategic report on pages 1 to 31, 
the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 46 to 59 and the Directors’ report on pages 60 and 61, 
describes and explains how the Company has applied the relevant provisions and principles of 
the Governance Code, and the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules and Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules throughout the year. 
The Group confirmed that it has applied the principles of the Governance 
Code with the following exception:
The Board is currently comprised of a Non-Executive Chairman, 
two Executive Directors and seven non-Executive Directors, of whom 
four are considered to be wholly independent. The Governance Code 
recommends that at least half the board of directors of a UK listed 
company, excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive 
directors determined by the board to be independent in character and 
judgement and free from relationships or circumstances which may 
affect, or could appear to affect, the directors’ judgement. As such, the 
Company does not currently fully comply with the requirements of the 
Governance Code. We have made progress in this regard with the 
appointment of Vin Murria and it remains the Company’s intention to 
move towards compliance with this requirement within a reasonable 
period of time.
The Company’s auditor, Deloitte LLP , is required to review whether the 
above statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the provisions 
of the Governance Code specified for its review by the Listing Rules 
and to report if it does not reflect such compliance; no such report 
has been made.
The role of the Board
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Company and 
for leading and controlling the Group. It sets the strategic direction and 
has complete authority for the management and conduct of the Group’s 
business and development. The Board is also collectively responsible 
for ensuring that a sound system of internal control and risk management 
(including financial, operational and compliance controls and review of 
the overall effectiveness of the existing systems) is in place and for the 
approval of any changes to the capital, corporate and/or management 
structure of the Group.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval and 
has delegated other specific responsibilities to its Committees. This schedule 
sets out key aspects of the affairs of the Company which the Board does 
not delegate. These have not changed from last year and include:
 f responsibility for the overall management of the Group;
 f approval of the Group’s business strategy and objectives, budgets 
and forecasts and any material changes to them;
 f monitoring the delivery of the Group’s business strategy and 
objectives and responsibility for any necessary corrective action;
 f oversight of operations, ensuring adequate systems of internal controls 
and risk management are in place, ensuring maintenance of accounting 
and other records and ensuring compliance with statutory and 
regulatory obligations;
 f approval of any extension of the Group’s activities or any decision 
to cease to operate any material part of the Group’s business;
 f approval of any changes relating to the Group’s capital structure and 
material changes to the Group’s management and control structure;
 f approval of the financial statements, Annual Report and Accounts, 
material contracts and major projects;
 f approval of the dividend policy;
 f ensuring a sound system of internal control and risk management;
 f approval of any major capital project;
 f approval of communications with shareholders and the market;
 f determining changes to structure, size and composition of the Board;
 f determining remuneration policy for the Directors and the Leadership 
and Senior Management Teams and approval of the remuneration 
of the Non-Executive Directors; and
 f approval of all major policies within the Group, including the share dealing, 
anti-bribery and health and safety policies. 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary, who has responsibility for ensuring compliance with the 
Board’s procedures. All the Directors have the right to have their 
opposition to, or concerns over, any Board decision noted in the minutes. 
Directors may take independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense in the performance of their duties.
Corporate governance statement Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
37 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Board Committees
The Board delegates a set of defined responsibilities and authorities to 
the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees so that it can 
devote its time efficiently and resourcefully to any relevant matters 
reserved for the Board. 
Each Committee operates with written terms of references, all of which 
are available on the Group’s corporate website, www.zpg.co.uk, and 
isolated reports for each Committee are included in this Annual Report 
from pages 40 to 59.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
Within the Company, there is a clear separation between the individual responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer, Alex Chesterman, and the 
Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mike Evans. On behalf of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for implementing the Board’s 
strategy, the day-to-day management of the Group and leading the Executive Team. On the other hand, the Chairman is responsible for the effective 
leadership of the Board, having regard for the interests of all stakeholders and promoting high standards of corporate governance.
The two roles are different and distinct from one another. A clear division of accountability and responsibility between the Chief Executive Officer and 
the Chairman ensures that no single position holds unrestricted powers of decision making. These divisions have been established by the Board and 
are set out in writing, including the following: 
The role of the Chairman The role of the Chief Executive Officer
 f To run the Board effectively by ensuring meetings are held with 
appropriate frequency;
 f To ensure the frequency and depth of evaluation of the 
performance of the Board and its Committees are in 
compliance with best practice;
 f To chair the Nomination Committee to lead the process for 
Board appointments and identify and recommend candidates 
for the approval of the Board;
 f To promote a culture of openness and debate, in particular by 
facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors, 
and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors;
 f To hold meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without 
Executive Directors or Senior Management present; and
 f To ensure that shareholders’ views are communicated 
to the Board as a whole so that all Directors develop 
an understanding of their views.
 f To manage the Group on a day-to-day basis within the 
authority delegated by the Board; 
 f To ensure, with the Executive Team, that Board decisions 
are implemented effectively;
 f To develop and propose Group strategy, annual plans and 
commercial objectives to the Board; 
 f To advise and make recommendations in respect of Board 
nominations and succession planning;
 f To keep the Chairman informed of all important matters; and
 f To make recommendations on remuneration policies, Executive 
remuneration and terms of employment for senior employees. Corporate governance
38 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Corporate governance statement continued
The role of the Senior Independent Director
The appointment of an Independent Non-Executive Director to the role 
of Senior Independent Director (SID) is recommended by the Governance 
Code for companies with a premium listing on the Official List of the 
London Stock Exchange (“Official List”). The SID should provide a 
sounding board for the Chairman and serve as an intermediary for the 
other Directors when necessary. Duncan Tatton-Brown has remained 
as the SID of the Board and is available to shareholders if they have 
concerns which the normal channels through the Chairman, CEO or 
other Executive Directors have failed to resolve or are inappropriate. 
Independence of Non-Executive Directors
The Governance Code sets out the circumstances that should be relevant 
to the Board in determining whether each Non-Executive Director is 
independent. The Board has concluded that Duncan Tatton-Brown, 
Sherry Coutu, Robin Klein and Vin Murria were Independent Directors 
throughout the period. Mike Evans was independent on appointment 
as Chairman. 
Since the IPO in June 2014, the Company has had a relationship agreement 
(“the Relationship Agreement”) in place with its principal shareholder, DMGT . 
The main purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the 
Company and its subsidiaries are capable of carrying on their business 
independently of DMGT, that transactions and relationships with DMGT 
are at arm’s length and on normal commercial terms, and that the goodwill, 
reputation and commercial interests of the Company are maintained.
Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, DMGT can appoint 
two Directors providing it holds more than 25% of the votes exercisable 
at general meetings of the Company, and one Director providing it holds 
more than 10% of those votes.
The Relationship Agreement will remain in force for so long as (a) the 
shares of the Company are listed on the premium listing segment of the 
Official List and (b) DMGT or any of its associates together are entitled 
to exercise or to control the exercise of 10% or more of the votes which 
are generally exercisable at general meetings of the Company. The two 
Directors appointed by DMGT are David Dutton and Stephen Daintith. 
The Company confirms that the terms of the Relationship Agreement 
have been fully complied with during the year.
Grenville Turner’ s current role as Chairman of the Board of Countrywide plc, 
a customer and major shareholder of the Group, means that, at present, 
we do not deem him to be independent.
Length of appointments
Non-Executive appointments to the Board are for a period of up to three 
years, extendable by no more than two additional three year periods.
Information, meetings and attendance
The Board met eight times last year to review the operational performance of the Company. At these meetings, the Board reviewed the Company’s long 
and short-term strategic direction and financial plans and monitored the Company’s performance against the agreed strategy and business plan. Due 
to the acquisition of uSwitch, the Board met more often than the anticipated number of times to make certain decisions relating to the transaction for 
the year. In addition, the Board delegated authority to a Steering Committee dedicated to the uSwitch acquisition. This Steering Committee met five 
times and worked closely with the Board to monitor and to execute the transaction effectively. 
Date of  
appointment Board
1
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nomination
 Committee
Steering
 Committee
Total meetings 8 4 5 3 5
Alex Chesterman 23 April 2014 8/8 — — 3/3 5/5
Stephen Morana 23 April 2014 8/8 — — — 5/5
Mike Evans 1 May 2014 8/8 — 5/5 3/3 5/5
Duncan Tatton-Brown 1 May 2014 8/8 4/4 5/5 3/3 —
Sherry Coutu 1 May 2014 6/8 3/4 5/5 2/3 —
Robin Klein 1 May 2014 7/8 3/4 3/4 3/3 —
Grenville Turner 21 May 2014 7/8 — — — —
David Dutton 21 May 2014 8/8 — 5/5 3/3 —
Stephen Daintith 21 May 2014 8/8 4/4 — — 5/5
Vin Murria 1 July 2015 2/2 — 1/1 — —
1 The Board also passed additional written resolutions in relation to Vin Murria’s appointment, the uSwitch transaction and the new Value Creation Plan. 
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information. Prior to each scheduled Board meeting, a 
pack is circulated in respect of the corresponding financial period, which includes an update on key performance targets, trading performance against 
budget and detailed financial data and analysis. Board packs are distributed five working days prior to each meeting in accordance with the terms of 
reference to provide sufficient time for the Directors to review their papers in advance. If Directors are unable to attend a Board meeting for any reason, 
they nonetheless receive the relevant papers and are consulted prior to the meeting and their views are made known to the other Directors. Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
39 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Conflicts of interests 
The duties to avoid potential conflicts and to disclose such situations for 
authorisation by the Board are the personal responsibility of each Director. 
All Directors are required to ensure that they keep these duties under review 
and to inform the Company Secretary on an ongoing basis of any change 
in their respective positions.
The Company’s conflict of interest procedures are reflected in its Articles 
of Association (“Articles”). In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Articles 
allow the Directors to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest, 
where appropriate. The decision to authorise a conflict can only be made 
by non-conflicted Directors. The Board considers conflicts or potential 
conflicts at each Board meeting.
The Articles require the Company to indemnify its officers, including officers 
of wholly owned subsidiaries, against liabilities arising from the conduct 
of the Group’s business, to the extent permitted by law. The Group has 
therefore purchased directors’ and officers’ liability insurance during 
the year. 
Development
The Non-Executive Directors have all met key members of Senior 
Management and advisers to the Company, many of whom have given 
presentations to the Board and Committee members during various 
Board and Committee meetings, in order to familiarise themselves with 
the Group. During the year, the Chairman reviewed and agreed with each 
Non-Executive Director their individual training and development needs. 
In addition, under the guidance of the Chairman, the Company Secretary 
established a formal induction training process for new Directors.
All new Directors will receive an induction briefing from the Company 
Secretary on their duties and responsibilities as Directors of a publicly 
quoted company. 
Board evaluation
The Board carried out its first review of its effectiveness and its various 
Committees. This review, which covered the period from the IPO to the 
end of the current financial year, was facilitated by the Chairman and 
involved individual discussions with each of the Directors and the 
Company Secretary. The consensus was that the Board, which was 
newly formed at the time of the IPO, has performed effectively. The 
creation of a sub-committee during the course of the uSwitch transaction 
was particularly successful. The Board has agreed an action plan for the 
following year which includes a commitment to run a well planned 
Strategy Day in March 2016, for the Non-Executive Directors to spend 
more time in the business outside of formal Board time and to improve 
the flow of information.
The Governance Code provides that evaluation of the Board of FTSE 350 
companies should be externally facilitated at least every three years. 
Therefore, the Chairman will be suggesting an equivalent review to be 
externally facilitated either in the next financial year or the year after that. 
The Senior Independent Director, Duncan Tatton-Brown, together with 
the Independent Non-Executive Directors, evaluated the performance of 
the Chairman.
Election of Directors
The Board can appoint any person to be a Director, either to fill a vacancy 
or as an addition to the existing Board. Any Director so appointed by the 
Board shall hold office only until the next following AGM and shall then be 
eligible for election by the shareholders.
The Company’ s next AGM will be held on 25 February 2016. In accordance 
with the Governance Code, Vin Murria, who was appointed by the Board 
on 1 July 2015, will be offering herself for election at the AGM to be held 
at the Company’s head office, full details of which are set out in the notice 
of meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
As noted above, following the formal internal evaluation process of the 
effectiveness of the Board, the Board is satisfied that each Director remains 
competent to discharge his/her responsibilities as a member of the Board.
External appointments
At the time of his appointment as Chairman it was noted that Mike Evans 
was Chairman of Hargreaves Lansdown plc but the view was taken that 
this would not adversely impact his ability to carry out his role.
The Executive Directors may accept outside appointments provided that 
such appointments do not in any way prejudice their ability to perform 
their duties as Executive Directors of the Company.
Alex Chesterman is currently a Director of Devalink Limited, Hoopla Limited 
and Barcote Park Management Limited. Stephen Morana is currently a 
Non-Executive Director of Boohoo.com plc. These appointments are not 
deemed to adversely impact the Directors’ ability to carry out their roles. 
The Non-Executive Directors’ appointment letters anticipate a time 
commitment of 10 days per year, recognising that there is always the 
possibility of an additional time commitment and ad hoc matters arising 
from time to time, particularly when the Company is undergoing a period 
of increased activity. The average time commitment inevitably increases 
where a Non-Executive Director assumes additional responsibilities 
such as being appointed to a Board Committee.
Relations with shareholders
As part of the preparation for the acquisition of uSwitch, the Board met 
a large number of investors. The meetings involved the Chief Executive 
Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other Senior Management.
As part of its investor relations programme, the Executive has maintained 
an active dialogue with its key stakeholders, including institutional investors, 
to discuss issues relating to the performance of the Group including 
strategy and new developments. The Non-Executive Directors are 
available to discuss any matter stakeholders might wish to raise.
Investor relations activity and a review of the share register form an active 
part of the Board’ s agenda. Reports from analysts and brokers are circulated 
to the Board. The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have attended, 
and are available to attend, investor relations meetings and have the 
ability to request meetings with investors or analysts independent of the 
Group’s Management, if required.
The Chair of the Remuneration Committee and the Chairman consulted 
with a significant number of larger shareholders prior to the approval 
of the new Value Creation Plan for the CEO at the General Meeting 
on 1 October 2015. Corporate governance
40 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Audit Committee report
Chairman’s introduction
Dear Shareholder
Welcome to the Audit Committee report for the year. 
In this report, I explain how the Audit Committee has discharged its responsibilities, with detailed 
reference to the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 (“Governance Code”) 
to address significant reporting issues for the financial statements and to explain how the 
Audit Committee assessed external audit effectiveness and safeguards in relation to the 
provision of non-audit services by the Company’s auditor.
Under the Audit Committee’s terms of reference, the Audit Committee’s 
role is to assist the Board in fulfilling its financial supervision and audit 
responsibilities, which include:
 f monitoring the integrity of the Company’s financial statements, including 
its annual and half-yearly reports, trading updates, any preliminary results 
announcements and any other formal announcements relating to its 
financial performance; 
 f reviewing significant financial returns to regulators and any significant 
financial information contained in other documents; 
 f considering annually whether there should be an internal audit function 
and making a recommendation to the Board;
 f considering and making recommendations to the Board on the 
appointment, re-appointment, resignation or removal of the Group’s 
external auditor, to be put to shareholders for approval;
 f overseeing the selection process for and relationship with external 
auditors; and
 f reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
financial controls and internal control and risk management systems. 
Other than the Board’s resolution to appoint Vin Murria, an Independent 
Non-Executive Director, to the Audit Committee on 1 July 2015, there 
were no other changes to the composition of the Audit Committee from 
last year. Each member is considered to possess up-to-date and 
appropriate financial experience and continues to remain independent. 
Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee is required to meet 
at least three times in each year at appropriate times in the reporting 
and auditing cycle. The Audit Committee actually held four meetings 
during the year.
Duncan Tatton-Brown
Chairman, Audit Committee
The Group has operating 
policies and controls in 
place covering a range 
of issues Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
41 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Composition
The Audit Committee is chaired by Duncan Tatton-Brown and its other 
members are currently Robin Klein, Sherry Coutu and Vin Murria. 
Stephen Daintith attends as an observer appointed by DMGT. 
The Governance Code recommends that all members of the Audit Committee 
are Non-Executive Directors, independent in character and judgement and 
free from any relationship or circumstance which may, could or would be 
likely to, or appear to, affect their judgement and that one such member 
has recent and relevant financial experience. The Board considers that, 
by virtue of his current and former executive and non-executive roles, 
details of which are set out on page 35, Duncan Tatton-Brown possesses 
recent and relevant financial experience and the Company complies with 
the requirements of the Governance Code in this respect. The Company 
further considers that the attendance of an observer at Committee meetings 
will not prejudice the independence or proper functioning of the Committee.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer attend 
meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation, as does Deloitte LLP , 
the Company’s auditor, and other members of Management or the 
Board as appropriate.
Roles and responsibilities
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities 
with regard to financial reporting, controls, internal audit (including considering 
annually whether there should be an internal audit function) and external 
audit (including reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the Group’s annual 
and interim financial statements). The Audit Committee reviews and approves 
the annual audit plan and ensures that it is consistent with the scope of 
the audit engagement, reviews and monitors the extent of the non-audit 
work undertaken by the external auditor, advises on the appointment of 
the external auditor, oversees the Group’s relationship with its external 
auditor and reviews the effectiveness of the external audit process.
In relation to the Group’s internal controls, the Audit Committee takes 
responsibility for keeping under review the adequacy and effectiveness 
of the Group’s internal financial controls and internal control and risk 
management systems. 
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual Report 
and Accounts and the half-yearly reports remains with the Board. The 
Audit Committee will give due consideration to laws and regulations, 
the provisions of the Governance Code and the requirements of the 
Listing Rules.
The Audit Committee reviews the content of the Annual Report and 
Accounts and advises the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model 
and strategy.
The full Audit Committee terms of reference are available on the 
Company’s corporate website at www.zpg.co.uk.
Activities of the Audit Committee
At each Audit Committee meeting throughout the year, the Audit Committee 
considered updates to its risk management procedures to comply with 
the Governance Code. 
The Audit Committee met on 20 October 2014 to consider the Company’s 
full year audit plan. In November 2014, the Committee discussed the full 
year results for 2014 as well as an internal audit and internal fraud update. 
In May 2015, the Audit Committee reviewed the Company’s half year 
results and the financial position and prospects procedure review of 
uSwitch in anticipation of the completion of the uSwitch acquisition.
On 8 July 2015, the Audit Committee met to consider the integration 
plan for the uSwitch business following the completion of the uSwitch 
transaction, a compliance update, the audit plan for 2015 and the 
effectiveness review of the external auditor.
On 19 November 2015 and at a subsequent meeting on 1 December 2015, 
the Audit Committee reviewed and approved for consideration by the 
Board the financial results for the financial year ended 30 September 2015. 
As part of that review process, the members of the Audit Committee reviewed 
the Annual Report, the adequacy of the disclosure with respect to reporting 
on a going concern basis and the viability statement, and whether the 
Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable. 
This additional review by the Audit Committee, supplemented by advice 
received from external advisers during the drafting process, assisted the 
Board in determining that the report is fair, balanced and understandable at 
the time that it is approved. The Committee considered the appropriateness 
of preparing the accounts on a going concern basis, including consideration 
of forecast plans and supporting assumptions, and concluded that the 
Company’s financial position was such that it continued to be appropriate 
for accounts to be prepared on a going concern basis. The Company’s 
viability statement can be found on page 19.
Significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements
The Committee, together with the Executive Directors and the Group’s 
external auditor, considered the following significant matters in relation 
to the financial statements and how these were addressed.
Revenue recognition
The Group’s revenue recognition is limited in complexity. For the Property 
Services division the majority of revenue relates to recurring subscriptions 
which are predictable in nature and invoiced monthly. However, the division 
operates a large volume of agreements, with varying terms, which may 
include differences in the timing of the billing of subscription fees and the 
actual subscription period. Revenue recognition for the Comparison 
Services division is recognised at the point at which a transaction on the 
Group’s website is completed. An element of Management judgement is 
required in calculating a revenue accrual which estimates the number of 
successful switches in the period between the last date of billing and the 
latest provider data being made available. For both divisions there is a risk 
that revenues may not be recorded in the correct accounting period. 
Management has discussed the composition and the recognition principles 
of each revenue stream and the controls thereon with the Committee during the 
year. The Committee is satisfied that no material issues have been identified 
or arisen. Furthermore, revenue recognition was an area of focus for the 
Group’ s external auditor during the audit. The external auditor reported on 
their work auditing the Group’s revenue streams. This work included 
reviewing streams in the Property Services division on a month-by-month 
basis for anomalies and detailed testing over the revenue balance. For 
revenue streams in the Comparison Services division, the auditor’s work 
was particularly focused on the judgemental year end revenue accrual 
where historical experience is used as a basis for estimating the likely 
value of switches to be confirmed by third parties.
The acquisition of uSwitch
On 1 June 2015 the Group completed its acquisition of uSwitch. 
The process of determining the fair value of assets and liabilities 
acquired is inherently judgemental and there is a risk that inappropriate 
methodologies or assumptions could lead to the valuation of acquired 
intangibles, goodwill or the fair value of other net assets acquired 
being misstated.  Corporate governance
42 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Audit Committee report continued
Significant issues considered in relation to the financial 
statements continued
The acquisition of uSwitch continued
The Committee has reviewed the disclosure in the financial statements 
in relation to the acquisition and has discussed the accounting for the 
transaction and the valuation of intangibles and other assets with both 
Management and the Group’s external auditor. The Committee is satisfied 
that the judgements and estimates made by Management are appropriate 
and that these assumptions have been subject to sufficient review by the 
Group’s external auditor.
The acquisition also included a performance related earn-out of up 
to £30 million. The process of determining the fair value of contingent 
consideration was subject to Management’s best estimate of the final 
pay out at the date of acquisition. Based on the performance of the 
uSwitch business for the period from 1 January 2015 to 30 November 2015 
the Committee is comfortable that Management’s expectation that the 
earn-out will pay out in full is reasonable and therefore the Group’s liability 
on the consolidated statement of financial position as at 30 September 2015 
is appropriate.
Assessment of effectiveness of the external audit process
The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditor, 
Deloitte LLP . Deloitte attends meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation 
and remains in constant communication with members of the Audit 
Committee, as well as the Executive Directors and other members 
of the Board as appropriate. 
The Audit Committee also makes recommendations to the Board, for it to 
put to the shareholders for their approval at the Annual General Meetings, 
in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and to approve the 
remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor. As part 
of this responsibility, the Audit Committee approved the audit plan for the 
year ended 30 September 2015 and reviewed the auditor’s findings and 
Management representation letters. Prior to recommending the appointment 
of Deloitte at the forthcoming AGM to the Board, the Audit Committee 
reviewed the external audit process, the performance of the auditor and 
its ongoing independence, objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account 
input from Management, responses to questions from the Audit Committee 
and the audit findings reported to the Committee.
Based on this review, the Audit Committee concluded that the external 
audit process had been run efficiently and that Deloitte LLP has remained 
effective in its role as external auditor.
Approach to appointing the external auditor and how objectivity 
and independence are safeguarded relative to non-audit services
At the date of the 2014 Annual Report, some Audit Committee policies 
had not yet been developed as the Audit Committee was only constituted 
towards the end of the 2014 financial year. However, it was the Board’s 
intention to adopt policies covering both of the following topics:
 f a policy on the independence of the external auditor consistent with 
the ethical standards published by the Audit Practices Board; and
 f a policy on the engagement of the external auditor for the provision of 
non-audit services.
These Audit Committee policies have now been developed.
Independence safeguards
In accordance with proper standards, external auditors are required 
to adhere to a rotation policy whereby the audit engagement partner 
is rotated after five years. The current audit engagement partner was 
appointed in 2012 but, due to his previous role as the audit engagement 
partner for certain of the Company’s significant operations, can serve 
as the audit engagement partner for only two years after the Group 
has listed. Therefore, our current external auditor, Deloitte LLP , will be 
introducing the new engagement partner during the course of next year.
The Audit Committee notes that FTSE 250 companies must put the 
audit out to tender at least every 10 years. To avoid significant disruption 
the Financial Reporting Council has provided details of transitional 
arrangements which would mean that as Deloitte became the auditor 
after 2000 we would not need to undertake a tender review until 2023.
The Audit Committee has authority to take independent advice as it 
deems appropriate in order to resolve issues on auditor independence. 
No such advice has been required to date.
The external auditor is also required periodically to assess whether, 
in its professional opinion, it is independent and those views are shared 
with the Audit Committee.
Independence assessment by the Audit Committee
Based on the fact that the audit engagement partner rotation policy has 
been complied with, the Audit Committee is satisfied that the independence 
of the external auditor is not impaired. Furthermore, the level of fees paid 
for non-audit services does not jeopardise its independence. Audit and 
non-audit fees are set out in Note 5 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee believes sufficient and appropriate safeguards were 
in place for this work, including the use of a different lead engagement partner, 
and the external auditor remained independent throughout the period.
The Committee has assessed the performance and independence of the 
external auditor and recommended to the Board the re-appointment of 
Deloitte LLP as auditor until the conclusion of the AGM in 2016.
Internal audit
The Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that it is not 
currently necessary to appoint an internal audit function but rather to 
focus on specific areas with ad hoc reviews, an example being cyber 
security. The Audit Committee currently works closely with its external 
auditor to review its internal audit processes and will review the need 
for an internal audit function on an ongoing basis.
The Audit Committee based its decision on several factors including 
a relatively clear business model with a relatively simple Group structure 
and a single country focus, an open and accountable culture with clear 
authority limits and the assurance gained from both Management reports 
and reports provided by the external auditor with regard to internal 
controls and risk management. Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
43 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Internal control and risk management
The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal controls for the 
Group and for reviewing its effectiveness. In accordance with the FRC 
Internal Control: Guidance to Directors publication, it carries out a review 
of its suitability and effectiveness at least annually, covering all material 
controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk 
management systems.
This year, the Group carried out a risk management workshop with 
key members of Management and the Leadership Team. This involved 
rigorous scrutiny over a list of risks to the Group and identifying the 
principal risks to the business. The relevant key individuals contributed 
to the discussions involving these risks and the extensive feedback 
collected from the workshop was provided to the Audit Committee 
for consideration and review.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage and diminish 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives 
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss.
The Group has operating policies and controls in place covering a range 
of issues including financial reporting, capital expenditure, business continuity 
and information technology and appropriate employee policies. These 
policies are designed to ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial 
reporting and govern the preparation of financial statements. The Board 
is ultimately responsible for the Group’s system of internal controls and 
risk management and discharges its duties in this area by:
 f holding regular Board meetings to consider the matters reserved 
for its consideration;
 f receiving regular Management reports which provide an assessment 
of key risks and controls;
 f scheduling annual Board reviews of strategy including reviews of the 
material risks and uncertainties facing the business;
 f ensuring there is a clear organisational structure with defined responsibilities 
and levels of authority;
 f ensuring there are documented policies and procedures in place; and
 f scheduling regular Board reviews of financial budgets, forecasts 
and covenants with performance reported to the Board monthly.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal controls, the Audit 
Committee carries out the following duties:
 f review the risk register compiled and maintained by Management 
within the Group and question and challenge where necessary; 
 f regularly review the system of financial and accounting controls; and
 f report to the Board on the risk and control culture within the Group. 
In respect of the Group’s financial reporting, the finance department 
is responsible for preparing the Group financial statements using a 
well established consolidation process and ensuring that accounting 
policies are in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards. All financial information published by the Group is subject 
to recommendation by the Audit Committee to the Board for approval.
As part of the uSwitch acquisition the Group has integrated the uSwitch 
financial reporting process into the Group’s reporting process. This phase 
of integration was undertaken immediately following completion of the 
uSwitch acquisition and ensures that Group management accounts 
are generated in a timely manner. There have been no changes in the 
Company’s internal control during the financial year under review that 
have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, 
the Company’s control over financial reporting.
The Board, with advice from the Audit Committee, is satisfied that an 
effective system of internal controls and risk management is in place 
which enables the Company to identify, evaluate and manage key risks 
and which accords with the guidance provided by the FRC Internal Control: 
Guidance to Directors publication. These processes have been in place 
since the start of the financial year and up to the date of approval of 
the accounts. 
Further details of risk management frameworks and specific material risks 
and uncertainties facing the business can be found on pages 16 to 19.
Whistleblowing
The Group has in place a whistleblowing policy, the “Speak-Up Policy”, 
which encourages employees to report any malpractice or illegal acts 
or omissions or matters of similar concern by other employees or 
former employees, contractors, suppliers or advisers using a prescribed 
reporting procedure. The policy facilitates the reporting of any ethical 
wrongdoing, malpractice or suspicion which may constitute ethical 
wrongdoing or malpractice. Examples include bribery, corruption, fraud, 
dishonesty and illegal practices which may endanger employees or third 
parties. There have been no instances of whistleblowing during the year 
under review.
Control environment
The Board is committed to business integrity, high ethical and moral 
values and professionalism in all its activities. The Group has policies 
in place for:
 f anti-bribery and corruption;
 f dealing with third parties; and
 f gifts and entertainment.
Accountability
The Board is required to present a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Company’s financial position and prospects. The 
responsibilities of the Directors and the external auditor are set out 
on pages 62 and 65. As set out in the Directors’ report, the Directors 
consider the Company’s business to be a going concern. The Company’s 
viability statement can be found on page 19.
Duncan Tatton-Brown
Chairman, Audit Committee Corporate governance
44 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Nomination Committee report
Chairman’s introduction
Dear Shareholder
The Nomination Committee is responsible for leading the process for Board appointments and 
making recommendations to the Board. 
The Nomination Committee has been proactive in discharging these responsibilities, cognisant 
of the importance of succession planning and the need to align Board and Executive leadership 
skills to the Company’s long-term strategy. The Nomination Committee has worked diligently 
to keep under review the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board to ensure 
the orderly evolution of the membership of the Board and to make recommendations to the 
Board on composition and balance.
In this report, I explain how the Nomination Committee has discharged its responsibilities 
in greater detail. 
Under its terms of reference, the Nomination Committee is required to meet at least twice 
each year at appropriate times in the reporting and auditing cycle. The Nomination Committee 
followed the terms and met three times during the year.
Mike Evans
Chairman, Nomination Committee
The Nomination 
Committee has worked 
diligently to keep under 
review the balance of 
skills, knowledge and 
experience on 
the Board Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
45 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Composition
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mike Evans and its other members 
are Alex Chesterman, Sherry Coutu, Robin Klein and Duncan T atton-Brown. 
David Dutton attends as an observer appointed by DMGT . The Governance 
Code recommends that a majority of the Nomination Committee be 
non-executive directors, independent in character and judgement and 
free from any relationship or circumstance which may, could or would 
be likely to, or appear to, affect their judgement. As such, the Board 
considers that the Company complies with the Governance Code in this 
respect. The Company considers that the attendance of an observer 
at Committee meetings will not prejudice the independence or proper 
functioning of the Committee.
Roles and responsibilities
The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities 
relating to the composition and make-up of the Board and any committees 
of the Board. It leads the process for Board appointments and makes 
recommendations to the Board. The Nomination Committee is responsible 
for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the size, 
structure and composition of the Board and Committees of the Board, 
retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors 
and Committee members and making appropriate recommendations 
to the Board on such matters. It is also responsible for appropriate 
succession planning for both the Board and Senior Management. 
The full terms of reference are available on the Company’s corporate 
website at www.zpg.co.uk.
Activities of the Nomination Committee
During the year, the Nomination Committee identified the need to strengthen 
and diversify the Board and ran a broad search process using Zygos, an 
external independent search firm which has no connection with the Company. 
It nominated candidates for the approval of the Board, which led to the 
appointment of Vin Murria as a new Independent Non-Executive Director. 
Succession planning within the Senior Leadership T eam was also considered 
and the Committee was pleased to note the strengthening of that team 
with the hires of a new Chief Technology Officer, Chief Marketing Officer 
and Chief Product Officer.
Diversity
Whilst the Company pursues diversity, including gender diversity, throughout 
the business, and the Board endorses the aspirations of the Davies Review 
on Women on Boards, the Board is not committing to any specific targets. 
The Board now consists of two female Directors (20% of the Board). 
The Nomination Committee will give due consideration to Board balance 
and diversity when making new appointments to the Board. 
The Board will engage executive search firms which have signed up to 
the voluntary code of conduct setting out the seven key principles of best 
practice to abide by throughout the recruitment process and will continue 
to follow a policy of appointing talented people at every level to deliver 
high performance. The Board will also ensure that its own development 
in this area is consistent with its strategic objectives and enhances 
Board effectiveness.
Mike Evans
Chairman, Nomination Committee Corporate governance
46 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Directors’ remuneration report
Chairman’s introduction
Dear Shareholder
As the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the report of the 
Board covering the Remuneration Policy for the year ended 30 September 2015.
In our first full year of being a listed organisation, we have taken some big 
strides as part of the Group’s next stage of development, the highlight 
being the acquisition of uSwitch in June.
During the year, the Group delivered strong performance, as summarised 
on pages 20 to 29. Revenue increased by 34% compared to the prior 
year, supported by our continued traffic growth. The Group also saw 
strong growth in Adjusted EBITDA, increasing by 23% from the prior year.
As a result of the transformational uSwitch deal, the Committee reviewed 
and made changes to our Remuneration Policy. The most significant change 
was the introduction of the Value Creation Plan (VCP) for our CEO to 
ensure that our remuneration framework remains aligned with and supports 
our strategic aims and objectives. The new Remuneration Policy and 
the VCP were approved by shareholders at a General Meeting held 
on 1 October 2015. The Notice for that meeting provides full details 
of both the VCP and the Policy.
Changes to our Remuneration Policy during the year
The changes to our Remuneration Policy, in particular the introduction of 
the VCP , ensure that we retain the services of our highly entrepreneurial 
and creative CEO, Alex Chesterman, incentivising him to deliver the 
strategy of the Company and significantly enhance shareholder value.
The Committee believes that the introduction of the VCP , which is a highly 
leveraged incentive plan, is the most appropriate way to maximise Alex’s 
value to the business over the next period of the Group’s development.
The changes to the Remuneration Policy which were approved on 
1 October 2015 were:
 f increase in the maximum bonus opportunity of the CEO to 150% of 
salary (from 125% of salary) accompanied by a reduction in the level 
of bonus earned for target performance to 60% of the maximum 
(previously 75% of the maximum). The new maximum bonus potential 
is more appropriate for the CEO with its focus on stretch levels 
of performance which aligns with the rationale for the introduction 
of the VCP;
 f introduction of a VCP for the CEO to maximise his value to the 
business over the next period of the Company’s development and 
to ensure his retention. Under the VCP , the CEO will be able to earn 
shares based on the absolute total shareholder return generated 
above a threshold level of return over the four year VCP performance 
period (further details of the VCP are provided on page 50). As part 
of his participation in the VCP , the CEO will have no further LTIP awards 
granted to him during the VCP period and his 2014 LTIP award will 
be reduced by the proportion of the three year performance period 
outstanding as at the time of shareholder approval of the VCP; and
 f increase in the minimum shareholding requirement for the CEO to 
400% of salary (the shareholding requirement for other Executive 
Directors remains at 100% of salary).
We have taken some big 
strides as part of the 
Company’s next stage 
of development Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
47 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
For the remaining senior executives, it is the opinion of the Committee 
that the market practice based Annual Bonus and Long-Term Incentive 
Plans remain appropriate to retain, motivate and incentivise the team. 
These plans therefore remain unchanged from last year.
No changes to the Remuneration Policy approved on 1 October 2015 
are being proposed at the AGM. 
Remuneration Committee decisions made in the 2015 financial year
In addition to the changes to our Remuneration Policy the Committee 
made the following decisions:
 f base salary increases of 6.7% for the CEO and CFO for 2016 in line 
with the increase for employees, bringing their salaries to £480,000 
and £320,000 respectively. The new salaries remain below the median 
levels for the FTSE 250. The rises to the Executive Directors were 
made to reflect the increased scope and complexity of the business 
following the uSwitch acquisition and a market adjustment to reflect 
the Remuneration Policy;
 f the fee of the Chairman of the Company was increased to £175,000 
(a rise of 17% from £150,000). See page 54 for the details of the changes 
to Non-Executive Director fees made by the Board. The increase in 
fees was made to reflect the increased scope and complexity of the 
business following the uSwitch acquisition and a market adjustment 
to reflect the Remuneration Policy;
 f 2015 annual bonuses of 121% of salary for the CEO and 97% for 
the CFO recognising the strong financial performance of the Group 
and the personal performance of the Executive Directors over the 
year; and
 f 2016 awards under the ZPG Long-Term Incentive Plan for the CFO 
and key senior executives. Grant levels and performance targets for 
the LTIP are consistent with the normal award policy – further details 
of the awards for the CFO are on page 53.
Further details on how our Remuneration Policy will be applied in practice 
for the 2016 financial year are set out in the Annual report on remuneration 
on pages 53 to 54.
Key activities of the Committee
The Committee’s key activities during the 2015 financial year were:
 f reviewing and amending the Company’s Remuneration Policy 
following the uSwitch acquisition;
 f reviewing Executive Director base salary levels;
 f making awards under the Company’s Long-Term Incentive Plan 
for Executive Directors and Senior Management;
 f determining the level of bonus payments in respect of this financial 
year; and
 f drafting the Company’s Directors’ remuneration report.
During the year, Vin Murria joined the Remuneration Committee with 
Robin Klein stepping down. We thank Robin for his contribution and welcome 
Vin, who brings her considerable experience and strong background 
in technology-based international businesses to the Committee.
I hope that you find the information in this report helpful and I look 
forward to your continued support at the Company’s AGM.
Sherry Coutu
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
 
Note
This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, 
the provisions of the September 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code (Governance Code) 
and the Listing Rules.  Corporate governance
48 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Short-form report
Introduction
In this section, we summarise the purpose of our Remuneration Policy (“the Policy”) and its linkage 
to our corporate strategic objectives and we highlight the performance and remuneration outcomes 
for 2015. More detail can be found in the Annual report on remuneration.
Our principles of remuneration
 f There should be a strong link between an individual’s reward and the 
performance of the Group to align the interests of Senior Management 
with those of shareholders.
 f Variable remuneration makes up a significant proportion of the 
remuneration package.
 f Stretching performance conditions directly aligned with Group 
strategy. The Group’s strategy is laid out on page 9. The Group’s 
mission is to be the most useful resource for consumers, when 
finding, moving or managing their home and be the most effective 
marketing channel for related business partners.
Company performance and link to remuneration 
The following table sets out a number of the Company’s KPIs and other objectives and how their satisfaction is encouraged by the Company’s 
remuneration policy:
Other objectives
KPIs
Long-term
value creation
(encouraged
Plan Purpose Eligibility Revenue
Adjusted 
EBITDA EPS TSR
through equity 
retention)
Share 
ownership
Annual Bonus Plan To incentivise and reward 
short-term performance 
plus retention through 
deferral.
Executive Directors and 
Senior Management with 
mandatory deferral in 
shares. Other employees 
without deferral.
   
LTIP To incentivise and reward 
long-term performance.
Executive Directors and 
selected members of the 
Senior Management.
   
Value Creation Plan To retain the services of  
our highly entrepreneurial 
and creative CEO, 
incentivising him to 
deliver the strategy 
of the Company and 
significantly enhance 
shareholder value.
CEO.
  
Share Incentive Plan To broaden share 
ownership and share 
in corporate success 
over the medium term.
All employees.
 
Remuneration Policy
The Committee determines the Policy for the Executive Directors, the 
Chairman and other Senior Management for current and future years and 
this is reviewed on an annual basis. The Policy is designed to support the 
strategic objectives of the Company and to allow the business to recruit, 
retain and incentivise the quality of Senior Management needed to shape 
and execute our strategy to deliver sustained shareholder value over the 
long term.
The Policy aims to align the interests of the Executive Directors, Senior 
Management and employees to the long-term interests of shareholders 
and aims to support a high performance culture with appropriate reward 
for superior performance, without creating incentives that will encourage 
excessive risk taking or unsustainable Company performance. The 
Committee considers that a successful policy needs to be sufficiently 
flexible to take account of future changes in the Company’s business 
environment and in remuneration practice.
The Committee is satisfied that its approach to the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration is designed to promote the long-term success of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee will review annually the remuneration 
arrangements for the Executive Directors and key Senior Management 
drawing on trends and adjustments made to all employees across the 
Group and taking into consideration:
 f business strategy over the period; 
 f overall corporate performance; 
 f market conditions affecting the Company; 
 f changing practice in the markets where the Company competes 
for talent; and
 f changing views of institutional shareholders and their 
representative bodies. Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
49 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Statement of conditions elsewhere in the Company 
The remuneration policy for all employees is determined in terms of best practice and ensuring that the Company is able to attract and retain the 
best people. This principle is followed in the development of our Policy. However, employee views are not specifically sought in determining this Policy. 
The Company does not currently use any remuneration comparison metrics.
Salary and benefit packages are linked to both individual and business performance. All employees participate in bonus plans which, together with salary 
reviews linked to business performance, enable all employees to share in the success of the Group. All employees are eligible to participate in the SIP .
Remuneration Policy summary
A summary of the Policy and the key changes from the prior year are outlined below. The full Policy as approved by shareholders on 1 October 2015 
is available on the Group’s website at www.zpg.co.uk/investors/GM.
Element Operation of element Changes from 2014
Salary
Benefits
Pension
The Company provides competitive levels in line with 
comparator companies in the FTSE 250.
When determining an appropriate level of salary, the 
Committee considers:
 f remuneration practices within the Group;
 f the performance of the individual Executive Director;
 f the individual Executive Director’s experience and 
responsibilities;
 f the general performance of the Group;
 f salaries within the ranges paid by the companies in the 
comparator group used for remuneration benchmarking;
 f pay and conditions throughout the Company; and
 f the economic environment.
In general salary rises to Executive Directors will be in line  
with the rise to employees.
None.
Annual Bonus Plan 50% of the bonus earned with respect to performance  
in the financial year will be paid in cash and 50% of the 
bonus earned will be deferred into Company shares which 
vest after three years based on continued employment.
The maximum opportunity for the CEO has been increased 
from 125% of salary to 150%. The bonus which can be 
earned for “target” performance has been reduced from 
75% to 60% maximum.
The new maximum bonus potential is more appropriate for 
the CEO with its focus on stretch levels of performance which 
aligns with the rationale for the introduction of the VCP .
The Committee has reduced both the percentage of the 
maximum bonus and percentage of salary at the target level 
of performance. The intention of the Committee is to set 
more stretching levels of performance to achieve above 
target levels of bonus whilst retaining broadly the same 
percentage of salary for achieving target.
The maximum opportunity for the other Executive Directors 
remains at 125% of salary with bonus earned for target level 
of performance remaining at 75% of the maximum. Corporate governance
50 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Short-form report continued
Remuneration Policy summary continued
Element Operation of element Changes from 2014
Long-Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP)
LTIP maximum grant is 200% of salary p.a.
Awards will vest at the end of three years subject to the 
achievement of:
 f stretching EPS conditions which provide alignment to our 
core strategic priorities of increasing revenues through 
brand awareness, property data, product portfolio and 
the development of additional revenue streams; and
 f TSR performance of the Company compared to the 
FTSE 250 (excluding real estate and equity investment 
trusts), which provides alignment to the success of 
our business in delivering value to our shareholders 
compared to companies of a similar size and 
scale to Zoopla Property Group.
The LTIP contains clawback and malus provisions.
The CEO will have no further LTIP awards granted to him 
during the performance period covered by the VCP .
There are no other changes to the LTIP .
Value Creation Plan 
(VCP)
The CEO has been granted a conditional award giving him 
the potential right to earn Ordinary Shares of the Company 
equal to 3% of the total value created for shareholders 
above a hurdle over the four year performance period.
A minimum return of 8% p.a. has to be maintained over the 
VCP period or accrued nil-cost options will lapse. Where the 
hurdle of 8% p.a. return has been achieved over the VCP 
performance period:
 f a number of nil-cost options with a fixed value of £5 million 
will be earned for achieving the 8% p.a. return; and
 f nil-cost options equal to 3% of the return generated 
above 8% p.a. (additional nil-cost options will only accrue 
once £5 million has been exceeded).
The maximum number of shares which can be earned under 
the VCP is 7.5 million.
The starting share price for the beginning of the VCP 
performance period is £2.19, being the 30 day average 
prior to the date of approval of the VCP by shareholders 
on 1 October 2015.
The VCP contains clawback and malus provisions.
The VCP will operate from 1 October 2015. The rationale 
for the introduction of the VCP was:
 f that it provides our highly entrepreneurial CEO with an 
incentive with a strong link to long-term shareholder returns;
 f the incentive rewards the CEO based on the outputs of 
the successful implementation of the Company’s strategy 
and potential transformation of the business; and
 f the incentive will have a strong “lock-in” effect for the CEO 
through to the end of Plan years three and four of the VCP 
performance period, shortly following the end of which 
are the earliest points that the CEO will be able to 
crystallise any value.
Minimum  
shareholding  
requirement
The Remuneration Committee has adopted formal 
shareholding guidelines that will encourage the Executive 
Directors to build up, over a five year period and then 
subsequently hold, a shareholding equivalent to a 
percentage of base salary. 
The minimum shareholding requirement for the CEO has 
increased from 100% of salary to 400%. For the other 
Executive Directors it remains at 100% of salary.
Chairman and 
NED fees
The fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 
are set at broadly the median of the comparator group.
In general the level of fee increase for the Chairman and 
Non-Executive Directors will be set taking account of any 
change in responsibility and will take into account the 
general rise in salaries across the UK workforce.
The Company will pay reasonable expenses incurred by the 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors and may settle any 
tax incurred in relation to these.
None. Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
51 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy
The chart below illustrates the remuneration that could be paid to each of the Executive Directors, based on salaries at the start of financial year 2016, 
under three different performance scenarios: (i) minimum; (ii) on target; and (iii) maximum. The elements of remuneration have been categorised into 
four components: (i) fixed; (ii) annual bonus (including deferred bonus); (iii) LTIP; and (iv) Value Creation Plan.
Element Description Minimum On target Maximum
Fixed Salary, benefits and pension Included Included Included
Annual Bonus Plan Annual bonus (including 
deferred shares)
0% CEO: 60% of the maximum bonus 
1
CFO: 75% of the maximum bonus 
1
100% of the maximum bonus
Long-Term Incentive Plan Award under the Long-Term 
Incentive Plan for the CFO
0% 62.5% of the maximum award 100% of the maximum award
Value Creation Plan Award under the Value 
Creation Plan for the CEO
0% 50% of the average annual IFRS 2
 value of award 
2
100% of the average annual 
IFRS 2 value of award 
2
1 150% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer, 100% for the Chief Financial Officer.
2  The VCP is a one-off award with a four year period. The maximum value represents 100% of the average annual IFRS 2 value of the award, which is intended to give an estimate of 
the value of the award on grant. 
In accordance with the regulations share price growth has not been included. For the purposes of this disclosure, dividend equivalents have not been 
added to deferred share bonus and LTIP share awards.
Consideration of shareholder views
The Committee takes the views of the shareholders seriously and these views are taken into account in shaping remuneration policy and practice. 
The Committee consulted with its principal shareholders on the VCP and the proposed changes to the Directors’ Remuneration Policy prior to 
finalising the new proposals. 
The following table sets out the recent shareholder votes on remuneration:
Date For
1
Against Withheld
Remuneration Policy 1 October 2015 324,285,344 84.27% 60,532,694 15.73% 1,116,923
VCP 1 October 2015 324,482,509 84.08% 61,452,168 15.92% 284
Annual report on remuneration for 2014 12 February 2015 339,321,803 99.98% 67,657 0.02% 3,411
1 Votes “For” included those votes giving the Chairman discretion. Votes were received in respect of 92.04% of the Company’s issued share capital.
The Annual report on remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM on 25 February 2016. 
The Committee is aware that the reduction in support for the Remuneration Policy was as a result of the introduction of the VCP . The Committee 
has engaged with those material shareholders who were not supportive of the VCP and understands their position; however, given the overwhelming 
support from shareholders the Committee decided to implement the VCP and associated amended Remuneration Policy.
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
(Alex Chesterman)
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
(Stephen Morana)
£0
£500,000
£1,000,000
£1,500,000
£2,000,000
£2,500,000
£3,000,000
VCP
1
LTIP
Bonus
Fixed elements
On target Maximum
37% 24%
29%
34%
31%
45%
£1,500,722
£2,301,445
£556,000
Minimum
1  The VCP is a one-off award with a four year period. The maximum value represents 100% of the average annual IFRS 2 cost of the award. 
100%
On target Maximum
43% 34%
28%
29%
29%
37%
£861,000
£1,091,000
£371,000
Minimum
100% Corporate governance
52 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Short-form report continued
How we have performed and what level of bonus has been achieved
KPI 2015 % of maximum bonus potential achieved
Revenue (£ million) 107.6 100%
Adjusted EBITDA (£ million) 48.7 100%
Adjusted EPS (pence per share) 8.4
Group visits (million) 554.0
Number of property partners 16,411
Number of listings (’000) 845
ARPA (£) 342
Number of Comparison Services leads (millions) 24.8
ARPL (£) 3.23
Personal objectives – 85% CEO and 85% CFO
KPI definitions can be found on pages 14 to 15.
Full details of the Annual Bonus Plan targets and their level of satisfaction can be found on page 56.
No LTIP award was eligible to vest in this financial year as the first grants were made in August 2014.
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors for the 2015 financial year
The following chart shows the single figure for the 2015 financial year compared to 2014. Full details of the single figure can be found on page 55. 
1  Total includes £4,000 (2014: £3,000) of benefits and £2,000 (2014: £3,000) of SIP shares.
2  Total includes £3,000 (2014: £3,000) of benefits and £2,000 (2014: £3,000) of SIP shares.
Statement of Directors’ shareholdings as at 30 September 2015
The following chart summarises the current shareholding position of the Executive Directors. Full details can be found on page 57.
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
(Alex Chesterman)
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
(Stephen Morana)
£0
£200,000
£400,000
£600,000
£800,000
£1,000,000
£1,200,000 Bonus
Pension contribution
Salary
2014 2015 2014 2015
£302,000
£450,000
£223,000
£300,000
£33,000
£68,000
£16,000
£45,000
£158,000
£546,000
£113,000
£291,000
£499,000
1
£1,070,000
1
£358,000
2
£641,000
2
1,000 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 % of salary
Value of beneﬁcially owned shares
Value of/gain on interests over shares
(i.e. unvested/unexercised awards)
Shareholding requirement
Value of beneﬁcially owned shares
Value of/gain on interests over shares
(i.e. unvested/unexercised awards)
Shareholding requirement
Alex Chesterman
(% of salary)
Stephen Morana
(% of salary) Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
53 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
 
Implementation of the Policy in the 2016 financial year
Element Operation of element in 2016
Salary
Benefits 
Pension
Salaries for the Executive Directors have increased by 6.7% to £480,000 for the CEO and £320,000 for the CFO in line with 
the increase for employees. The new salaries remain below the median levels for the FTSE 250. The rises to the Executive 
Directors were made to reflect the increased scope and complexity of the business following the uSwitch acquisition and a 
market adjustment to reflect the Remuneration Policy. 
No proposed changes to benefits and pensions for the financial year ending 30 September 2016.
Fees for the Non-Executive Directors have also been reviewed resulting in an increase in the Board fee from £40,000 
to £47,500 per annum to reflect the increased responsibilities arising from the uSwitch acquisition and a market adjustment 
to reflect the Remuneration Policy. 
In addition, the Committee has introduced a fee of £5,000 per annum for the Group’s Senior Independent Director to reflect 
the responsibility of this role and in line with market practice.
The fee for the Chairman was also reviewed resulting in an increase from £150,000 to £175,000 per annum to reflect the 
increased responsibilities arising from the uSwitch acquisition and a market adjustment to reflect the Remuneration Policy.
Annual Bonus Plan The maximum opportunity for the CEO has been increased from 125% of salary to 150%. The bonus which can be earned 
for “target” performance has been reduced from 75% to 60% of the maximum bonus for the CEO.
There are no changes to the maximum bonus opportunity (100% of salary) or the level of bonus that can be earned 
for “target” performance of 75% of the maximum bonus for the CFO.
Operation of the plan:
 f 50% of any bonus earned will be paid in cash; and
 f 50% of any bonus earned will be paid in shares which vest after a further three years subject to the Executive Director’s 
continued employment.
Performance conditions for the 2016 financial year and their weighting are as follows:
 f EBITDA (50%);
 f revenue (30%); and
 f personal strategic objectives (20%).
The details of the targets applicable to the bonus for the coming year are considered by the Committee to be commercially 
sensitive as they are the key metrics that are critical to the operation of the Company, so they have not been disclosed as the 
Committee feels it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to do so. The Committee will provide full 
retrospective disclosure of the performance targets for the financial measures to allow shareholders to judge the bonus 
earned in the context of the performance delivered. The Committee believes that some of the personal objectives may 
continue to remain commercially sensitive.
Long-Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP)
The CEO will no longer be granted awards under the LTIP .
There are no changes to the maximum opportunity for the CFO at 125% of salary which he will be granted in respect of this 
award cycle. 
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the business plan for the next financial year and has determined a threshold of 
10.0% compound annual EPS growth for 25% of this element of the award to vest with full vesting occurring for 25% 
compound annual EPS growth. The vesting earned at threshold performance has been maintained at 25%. There are no 
changes to the TSR performance targets.
Value Creation Plan 
(VCP)
The VCP will operate for the current CEO from 1 October 2015 as set out in the Policy. The VCP is described more fully on 
page 50.
Share Incentive Plan 
(SIP)
Matching Shares will continue to be granted on a monthly basis for each Partnership Share purchased 
by an eligible employee. Corporate governance
54 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Short-form report continued
Non-Executive fees
The proposed annual fees for Non-Executive Directors for 2016 are set out below:
Annual fees 
2016 
£000
Chairman 175.0
Board fee 47.5
Chairman of Remuneration Committee 10.0
Chairman of Audit Committee 10.0
Senior Independent Director 5.0
The proposed Chairman’s and Non-Executive Directors’ fees for 2016 are therefore:
Name
Fees
2016 
£000
Mike Evans 175.0
Duncan Tatton-Brown 62.5
Sherry Coutu 57.5
Grenville Turner 47.5
Robin Klein 47.5
Vin Murria 47.5
Stephen Daintith —
David Dutton — Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
55 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
 
Annual report on remuneration
Introduction
The following report outlines how the Policy was implemented in 2015. 
Information included in the Annual report on remuneration is audited only where indicated.
Single total figure of remuneration (audited)
Executive Directors (audited)
The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director in respect of the 2015 financial year. 
Comparative figures for the 2014 financial year have also been provided. Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the Large 
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (Schedule 8 to the Regulations).
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors for the 2015 financial year (audited)
Annual bonus 
2
 
Name Period
Salary 
£000
Benefits 
1
£000
Cash 
£000 
Deferred 
£000 
LTIP
£000
Pension 
3
£000
SIP 
£000
Total 
£000
Alex Chesterman 2015 450 4 273 273 — 68 2 1,070
2014
 5
302 3 158 — — 33 3 499
Stephen Morana
4
2015 300 3 146 145 — 45 2 641
2014
 5
223 3 113 — — 16 3 358
1 The types of benefits provided are set out in our Remuneration Policy found at www.zpg.co.uk/investors/GM.
2  50% of the annual bonus amount is deferred into nil-cost options, which vest three years from the date of grant. These options are expected to be granted in December 2015. 
The options are not subject to further performance criteria.
3 Pension contributions represent 15% of the respective salaries.
4  Stephen Morana was a Non-Executive Director of boohoo.com plc throughout the period. Stephen receives and retains £40,000 per annum in respect of this role. This amount has 
not been included in the single remuneration figure presented in the table.
5  Salaries and other elements of remuneration were benchmarked at IPO in June 2014. Comparatives for 2014 therefore include an element of remuneration which was paid as a 
private company. Salaries at IPO were benchmarked at £450,000 for the CEO and £300,000 for the CFO.
Non-Executive Directors (audited)
The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-Executive Director for the year from the date 
of their appointment. 
2015 2014
Fees
£000
Taxable
benefits
£000
Total
£000
Fees
£000
Taxable
benefits
£000
Total
£000 Roles
Mike Evans (Chairman) 150 — 150 63 — 63 Chairman,  
Nomination Committee Chairman
David Dutton — — — — — — Non-Executive Director
Duncan Tatton-Brown 50 — 50 21 — 21 Senior Independent Director,  
Audit Committee Chairman
Grenville Turner 40 — 40 11 — 11 Non-Executive Director
Robin Klein 40 — 40 17 — 17 Non-Executive Director
Sherry Coutu 50 — 50 21 — 21 Remuneration Committee Chairman
Stephen Daintith — — — — — — Non-Executive Director
Vin Murria 10 — 10 — — — Non-Executive Director Corporate governance
56 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration continued
Annual fees
2015 
annual fee 
£000
2014 
annual fee
£000
Chairman 150 150
Board fee 40 40
Chairman of Remuneration Committee 10 10
Chairman of Audit Committee 10 10
Additional information regarding single figure table (audited)
The Committee considers that performance conditions for all incentives are suitably demanding, having regard to the business strategy, shareholder 
expectations, cyclicality of the markets in which the Group operates and external advice. To the extent that any performance condition is not met, 
the relevant part of the award will lapse. There is no retesting of performance. 
Annual Bonus Plan (audited)
The bonus is assessed over a performance period aligned with the financial year using the criteria outlined in the Policy summarised on page 49. 
50% of the bonus achieved will be paid in cash. The remaining 50% will be deferred in shares over a minimal deferral period of three years.
Name Performance criteria Weighting
Actual 
performance 
against target
Annual bonus 
value achieved 
% salary
Annual bonus 
value achieved 
£000 
Alex Chesterman Revenue 30% 100%
Adjusted EBITDA 50% 100% 121% 546
Personal objectives 20% 85%
Stephen Morana Revenue 30% 100%
Adjusted EBITDA 50% 100% 97% 291
Personal objectives 20% 85%
The Committee has not exercised any discretion in relation to the bonus outcomes. The financial targets set at the beginning of the year anticipated 
that “other revenues” in addition to the normal ongoing revenues would be developed during the year through either joint ventures, partnerships or acquisitions. 
Therefore, the Committee did not require any adjustments to the targets as a result of the uSwitch acquisition, which was included in its entirety.
Performance against the performance conditions is set out below:
Performance criteria
Weighting as a 
% of maximum 
bonus opportunity
Threshold
£000
Target
£000
Maximum
£000
Actual
£000
Resulting bonus 
achieved as a % of 
maximum bonus 
opportunity
Revenue 30% 77.5 81.6 85.7 107.6 100%
Adjusted EBITDA 50% 38.3 42.5 44.6 48.7 100%
Personal objectives 20% See below 85%
Total 100% 97%
Personal objectives for the CEO and CFO were as follows:
Name Personal objectives
Alex Chesterman f Develop and get approval for a three year strategic plan
 f Develop, grow and retain the Senior Leadership Team
 f Drive market share
Stephen Morana f Develop, grow and retain the Finance Team
 f Deliver half and full year reporting requirements and build investor relations
 f Lead the implementation and adoption of key internal systems Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
57 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Long-term incentives awarded in 2015 (audited)
Long-term incentive awards made in respect of 2015 were made in August 2014 and were disclosed in the Group’s Annual Report 2014. 
The next grant under the Group’s LTIP will be made in December 2015 in respect of 2016. The details of the award are set out on page 53. 
HMRC Share Incentive Plan (audited)
The Share Incentive Plan is available to all employees, including the Executive Directors. There are no performance conditions attached to the 
grants. The award of Free Shares made at IPO is subject to the Director’s continued employment for a period of three years from the grant date. 
Each Executive Director received 1,137 Free Shares on 23 June 2014 with a face value of £2,500. The face value of the Free Shares was calculated 
using the IPO price of 220 pence.
In April 2015 the Group awarded each Director 996 Matching Shares to match the 996 Partnership Shares purchased by each Director in the accumulation 
period from IPO to 31 March 2015 on a one-to-one ratio. These shares are not subject to any performance conditions or holding periods.
From April 2015 the Executive Directors have purchased Partnership Shares on a monthly basis. The Group continues to match these shares 
on a one-to-one ratio. Shares granted each month are subject to the Director’s continued employment for a period of one year from the grant date. 
Since April 2015 each Executive Director has purchased 316 Partnership Shares. The Group has issued an equal number of Matching Shares 
to each Executive Director.
Payments to past Directors/payments for loss of office (audited)
There were no payments in the financial year.
Statement of Directors’ shareholdings (audited)
Shareholding requirements in operation at the Company are currently 400% of base salary for the CEO and 100% of base salary for the CFO. 
Executive Directors are required to build up their shareholdings over a reasonable amount of time, which would normally be five years. The number 
of shares of the Company in which current Directors had a beneficial interest and details of long-term incentive interests as at 30 September 2015 
are set out in the table below.
Shares held directly Other shares held
Director
Beneficially 
owned1
Shares not
subject to 
performance
 conditions2
Total number 
of Ordinary and 
Deferred Shares
Current 
shareholding 
(% salary)3
LTIP interests
 subject to 
performance 
conditions 
4
Alex Chesterman 12,765,765 2,449 12,768,214 5,927% 306,818
5
Stephen Morana 1,006,312 2,449 1,008,761 702% 170,454
1  No shares were held by any connected parties. Since 30 September 2015 both Executive Directors have purchased 130 Partnership Shares through the Group’s SIP . These shares 
have been matched on a one-to-one ratio by the Group.
2 Represents Free Shares and Matching Shares awarded under the Group’s SIP .
3  The closing share price of 208.90 pence as at 30 September 2015 has been taken for the purpose of calculating the current shareholding as a percentage of salary. Unvested LTIP 
and DBP shares and options do not count towards satisfaction of the shareholding guidelines. Matching Shares under the Share Incentive Plan which are still subject to forfeiture or 
lapse do not count towards the shareholding requirement.
4 LTIP interests exclude any dividend equivalents that may have accrued.
5 Following the approval of the VCP on 1 October 2015 the CEO’s LTIP interests reduced to 119,318.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are not subject to a shareholding requirement. Details of their interests in shares are set out below:
Director 
Shares held at
30 September 
2015 1
Mike Evans (Chairman) 34,494
David Dutton —
Duncan Tatton-Brown 22,727
Grenville Turner —
Robin Klein 653,246
Sherry Coutu 588,790
Stephen Daintith —
Vin Murria —
1 Shares held include any shares held by connected parties. There has been no movement in the number of shares held between 30 September 2015 and 1 December 2015. Corporate governance
58 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration continued
Comparison of overall performance and pay (TSR graph)
The graph below shows the value of £100 invested in the Company’s shares since listing compared to the FTSE 250 Index. The graph shows the total 
shareholder return generated by both the movement in share value and the reinvestment over the same period of dividend income. The Committee 
considers that the FTSE 250 is the appropriate index because the Company has been a member of this since listing. This graph has been calculated 
in accordance with regulations. It should be noted that the Company listed on 23 June 2014.
 
Chief Executive Officer historical remuneration
The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Chief Executive Officer over the last three years valued using the methodology applied 
to the single total figure of remuneration. The Company has expanded quickly from a start-up company and the Committee does not believe that the 
remuneration payable in its earlier years bears any comparative value to that paid in its later years and therefore the Committee has chosen to disclose 
remuneration only for the three most recent financial years:
Chief Executive Officer 2015 2014 2013
Total single figure (£000) 1,070 499 356
Annual bonus payment level achieved (% of maximum opportunity) 97% 100% 100%
It should be noted that the Company did not introduce a Long-Term Incentive Plan until it listed. Therefore, there were no awards capable of vesting in 
any of the periods presented.
Relative importance of the spend on pay
The table below sets out the relative importance of the spend on pay in the 2015 financial year and the 2014 financial year compared with other 
disbursements. All figures provided are taken from the relevant Company accounts.
Disbursements 
from profit
in 2015
 financial year 
£ million
Disbursements 
from profit 
in 2014
 financial year 
£ million % change
Profit distributed by way of dividend
1
14.5 4.5 222%
Overall spend on pay including Executive Directors 21.2 13.6 56%
Total tax contributions
2
29.5 22.7 30%
1  Includes dividends paid and proposed in respect of the financial year. The 2014 dividends figure of £4.5 million represents dividends paid after the Group’s IPO. Prior to the IPO the 
Group paid dividends of £23.3 million in respect of the 2014 financial year.
2 Total tax contributions include tax for the period in respect of corporation tax, PAYE, National Insurance contributions and VAT.
120
130
Value of £100 invested
Source: Thomson Reuters DataStream
110
100
90
80
70
60
23.06.14
30.06.14
31.07.14
29.08.14
30.09.14
31.10.14
28.11.14
31.12.14
30.01.15
27.02.15
31.03.15
30.04.15
29.05.15
30.06.15
31.07.15
31.08.15
30.09.15
Zoopla Property Group Plc FTSE 250 Index Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
59 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Change in Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration compared with employees
The following table sets out the change in the remuneration paid to the Chief Executive Officer from 2014 to 2015 compared with the average 
percentage change for employees. 
% increase in remuneration in 2015  
compared with remuneration in 2014
CEO Employees
Salary 0% 6%
Annual bonus 246% 290%
Taxable benefits 33% 18%
The CEO’s salary and bonus % was benchmarked at IPO in June 2014. There has been no increase to the CEO’s salary in the period from IPO to 
30 September 2015. The 2014 annual bonus includes the bonus paid in respect of the nine month period prior to IPO and is not directly comparable 
with the bonus paid in respect of 2015. 
Service agreements and letters of appointment
Name
Date of service
contract/letter of
appointment Nature of contract
Notice period
from Company
Notice period
from Director
Compensation
provisions for
early termination
Executive Directors
Alex Chesterman 22 April 2014 Rolling 12 months 12 months None
Stephen Morana 22 April 2014 Rolling 12 months 12 months None
Non-Executive Directors
Mike Evans 1 May 2014 3 year contract 3 months 3 months None
David Dutton 4 June 2014 3 year contract None None None
Duncan Tatton-Brown 1 May 2014 3 year contract 1 month 1 month None
Grenville Turner 21 May 2014 3 year contract 1 month 1 month None
Robin Klein 1 May 2014 3 year contract 1 month 1 month None
Sherry Coutu 1 May 2014 3 year contract 1 month 1 month None
Stephen Daintith 4 June 2014 3 year contract None None None
Vin Murria 1 July 2015 3 year contract 1 month 1 month None
The Committee’s policy for setting notice periods is that a 12 month period will apply for Executive Directors. The Committee may, in exceptional 
circumstances arising on recruitment, allow a longer period which would, in any event, reduce to 12 months following the first year of employment.
The Non-Executive Directors of the Company (including the Chairman) do not have service contracts. The Non-Executive Directors are appointed by 
letters of appointment. Each Independent Non-Executive Director’s term of office runs for a three year period.
The Company follows the UK Corporate Governance Code’s recommendation that all Directors be subject to annual re-appointment by shareholders.
Implementation of the Remuneration Policy in the 2016 financial year 
See pages 53 to 54 for details.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee 
Following a review of advisers to the Committee, the Committee retained the services of PwC as independent remuneration adviser. 
During the financial year, PwC advised the Committee on all aspects of the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and members of the Executive 
Team. The Committee is satisfied that advice received from PwC during the year was objective and independent.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and the voluntary code of conduct of that body is designed to ensure objective and independent 
advice is given to remuneration committees. Fees of £53,500 (2014: £41,500) were provided to PwC during the year in respect of remuneration advice 
received. PwC has no other connection with the Group.
Sherry Coutu
Chairman, Remuneration Committee Corporate governance
60 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Directors’ report (other disclosures)
The Directors present their Annual Report and audited financial statements for the year ended 
30 September 2015, in accordance with section 415 of the Companies Act 2006.
Certain disclosure requirements for inclusion in this report have been 
incorporated by way of cross-reference to the Strategic report and the 
Directors’ remuneration report, and should be read in conjunction with 
this report. The following also form part of this report:
 f greenhouse gas emissions, which can be found on page 31;
 f employees, which can be found on page 30; 
 f the Corporate governance statement, set out on pages 36 to 39; and
 f our strategy and objectives, set out on page 9.
Information regarding the Company’s charitable donations can be found 
in the Our people and corporate responsibility report on pages 30 to 31. 
No political donations were made in 2015 (2014: £nil).
The Company
Zoopla Property Group Plc (“the Company”) is a company incorporated 
and domiciled in the UK, with registration number 09005884. 
Results and dividends
The Group’s results for the year are set out in the consolidated financial 
statements on pages 66 to 94.
The Company only results of Zoopla Property Group Plc are set out on 
pages 95 to 99.
The Directors have proposed a final dividend of 2.5 pence per share to 
be paid in respect of the year ended 30 September 2015. This, combined 
with the interim dividend of 1.0 pence per share, brings the total dividend 
in respect of the 12 months to 30 September 2015 to 3.5 pence per share. 
This will be paid on 3 March 2016 to all shareholders on the register on 
18 December 2015.
Directors
The Directors of the Company who held office up to the date of signing 
the financial statements can be found on page 59. 
The Directors’ biographical details setting out their key strengths and 
experiences are laid out on pages 34 to 35. Following recommendations 
from the Nomination Committee, the Board considers that all Directors 
continue to be effective, committed to their roles and able to devote 
sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities. 
In accordance with the Company’ s Articles of Association, at the Company’ s 
AGM on 25 February 2016, Vin Murria will seek election and the remainder 
of the Directors will seek re-election.
Directors’ interests
Information about the Directors’ interests in the Ordinary Shares of the 
Company at 30 September 2015, or date of appointment if later, and 
30 November 2015 is set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on 
pages 46 to 59. 
Directors’ indemnities and insurance 
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s Articles, 
the Company has purchased and maintains directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance cover which remains in place as at the date of this report. 
A review will be carried out on an annual basis to ensure that the Board 
remains satisfied that an appropriate level of cover is in place.
Employees
As at the year end the Company employed 438 (as of 30 September 2015) 
employees (as set out in the gender diversity table on page 30).
Articles of Association
The Articles of Association of the Company can only be amended by 
special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders. No amendments 
are proposed at the 2016 AGM. 
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The Company’s next AGM will take place on 25 February 2016 at the 
Company’s head office at Harlequin Building, 65 Southwark Street, 
London SE1 0HR at 10.00am, and the Chairmen of each of the Board’s 
Committees will be present to answer questions put to them by shareholders. 
The Annual Report and Accounts and the Notice of the AGM, including 
the resolutions to be proposed, will be sent to shareholders at least 
20 working days prior to the date of the meeting.
To encourage shareholders to participate in the AGM process, the 
Company proposes to offer electronic proxy voting through the CREST 
service and all resolutions will be proposed and voted on at the meeting 
on an individual basis by shareholders or their proxies. Voting results will 
be announced through the Regulatory News Service and made available 
on the Company’s website. 
Share capital 
Details of the Company’s share capital are set out in Note 22 to the 
consolidated financial statements. The Company has one class of 
Ordinary Shares. As at 1 December 2015 the Company had an issued 
share capital of 418,116,472 Ordinary Shares of £0.001. The rights and 
obligations attached to these shares are governed by UK law and the 
Company’s Articles of Association.
Holders of Ordinary Shares of the Company are entitled to receive notice 
and to attend and speak at general meetings. On a show of hands, every 
shareholder present in person or by proxy (or duly authorised corporate 
representatives) shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member who 
is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share held. 
Other than the general provisions of the Articles of Association and 
prevailing legislation, there are no specific restrictions on the size of 
a holding or on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares. 
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the 
Company’ s shares that may result in the restriction of the transfer of securities 
or on voting rights except for the lock-up of Alex Chesterman’ s shares. Details 
of the lock-up periods are detailed below. No shareholder holds securities 
carrying any special rights or control over the Company’s share capital. 
Shareholder Lock-up period
Number of shares
at 30 November 
 2015
Alex Chesterman Up to and including 23 June 2016 12,768,474
Authority to purchase own shares
At last year’s AGM of the Company on 12 February 2015, the Company 
was authorised to purchase a maximum of 10% of the Company’s issued 
share capital. This authority will expire at the close of the 2016 AGM. Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
61 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Authority to allot shares
At last year’s AGM, the Company was granted a general authority by its shareholders to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of £139,364.23 
and in connection with a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of £278,728.46. As at the date of 
this Annual Report shares have been issued under these authorities. These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM unless revoked, 
varied or renewed prior to that meeting. Resolutions will be proposed at the 2016 AGM to renew these authorities.
Major interests in shares
As at 30 September 2015 and 30 November 2015, the Company had been advised of the following notifiable interests in the Company’s voting rights:
Number of 
voting rights at 
30 November 
2015
% voting 
rights at 
30 November
2015
Number of 
voting rights at 
30 September 
2015
% voting 
rights at 
30 September 
2015
DMG Media Investments 130,953,293 31.32 130,953,293 31.32
Lansdowne Partners 35,835,085 8.57 36,139,491 8.64
Capital Research & Management 29,037,820 6.94 29,037,820 6.94
Caledonia Investments, Australia 28,048,884 6.71 28,048,884 6.71
Atlas Venture 19,492,763 4.66 19,492,763 4.66
Countrywide plc 17,893,775 4.28 17,893,775 4.28
Jupiter Asset Management 16,802,896 4.02 16,972,522 4.06
Connells Limited 16,772,423 4.01 16,772,423 4.01
Alex Chesterman 12,768,474 3.05 12,768,214 3.05
Financial risk management
The Company’s objectives and policies on financial risk management, 
including information on credit, liquidity and market risks, can be found 
in Note 25 to the financial statements.
Going concern
The financial position of the Group shows a positive net and current 
asset position and a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.9x. As a consequence, 
the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business 
and financial risks successfully. Further information on the Directors’ 
assessment can be found in the Company’s viability statement on page 19.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in 
preparing the historical financial information. 
Auditor and disclosure of information to auditor
Each of the Directors at the date of this report confirms that:
 f so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of 
which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
 f he/she has taken all the reasonable steps that he/she ought to have 
taken as a Director to make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of 
the information.
The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with 
the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor 
and a resolution to re-appoint it as the Company’s auditor will be 
proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Subsequent events
Between 30 September 2015 and the date of signing of this report there 
have been no reportable subsequent events.
This report has been approved by the Board of Directors and has been 
signed on its behalf by:
Ned Staple
Company Secretary
1 December 2015
Zoopla Property Group Plc 
Harlequin Building 
65 Southwark Street 
London SE1 0HR
Company number: 09005884 Corporate governance
62 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable 
law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements 
on the same basis.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements 
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss 
for that period. 
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, 
the Directors are required to: 
 f select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
 f make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
 f state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union; and 
 f prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it 
is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company 
will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general 
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to 
safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible 
for preparing a strategic report, directors’ report, directors’ remuneration 
report and corporate governance statement that comply with that law 
and those regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Directors consider 
that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
Directors’ statement pursuant to the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed within the 
Corporate governance statement, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
 f the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
 f the Strategic report contained in the Annual Report includes a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that it faces.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
63 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Independent auditor’s report
To the members of Zoopla Property Group Plc
Opinion on financial statements of Zoopla Property Group Plc
In our opinion:
 f the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 30 September 2015 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
 f the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union;
 f the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as 
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
 f the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income, Consolidated and Company statement of 
financial position, Consolidated and Company statement of cash flows, 
Consolidated and Company statement of changes in equity the related 
Notes 1 to 28 to the consolidated financial statements and Notes 1 to 13 
to the Company financial statements. The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company 
financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Going concern and the Directors’ assessment of the principal 
risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors’ 
statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of 
accounting contained within Note 1.4 to the financial statements and the 
Directors’ statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained 
within the Strategic report.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
 f the Directors’ confirmation on page 19 that they have carried out 
a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including 
those that would threaten its business model, future performance, 
solvency or liquidity;
 f the disclosures on pages 16 to 19 that describe those risks and 
explain how they are being managed or mitigated;
 f the Directors’ statement in Note 1.4 to the financial statements about 
whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any 
material uncertainties to the Group’s ability to continue to do so over 
a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the 
financial statements; and
 f the Director’s explanation on page 19 as to how they have assessed 
the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and 
why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement 
as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will 
be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures 
drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors’ adoption of the going concern basis of 
accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, 
this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue as 
a going concern.
Independence
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the 
Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with those standards. We also confirm we have not provided any of the 
prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those 
that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources 
in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Revenue recognition in the Property Services division – 
Completeness of subscription arrangements 
Revenue in the Property Services division primarily consists of recurring 
subscription payments in return for property listings on the Group’s 
websites. Individual contracts exist with each customer with a range 
of different terms and conditions, and as a result there are a significant 
number of agreements. Consequently there is a risk that customer 
subscription agreements may not be appropriately captured and 
accounted for in line with underlying contractual terms and hence 
the revenue population may not be complete.
Refer to notes 1.5, 1.20 and 2 for the Group accounting policy, 
Management’s consideration of critical accounting judgements 
and disclosure note respectively.
In order to address the risk of revenue completeness we have:
i)  assessed Management’s processes and controls in respect of 
the appropriate recognition of revenue, in particular the billing of 
customers in line with contractual terms;
ii)  selected a random sample of estate agents, ascertained whether 
they were a Zoopla customer, and if so obtained the underlying 
contractual terms and traced them back to the CRM system to 
verify the completeness of information; and
iii)  for a sample of customer contracts, verified that revenue has been 
appropriately recognised in line with the contractual terms and IAS 18. Financial statements
64 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Independent auditor’s report continued
To the members of Zoopla Property Group Plc
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Revenue recognition in the Comparison Services division – 
Valuation of accrued income
This is a new risk for 2015 following the uSwitch acquisition. 
In the Comparison Services division, revenue is accrued based on an 
estimate of the number of switch transactions through the Group’s 
website likely to be confirmed by subsequent customer confirmations. 
These typically occur up to one month after the initial transaction so 
Management estimates at each period end the likely confirmation percentage 
based on a detailed analysis of historical experience. This is inherently 
judgemental, albeit, there is an established history and pattern by customer.
Refer to notes 1.5, 1.20 and 2 for the group accounting policy, 
management’ s consideration of critical accounting judgements and 
disclosure note respectively.
In order to address the risk of that revenue is recognition and valued 
appropriately we have:
i)  assessed Management’s processes and controls in respect of 
the appropriate recognition of revenue, in particular the valuation 
of switches for customers in line with contractual terms and the 
validity of switches to subsequent customer confirmations;
ii)  verified that for a sample of customer contracts, that revenue has 
been appropriately recognised in line with the contractual terms 
and IAS 18;
iii)  analysed the monthly confirmation rate over the course of the year 
to assess the reliability of the estimate underpinning the September 
accrual; and
iv)  selected a sample of accrued income balances to subsequent 
customer confirmations to confirm the switches that occurred.
Accounting for the acquisition of uSwitch
In June 2015, the Group completed the acquisition of the entire issued 
share capital of uSwitch and certain other institutional and management 
shareholders for a total consideration of £177.6 million, including the fair 
value of amounts contingent on future performance. The purchase price 
allocation (PPA) exercise is inherently judgemental. There is a risk that 
if Management uses inappropriate methodologies or assumptions 
(e.g. unrealistic forecasts, discount rates or growth rates) within the 
PPA exercise, that the valuation of acquired intangible assets and 
goodwill could be materially misstated.
Refer to Notes 1.9, 1.20 and 14 for the Group accounting policy, 
Management’s consideration of critical accounting judgements 
and disclosure note respectively.
In order to address the risk of valuation, we have conducted the 
following procedures:
i)  audited the acquired balance sheet prior to the purchase price 
allocation to gain assurance over the valuation of net assets acquired;
ii)  engaged our internal experts to review the methodology and 
assumptions employed by Management in its valuation of acquired 
intangible assets; obtained the underlying cash flow forecasts and 
replacement cost calculations and discussed them with Management 
to challenge the reasonableness of the supporting calculations; 
iii)  considered the judgements taken with respect to the contingent 
consideration and future remuneration that is expected to be paid, 
examining the basis for Management’s expectation that uSwitch 
will outperform its budget;
iv)  confirmed that the useful economic lives allocated to each class 
of asset is appropriate based on their nature and Group accounting 
policies; and
v)  reviewed the associated disclosures within the financial statements to 
assess whether they are in accordance with IFRS 3.
Last year our report included two other risks which are not included in our report this year: Accounting for share-based payment arrangements 
including warrants, which is no longer considered material to the Group, and Accounting for the Group reorganisation and IPO, which was a one-off 
event in the prior year. 
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 41 and 42.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not 
provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial 
statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a 
reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. 
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in 
evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £1.7 million (2014: £1.4 million), 
which is 5% (2014: 5%) of pre-tax profit and below 1.5% (2014: 1.5%) 
of equity. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee 
all audit differences in excess of £35,000 (2014: £30,000), as well as differences 
below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative 
grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that 
we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group 
and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the 
risks of material misstatement at the Group level. Based on that 
assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit 
work at two locations, Zoopla and, following the acquisition during the 
year, uSwitch. Both of these were subject to a full audit. These two 
locations represent the principal business units and account for all of the 
Group’s net assets, all of the Group’s revenue and all of the Group’s profit 
before tax. They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for 
undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement 
identified above. Our audit work at the two locations was executed at 
levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower 
than Group materiality and ranged from £0.8 million to £1.4 million.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process.  Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
65 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 f the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
 f the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report 
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
 f we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit; or
 f adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
 f the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our 
opinion certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration have not been 
made or the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited 
is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have 
nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate 
governance statement relating to the Company’s compliance with certain 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to 
report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required 
to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
 f materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or
 f apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing 
our audit; or
 f otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any 
inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the 
Directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced 
and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately 
discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee 
which we consider should have been disclosed. We confirm that we have 
not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement, the 
Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility 
is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and 
Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality 
control procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality 
controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards 
review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’ s members, as a body, in accordance 
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members 
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and 
for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and 
the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’ s and the parent company’ s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; 
and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we 
read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to 
identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and 
to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, 
or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Mark Lee-Amies (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
1 December 2015 Financial statements
66 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Notes
2015
£000
2014
£000
Revenue 107,556 80,230
Administrative expenses (72,994) (51,763)
Adjusted EBITDA 3 48,694 39,614
Share-based payments 23 (1,873) (3,910)
Depreciation and amortisation (4,072) (1,658)
Exceptional items 3 (8,187) (5,579)
Operating profit 4 34,562 28,467
Finance income 184 202
Finance costs (1,163) —
Profit before tax 33,583 28,669
Income tax expense 9 (8,200) (7,592)
Profit for the year being total comprehensive income 25,383 21,077
Attributable to
Owners of the parent 25,383 21,077
Earnings per share
Basic (pence) 11 6.2 5.1
Diluted (pence) 11 6.0 5.1
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 30 September 2015 from continuing operations Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
67 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Consolidated statement of financial position
As at 30 September 2015
Notes
2015
£000
2014
£000
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 12 1,930 1,457
Intangible assets 15 253,674 75,194
Trade and other receivables 16 7,446 —
Deferred tax assets 21 — 437
263,050 77,088
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 16 22,780 5,887
Cash and cash equivalents 19,199 31,025
41,979 36,912
Total assets 305,029 114,000
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 17 22,251 11,418
Current tax liabilities 4,990 3,777
Deferred and contingent consideration 18 35,393 —
Provisions 19 190 —
Non-current liabilities
Loans and borrowings 20 112,432 —
Deferred and contingent consideration 18 2,739 —
Provisions 19 609 634
Deferred tax liabilities 21 9,185 —
Total liabilities 187,789 15,829
Net assets 117,240 98,171
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Share capital 22 418 418
Share premium reserve 50 50
Other reserves 22 87,101 87,537
Retained earnings 29,671 10,166
Total equity 117,240 98,171
The consolidated financial statements of Zoopla Property Group Plc were approved by the Board of Directors and were signed on its behalf by:
 
 
A Chesterman S Morana
Director Director
1 December 2015 1 December 2015 Financial statements
68 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Consolidated statement of cash flows
For the year ended 30 September 2015
2015
£000
2014
£000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax 33,583 28,669
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 415 153
Amortisation of intangible assets 3,657 1,505
Finance income (184) (202)
Finance costs 1,163 —
Share-based payments 1,873 3,910
Transaction costs on acquisition of uSwitch 5,130 —
Movement in contingent and deferred consideration 2,142 —
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 47,779 34,035
Increase in trade and other receivables (428) (984)
(Decrease)/Increase in trade and other payables (46) 2,747
Increase/(Decrease) in provisions 30 (492)
Cash generated from operating activities 47,335 35,306
Income tax paid (8,224) (4,325)
Net cash flows from operating activities 39,111 30,981
Cash flows (used in)/from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (146,012) (1,497)
Amounts paid into escrow in relation to deferred and contingent consideration (7,436) —
Interest received 184 202
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (111) (929)
Acquisition of intangible assets (709) (162)
Net cash flows used in investing activities (154,084) (2,386)
Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities
Proceeds on issue of debt, net of issue costs 123,291 —
Repayment of debt (11,000) —
Interest paid (780) —
Proceeds on issue of shares — 72
Unpaid share capital paid up — 9,563
Shares released from trust 303 150
Equity contributions received — 50
Dividends paid (8,667) (35,528)
Net cash flows from/(used in) financing activities 103,147 (25,693)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (11,826) 2,902
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 31,025 28,123
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 19,199 31,025
  Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
69 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 30 September 2015
Share 
premium 
reserve 
£000
 Other reserves
Share 
capital
£000
EBT share
 reserve 
£000
Merger 
reserve 
£000
Retained
 earnings 
£000
Total 
equity 
£000
At 1 October 2014 418 50 (1,566) 89,103 10,166 98,171
Profit and total comprehensive income for the period — — — — 25,383 25,383
Transactions with owners recorded directly in equity:
Share-based payments — — — — 1,723 1,723
Current tax on share-based payments — — — — 565 565
Deferred tax on share-based payments — — — — (238) (238)
Shares released from EBT — — 549 — (246) 303
Transfer between reserves1 — — — (985) 985 —
Dividends paid — — — — (8,667) (8,667)
At 30 September 2015 418 50 (1,017) 88,118 29,671 117,240
Share 
premium 
reserve
£000
 Other reserves
Share 
capital
£000
EBT share
 reserve 
£000
Merger 
reserve 
£000
Retained
 earnings 
£000
Total 
equity 
£000
At 1 October 2013
2
4 18,577 — 70,187 18,519 107,287
Profit and total comprehensive income for the period — — — — 21,077 21,077
Transactions with owners recorded directly in equity:
Share-based payments — — — — 3,882 3,882
Current tax on share-based payments — — — — 459 459
Deferred tax on share-based payments — — — — 722 722
Issue of share capital — 1,788 — — — 1,788
Group restructuring
2
414 (20,315) — 19,901 — —
Equity contributions — — — — 50 50
Shares purchased by EBT — — (1,716) — — (1,716)
Shares released from EBT — — 150 — — 150
Transfer between reserves
1
— — — (985) 985 —
Dividends paid — — — — (35,528) (35,528)
At 30 September 2014
2
418 50 (1,566) 89,103 10,166 98,171
1 The transfer from merger reserve to retained earnings in 2015 and 2014 represents an equalisation adjustment in respect of the amortisation charge on intangibles which arose 
on acquisition of The Digital Property Group Limited on 31 May 2012. 
2 During 2014 the Group was subject to restructuring prior to Admission on the London Stock Exchange. Zoopla Property Group Plc was inserted at the top of the Group as 
the new parent company, with the former parent, ZPG Limited (formerly Zoopla Property Group Limited), becoming a direct subsidiary of Zoopla Property Group Plc through 
a share-for-share exchange. The Group’s Annual Report 2014 provides further details on the basis of consolidation. 2014 balances are stated as though the transactions 
occurred within Zoopla Property Group Plc. Financial statements
70 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Notes to the financial statements
1. Accounting policies
Zoopla Property Group Plc is a company domiciled and incorporated in the United Kingdom. The address of the registered office is the Harlequin Building, 
65 Southwark Street, London SE1 0HR.
1.1 Basis of preparation
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the financial statements are set out below for the years ended 30 September 2015 
and 30 September 2014. The policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards 
and IFRIC Interpretations (collectively IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as adopted by the European Union 
(“adopted IFRS”). They are prepared on the historical cost basis.
The preparation of financial statements in compliance with adopted IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires 
Management to exercise judgement in applying the Group’s accounting policies. Note 1.20 gives further details relating to the Group’s critical 
accounting estimates.
At the date of approval, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not 
yet effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2015:
 f IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments – classification of financial assets and financial liabilities
 f Amendments to IFRS 11 – accounting for acquisition of interests in joint operations
 f Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 – clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation
 f IFRS 15 – revenue from contracts with customers
 f Amendments to IAS 27 – equity method in separate financial statements
 f Amendments to IFRS 10/IAS 28 – sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture
 f Improvements 2014 – annual improvements to IFRSs: 2012–2014
 f Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IFRS 28 – investment entities: Applying the consolidation exception
 f Amendments to IAS 1 – Disclosure initiative
The Group is currently in the process of assessing the impact of IFRS 15 – revenue from contracts with customers. All other standards identified 
above are not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements. 
1.2 Adoption of new and revised standards
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the policies set out in the Group’ s Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2014. 
No new or revised accounting standards were adopted in the period. 
1.3 Basis of consolidation
The Consolidated financial statements incorporate the accounts of Zoopla Property Group Plc (“the Company”) and entities controlled by the Company 
(“its subsidiaries”) (together, “the Group”). Control is achieved where the Company:
 f has the power over the investee;
 f is exposed, or has rights, to variable return from its involvement with the investee; and
 f has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The results of subsidiaries acquired are included from the effective date of acquisition. The results of subsidiaries sold are included up to the effective 
date of disposal.
During the year the Group acquired Ulysses Enterprises and its subsidiaries (together “uSwitch”). The results of uSwitch have been consolidated from 
the date of acquisition, being 1 June 2015. Details of the acquisition are set out in Note 14.
In June 2014 the Group was subject to restructuring prior to Admission on the London Stock Exchange. Zoopla Property Group Plc was inserted at 
the top of the Group as the new parent company, with the former parent, ZPG Limited (formerly Zoopla Property Group Limited), becoming a direct 
subsidiary of Zoopla Property Group Plc through a share-for-share exchange. The Group’s Annual Report 2014 provides further details on the basis 
of consolidation. 2014 balances are stated as though the transactions occurred within Zoopla Property Group Plc.
1.4 Going concern
The financial position of the Group shows a positive net asset position and the Group continues to generate both positive Adjusted EBITDA and profit 
after tax. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business and financial risks successfully.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the historical financial information. Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
71 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
1. Accounting policies continued
1.5 Revenue
Revenue represents amounts due for services provided during the period, net of value added tax (VAT), with the VAT liability being recognised 
at the date of invoice. 
The Group categorises revenue into two broad categories – Property Services and Comparison Services. 
The main sources of Property Services revenue are subscriptions from estate agents (“UK Agency revenue”) and developers (“New Homes revenue”), 
in respect of properties advertised on the Group’ s websites. Revenue is recognised over the period of the subscription. Revenue from other property services 
(“Other Property Services revenue”) is recognised in the month in which the service is provided. 
The main sources of Comparison Services revenue are fees received for gas and electricity comparison services (“Energy revenue”) and mobile, broadband, 
pay TV and home phone comparison services (“Communications revenue”). Revenue is recognised at the point at which a transaction on the Group’s 
website completes based on the historical conversion of such transactions into completed switches. Revenue from other comparison services (“Other 
Comparison Services revenue”) is recognised in the month in which the service is provided.
1.6 Operating leases 
Leases are classified as operating leases as substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are not transferred to the Group. The total 
rentals payable under the lease are charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
1.7 Finance income and costs
Finance income represents interest receivable on cash and deposit balances. Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis using the effective 
interest method.
Finance costs represent interest and certain fees charged on bank loans, the Group’s revolving credit facility, overdraft balances and other borrowings. 
Finance costs are recognised on an accruals basis using the effective interest method.
1.8 Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are initially recognised at cost. As well as the purchase price, cost includes directly attributable costs and the 
estimated present value of any future unavoidable costs of dismantling and removing items. The corresponding liability is recognised within provisions.
Subsequent costs to repair or service a previously recognised item of property, plant and equipment are expensed when incurred as they do not 
provide future economic benefit to the organisation.
Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost of assets less their residual values over their useful economic lives, using the straight-line method, 
on the following bases:
Fixtures and fittings – over 2 to 5 years 
Computer equipment – over 2 to 5 years 
Leasehold improvements – over the lease term
The Directors review the residual values and useful economic lives of assets on an annual basis. 
1.9 Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses is accounted for using the acquisition method in accordance with IFRS 3. The consideration for each 
acquisition is measured at the aggregate of fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group 
in exchange for control of the acquiree, net of cash acquired. Acquisition related costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity 
securities, are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as incurred.
At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair value on the acquisition date with the exception 
of deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are measured in accordance with IAS 12 – Income Taxes. Identifiable net assets include the recognition 
of any separately identifiable intangible assets. Further detail of the identifiable assets and liabilities recognised on the acquisition of uSwitch can 
be found in Note 14.
Deferred and contingent consideration are measured at fair value at the date of acquisition. Where the amounts payable are classified as a financial 
liability any subsequent change in the fair value is charged/credited to the Group’s consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Amounts classified 
as equity are not subsequently remeasured. Where consideration is contingent on the continued employment of Management the amount is recognised 
as a remuneration expense over the deferral period. 
1.10 Goodwill
Goodwill arising on a business combination represents the difference between the fair value of the consideration paid and the fair value of assets and 
liabilities acquired. Goodwill is capitalised as an intangible asset with any impairment in carrying value being charged to the consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income. 
Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment annually and whenever the Directors have an indication that it might be impaired. 
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combination. Financial statements
72 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Notes to the financial statements continued
1. Accounting policies continued
1.11 Intangible assets
Intangible assets with finite lives are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is charged 
to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets as follows: 
Brand – 10 years  
Domain names – 5 years 
Databases – 3–10 years 
Customer relationships – 5 years 
Website development and computer software – 3 years
1.12 Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable 
amount. Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit 
to which the asset belongs is estimated. Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate 
of its recoverable amount, but so that this increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined 
had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income. 
1.13 Research and development
The Group incurs expenditure on research and development in order to develop and improve new and existing property websites and products. 
Expenditure includes the staff costs of the technical team.
Research expenditure on planning new websites or products and obtaining new technical knowledge is expensed in the period in which it is incurred. 
Development costs are expensed when incurred unless they meet certain criteria for capitalisation. Development costs whereby research findings are 
applied to creating a substantially enhanced website or new product are only capitalised once the technical feasibility and the commercial viability of 
the project has been demonstrated and they can be reliably measured. Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their 
expected useful economic life.
Once the new website or product is available for use, subsequent expenditure to maintain the website or product, or on small enhancements to the 
website or product, is recognised as an expense when it is incurred.
1.14 Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the statement of financial position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument.
Trade and other receivables are designated as loans and receivables. They are recognised at amortised cost, which is net of any allowance for impairment 
in relation to irrecoverable amounts. This is deemed to be a reasonable approximation of their fair value. The provision is reviewed regularly in conjunction 
with a detailed analysis of historical payment profiles and past default experience. When a trade receivable is deemed uncollectable, it is written off 
against the allowance account. The Group receives interest income on certain amounts held in escrow.
Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
Trade and other payables are not interest bearing and are designated as other financial liabilities. They are recognised at their carrying amount, 
which is deemed to be a reasonable approximation of their fair value. 
Borrowings are measured at amortised cost, net of arrangement fees. Arrangement fees are released through the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income under the effective interest method, along with interest charged, over the life of the instrument.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. The Company’s 
Ordinary Shares are classified as equity instruments and are recognised at the proceeds received, net of any direct issue costs. Repurchase of the 
Company’s own equity instruments is recognised and deducted directly in equity. No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, 
issue or cancellation of the Company’s own equity instruments.
Financial instruments are not used for speculative purposes.
1.15 Current tax
Current income tax, including UK income tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date. Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
73 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
1. Accounting policies continued
1.16 Deferred tax
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised where the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the consolidated statement of financial position 
differs from its tax base, except for differences arising on:
 f the initial recognition of goodwill;
 f the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects neither 
accounting or taxable profit; and
 f investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the difference and it is probable 
that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Recognition of deferred tax assets is restricted to those instances where it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the difference 
can be utilised.
The amount of the asset or liability is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date and are 
expected to apply when the deferred tax assets are recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred 
tax assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority on either:
 f the same taxable Group company; or
 f different Group entities which intend either to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities 
simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or recovered.
1.17 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation, legal or constructive, as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will 
be required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best 
estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the statement of financial position date and are discounted to present value where the 
impact is material. The unwinding of any discount is recognised in finance costs.
Dilapidation provisions are recognised based on Management’s best estimate of costs to make good the Group’s leasehold properties at the end 
of the lease term.
The Group recognises a restructuring provision when there is a detailed formal plan in place and when it has raised a valid expectation in those affected 
that it will carry out the restructuring, either by starting to implement the plan or by announcing its main features to those affected. The provision includes 
only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring and not those associated with the ongoing activities of the Group.
1.18 Employee benefits: defined contribution benefit scheme
The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme which is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions 
into a fund. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees 
the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. Contributions payable to the fund are charged to the statement of comprehensive 
income in the period to which they relate. 
1.19 Share-based payments
The Group provides equity-settled share-based incentive plans whereby Zoopla Property Group Plc grants shares or nil-cost options over its shares to 
employees of its subsidiaries for their employment services. The Group also issues warrants over shares in Zoopla Property Group Plc to a number of 
the Group’s estate agent partners, allowing them to acquire shares in exchange for making their property listings available for inclusion on the Group’s 
property websites.
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees and partners are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date. The fair 
value is measured using a suitable valuation model, including the Black-Scholes and Monte-Carlo valuation models where appropriate, and is charged 
to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income over the vesting period. Non-market vesting conditions are taken into account by adjusting 
the number of equity instruments expected to vest at each statement of financial position date so that, ultimately, the cumulative amount recognised 
over the vesting period is based on the number of options that eventually vest. Market vesting conditions are factored into the fair value of the options 
granted. The cumulative expense is not adjusted for failure to meet a market vesting condition. Details regarding the determination of the fair value of 
equity-settled share-based payment transactions are set out in Note 23.
Where the terms and conditions of options are modified before they vest, the increase in fair value of the options, measured immediately before and 
after the modification, is charged to the income statement over the remaining vesting period.
Within the Company accounts of Zoopla Property Group Plc equity-settled share options granted directly to employees or estate agent partners of a 
subsidiary are treated as a capital contribution to the subsidiary. The capital contribution is measured by reference to the fair value of the share-based 
payments charge for the period and is recognised as an increase in the cost of investment with a corresponding credit to equity.
A number of shares are held in trust in order to settle future exercises of the Group’ s share incentive schemes. Details of the trusts are included in Note 23. 
Shares held in trust are treated as a deduction from equity.
Employer’s National Insurance Contributions are accrued, where applicable, at a rate of 13.8%. The amount accrued is based on the market value 
of the shares at 30 September 2015 after deducting the exercise price of the share option.  Financial statements
74 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Notes to the financial statements continued
1. Accounting policies continued
1.20 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
The Group’s Management makes certain estimates and assumptions regarding the future. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated based 
on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the current circumstances. 
Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment 
to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within future periods are discussed below.
Acquisition of uSwitch
On 1 June 2015 the Group completed its acquisition of uSwitch. The process of determining the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired is inherently 
judgemental and there is a risk that inappropriate methodologies or assumptions could lead to the valuation of acquired intangibles, goodwill or the fair 
value of other net assets acquired being misstated. 
The acquisition also included an element of contingent consideration in the form of a £0.0–£30.0 million earn-out payable to both institutional and 
management shareholders. The process of determining the fair value of contingent consideration payable to institutional investors was subject to 
Management’s best estimate of the final pay-out at the date of acquisition. The earn-out payable to management shareholders continuing in employment 
is recognised in the Group’s consolidated statement of comprehensive income over the period of deferral and this accrual is updated each period to 
reflect Management’s best estimate of the final pay-out. At the date of acquisition Management expected to settle the earn-out in full. This assumption 
is unchanged as at the date of this report. Management is therefore comfortable that the liability on the consolidated statement of financial position 
as at 30 September 2015 remains appropriate.
Impairment of goodwill and intangibles
The Group holds goodwill and intangibles on the statement of financial position in respect of business acquisitions made. During the period the Group 
has recognised intangible assets and goodwill of £181 million in respect of the acquisition of uSwitch. Acquired intangibles include acquired brands, 
domain names, websites and supporting technology platforms and customer relationships. The Group is required to review these assets for impairment. 
Determining whether goodwill and intangible assets are impaired or whether a reversal of impairment of intangible assets should be recorded requires 
an estimation of the recoverable value, which represents the higher of fair value and value in use, of the relevant cash-generating unit. The value in use 
calculation requires Management to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit, discounted using a suitable discount 
rate to determine if any impairment has occurred. A key area of judgement is deciding the long-term growth rate of the applicable businesses and the 
discount rate applied to those cash flows. Details of the assumptions used are included in Note 15 to the financial statements.
Revenue and accrued income
Revenue generated by the Group’s Comparison Services division is recognised predominantly from online switching services. Revenue accruals are 
made based on an estimation of the likely number of successful switches. Revenue recognition, including the existence of revenue, is considered to 
be a significant judgement area due to the estimates required to determine accrued revenue at the period end.
Revenue is recognised at the point at which a transaction on the Group’s website is completed. An element of Management judgement is required in 
calculating a revenue accrual which estimates the number of successful switches for each provider in the period between the last date of billing and 
the latest provider data being made available. The accrued income is estimated by considering the volume of transactions that have passed from the 
Group’s websites, the historical conversion of such transactions into completed switches and contracted revenue per switch.
Revenue from Property Services is predominantly subscription based and therefore there is a lower amount of estimation uncertainty and Management 
judgement involved in its recognition and measurement.
1.21 Non-GAAP performance measures
In the analysis of the Group’s financial performance certain information disclosed in the financial statements may be prepared on a non-GAAP basis 
or has been derived from amounts calculated in accordance with IFRS but is not itself an expressly permitted GAAP measure. These measures are 
reported in line with how financial information is analysed by Management. The Directors believe that these non-GAAP measures provide a more 
appropriate measure of the Group’s underlying business performance. The non-GAAP measures are designed to increase comparability of the Group’s 
financial performance year-on-year. However, these measures may not be comparable with non-GAAP measures adopted by other companies. 
The key non-GAAP measures presented by the Group are:
 f Adjusted EBITDA – which is defined as operating profit after adding back depreciation and amortisation, share-based payments and exceptional 
items (Note 3); and
 f Adjusted basic EPS – which is defined as profit for the year, excluding exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets arising on the 
acquisition of uSwitch, adjusted for tax, and divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue for the period (Note 11). Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
75 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
2. Business and geographical segments
The Board of Directors has been identified as the Group’s chief operating decision maker. The monthly reporting pack provided to the Board to enable 
assessment of the performance of the business has been used as the basis for determining the Group’s operating segments.
Whilst the chief operating decision maker monitors the performance of the business at a revenue and Adjusted EBITDA level (Note 3), depreciation 
and amortisation, share-based payments, exceptional items, finance income and costs and income tax are all monitored on a centralised basis. 
As the Group continues to evolve and the earn-out period ends we will assess the relevance of splitting out Adjusted EBITDA for the Property Services 
and Comparison Services divisions.
Assets and liabilities are also managed on a centralised basis and are not reported to the chief operating decision maker in a disaggregated format. 
The chief operating decision maker monitors six individual revenue streams as set out below. The six revenue streams are grouped under two headings: 
Property Services and Comparison Services. Adjusted EBITDA is monitored on an aggregated basis under these two headings. The Comparison Services 
division commenced on completion of the acquisition of uSwitch on 1 June 2015. Revenue and costs shown under this heading therefore represent 
trading for the four months from 1 June 2015 to 30 September 2015, being the period of consolidation.
Property Services
 f UK Agency revenue, which represents property advertising services provided to estate agents and lettings agents;
 f New Homes revenue, which represents property advertising services provided to new home developers; and
 f Other Property Services revenue, which predominantly represents overseas property advertising services, display advertising and data services.
Comparison Services
 f Energy revenue, which represents gas and electricity switching services;
 f Communications revenue, which represents mobile, broadband, pay TV and home phone switching services; and
 f Other Comparison Services revenue, which predominantly represents financial services switching, boiler cover, business energy and data 
insight services. 
All material revenues are generated from within the UK.
The following table analyses the Group’s revenue streams as described above:
2015
Property 
Services
£000
Comparison
Services
£000
Total 
Group
£000
Revenue
UK Agency 58,269 — 58,269 
New Homes 10,965  — 10,965 
Other Property Services 10,663  —  10,663 
Energy —  11,576  11,576 
Communications —  13,322  13,322 
Other Comparison Services —  2,761  2,761 
Total revenue 79,897 27,659 107,556
Underlying costs (39,031) (19,831) (58,862)
Adjusted EBITDA 40,866 7,828 48,694
Share-based payments (1,873)
Depreciation and amortisation (4,072)
Exceptional items (8,187)
Operating profit 34,562
Finance income 184
Finance costs (1,163)
Profit before tax 33,583
Income tax expense (8,200)
Profit for the year being total comprehensive income 25,383 Financial statements
76 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Business and geographical segments continued
2014
Property 
Services
£000
Comparison
 Services
£000
Total 
Group
£000
Revenue
UK Agency 62,986 — 62,986
New Homes 8,547 — 8,547
Other Property Services 8,697 — 8,697
Total revenue 80,230 — 80,230
Underlying costs (40,616) — (40,616)
Adjusted EBITDA 39,614 — 39,614
Share-based payments (3,910)
Depreciation and amortisation (1,658)
Exceptional items (5,579)
Operating profit 28,467
Finance income 202
Profit before tax 28,669
Income tax expense (7,592)
Profit for the year being total comprehensive income 21,077
3. Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA is used by Management as a key measure to monitor the Group’s business and the Directors believe it should be disclosed on the 
face of the statement of comprehensive income to assist in the understanding of the Group’s underlying financial performance. Furthermore, the terms 
of the Group’s revolving credit facility require Management to report on the Group’s Net Debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio. Adjusted EBITDA is therefore 
considered a key performance metric for Management, the providers of the Group’s external debt and other stakeholders.
The Group defines Adjusted EBITDA as operating profit after adding back depreciation and amortisation, share-based payments and exceptional items. 
Exceptional items include costs and profits which Management believes to be exceptional in nature by virtue of their size or incidence. Such items would 
include costs associated with business combinations, one-off gains and losses on disposal, and similar items of a non-recurring nature together with 
reorganisation costs and similar charges. In 2015 exceptional items relate to the acquisition of uSwitch as set out below. Exceptional items in 2014 
were incurred in relation to the Group’s IPO.
This is further adjusted for share-based payment expenses which are comprised of charges relating to: (i) warrants issued to certain of the Group’s 
partners; and (ii) employee incentive plans which are aimed at retaining staff and aligning employee objectives with those of the Group. The Directors 
consider that excluding share-based payments and other non-cash charges such as depreciation and amortisation in arriving at Adjusted EBITDA 
gives a more appropriate measure of the Group’s underlying financial performance and a closer approximation to the Group’s operating cash flows. 
The table below presents a reconciliation of profit for the period to Adjusted EBITDA for the periods shown:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Operating profit 34,562 28,467
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 415 153
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on the acquisition of uSwitch 2,047 —
Amortisation of other intangible assets 1,610 1,505
Share-based payments (Note 23) 1,873 3,910
Exceptional items 8,187 5,579
Adjusted EBITDA 48,694 39,614 Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
77 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
3. Adjusted EBITDA continued
Exceptional items comprise:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Transaction costs incurred on the acquisition of uSwitch 5,130 —
Management deferred consideration conditional on continued employment 936 —
Management earn-out conditional on continued employment 1,206 —
Management deal related performance bonus 915 —
IPO related costs — 5,579
Exceptional items 8,187 5,579
4. Operating profit
2015
£000
2014
£000
Operating profit is stated after charging:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 415 153
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on the acquisition of uSwitch 2,047 —
Amortisation of other intangible assets 1,610 1,505
Operating lease rentals:
– Land and buildings 597 428
– Other 341 304
Share-based payments (Note 23) 1,873 3,910
5. Auditor’s remuneration
2015
£000
2014
£000
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor and its associates: 
– for the audit of Zoopla Property Group Plc and the consolidated financial statements 55 30
– for the audit of subsidiaries of Zoopla Property Group Plc 135 85
Total audit fees 190 115
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor and its associates for other services to the Group:
– Audit related assurance services 20 —
– Services related to acquisitions 182 —
– Services related to corporate finance transactions — 678
Total non-audit fees 202 678
6. Employee costs
2015
£000
2014
£000
Staff costs (including Directors) comprise:
Wages and salaries 17,121 11,210
Social security costs 1,966 1,371
Defined contribution pension costs 391 178
Share-based payments (Note 23) 1,757 806
21,235 13,565 Financial statements
78 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Notes to the financial statements continued
7. Remuneration of Key Management Personnel
2015
£000
2014
£000
Salary, benefits and bonus 1,949 1,139
Defined contribution pension cost 129 55
Share-based payments 448 56
2,526 1,250
Key Management Personnel comprises the Chairman, the Directors, the Group Chief Commercial Officer and, from 1 June 2015, the Chief Executive Officer 
of uSwitch. 
Further information about the remuneration of Executive Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 46 to 59.
All of the Key Management Personnel excluding the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are members of the Group’s defined contribution pension 
plans (2014: all).
8. Director and employee numbers
The average monthly number of Directors and employees in administration and Management during the period was:
2015
Number
2014
Number
Administration 285 205
Management 18 12
303 217
9. Income tax expense
2015
£000
2014
£000
Current tax
Current period 9,095 8,076
Adjustment in respect of prior periods (145) (235)
Total current tax 8,950 7,841
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (765) (280)
Adjustment in respect of prior periods — 4
Effect of change in UK corporation tax rate 15 27
Total deferred tax (750) (249)
Total income tax expense 8,200 7,592
Corporation tax is calculated at 20.5% (2014: 22.0%) of the taxable profit for the year.
A reduction in the standard rate of corporation tax from 23% to 21% was effective from 1 April 2014. A further reduction in the rate of corporation tax 
from 21% to 20% was effective from 1 April 2015. The reduced rate of 20% has also been reflected in the calculation of deferred tax as it was substantively 
enacted at the statement of financial position date.
On 8 July 2015 the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced a reduction in the rate of corporation tax to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 18% from 1 April 2020. 
The Finance Bill was not substantively enacted at the year end date and therefore the one-off impact of re-measuring the UK deferred tax assets and 
liabilities for the rate change is not recognised at 30 September 2015. Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
79 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
9. Income tax expense continued
The charge for the period can be reconciled to the profit in the statement of comprehensive income as follows:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Profit before tax 33,583 28,669
Current corporation tax rate of 20.5% (2014: 22.0%) 6,885 6,307
Non-deductible expenses 1,390 1,584
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (145) (231)
Adjustment for the exercise of share options and warrants 104 (32)
Enhanced relief for R&D expenditure (14) —
Effect of change in UK corporation tax rate (20) 27
Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised — (63)
Total income tax expense 8,200 7,592
In addition to the amount charged to profit and loss, the following amounts relating to tax have been recognised directly in equity:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Current tax
Credit for current tax on share-based payments (565) (459)
Deferred tax
Charge/(credit) for deferred tax on share-based payments 238 (722)
Total income tax recognised directly in equity (327) (1,181)
10. Dividends
2015 
£000
2014 1
£000
Interim dividend for 2015 of 1.0 pence per Ordinary Share paid on 24 June 2015 4,131 —
Final dividend for 2014 of 1.1 pence per Ordinary Share paid on 23 February 2015 4,536 —
Special dividend of 2.2 pence per Ordinary Share paid on 13 June 2014 — 8,986
Interim dividend for 2014 of 3.5 pence per Ordinary Share paid on 10 April 2014 — 14,294
Final dividend for 2013 of 3.0 pence per Ordinary Share paid on 24 October 2013 — 12,248
Total dividends paid in the year 8,667 35,528
1 Dividends paid were declared on shares over the Group’s previous parent, ZPG Limited. The dividend per share amounts disclosed above have been stated as if the 10 for one share 
exchange set out in the Annual Report 2014 occurred at the beginning of the comparative period.
During the year the Group paid £8.7 million in dividends to shareholders. Additionally, the Directors propose a final dividend for 2015 of 2.5 pence per 
share (2014: 1.1 pence per share) resulting in a final proposed dividend of £10.3 million (2014: £4.6 million). The dividend is subject to approval at the 
Group’s AGM on 25 February 2016. The final dividend proposed has not been included as a liability at the statement of financial position date. Financial statements
80 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Notes to the financial statements continued
11. Earnings per share
2015
£000
2014
£000
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share, being profit for the year 25,383 21,077
Exceptional items (Note 3) 8,187 5,579
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on the acquisition of uSwitch 2,047 —
Adjustment for tax (784) —
Adjusted earnings for the year 34,833 26,656
Number of shares
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares 412,509,761 410,953,217
Dilutive effect of share options and warrants 3,761,746 5,011,672
Dilutive effect of potentially issuable shares 4,063,633 —
Dilutive earnings per share denominator 420,335,140 415,964,889
Basic and diluted earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (pence) 6.2 5.1
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 6.0 5.1
Adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence) 8.4 6.5
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence) 8.3 6.4
Adjusted EPS figures for 2015 exclude the amortisation of intangible assets arising on the acquisition of uSwitch, which arise only on consolidation. 
Management believes that excluding the amortisation of these intangibles better reflects the underlying performance of the Group and increases 
comparability of performance year-on-year.
The weighted average number of dilutive shares includes 4,063,633 shares in relation to deferred consideration arising on the Group’s acquisition 
of uSwitch, which is payable in shares or cash at the option of the Group.
Nil-cost options issuable under the Group’s Long-Term Incentive Plan and contingently issuable shares in respect of the earn-out arising on the Group’s 
acquisition of uSwitch are not considered dilutive as the performance conditions have not been met at the statement of financial position date. 
The 2014 weighted average number of shares has been stated as if the Group reorganisation set out in the Annual Report 2014 had occurred at the 
beginning of the comparative period. Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
81 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
12. Property, plant and equipment
Fixtures 
and fittings
£000
Computer 
equipment
£000
Leasehold 
improvements
£000
Total
£000
Cost
At 1 October 2014 209 359 1,107 1,675
Acquired on acquisition of uSwitch 123 521 133 777
Additions 8 103 — 111
At 30 September 2015 340 983 1,240 2,563
At 1 October 2013 109 184 33 326
Additions 185 212 1,107 1,504
Disposals (85) (37) (33) (155)
At 30 September 2014 209 359 1,107 1,675
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 October 2014 35 126 57 218
Charge for the year 85 184 146 415
At 30 September 2015 120 310 203 633
At 1 October 2013 91 96 33 220
Charge for the year 29 67 57 153
Disposals (85) (37) (33) (155)
At 30 September 2014 35 126 57 218
Net book value
At 30 September 2015 220 673 1,037 1,930
At 30 September 2014 174 233 1,050 1,457 Financial statements
82 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Notes to the financial statements continued
13. Investment in subsidiaries
Details of the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries at 30 September 2015 are shown below. All of the subsidiaries listed are included in the 
consolidated accounts of Zoopla Property Group Plc, the ultimate parent company of the Group. The Ordinary Share capital of each subsidiary is 
owned entirely by the direct parent indicated. ZPG Limited and Ulysses Enterprises Limited are the only direct subsidiaries of Zoopla Property Group Plc. 
All subsidiaries are incorporated in the UK. 
Name Direct parent Country of incorporation
Ownership of Ordinary Shares 
and voting interest
at 30 September 2015
Active
ZPG Limited Zoopla Property Group Plc United Kingdom 100%
Ulysses Enterprises Limited Zoopla Property Group Plc United Kingdom 100%
uSwitch Digital Limited Ulysses Enterprises Limited United Kingdom 100%
uSwitch Limited uSwitch Digital Limited United Kingdom 100%
uSwitch Communications Limited uSwitch Digital Limited United Kingdom 100%
Dormant
Propertyfinder Group Limited ZPG Limited United Kingdom 100%
Propertyfinder Publications Limited Propertyfinder Group Limited United Kingdom 100%
Propertyfinder Holdings Limited Propertyfinder Group Limited United Kingdom 100%
Sherlock Publications Limited Propertyfinder Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100%
Propertyfinder.co.uk Limited Propertyfinder Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100%
Internet Property Finder Limited Propertyfinder.co.uk Limited United Kingdom 100%
Omio Limited uSwitch Limited United Kingdom 100% Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
83 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
14. Acquisitions
On 1 June 2015 Zoopla Property Group Plc completed its acquisition of uSwitch through the purchase of 100% of the issued share capital 
of Ulysses Enterprises Limited for total consideration of £177.6 million as measured in accordance with IFRS 3.
Expenses incurred on the acquisition of £5.1 million are included within administration expenses in the statement of comprehensive income. 
These costs have been considered exceptional in arriving at Adjusted EBITDA for 2015 (Note 3).
The purchase has been accounted for as a business combination under the acquisition method in accordance with IFRS 3. In calculating the 
goodwill arising on acquisition the fair value of net assets acquired of £6.7 million was assessed and no material adjustments from book value were 
made. The Group has recognised a number of separately identifiable intangibles as part of the acquisition, details of which are set out in Note 14a. 
The fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired were as follows:
Fair value
£000
Property, plant and equipment 777
Intangible assets – computer software 86
Trade receivables 5,466
Accrued income 10,056
Prepayments and other receivables 953
Deferred tax assets 379
Trade payables (3,079)
Accruals and other payables (6,708)
Provisions (135)
Corporation tax payable (1,053)
Total net assets acquired 6,742
Intangible assets recognised (Note 14a):
– Brand 48,770
– Website and technology platform 2,890
– Database 900
Deferred tax liability arising on intangibles (10,512)
Goodwill on acquisition (Note 14b) 128,782
177,572
Satisfied by:
Cash consideration, net of cash acquired 61,907
Debt assumed and discharged (Note 14c) 79,675
Deferred and contingent consideration (Note 14d) 35,990
Total consideration 177,572
The fair value of the financial assets acquired includes trade and other receivables with a fair value of £16.5 million and a gross contractual value 
of £16.5 million. The best estimate at the acquisition date of the contractual cash flows not to be collected is £nil. Financial statements
84 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Acquisitions continued
14a. Intangible assets recognised on consolidation
Brand
£48.8 million has been recognised in respect of the uSwitch brand name, domain name, image and reputation. The brand has been valued using an 
excess earnings valuation model using profit generated from organic sources over a useful economic life of 10 years. Organic sources include direct 
visits to the website and traffic achieved through unpaid search results. Management believes profit generated from organic sources represents the 
best estimate of the value brought to the Group by the uSwitch brand. A post-tax discount rate of 12% and an average long-term growth rate of 6% 
have been used to determine the net present value of future profits in excess of a reasonable return on other contributory assets.
Website and technology platform
£2.9 million has been recognised with respect to the uSwitch website and supporting technology platforms. The fair value has been obtained by 
estimating the cost of independently building a similar website and supporting platforms. The asset will be depreciated over a useful economic life 
of three years.
Database
uSwitch’s consumer database helps the business to drive traffic and revenue through targeted email campaigns. The value of the database has been 
determined at £0.9 million based on a discounted cash flow of profit from email campaigns over the 12 months to 31 May 2015 extrapolated over a 
useful economic life of three years. A 20% churn rate has been applied to the forecast to account for natural churn in the information held.
14b. Goodwill
The acquisition of uSwitch provides a number of benefits to the Group. The goodwill recognised on acquisition represents value arising from intangible 
assets that are not separately identifiable under IAS 38 including the skills and knowledge of uSwitch’s workforce and expected revenue and cost 
synergies as outlined below.
The Board believes that the integration of the Comparison Services division into the Group will help create a fully integrated consumer property journey 
with an enhanced product and service offering which will increase consumer engagement on the Group’s platform and drive an increase in the 
quantity and quality of leads provided to existing property professional partners and advertisers.
The Board also believes that comparison services are highly relevant to the Group’s consumer audience and that this will provide substantial cross-selling 
opportunities. By offering additional products and services along the consumer property journey the Board expects to drive increased demand for 
comparison services, generating additional revenues as well as reducing the direct costs associated with generating additional leads.
Furthermore, the Board believes that there are further revenue opportunities within uSwitch as the home services comparison market continues to grow 
and there is additional scope for uSwitch to increase and expand its product offering in the financial services comparison market.
14c. Debt assumed and discharged
Immediately prior to acquisition uSwitch had outstanding debt of £87.0 million. This amount was fully settled on acquisition. £79.7 million of the 
outstanding debt was assumed and discharged by Zoopla Property Group Plc. 
The following table provides a reconciliation of the amounts included in the consolidated statement of cash flows:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Cash consideration, net of cash acquired on acquisition (61,907) —
Debt assumed and discharged (79,675) —
Cash expenses incurred on acquisition (4,430) —
Deferred consideration paid — (1,497)
Cash outflow on acquisition of subsidiaries (146,012) (1,497)
14d. Deferred and contingent consideration
On acquisition the following deferred and contingent amounts were recognised as consideration:
£000
Deferred consideration (i) 11,040
Contingent consideration – earn-out (ii) 24,950
35,990 Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
85 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
14. Acquisitions continued
14d. Deferred and contingent consideration continued
i) Deferred consideration
Deferred consideration of £11.0 million has been recognised at acquisition. Deferred consideration is payable in cash and/or up to £10.0 million in 
shares of Zoopla Property Group Plc at the discretion of the Group. The amount has been classified as a financial liability on the Group’s consolidated 
statement of financial position at the acquisition date in accordance with IAS 39.
ii) Contingent consideration – earn-out
Earn-out consideration of between £0.0 and £30.0 million is payable in cash or up to 50% in shares of Zoopla Property Group Plc at the discretion of 
the Group. The amount to be paid is contingent on the performance of uSwitch against certain revenue and Adjusted EBITDA targets over a 16 month 
period to 30 April 2016. Up to £5.0 million of the earn-out is payable to Management shareholders, the treatment for which is set out below. The 
remaining £0.0 to £25.0 million has been recognised at fair value on the Group’s consolidated statement of financial position at the acquisition date. 
Management expects to settle the earn-out in full and therefore a liability for the full £25.0 million has been recognised. Any subsequent movements 
in the fair value will be recognised within the Group’s consolidated statement of comprehensive income as a fair value gain or loss.
Consideration payable to Management shareholders
A maximum of £11.4 million is payable to Management shareholders and is conditional on the continued employment of Management up to and 
including the date of payment. In accordance with IFRS 3, this consideration will be recognised as a remuneration expense in the Group’s consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income over the deferral period. The Group is accruing the full £11.4 million over the deferral period. 
The movement in the value of deferred and contingent consideration between the date of acquisition and 30 September 2015 is set out in Note 18.
15. Intangible assets
Goodwill
£000
Brand
£000
Customer 
relationships
£000
Domain 
names
£000
Websites 
and computer 
software
£000
Database
£000
Total
£000
Cost
At 1 October 2014 70,793 — 6,091 1,451 162 229 78,726
On acquisition (Note 14) 128,782 48,770 — — 2,976 900 181,428
Additions — — — — 709 — 709 
At 30 September 2015 199,575 48,770 6,091 1,451 3,847 1,129 260,863
Amortisation
At 1 October 2014 — — 2,478 847 — 207 3,532
Charge for the year — 1,626 1,218 262 440 111 3,657
At 30 September 2015 — 1,626 3,696 1,109 440 318 7,189
Net book value
At 30 September 2015 199,575 47,144 2,395 342 3,407 811 253,674
At 30 September 2014 70,793 — 3,613 604 162 22 75,194
Goodwill and intangibles are tested for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit with its recoverable amount, which 
represents the higher of its estimated fair value and value in use. An impairment loss is recognised when the carrying value of the asset exceeds its 
recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amounts of intangible assets and goodwill are based on the value in use, which is determined using cash flow projections derived 
from financial plans approved by Management covering a three year period. They reflect Management’s expectations of revenue, EBITDA growth, 
capital expenditure, working capital and operating cash flows, based on past experience and future expectations of business performance. Cash 
flows beyond the three year period have been extrapolated using perpetuity growth rates.
A growth rate of 3% has been applied to extrapolate the cash flows into perpetuity. Growth has been capped at 3% across both business units 
so as not to exceed the long-term expected growth rate of the country and industry the Group operates in, in accordance with IAS 36.
The pre-tax discount rate used for both businesses is 12%.
The Directors are comfortable that a reasonable change in the underlying assumptions would not indicate an impairment. Financial statements
86 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Notes to the financial statements continued
16. Trade and other receivables
2015
£000
2014
£000
Trade receivables 8,850 2,839
Accrued income 10,740 525
Prepayments 2,348 2,077
Amounts held in escrow 7,446 —
Other receivables 842 446
30,226 5,887
Current 22,780 5,887
Non-current 7,446 —
30,226 5,887
The Directors consider that the carrying value of trade and other receivables is approximate to their fair value. The carrying value also represents the 
maximum credit exposure.
£7.4 million is held in escrow for the settlement of deferred consideration payable in relation to the acquisition of uSwitch.
Details of the Group’s exposure to credit risk are given in Note 25.
17. Trade and other payables
2015
£000
2014
£000
Trade payables 5,507 4,676
Accruals 10,599 3,406
Other taxation and social security payments 5,512 2,900
Deferred income 380 155
Other payables 253 281
22,251 11,418
The Directors consider that the carrying value of trade and other payables is approximate to their fair value. 
Details of the Group’s exposure to liquidity risk are given in Note 25.
18. Deferred and contingent consideration
The Group’ s liabilities in respect of deferred and contingent consideration arising on the acquisition of uSwitch on 1 June 2015 are set out below:
Deferred
 consideration
£000
Contingent
consideration – 
earn-out
£000
Total
£000
At 1 October 2014 — — —
Recognised on acquisition 11,040 24,950 35,990
Charge in the period for amounts conditional on the continued employment of Management 936 1,206 2,142
At 30 September 2015 11,976 26,156 38,132
Current 10,000 25,393 35,393
Non-current 1,976 763 2,739 Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
87 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
19. Provisions 
The movement in provisions can be analysed as follows:
Dilapidation 
provisions
£000
Redundancy 
provisions
£000
Total
£000
At 1 October 2014 634 — 634
Acquired on acquisition of uSwitch 135 — 135
Charged in the period 30 — 30
Utilised in the period — — — 
At 30 September 2015 799 — 799
Current 190 — 190
Non-current 609 — 609
At 1 October 2013 201 350 551
Charged in the period 575 — 575
Utilised in the period (142) (350) (492)
At 30 September 2014 634 — 634
Current — — —
Non-current 634 — 634
The dilapidation provisions relate to Management’s best estimation of costs to make good the Group’s leasehold properties at the end of the lease 
term. The charge in the period represents expected exit costs on completion of the Group’s property leases.
20. Loans and borrowings
On 30 April 2015 the Group entered into an agreement for the provision of a five year, £150.0 million revolving credit facility. £125.0 million was drawn 
down on 1 June 2015 as part of the uSwitch acquisition. At 30 September 2015 £11.0 million of the debt has been repaid leaving outstanding gross 
borrowings of £114.0 million.
The drawn portion of the facility incurs interest at UK Libor plus a margin. The margin is variable based on the Group’s Net Debt to Adjusted EBITDA 
ratio. The effective interest rate for the period is set out in Note 25. 
2015
£000
Initial draw down on acquisition of uSwitch 125,000
Repayment of borrowings (11,000)
Gross borrowings 114,000
Capitalised costs at 30 September 2015 (1,568)
Total loans and borrowings 112,432
The Group has no other loans or borrowings. Financial statements
88 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Notes to the financial statements continued
21. Deferred tax
Property, plant 
and equipment 
and computer 
software
£000
 
Intangible 
assets
£000
Share-based 
payments
£000
Other 
 £000
Total
£000
Deferred tax asset/(liability) at 1 October 2014 326 (784) 895 — 437
On acquisition of uSwitch — (10,512) — 379 (10,133)
(Charge)/credit to profit or loss (190) 673 209 57 749
Charge to equity — — (238) — (238)
Deferred tax asset/(liability) at 30 September 2015 136 (10,623) 866 436 (9,185)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following is an analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial reporting purposes: 
2015
£000
2014
£000
Deferred tax liabilities (10,623) (784)
Deferred tax assets 1,438 1,221
(9,185) 437
22. Equity
Share capital
2015
£000
2014
£000
Shares classified as capital
Authorised
418,116,472 (2014: 418,092,702) shares of £0.001 (2014: £0.001) each 418 418
Called-up share capital – allotted and fully paid
418,116,472 (2014: 418,092,702) Ordinary Shares of £0.001 (2014: £0.001) each 418 418
Rights and restrictions attaching to shares
Ordinary Shares
The Ordinary Shares carry one vote per share and rights to dividends.
Share transactions
On 20 February 2015 the Group issued 23,770 Ordinary Shares at their nominal value of £0.001 to settle the exercise of warrant instruments. 
There were no other share transactions during the year. The total number of shares at 30 September 2015 was 418,116,472.
Other reserves – Merger reserve
The merger reserve was created in May 2012 from the premium on shares issued for the acquisition of The Digital Property Group Limited. In 2014 the 
merger reserve increased as a result of the Group’s reorganisation prior to the IPO.
Other reserves – EBT share reserve
The EBT share reserve represents shares in issue that are held by the Employee Benefit Trust for the purpose of settling the Group’s obligations under 
the Employee Share Option Scheme. Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
89 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
23. Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of share-based incentive schemes for both its employees and certain estate agent partners. The Group recognised 
a total share-based payments charge of £1.9 million for 2015 (2014: £3.9 million) as set out below:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Employee Share Option Scheme (i) 600 587
Long-Term Incentive Plan (ii) 600 86
Share Incentive Plan (iii) 231 105
Deferred Bonus Plan (iv) 175 —
One-off warrant charge on IPO (v) — 2,985
Other warrant charges (v) 117 119
National Insurance Contributions payable in respect of eligible share-based payment schemes (vi) 150 28
Total share-based payments charge 1,873 3,910
i) Employee Share Option Scheme
The Group operates an equity-settled share-based incentive scheme for all employees under an approved plan until 31 May 2012 and an unapproved 
plan thereafter. The options vest in instalments over four years. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest. The Group 
recognised a charge of £0.6 million (2014: £0.6 million) in respect of options under this scheme. 
Details of options under the scheme outstanding at 30 September 2015 are set out below:
2015 2014
Number
’000
Weighted average 
exercise price 
£
Number
’000
Weighted average 
exercise price 
£
Outstanding options at the beginning of the year 5,693 0.26 5,198 0.19
Granted during the year — — 2,550 0.35
Exercised during the year (1,416) 0.21 (1,338) 0.13
Forfeited during the year (538) 0.32 (717) 0.32
Outstanding options at the end of the year 3,739 0.27 5,693 0.26
The options outstanding at 30 September 2015 had a weighted average exercise price of £0.27 (2014: £0.26) and a weighted average remaining 
contractual life of 8.6 years (2014: 8.1 years). The range of exercise prices for outstanding options was £0.06 to £0.35 (2014: £0.06 to £0.35).
The number of options exercisable as at 30 September 2015 was 2,023,000 (2014: 1,458,000).
The Employee Share Option Scheme will continue to operate until all shares vest or lapse, or the scheme is otherwise cancelled. There will be no 
future grants under this scheme.  Financial statements
90 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Notes to the financial statements continued
23. Share-based payments continued
ii) Long-Term Incentive Plan 
The Group operates an equity-settled Long-Term Incentive Plan which grants nil-cost options to eligible employees which vest at the end of a three 
year vesting period. The vesting of the options is subject to both Adjusted earnings per share (EPS) and Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance 
criteria. The Group recognised a charge of £0.6 million (2014: £0.1 million) in respect of this scheme.
A total of 1,400,935 options have been granted in respect of the 2015 financial year, the majority of which were granted on 1 August 2014 following 
the Group’s IPO. None of the options granted are exercisable as at 30 September 2015. The following information is relevant in the determination of 
the fair value of the LTIP options granted on 1 August 2014. There were no material grants in 2015.
1 August 2014 
grant
Valuation method – TSR Monte-Carlo
Valuation method – EPS Black-Scholes
Share price at grant date £2.48
Exercise price £nil
Expected volatility 28.3%
Expected life 3 years
Expected dividend yield n/a
Risk-free interest rate 1.5%
Fair value per share – TSR £1.44
Fair value per share – EPS £2.48
The volatility assumption, measured at the standard deviation of expected share price returns, has been calculated using historical daily data of six 
comparator companies over a term commensurate with the expected life of each option. Dividend equivalent payments will be made in respect of 
vested options in the form of additional shares. 
iii) Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
The SIP is an all-employee share ownership plan which has been designed to meet the requirements of Schedule 2 of the Income Tax (Earnings and 
Pensions) Act 2003 so that shares can be provided to UK employees under the SIP in a tax-efficient manner. Under the scheme employees may be 
awarded Free Shares and/or offered the opportunity to purchase Partnership Shares with one Free Matching Share for each Partnership Share purchased. 
During the period the Group granted a total of 134,735 Matching Shares. 32,980 of these shares are still subject to forfeiture should the employee leave 
the Group within 12 months of the grant date. The Group recognised a charge of £0.2 million (2014: £0.1 million) in respect of shares under this scheme.
iv) Deferred Bonus Plan
From 1 October 2014 the Group has operated a Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP) which defers a proportion of eligible employees’ annual bonuses into 
nil-cost options. The options vest over a period of between one and three years from the end of the performance period. The performance period for 
the 2015 DBP runs from 1 October 2014 until 30 September 2015. £0.2 million (2014: £nil) has been accrued in respect of the 2015 DBP . No options 
have been granted under this scheme. Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
91 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
23. Share-based payments continued
v) Warrants
The Group has entered into agreements with a number of estate agent partners whereby the partners agree to pay annual fees for advertising on the 
Group’s property websites over a five year period in exchange for a fixed number of warrants over Ordinary Shares. The warrants are issued annually 
over the five year term of the agreements at an exercise price equal to the nominal value of each share (£0.001). Some or all of the warrants are forfeited 
if service agreements are terminated before the end of the term.
The total charge recognised for the year ended 30 September 2015 in respect of warrants was £0.1 million (2014: £3.1 million). The 2014 warrant 
charge included a one-off, accelerated charge of £3.0 million for warrants exercised on the Group’s Admission to the London Stock Exchange.
2015 2014
Number
’000
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
£
Number
’000
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
£
Outstanding warrants at the beginning of the year — — 343 0.001
Issued during the year 137,779 0.001 1,859 0.001
Exercised during the year (23,770) 0.001 (2,202) 0.001
Outstanding warrants at the end of the year 114,009 0.001 — —
The number of warrants outstanding at 30 September 2015 was 114,009 (2014: nil). The warrants had a weighted average exercise price of £0.001 
and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.4 years.
The number of warrants issuable over shares in Zoopla Property Group Plc under existing partner contracts is 1,198,300. The warrants will be issued 
with an exercise price of £0.001 over the lives of the contracts.
vi) National Insurance Contributions (NIC)
National Insurance Contributions are payable in respect of certain share-based payment schemes. These contributions are treated as cash-settled 
transactions and are accrued at a rate of 13.8%. The total NIC charge relating to share-based payment schemes was £150,000 (2014: £28,000).
vii) The Employee Benefit Trust and Share Incentive Plan Trust
Employee Benefit Trust (EBT)
The Group has established an Employee Benefit Trust which is constituted by a trust deed entered into between the Company and Appleby Trust 
(Jersey) Limited. The Trust held 4,491,861 Ordinary Shares in Zoopla Property Group Plc at 30 September 2015 (2014: 5,908,116). These shares 
are held to satisfy future exercises under the Group’s share-based payment schemes. Shares are allocated by the Trust when the awards are 
exercised. The Trust waives its right to any dividends. The market value of the shares held in the Trust at 30 September 2015 was £9.4 million 
(2014: £14.0 million). The cost of the shares has been deducted from equity.
Share Incentive Plan Trust (SIP Trust)
The Group has established a Share Incentive Plan Trust which is constituted by a trust deed which was entered into between Zoopla Property Group 
Plc and Yorkshire Building Society. The Trust held 427,515 Ordinary Shares in Zoopla Property Group Plc at 30 September 2015 (2014: 427,515). 
These shares are held to satisfy future Free Share and Partnership Share exercises. Shares are allocated by the Trust when the awards are exercised. 
Dividends paid on shares held in the Trust are passed to the employees when the shares are allocated. The market value of the shares held in the 
Trust at 30 September 2015 was £0.9 million (2014: £1.0 million). The cost of the shares has been deducted from equity. Financial statements
92 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Notes to the financial statements continued
24. Related party transactions
a) Key Management Personnel
The Chairman and the Directors are considered to be the Key Management Personnel of the Group along with the Group’s Chief Commercial Officer 
and the CEO of uSwitch. Details of remuneration for Key Management Personnel are shown in Note 7.
No share options were exercised by Key Management Personnel in the period.
Further information on the remuneration of the Chairman and the Directors can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 46 to 59. 
b) Other Group companies
Details of transactions with subsidiaries are outlined in the Company’s financial statements. Transactions with other Group companies have been 
eliminated on consolidation.
c) Other related parties
Other related party transactions are as follows:
At 30 September 2015 Daily Mail and General Trust plc (DMGT) owned 31.3% of the share capital of Zoopla Property Group Plc (2014: 31.8%).
A&N Media Finance Services Limited (ANMFS), a subsidiary of DMGT, supplied various shared services to ZPG Limited for which the fee was £43,000 
for the year (2014: £89,000). The balance outstanding at 30 September 2015 was £nil (2014: £nil).
25. Financial instruments
Carrying amount and fair value of financial assets and liabilities
All financial assets, including cash and cash equivalents, are designated as “Loans and receivables” and are held at amortised cost. All financial liabilities 
are classified as “Other liabilities measured at amortised cost”. The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities recorded 
at amortised cost in the financial statements are approximate to their fair values. 
Financial risk management
The Group is exposed to the following risks from financial instruments:
 f credit risk;
 f market risk; and
 f liquidity risk.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or bank (“counterparty”) fails to meet its contractual obligations resulting in financial 
loss to the Group. The Group’ s maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of each period was equal to the carrying amount of financial assets recorded in 
the financial statements. The exposure to credit risk is influenced by the individual characteristics of each counterparty. 
The potential for customer default varies between the Group’s two revenue divisions. The customer base of the Group’s Property Services division 
is large, so there is no significant concentration of credit risk. The Comparison Services division operates in a market with a small number of customers, 
which creates a concentration of debtor balances, and from time to time the amounts due from one or a number of suppliers may be material. However, 
customers within this market are often large energy and telecommunications organisations with high credit ratings and access to significant funds. 
The Group’s largest customer contributed to 19% of the Group’s trade receivables balance. 
The Group manages counterparty risk on its trade receivables through strict credit control quality measures and regular aged debt monitoring procedures. 
The Group reserves the right to charge interest on overdue receivables, although it does not hold collateral over any trade receivable balances. 
Overdue amounts are regularly reviewed and impairment provisions are created where necessary. This provision is reviewed regularly in conjunction 
with a detailed analysis of ageing profile, historical payment profiles and past default experience. The Group has long-standing relationships with its 
key customers and extremely low historical levels of customer credit defaults.
The ageing of trade receivables at the period end is as follows:
2015 2014
Gross
£000
Provision
£000
Gross
£000
Provision
£000
0–30 days 7,205 — 2,033 —
31–60 days 1,234 — 927 (191)
61–90 days 400 (38) 125 (104)
91+ days 680 (631) 299 (250)
Total 9,519 (669) 3,384 (545)
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit 
was granted up to the period end date.
The credit risk associated with bank and deposit balances is mitigated by the use of banks with good credit ratings. Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
93 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
25. Financial instruments continued
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in foreign exchange and interest rates will affect the income and financial management of the Group. The Group 
is not exposed to any significant currency risk and there is a minimal interest rate risk on cash and bank balances. However, the Group has borrowings 
subject to an interest rate calculated with reference to Libor. Changes in interest rates therefore impact the financial results of the Group. The Directors 
actively monitor interest rate risk and note that interest rates remain at a historical low. The Directors believe that any reasonable increase in the Libor 
rate would not significantly impact the Group. Therefore, the Group does not hedge its interest rate risk at this time. At 30 September 2015 borrowings 
of £114.0 million were subject to floating interest rates (2014: £nil). 
At 30 September 2015 if Libor were to have increased by 1% throughout the year with all other variables held constant profit before tax would decrease 
by £0.4 million (2014: £nil) as a result of additional interest incurred. Therefore, the Directors are comfortable that any sensitivity to fluctuations in interest 
or exchange rates would not have a material impact on the results of the Group.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk refers to the ability of the Group to meet the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled in cash as they fall due. 
Management regularly reviews performance against budgets and forecasts to ensure sufficient cash funds are available to meet its contractual obligations.
The Group’s activities are highly cash generative allowing it to effectively service working capital requirements. At 30 September 2015 the Group held 
total cash and cash equivalents of £19.2 million (2014: £30.1 million) and Net Debt of £93.2 million.
The Group has access to a £150.0 million revolving credit facility (RCF), of which £114.0 million was drawn-down at 30 September 2015. The remaining 
£36.0 million undrawn facility allows the Group to secure additional external financing should it be required. The total facility requires the Group to meet 
certain covenants based on the Group’s interest cover and Net Debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio. Exceeding the covenants would result in the Group 
being in breach of the facility, which may lead to the facility being withdrawn. Management regularly monitors and models covenant compliance and 
prepares detailed forecasts to ensure that sufficient headroom is available. The Directors are satisfied that there is reasonable headroom on each 
of the Group’s debt covenant ratios.
The following tables detail the Group’s remaining contractual maturities for undiscounted financial liabilities, including interest. The contractual maturity 
is based on the earliest date on which the Group may be required to settle. Where interest rates are variable the undiscounted amount is derived from 
interest rate curves at 30 September 2015. The contractual maturity is based on the earliest date on which the Group may be required to settle. 
Effective
interest rate
Within 1 year
£000
1 to 2 years 
£000
2 to 5 years 
£000
More than
5 years 
£000
Total
contractual
amount
£000
2015
Trade payables 5,507 — — — 5,507
Borrowings
1
3.0% 2,920 3,222 123,513 — 129,655
Total 8,427 3,222 123,513 — 135,162
2014
Trade payables 4,676 — — — 4,676
Borrowings — — — — —
Total 4,676 — — — 4,676
1 Interest on the Group’s borrowings assumes that the Group makes no further capital repayments until maturity of the RCF in 2020.
Treasury and capital risk management
The Group’s policy is to actively manage its cash and capital structure to ensure that it complies with its current debt covenant ratios, maintains its 
current dividend policy and minimises the Group’s interest payments by paying down its debt where possible. 
Management will consider the use of excess cash, including the payment of special dividends to shareholders and M&A activity, based on the risks 
and opportunities of the Group at that time. 
The Directors can manage the Group’s capital structure through the issue or redemption of either debt or equity instruments and by adjustment 
to the Group’s dividend paid to equity holders. The Directors believe that the current debt to equity ratio remains appropriate but continue to monitor 
the efficiency of the capital structure on an ongoing basis.  Financial statements
94 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Notes to the financial statements continued
26. Operating lease commitments
At the statement of financial position date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable 
operating leases, which fall due as follows:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Within one year 1,139 258
In the second to fifth year inclusive 3,565 2,757
After five years 2,306 3,059
7,010 6,074
27. Subsequent events
There have been no reportable subsequent events between 30 September 2015 and the date of signing of this report.
28. Ultimate controlling party
The Directors are of the opinion that there was no ultimate controlling party in either period presented.  Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
95 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Company statement of financial position
As at 30 September 2015
Notes
2015
£000
2014
£000
Assets
Non-current assets
Investment in subsidiaries 4 200,478 91,332
Trade and other receivables 5 77,446 —
Deferred tax assets 183 —
Current assets
Prepayments 63 12
Other receivables 101 55
Cash and cash equivalents 4,668 100
4,832 167
Total assets 282,939 91,499
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 6 21,905 385
Deferred and contingent consideration 7 35,393 —
Non-current liabilities
Loans and borrowings 8 112,432 —
Deferred and contingent consideration 7 2,739 —
Total liabilities 172,469 385
Net assets 110,470 91,114
Equity
Share capital 9 418 418
Share premium reserve 50 50
Merger reserve 9 90,495 90,495
Retained earnings 19,507 151
Total equity 110,470 91,114
The financial statements of Zoopla Property Group Plc (company number 09005884) were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors 
and were signed on its behalf by:
 
 
A Chesterman S Morana
Director Director
1 December 2015 1 December 2015 Financial statements
96 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Company statement of cash flows
For the year ended 30 September 2015
2015
£000
2014
£000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax 26,119 (318)
Adjustments for:
Finance income (618) —
Finance costs 1,162 —
Dividend income received (35,000) —
Transaction costs on acquisition of uSwitch 5,130 —
Movement in contingent and deferred consideration 2,142 —
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital (1,065) (318)
Decrease/(Increase) in trade and other receivables 9,669 (67)
Increase in trade and other payables 20,477 385
Net cash flows from operating activities 29,081 —
Cash flows (used in)/from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries (155,540) —
Amounts paid into escrow in relation to deferred and contingent consideration (7,436) —
Interest income received 618 —
Dividend income received 35,000 —
Net cash flows used in investing activities (127,358) —
Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities
Proceeds on issue of debt, net of issue costs 123,291 —
Repayment of debt (11,000) —
Interest paid (779) —
Proceeds on issue of shares — 50
Equity contributions received — 50
Dividends paid (8,667) —
Net cash flows from financing activities 102,845 100
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 4,568 100
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 100 —
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 4,668 100 Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
97 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Company statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 30 September 2015
Share 
capital 
£000
Share 
premium 
reserve 
£000
Merger 
reserve 
£000
Retained 
earnings 
£000
Total 
equity 
£000
At 1 October 2014 418 50 90,495 151 91,114
Profit and total comprehensive income for the period — — — 26,302 26,302
Transactions with owners recorded directly in equity: 
Dividends paid — — — (8,667) (8,667)
Share-based payments — — — 1,721 1,721
At 30 September 2015 418 50 90,495 19,507 110,470
 
Share 
capital 
£000
Share 
premium 
reserve 
£000
Merger 
reserve 
£000
Retained 
earnings 
£000
Total 
equity 
£000
At 22 April 2014 — — — — —
Loss and total comprehensive income for the period — — — (318) (318)
Transactions with owners recorded directly in equity: 
Issue of Ordinary Shares 418 50 90,495 — 90,963
Issue of Preference Shares 50 — — — 50
Equity contributions received — — — 50 50
Redemption of Preference Shares (50) — — — (50)
Share-based payments — — — 419 419
At 30 September 2014 418 50 90,495 151 91,114 Financial statements
98 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Notes to the Company financial statements
1. Accounting policies and basis of accounting
The Directors have applied International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union.
The accounting policies and the financial risk management policies, where relevant to the Company, are consistent with those of the consolidated 
Group as set out in Notes 1 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements respectively. 
Statement of comprehensive income
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and has not presented a statement 
of comprehensive income. The profit for the period ended 30 September 2015 was £26.3 million (2014: loss of £0.3 million).
2. Auditor’s remuneration
The Company incurred a cost of £55,000 (2014: £30,000) for statutory audit services for the period ended 30 September 2015. 
3. Employee costs and Directors’ remuneration
The Company has no employees other than the Directors of the Company. Remuneration paid to the Directors was accounted for and paid 
by the Group’s trading entity, ZPG Limited. Details of Directors’ remuneration are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 46 to 59. 
4. Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are valued at cost less any provision for impairment.
The investment in subsidiaries balance of £200.5 million represents the Company’s 100% shareholding in ZPG Limited and Ulysses Enterprises 
Limited. Ulysses Enterprises Limited was acquired on 1 June 2015 as set out in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.
During the year the Company recognised an increase in the investment in ZPG Limited in respect of the Group’s share schemes. Consistent with the 
Group accounting policies outlined in Note 1.19 to the consolidated financial statements, equity-settled share options granted directly to a subsidiary 
are treated as a capital contribution to the subsidiary. The capital contribution is measured by reference to the consolidated share-based payments 
charge and is recognised as an increase in the cost of investment with a corresponding credit to retained earnings. The credit to retained earnings 
does not make up part of distributable reserves.
2015
£000
Investment in ZPG Limited at 1 October 2014 91,332
Acquisition of Ulysses Enterprises Limited 107,425
Share-based payments – capital contribution 1,721
200,478
5. Trade and other receivables
2015
£000
2014
£000
Amounts held in escrow 7,446 —
Amounts receivable from Group companies 70,000 —
77,446 —
The Directors consider that the carrying value of trade and other receivables are approximate to their fair value. All trade and other receivables are 
classified as non-current receivables.
Amounts held in escrow are held for the settlement of deferred consideration due on the acquisition of uSwitch.
The Company has a receivable of £70.0 million due from Ulysses Enterprises Limited. This amount is designated as an unsecured, intercompany loan. 
The loan accrues interest at Libor + 2% and has no fixed repayment date. The Company is comfortable that the amount is recoverable in full. 
6. Trade and other payables
2015
£000
2014
£000
Trade payables 11 —
Accruals 1,894 37
Amounts payable to Group companies 20,000 348
21,905 385 Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
99 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
6. Trade and other payables continued
The Directors consider that the carrying value of trade and other payables are approximate to their fair value. All trade and other payables are classified 
as current liabilities.
Details of the Group’s exposure to liquidity risk are given in Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
7. Deferred and contingent consideration
Details of deferred and contingent consideration are given in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
8. Loans and borrowings
Details of loans and borrowings are given in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements.
9. Equity
Share capital
Details of the Company’s share capital are included in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve represents the difference between the investment recognised in ZPG Limited on restructuring in 2014 of £90.9 million and the 
value of the shares issued of £0.4 million.
10. Financial instruments
The IFRS 7 – Financial Instruments disclosures, where relevant to the Company, are consistent with those of the Group as set out in Note 25 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
11. Related parties
a) Key Management Personnel
There are no employees of the Company. The Directors are employed and/or remunerated by the Company’s subsidiary, ZPG Limited. There were 
no transactions during the year between the Directors and the Company other than the issue of shares and share options as outlined in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 46 to 59.
b) Subsidiaries
Transactions with subsidiaries
On 1 June 2015 the Company acquired Ulysses Enterprises Limited and its subsidiaries as set out in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. 
The transaction included Zoopla Property Group Plc assuming and discharging external debt of £79.7 million through an intercompany loan with 
Ulysses Enterprises Limited. During the period to 30 September 2015 Ulysses Enterprises Limited repaid £9.7 million of this balance to the Company. 
During the year ZPG Limited paid dividends of £35.0 million to the Company and settled bills to the value of £20.0 million (2014: £348,000) on behalf 
of the Company. 
The Company issues shares to employees and estate agent partners of ZPG Limited as part of the Group’s share-based payment schemes as set out 
in Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements. 
There have been no other transactions with the Company’s subsidiaries during the year.
Year end balances with subsidiaries
At 30 September 2015 £70.0 million of the intercompany loan due from Ulysses Enterprises Limited was outstanding. Interest at Libor + 2% is due 
on the outstanding balance. 
A trading balance of £20.0 million is due to ZPG Limited. This amount will be settled on receipt of any dividend from ZPG Limited. No interest is 
payable on the balance.
There were no other related party transactions in the period.
c) Other related parties
There were no transactions between the Company and any other related parties.
12. Subsequent events
There have been no reportable subsequent events between 30 September 2015 and the date of signing of this report.
13. Ultimate controlling party
The Directors are of the opinion that there was no ultimate controlling party in either period presented. Financial statements
100 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Shareholder information
Note on forward-looking statements
This report includes statements related to our future business, financial 
performance and future events or developments that may constitute 
forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements can be 
identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms 
“believes”, “estimates”, “anticipates”, “plans”, “projects”, “expects”, “intends”, 
“may”, “will” or “should” or, in each case, their negative, or other variations 
or comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements include 
matters that are not historical facts. They appear throughout this report 
and include statements relating to our beliefs, intentions or current 
expectations concerning a number of matters including our results of 
liquidity, the effect of our financial performance on our share price, financial 
condition, prospects, growth and expansion, strategies and the industry in 
which we operate. All forward-looking statements are based upon 
information available to us on the date of this Annual Report. While we 
believe that the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we caution 
that it is very difficult to predict the impact of known or unknown factors 
or to anticipate all factors that could affect our actual results. 
As such, forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, 
uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual results, performance 
or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such 
forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to: 
 f a change in the competition within the industry in which we operate; 
 f a change, due to various factors which may include the 
macroeconomic conditions in which we operate, in the level 
of transactions in the UK residential property market; 
 f a change in technological developments;
 f the loss of any of our important commercial relationships; and
 f any increase in litigation or disputes.
We caution that the foregoing list of factors may not contain all of the 
material factors that are important to you and you should not place 
undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only 
as of the date of this Annual Report. We undertake no obligation, and 
are not under any obligation, to update or keep current the information 
contained in this Annual Report, whether as a result of new information, 
future events or otherwise.
Contacts 
Chief Executive Officer
Alex Chesterman
Chief Financial Officer
Stephen Morana
Company Secretary
Ned Staple
Head of Communications
Lawrence Hall
Website
www.zpg.co.uk
Registered office
Zoopla Property Group Plc 
Harlequin Building  
65 Southwark Street  
London SE1 0HR 
Corporate advisers
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
Remuneration adviser
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Brokers
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited
Jefferies Hoare Govett
Solicitor
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP
Registrar
Equiniti Limited
Financial calendar 2016 
2015 full year results 2 December 2015 
Ex-dividend date for final dividend 17 December 2015
Record date for final dividend 18 December 2015
Annual General Meeting 25 February 2016
Payment date for final dividend 3 March 2016
Half year results May 2016
Payment date for interim dividend July 2016
Shareholder enquiries
The Company’s registrar is Equiniti. They will be pleased to deal with any questions regarding your 
shareholding or dividends. Please notify them of your change of address or other personal 
information. Their address details are:
Equiniti
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Equiniti is a trading name of Equiniti Limited.
Equiniti helpline: 0871 384 2030 (calls cost 8 pence per minute plus network extras) 
(Overseas: +44 121 415 7047)
Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays).
Shareholders are able to manage their shareholding online and facilities including electronic 
communications, account enquiries, amendment of address and dividend mandate instructions. Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
101
Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
 
Design Portolio is committed to planting 
trees or every corporate communications 
project, in association with Trees or Cities. Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Zoopla Property Group Plc
Harlequin Building 
65 Southwark Street 
London SE1 0HR
www.zpg.co.uk
Zoopla Property Group Plc’ s commitment to environmental issues is reflected 
in this Annual Report which has been printed on Core silk which is an FSC
®
 
certified paper. This document was printed by Park Communications using 
their environmental print technology, which minimises the impact of printing 
on the environment. Vegetable based inks have been used and 99% of all 
dry waste associated with this production is diverted from landfill. 
